Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20466-IND
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
THIRD NONFORMAL EDUCATION PROJECT
LOAN NUMBER 3431 -IND
May 21, 2000
Human Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



(i)    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       Indonesian Rupiah (Rp.)
1991                    $1 = Rp. 1,950
1992                    $1 = Rp. 2,030
1993                    $1 = Rp. 2,087
1994                    $1 = Rp. 2,161
1995                    $1 = Rp. 2,249
1996                    $1 = Rp. 2,342
1997                    $1 = Rp. 2,909
1998                    $1 = Rp. 9,875
1999                    $1 = Rp. 7,809
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APBN        -     State Budget
BP          -     Basic Program
BPKB        -     Regional Learning and Resource Center
CRC         -     Community Reading Corner
CLC         -     Community Learning Centre
Diklusemas  -     Nonformal Private Training Courses
Diklusepora  -    Directorate-General for Nonformal Education, Youth and Sports
Dikmas      -     Directorate of Community Education
Diktentis    -    Directorate of Technical Services
DIP         -     Development Budget
-OI         -     Government of Indonesia
IGP         -     Income-Generating Program
IKIP        -     Teacher Training Institute
IP          -     Intensive Program
KBU         -     Income-generating Learning Group (Kelompok Belajar Usaha)
Magang      -     Apprentice
MIS         -     Management Information System
NFE         -     Nonformal Education
NGO         -     Non Governmental Organization
NSS         -     National Support Services
Paket A     -     Primary School Equivalency program (Nonformal Education)
Paket B     -     Jr. Secondary School Equivalency program (Nonformal Educ.)
Penilik     -     Subdistrict field supervisor
PCR         -     Project Completion Report
PMU         -     Project Management Unit
SKB         -     District Learning and Resource Center
SPEM        -     Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation System
TLD         -     Voluntary Field Workers
Vice President                 .     Jemal-ud-din Kassuml
Sector Director                      Alan Ruby
Country Director               :     Mark Baird
Task Manager                         Rosfita Roesli



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
Preface
Evaluation Summary ............                                                             i
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.  Project Objectives and Description .1
B.  Achievement of Project Objectives                           .3
C.    Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project         .9
D. Project Sustainability                                 .9
E. Bank Performance .10
F. Borrower Performance .10
G. Assessment of Outcome .11
H.    Future Operation.11
I. Key Lessons Leared .12
PART II. STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:  Summary of Assessments .                                                        14
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans/ Credits                             .16
Table 3:   Project Timetable .............                                                17
Table 4:      Loan/ Credit Disbursement: Cumulative Estimate and Actual .18
Table 5: Project Cost .18
Table 6:  Performance Indicators .19
Table 7 a:  Status of Consultant Services .20
Table 7 b:  Studies Included in Project .21
Table 8:  Status of Legal Covenants .23
Table 9:  Bank Resources: Missions .25
ANNEXES
A. Borrower's Contribution to ICR ................................                         27
B. Aide Memoire from Last Supervision Mission ................................ 34
C. Map of Indonesia
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwis  be disclosedwthout
World Bank authorizadon.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
THIRD NONFORMAL EDUCATION
(Loan 3431 IND)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Third Nonformal
Education Project in Indonesia, for which Loan No. 3431-IND in the amount of US$ 69.5
million was approved on December 20, 1991 and became effective on April 30, 1992.
The Loan was closed on March 31, 1999 after a twelve month extension. US$
64,6 million was disbursed (including refund) and the last disbursement took place on
October 15, 1999. An amount of US$ 3,1 million was cancelled, leaving a balance of
US$ 1,8 million to be further cancelled.
The ICR was prepared by Rosfita Roesli of the Human Development Sector,
EACIF, World Bank Office of Jakarta and reviewed by Alan Ruby (Sector Director,
EASDH), Brigitte Duces (Senior Operations Officer EASHD), Samuel S. Lieberman
(Human Development Sector Coordinator, WBoJ), Jerry Strudwick (Education
Specialist, WBoJ). The peer reviewer was Dean Nielsen (Education Specialist, EASHD)
This report is based on material in the project file and an ICR mission that took
place in August 5 - 25, 1999 which visited 3 provinces (South Kalimantan, Central Java
and Southeast Sulawesi). The mission consisted of Rosfita Roesli (Task Team Leader),
Willem Struben (Consultant, - Education) and Dina Lumbantobing (Consultant - Micro
Credit Specialist). The Borrower prepared a full evaluation of the project's
implementation using the Bank's ICR format. This report is available in project files and
its executive summary is attached to this ICR. The Borrower also commented on the
Bank's draft ICR.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
THIRD NONFORMAL EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN No. 3431-IND)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
A.   Introduction
(i)   The Third Nonformal Education (NFE III) Project is the third of the series of
Nonformal Education projects designed to continue the Bank's support for Government
of Indonesian's program in Nonformal education. The First Nonformal Education Project
(Loan 1486-IND, 1977- 1984) covered 7 most-populous provinces and the Second
Nonformal Education Project (Loan 2355 - IND, 1984 - 1990) covered additional 10
provinces. The Third Nonformal Education Project (1991 - 1999) expanded the basic
services throughout the country - with more intensive programs in 1000 poorest
subdistricts (kecamatan). The total project cost for NFE III was US$ 69.5 million. The
loan was approved on December 20, 1991 and became effective on April 30, 1992. The
Loan was closed on March 31, 1999 after a twelve month extension. US$ 64,751,075 was
disbursed and the last disbursement took place on October 15, 1999. An amount of US$
3,095,447 was cancelled and US$ 74.091 will be refunded to the Special Account,
leaving a balance of US$ 1,727,570 to be cancelled.
B.   PROJECT OBJECTIVES
(ii)   The project supported the government in improving the human capital of the poor,
through enhancing their basic education and income-generating skills. More specifically,
the project would assist Dikmas (Directorate for Community Education) in addressing
basic illiteracy, providing higher levels of functional literacy to neo-literates and
developing new programs to meet the changing needs of its clientele. The project also
aimed at restructuring Dikmas support for income-generating activities and vocational
training, to improve the quality and targeting of Dikmas program to increase the
productivity and employment prospects of poor people working in the informal sector,
particularly women.
(iii) The Project was designed to consist of three parts: the Basic Program, the
Intensive Program, and National Support Services. The Basic Program (BP) was to
continue the provision of the basic Paket A program (primary school equivalency)
throughout the country. The Intensive Program (IP) implemented a special strategy
comprising modified and new programs and tested a more intensive delivery system in
about one-quarter of the poorest sub-districts, especially targeted to low-income
beneficiaries. The National Support Services (NSS) component was to strengthen



- ii -
Dikmas' capacity to design, manage, deliver, monitor and evaluate the new strategy to be
implemented through the IP, as well as to carry out its ongoing NFE programs.
C.   Implementation Experience and Results
(iv)  In general, the project was partly successful in meeting its objective. The project
managed to expand basic literacy, develop functional literacy, and help design new
approaches in basic education equivalency programs. The project target for the literacy
program was exceeded using additional government budget as an effort to enforce the
Compulsory Education Policy. The project has also been able to expand vocational
training and improve NFE national support system for teacher training, book
development, and community outreach. The project, however, has been less successful in
managing income-generation programs. Lastly, the project has suffered from the lack of
reliable Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation System.
(v)   One of the most successful sub-components of the project was the Functional
Literacy Program introduced towards the end of the project. Functional Literacy
represented a move from a top-dowm to a leamer centered, flexible approach more
relevant and interesting to the learners. It also encouraged the use of locally available
leaming materials.
(vi)   While the project's achievement in quantitative terms was impressive, quality was
variable:
(vii)  The literacy program (Paket A/ B) failed to keep participants to attend the full
program (average attendance was 1.6 years out of the required 3 years). There was a lack
of supplementary learning materials, the class formation was quota driven and the size of
the class (40 students) was too large to be supervised, the quality of (most) tutors are
poor, the village reading corners were not operational and the Income Generation
Program groups were underdeveloped.
(viii) The role and function of SKB (District Learning and Resource Centre) and BPKB
(Regional Learning and Resource Centre) was not fully developed. SKB was less aware
or successful in meeting their expected role in developing model teaching and
disseminating lessons learned from their own-run Paket A/ Paket B. The BPKB failed to
produce good quality books/ reports to improve the overall program and - due to
budgetary constraint - the distribution of any product was almost non existent.
(ix)   Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation System continued to suffer although
problems was identified during the previous projects and additional measures built into
the design of NFE III. Reliable data for the simplified performance indicators (introduced
at the second half of the project) was not available until the end of the project.
(x)   The Bank's supervision missions has been successful up to the midlife of the
project. They were able to identify the project's shortcomings, especially the Supervision,
Monitoring and Evaluation System (SPEM) and the Income Generating activity and



- iii -
effectively suggested some restructuring to address the problems. However, towards the
end of the project, the Bank supervision became less frequent and less effective in
addressing the implementation problems. As a result, these recommended changes,
especially the ones related to the SPEM and Income Generating Program, were not fully
implemented and shortcomings were not successfully resolved.
(xi)  Also relevant are criticisms of Bank Supervision of NFE I and II as contained in
Project Completion Reports, namely, that projects as complex as these should have been
supervised more frequently than the standard twice a year and that more Nonformal
education experts should have been involved.
D.   Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
No new commitment regarding loan funded project for Nonformal education been agreed
yet. Instead, there are Bank facilitated activities in support of Dikmas and Community
Based Education. These include: discussion on the possibility of improving Paket B, plan
to conduct study on the capacity of the Community Learning Centers and Bappenas-
coordinated-Task Force looking at Community Based Education.
(xii ) The major lessons leamed relate to the need to avoid a complicated project scope
and methodology, and to ensure a flexible, community/ beneficiary participatory
approach. These issues were reviewed at the project design stage, but it was then felt that
they could be handled by a strengthened Dikmas apparatus. That proved more difficult
than expected. Specifically:
* avoid overly-complex projects project design when local capacity is weak and
national leadership is unclear of its policy direction and scope; inadequate
institutional analysis weakened project design from the start;
* project objectives should be clear and directly monitorable with development impact
indicators which are useful to and used by the client;
* community/beneficiary involvement and support by local authorities is critical for
ensuring a useful and sustainable product. Assurances of National level ministries of
sustained support throughout a five year implementation period proved to be
insufficient in this project which focused on local activities;
* project implementation responsibilities, channels of communication and authority,
should be more clearly defined during project design, delegated to the lowest possible
levels of government to ensure a more outcome-oriented and flexible process; and,
* adequate incentives, including salary and transport allowances, should be paid to all
staff, including teachers, to ensure their commitment.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
NONFORMAL EDUCATION III
Loan No. 3431-IND
PART I:    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.   Project Objectives and Description
1.    The Project Objectives The project sought to support the government's efforts
to contribute to improving the human capital of the poor, through enhancing their basic
education and income-generating skills. To achieve this the project would assist Dikmas
(Directorate for Community Education) to: (a) address basic illiteracy, (b) provide higher
levels of functional literacy to neo-literates, and (c)develop new programs to meet the
changing needs of its clientele. The project also aimed at restructuring Dikmas' support
for income-generating activities and vocational training, to improve the quality and
targeting of Dikmas program to increase the productivity and employment prospects of
poor people working in the informal sector, particularly women.
2.    Original Components. To achieve its objectives, the Project was designed with
three parts:
3.    The Basic Program (BP) was to support the formation of about 90,000 Paket A
learning groups and finance the provision of textbooks, tutor training and incentives and
learning funds.
4.    The Intensive Program (IP) was to: (a) strengthen Paket A literacy; (b) develop,
test and implement the initial Paket B model developed in 1989 in lower secondary
Nonformal education programs; and (c) create income generating programs aimed at
increasing the skills and productivity of groups by-passed by formal education. This
latter program was divided into: (i) Private Vocational courses (scholarships) intended for
the unskilled very poor by providing scholarships to poor students to attend courses; (ii)
Magang (apprenticeships) intended for the unskilled very poor by sponsoring
apprenticeships to work in on-going business enterprises; and (iii) small business
management skills training intended to assist low-income informal sector micro-
entrepreneurs to improve their skills, attitudes and knowledge in order to increase their
productivity and incomes.
5.    The National Support Services (NSS) was meant to (a) improve of the quality of
pre-service and in-service staff training for Nonformal Education (NFE) staff, and
training of trainers for staff of private vocational courses; (b) construct/ renovate and
equip NFE support facilities, including Dikmas headquarters, Regional and District
Learning Centres (BPKBs and SKBs); (c) improve project management and
implementation system for the Intensive Program areas; and (d) strengthen capacity for
project monitoring and evaluation.



- 2 -
6.    Policy Context. One of the main goals of Repelita V (1989-94) was the
reduction of the incidence of poverty by investments in the human capital of the poor.
Nonformal education and training was En integral part of the Government of Indonesia's
(GOI) poverty reduction strategy. Increased access to skills training and credit to
promote informal sector economic activities were also important elements in GOI
poverty programs. In addition, human resource development was a cornerstone of GOI
universal education policy. Nonformal education was seen as an attractive basic
education alternative due to young person's economic inability to study full-time as well
as a lack of places in formal secondary schools. At the time the formal primary education
was being addressed by Primary Education Quality Improvement Project (Loan 3448-
IND)
7.    Linkages between Project and Sector and Policy Objectives. This project was
developed to meet the Nonformal education needs as stated above and was in line with
the Bank's Indonesia: Poverty Assessm nt and Strategy Report (Report No. 8034-IND,
1990). Over a number of years, the Bark has been consistent in its strategy to support the
Government of Indonesia in improving basic education by meeting the nine year
compulsory education, enhancing qualily at all levels and expansions of education to
poorer groups and remote regions.
8.    Risks. The major risks perceived at the time of appraisal were: the possibility of
ineffective targeting of project services which could undermine their poverty impact.
Additionally, there was a possibility that insufficient staff, particularly at the field level,
and inadequate recurrent funds would irnpede program quality and targeting. These risks
were seen as manageable through agreedi upon selection criteria and procedures and
strengthened project monitoring systems, as well as an approved Staffing Action Plan and
financing of incremental recurrent costs, including honoraria for additional contract field
staff.
9.    Changes in Project Design. Tlhe mid-term review identified two sub-
components as needing special attention: the supervision, monitoring and evaluation
component (SPEM) and the small business management skills training program (KBUs).
To overcome the problems, it was agrecd that in the case of Supervision, Monitoring and
Evaluation, the l'erformance Indicators as agreed in the SAR were too complex for
Dikmas to manage. A streamlined set o. indicators were agreed in May 1996 to be used
for the remaining of project's life. The KBU program was designed to provide training in
small business management skills and technical assistance to learning groups to form or
expand micro enterprises. It had been observed that the groups did not manage to extend
their access to other credit or to other resource institutions. Moreover, the policy of
moving Paket A or B completers into KBU was not implemented. It was then agreed that
for the remaining two years of the project (i) KBU programs were reduced from 100
districts to 30 and (ii) a new KBU demonstration program would be piloted in six
districts.
10.   During the life of the project, tm'o new approaches were also introduced: i) the
Functional Literacy program (1995) - a new model based on a participatory action
learning approach and constituted a major change from the book-based, centrally



- 3 -
managed Paket A; and ii) PKBM (Community Learning Centre) (August 1998) -
established in vacant buildings (government/ privately owned) at the village level and
offering the Dikmas literacy program as one of their activities.
B.    Achievement of Project Objectives
11.   The project was partly successful in meeting its objectives. The project was able
to expand delivery of basic literacy services, develop functional literacy, and helped
design new approaches in basic education equivalency programs. The project was also
able to expand vocational training and improve Nonformal Education (NFE) national
support system for teacher training, book development, and community outreach.
However, the project was less successful in managing income-generation programs.
Finally, the project suffered from the lack a of reliable supervision, monitoring and
evaluation System.
12.   Assessment of project outcomes was hampered by the lack of reliable quantitative
data on project inputs and, even more important, outputs. Therefore this ICR is based
mainly on qualitative assessments which reflect discussions with project staff,
beneficiaries, government institutions, UNICEF and private parties involved in
Nonformal education. This assessment also benefited from the comprehensive 1997/98
Impact Evaluation Final Report' and the various Bank supervision reports, as well as
from discussions with Bank staff involved in the project.
The Basic Program (BP):
13.   (Paket A), Paket A equivalency (setara), Paket B equivalency (setara). The
project did contribute to the literacy training of a substantial number of students the
establishment of leaming groups, the training and payment of tutors, the design,
production and distribution of books and learning materials, an improved support system
through Dikmas staff at all levels of Government, the recruitment of fieldworkers at the
sub-district level, and the strengthening of NFE's regional and local in-service training
centers (respectively, BPKBs and SKBs).
14.   The available data as of March 1998 - although the data base is deficient and
therefore should be used with caution - showed that quantitatively, the targets for Paket
A (basic and equivalent/ setara), Paket B setara and Scholarship were exceeded, the
targets for Apprenticeship and Income Generating Program were not achieved.
In addition to the target set for Paket A enrollment, the governnent provided funds to
enroll an additional 2.5 million leamers in the literacy program. Since 1995/96 these
additional targets have been funded by government budget.
IThe Final Report on the 'Impact Evaluation of Nonformal Education Program in Batch I and II Intensive
Kecamatan' was conducted by Pusat Pengembangan Agribisnis based on its surveys carried out in 30
randomly selected intensive kecamatan (sub-district) targeted by the project in March and November 1997.
The study was completed in February 1998.



-4 -
Program               Target              Achieved           Remark
A. Basic Program      900.000             5.300.000          Exceeded
(basic literacy)
B. Intensive Program
Intensive literacy  600.000              855.467           Exceeded
Junior Second equiv.   17.000          1.879.800           Exceeded
Scholarship         27.000               42.509            Exceeded
Apprenticeship      60.000                25.000           Not achieved
Income Generating    300.000             118.000           Not achieved
15.   These activities resulted in both more and relatively better training, although - as
indicated by the Impact Evaluation Report - it was less successful in sustaining the
learning process for an extended period of time. The average duration of training in the
literacy program was reportedly 1.6 years - only 17 percent followed the full 3 years. The
drop out rate is highest (21 percent) during the first year, mostly due to work
commitments.
16.   The quality of books and other learning materials has not been assessed, but brief
observation by the mission found that they were frequently of little interest to the
students. The Functional Literacy program has recently undergone some excellent
changes where learning materials were developed using local material.
17.   The project was less successful in ensuring the supplementary learning and
tutor materials were available and used effectively. Field observations by the Impact
Evaluation Report teams revealed that the only leaming material used in Packet A
program were the booklets of Packet A. The other leaming materials were not present in
the learning group. This issue was highlighted in the Aide Memoire of June 1998 and it
was agreed that the government will provide an explanation to the Bank on why materials
have not reached the leamer. The report is expected by June 30, 1998, but apparently this
was not followed upon.
18.   Despite investments in strengthening training facilities provided under the project,
in most places, the quality of the tutors was notably poor. Generally, tutors were
recruited from the local Junior Secondary School. Without sufficient and continuous
professional support, the tutors' skill in conducting 'Nonformal-education' became
limited, resulting in the tendency of shifting back to formal education mode.
19.   The Impact Evaluation Report stated that the impact of the literacy program
depended on the formal education background of the leamers. Those with one year of
formal primary schooling seemed to benefit most, and those with three years or more of
schooling benefited little with regards to reading and writing, but did advance on
arithmetic. Most of the learning in writing, reading and arithmetic took place in the first
year, and reading hardly improved thereafter. The report also indicated that by extending
training to three years for all leamers, only small improvements will be feasible in
writing and arithmetic if the current curriculum is maintained.



-5 -
The Intensive Program (IP)
20.   The project also provided for research and some pilot testing of the junior
secondary school equivalency program (target group 13 -18 years), covering about
20,000 students in four provinces. The Impact Assessment showed that the test scores of
students with more modules and tutor training were not significantly higher than those
without. However, the program was applied full-scale by Dikmas as of 1995, following
the Government Decree on Compulsory Education by raising the minimum education
standard to nine years. Recorded enrollments rose substantially, reaching a peak of 6
percent of total junior secondary enrollment in 1997/98. In meeting the Compulsory
Education Policy, Paket B Setara (equivalency to Junior High School) was introduced to
cover target groups that could not make it to the formal school. The informal program,
therefore, had to cover much of the same material of the formal school, but with fewer
resources in terms of learners' time and tutorial support.
21.   Functional Literacy. In 1995, Dikmas began developing a new functional
literacy program which is defined as an approach to develop one's capacity in reading,
writing, arithmetic, observing and analyzing, by using resources available in the
environment and applying the skills to solve problems encountered in daily lives. The
KF approach represented a move from a top-down to a learner centered, flexible
approach which was more relevant and much more interesting to the learners. Instead of
using centrally produced learning materials, KF utilized resources available as part of
their daily life (e.g. pamphlet from Community Health Center, various forms available
from local Post Office). Meeting schedule and learning topics were also agreed with
learners beforehand.
22.   An international consultant was hired and a team of counterparts and master
trainers embarked on a three years action research project to develop a new model based
on a participatory action learning approach. A comprehensive and systematic training
program was launched to prepare learning groups to take on more responsibility for their
own leaming and to prepare each district to design and implement locally relevant
versions of the program.
23.   Learners' motivation and participation is high. Functional literacy skills -
measured by a set of questions relating to the use of literacy skills in the daily life of the
participants - continue to improve after the first year of training. There is evidence that
even further improvements would be feasible if all the participants were to follow 3 years
of training.
24.   One area of concern in sustaining KF relates to training support for tutors. Tutor
training has been limited to a one-off training for 5 days. Since KF introduced a
significant change from the conventional leaming method, it required continuous support
and intervention to prevent tutors from returning to the traditional teaching method.
25.   Village Reading Corner. This component was less successful because the books
were generally not interesting for the newly literate, and the location, frequently in the
office or home of the village head was often intimidating. In some areas, this was



- 6 -
corrected by moving some of the Village Reading Corners to the Community Learning
Centres (PKBMs)
26.   Apprenticeship (Magang) and Vocational Training (scholarship). These two
programs were eventually treated as one integrated program which made it easier for
local administrators to manage. The magang prograrn was particularly useful in urban
and sub-urban communities where a variety of expertise exists and from which new skills
can be learned. However, the program was less successful in village communities where
local skills or expertise was limited. In such cases, the tendency was to utilize the limited
skills available in the community as places for apprenticeships (magang) that did not add
new marketable skills to the trainees.
27.  Income Generating Program (Kelompok Belajar Usaha/ KBU). This
component was designed to provide training in small business management skills and
technical assistance to groups which would then form or expand micro enterprises. By
1996, it was evident that most KBL did not have access credit beyond the initial Rp.
10.000 (per learner) provided by the project. Also, there were few or no links with local
NGOs or other resource persons and the policy of moving Paket A or B completers into
KBU was not yet widely practiced in the field. As a result, it was agreed during the
supervision mission in early 1996, that for the remainder of project the KBU would be
reduced to 30 from 100 districts an(d a new KBU demonstration program be piloted.
28.   An assessment2 of the KBU concluded that: (i) the reformed program came closer
to reaching the target groups of Paket A and B learners; (ii) paid Technical Resource
Person (TRPI) seemed to be a good innovation to help start groups, although the TRP
often acted as an employer of KBU learners rather than a coach to the groups as
originally envisioned; (iii) the reformed KBU had limited economic impact because of
the nature of the products produced and sold; and (iv) penilik might be able to establish
KBU groups, but lacked the expertise to further develop the groups. An important policy
issues raised by this assessment was 'is the objective of the KBU program "learning" or
"earning"? The SAR did not seem to differentiate between the two objectives.
National Support Services (NSS).
29.   The Government's NFE implementation capacity at both the national and
provincial levels was strengthened under the project although the impact of current
government decentralization on future NFE responsibilities is uncertain. Unfortunately,
the importance of bringing in the private sector and including the communities and NGOs
was not fully realized until towards the end of the project.
30.   The Role and Function of DIKMAS staff On completion of the project,
DIKMAS decided to keep the field workers (TLD) using Government budget resources
to assist Dikmas field staff/ Penilik (supervisors). However, there was a serious problem
in terms of Penilik (supervisors) and TLD capacity to perform their tasks. While their
area of work was large and monitoring required a high degree of mobility, Dikmas field
2 Dikmas KBU program - Summary Evaluation by Richard W. Moore PhD, February 1999.



- 7 -
staff suffered from limited resources. In some areas, mobility was restricted due to
transportation problems. Many tutors complained that the low remuneration (Rp. 25,000-
50,000 a month) provided little incentive to perform their jobs. A strong correlation was
noted between the quality/capacity of the Penilik and the quality of activities in his/ her
area. A well motivated Penilik usually managed to inspire a variety of activities as
reflected in the establishment of a dynamic Community Learning Center, accommodating
various Dikmas activities.
31.   District Learning and Resource Centers (SKB) and Regional Learning and
Resource Center (BPKB). The SKBs and BPKBs under the Directorate of Technical
Services (Diktentis) were assigned to develop models for learning materials, training
activities, program delivery and extension services and support Dikmas field activities.
Under the project, the number of BPKBs increased from 9 to 20, and SKBs from 116 to
261. The SKBs continued providing training for tutors and produced supplementary
learning material, usually leaflets about vocational skills.
32.   The project design did address this important role of BPKB and SKB by
establishing additional SKBs and ensuring their full staffing. However, during
implementation, these units - despite increasing numbers of staff - appeared to be under-
utilized in carrying out their mandated functions. The reasons for this poor performance
included: competing priorities (delivering their own Paket A/ Paket B programs) and little
incentive for staff to perform outreach and production/ development of learning
materials. SKBs saw the training program that they are running as being independent of
Dikmas's programs and no model was ever developed or disseminated to the Dikmas
program.
33.   The BPKBs produced some books and reports but their quality had never been
assessed and the materials were rarely used. Insufficient budget restricted reproduction
and distribution of the materials resulting in minimal usefulness for Dikmas activities.
The fact that SKB and BPKB were under the responsibility of another Directorate
(Directorate of Technical Services or Diktentis) might had been one of the reasons of the
insufficient support towards Dikmas's programe.
34.   Training and study tours. Dikmas staff studied for post graduate degrees at IKIP
Jakarta. Only a few managed to complete within 3.5 years. The rest took longer to finish
their study. The training showed a positive result such as more initiative being undertaken
by the staff, more self-confidence and more systematic thinking. The short term overseas
training was cancelled due to the fluctuation of Rupiah currency.
35.   Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation System (SPEM). The performance of
Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation System of the project was poor. Two years after
the project commenced, a mission3 concluded that there were some basic problems
hindering the development of SPEM system: the wrong location (sub-directorate), the
wrong composition and the understaffing of the SPEM working group in the project
3 An operation analyst joined the supervision mission in November 93 and specifically looked at the
Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation System. The detail report was attached to the Aide Memoire.



- 8 -
(centre and province), the lack of good MIS in Indonesia, too many tasks and too vast an
area to be covered by the Penilik without sufficient resources, the lack of formal training
of the Dikmas staff and the lack of supervision of the consultant's work.
While great quantities of data were collected, the data reported were neither adequate nor
reliable for evaluation and planning purposes. Where reliable data were collected, there
was very little analysis for evaluation purposes. In most cases, the data collected did not
shed much light upon outcomes. As a result, in May 1996, it was agreed that the
indicators agreed in SAR be streamlined and reduced.4 However, by the time of the ICR
mission the quality of SPEM data was still deficient.
36.   The SPEM poor performance was also flagged as a serious issue in the PCR of
the previous projects (NFE I and II). During the design of NFE III this was addressed by
establishing a SPEM working group. Apparently, a combination of an under-estimation
of the complexity of the SPEM and an over-estimation of the capacity of Dikmas has
resulted in the issue not being resolved.
37.   Community Learning Cen tres (PKBM). Although not part of the original
project design, the PKBMs concept - introduced by the new Director of Dikmas - appear
to be one of the positive innovations of the project The PKBM is 'a place where
community education activities are ,lirected towards empowering the potential of the
village to initiate the development of the social, economic and cultural sectors'. The
PKBM program started in August 1998 and as of March 1999 there were 484 centers
with a total of about 45,000 learners. They were established in vacant buildings at the
village level and were getting substantial Dikmas support. They were run by a variety of
management entities e.g.: CBO (Community Based Organization), religious institutions
and DIKMAS.
38.   Poverty and Gender Targeting. With the exception of the targeting of the
Income Generating Program (KBU) participants, the project was largely successful in
reaching the poorest groups. The targeting - aiming at the sub-district level - was
carefully worked out together with 13appenas. According to the Impact Evaluation
Report, the 1,000 sub-districts selected for the intensive program showed higher illiteracy
and poverty rates than the non-intensive sub-districts. Improved literacy was assessed
through the participants' ability to progress through the reading materials (book Al -
100). Also, 27 percent of the literacy program, 26 percent of the income-generating
program, and 24 percent of the scholarship and apprenticeship program participants were
below the poverty line, compared to 11 percent of the total population. In addition, an
estimated 60 percent of the basic literacy program, 70 percent of the income-generating
program, and 75 percent of the scholarship program were women. Participants in the
primary school equivalency progranm turned out to be the poorest, while participants in
the junior secondary school equivalency program were relatively better off.
4The streamlined indicators covered: (i) percentage of literacy learners passing the primary school
equivalency examination (PERS); (ii) peicentage of literacy learners reaching functional literacy level
(Paket A20); (iii) percentage of learners passing the secondary school equivalency examination (iv)
percentage of apprentices/ trainees attaining job/self-employment; and (v) the percentage of KBU groups
who obtain credit.



-9-
39.   Gender issues. Despite the fact that the project was designed to be gender
sensitive and that most of the project participants were women, there was little evidence
that this issue was fully addressed in the field. In terms of project design, there were
several assumptions that need reviewing. The project failed to fully recognize the
foregone earning of family by letting their children attend the course - especially the
girls. This has lessened the participation of girls especially in Paket B; the project made
an assumption that women have stretch or flexible time and a fixed role in the house and
in the community. Consequently, the types of business put into practice in the KBU
(Income Generating Group) were those traditionally accepted as 'business for women'.
Such an assumption not only created a stereotyping of women's business as an additional
source of income but also put heavier burden for women since there is no redistribution
of roles in their domestic work. In addition, learning materials for the Nonformal
education were prone to gender stereotyping. The women are depicted as being in the
domestic sphere with limited access and control over resources and decision making.
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project
40.   Project design. The project was initially top-down and managed almost solely
by government officials. The need for a more flexible, community based approached was
only later realized and introduced. Project management was complicated with intensive
program activities in 1,000 sub-districts in 27 provinces handled by central, provincial,
district and sub-district officials, as well as by the BPKB/ SKB system, which is handled
by a different department in the Directorate General of Nonformal Education, Youth and
Sport (Diklusepora) This caused frequent communication problems, duplication of
effort, and an extremely complex and inflexible organizational set-up.
41.   The project design did not include sufficient institutional analysis - especially at
the local level. The project design seemed to concentrate more at the central level and not
enough consideration was given to ensure capacity of the field staff- where most of the
activities took place. For example, a previously recognized problem in SPEM was
addressed by providing input at the central level (SPEM working group in the centre) -
but not at the local/ field level (understanding/ capacity of field officers, computers,
mobility resources). As a result, the project suffered from a lack of reliable data on its
preparation, implementation and results, particularly aggregated at the national level
D.   Project Sustainability
42.   Sustainability of project activities is uncertain. The Government has shown
considerable commitment to the reduction of poverty, and, in that context, to NFE.
However, budget cuts following the 1997 financial crisis resulted in major reductions in
program activities, including tutor training and project monitoring. In addition, after the
introduction of mandatory nine-year education, an increasing share of NFE resources



- 10-
went to the junior secondary school equivalency (Paket B) program. Finally, it is
uncertain how the NFE program will be influenced by the proposed decentralization of
government responsibilities and authority, and whether the local authorities will show
this same commitment. However, recent changes in Dikmas' concept of community-
based NFE and increasing participation of NGOs could make the project activities
sustainable. In addition, the now mandatory nine-year education requirement is more
likely to ensure the continued implementation of the junior secondary school equivalency
program.
E.   Bank Performance
43.   Bank Performance. Overall the Bank's performance was uneven. Design flaws
are evident in the areas of institutional analysis and the monitoring system. The project
was designed in close cooperation with the government taking into consideration lessons
learned from previous projects, bul it was still overly complex. Government preparation
teams at both the national and local level, working with Bank mission, designed a project
which relied heavily on local capacity to implement and supervise the project.
44.   The Bank's supervision missions through the mid-term review were generally
successful. The missions identified project shortcomings, in particular the SPEM
problems and the income generating activity, and suggested restructuring to address the
problems. However, towards the end of the project, Bank supervision became less
frequent and effective in addressing problems. As a result, the recommended changes
related to the SPEM and Income Generating Program were never fully implemented and
shortcomings were not successfully resolved. One of the lessons learned from earlier
NFE projects was that projects as complex as these should be supervised more frequently
than the standard twice a year and that more Nonformal education experts should have
been involved. With decreased Bank supervision of the project after mid-term, weak
capacity at the local level to implemnent supervise the project, inadequate data collection
and analysis capacity, and an evolving vision of how NFE projects are best designed,
more attention should have been given for ensuring local government ownership of the
project, training at the local level, and technical assistance on the part of Bank missions.
F.    Borrower Performance
45.   To some extent, borrower performance during implementation was satisfactory.
Progress was initially slow because the project was not quick enough in making the
necessary adjustments (e.g. the hiring of an implementation adviser). Progress picked up
after a change in management and the hiring of experienced consultants in 1994/95 and
adjustments were introduced (especially Functional Literacy). However, in some issues
(especially SPEM and Income Generating), on-going problems were not unresolved.
46.   Although the project as such did not cover all of Dikmas' activities, its research
and development of NFE policies, particularly regarding finctional literacy and Paket B
equivalency, greatly contributed to Dikmas' program overall.



47.   Government counterpart funding of an equivalent US$ 30 million (30% of total
project cost) was a problem from the start. The budget was almost always late and
insufficient, particularly for operational expenditures (such as transport for fieldworkers
and learning materials production and distribution). In addition, because of the budget's
specific line item allocations, lower-level Dikmas officials did not have the authority to
move money from lower to higher local priorities, which meant that activities were
frequently supply- driven.
G.   Assessment of Outcomes
48.   Because of inadequate design of the data collection and analysis component of the
project during preparation, weak attention paid to data collection at the Ministerial level
and lack of capacity at the local levels, there is insufficient data (e.g. number of students
in examinations and number of students passing those examinations) to determine project
impact at the national level in quantitative terms. Qualitative judgements, however, can
be made. The project did focus on the poorest sub-districts and population groups;
contributed to the delivery of basic literacy and its conversion to functional literacy, and
strengthened training in the selected sub-districts. It provided vocational training and
income-generating activities and strengthened the Government's NFE delivery
mechanism.
49.   The project's major weaknesses were: (i) an overly complex design which did not
adequately take into consideration the lessons from previous projects; (ii) inflexibility in
project implementation by the Dikmas decision makers; (iii) limited information on unit
costs of Nonformal education hindering comparisons with formal education; (iv) the
initial lack of community participation, including NGOs; (v) late and insufficient
counterpart funding, particularly of operational expenditures; (vi) the lack of a reliable
data base for decision making; and (vii) KBU activities were not properly related to
literacy training and poorly managed and supported.
H.   Future Operations
50.   Although at the moment no commitment for a new loan funded project has been
agreed, discussions are progressing between the borrower and the Bank in support to the
Nonformal education in Indonesia, especially to Dikmas's move away from the
traditional Paket A/ Paket B program. One idea worth considering would be the
strengthening and improving of the Paket B as an alternative means of delivery of basic
education, building on the lessons learned from previous projects, especially the Third
Nonformal Education. In particular, successful aspects of the Functional Literacy (e.g.
learner centered, continuous learning) could be considered. Other effort could include
conducting further study on the possible role of Community Learning Center to respond
to the need of the community for better quality education.



- 12-
In February 2000, the Bank., in association with Bappenas, facilitated a workshop
to explore the wide dimension of the concept Community Based Education. The
workshop tried to solicit ideas for the establishment of a Task Force whose responsibility
would be to come up with policy recommendations to improve the role of Community
Based Education in improving the rprovision of quality education in Indonesia.
I.    Key Lessons Learned
51.   The main lessons learned in this project are:
(a)   avoid overly-complex projects project design when local capacity is weak
and national leadership is unclear of its policy direction and scope;
inadequate institutional analysis weakened project design from the start;
(b)   project objectives should be clear and directly monitorable with
development impact indicators which are useful to and used by the client;
(c)   community/beneficiary involvement and support by local authorities is
critical for ensuring a useful and sustainable product. Assurances of
National level ministries of sustained support throughout a five year
implementation period proved to be insufficient in this project which
focused on local activities;
(d)   project implementation responsibilities, channels of communication and
authority, should be more clearly defined during project design, delegated
to the lowest possible levels of government to ensure a more outcome-
oriented and flexible process; and,
(e)   adequate incentives, including salary and transport allowances, should be
paid to all staff, including teachers, to ensure their commitment.



- 13-
THIRD NONFORMAL EDUCATION PROJECT
(Loan no. 3431-IND)
INDONESIA
Part II. STATISTICAL ANNEXES



- 14 -
Table 1: Summary of assessments
A.   Achievement of Objectives              Substantial       Partial        Negligible      Not applicable
(v)             (v)              (V)              (V)
Macroeconomic policies                  []                               [
Sector policies                         Fl              Ev               [II                Fl
Fiancial Objectives                                     [[                                   E 
Institutional development               [I]             [I]              [j                 [I]
Physical objectives                     E                El               E  
Poverty reduction                       [                L                El                    ]
Gender concerns                         [               [                    ]              [
Other social objectives                 [a                                El                 El
Environmental objectives                  I              El              Li 
Public sector management                [I              Li               El                FII
Private sector development               El              El               E                  El
Other (specify)                          El             [I]               El                 El



- 15 -
Table 1: Summary of assessments (continued)
B.   Project sustainability                Likely                   Unlikely            Uncertain
HigWy
satisfactory             Satisfactory          Deficient
C.  Bank performance                        (v)                       (v)                  (v)
Identification                       [ I]                                           H
Preparation assistance                                         [ i E
Appraisal                                                        W                  IIE
Supervision                          [I                            I                Fii
Highly
satisfactory             Satisfactory               Deficient
D.  Borrower performance                    (v)                       (v)                      (v)
Preparation                           [                          W                        I]
Implementation                                                   W                        LII
Covenant compliance                  [v I]                                                   IE
Operation (if applicable)              m                                                    mI
E.   Assessment of Outcome                 Higly                                           Highly
satisfactory   Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory    Unsatisfactory
(v)            (v)            (v)               (v)
I              L]              LIII              LI]



- 16-
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title               Purpose                               Year of             Status
approval
Preceding operations
First Nonformal  ucation    1) Provide effective village nonformal      1977          Completed in 1984.
Project (Ln 1486)           education programs; 2) Improve the                        Relatively successful.
quality of nonfornal program; 3)
Reinforce manag ment and supervision
capabilities
Second Nonformal Education
Project (Ln 2355)                                                       1984          Completed 1990.
Building on the quantitative achievement                 Quantitatively
of the first NFE project by better targeting             satisfactory but
and addressing quality and management                    qualitatively weaker than
issues by improv ing learning materials                  expected.
content and distribution, training NFE
staff, and strengthening management
capability through improved planning,
supervision, moniitoring and evaluation
system.
Following Operations
Community Based Education                                               2000          On going discussion
Project.



- 17 -
TABLE 3: Project Timetable
STEPS IN PROJECT CYCLE                        DATE PLANNED   ACTUAL DATE
Identification
Preparation                                                  October 1990         October 1990
Appraisal                                                    February 1991        February 1991
Negotiations                                                July 1991             July 1991
Letter of Development Policy
Board Presentation                                           December 1991        December 1991
Signing                                                      February 1992        February 1992
Effectiveness                                                April 1992           April 1992
First Tranche Release
Mid-term Review
Second Tranche Release
Third Tranche Release
Project Completion                                           March 1998           March 1999
Loan Closing                                                 March 1998           March 1999



- 18 -
Table 4: Loan Dis,bursement Cummulated Estimated and Actual
US$ million            Estimate               Actual                 Actual as % of estimate
1992                   2.5                    2.5                    100
1993                   8                      5.6                    70
1994                   19.5                   20.1                   103
1995                   37.9                   42.1                   111
1996                   54.3                   54.5                   100
1997                   66.3                   62.8                   95
1998                   69.5                   65.3                   94
1999                                          65.9
2000                                          64.6
Table 5: Project Cost
Category                       Appraisal estimate (million US         Actual (US $)
IBRD          Gol
Investment Costs
(1) Civil Works                2.2            2.2             2.02
(2) Equipment                  2.5            1.1             2.58
(3) Furniture                  0.2            0.2             0.19
(4) Vehicle                    1.4            0.6             1.25
(5) Instructional material     10.5           4.7            7.61
(6) Consultants/ fellowships   10             0              4.85
(7) Local Training             16.4           7.3             18.22
(8) Tutor Incentive            2.2            1              4.62
(9) Learning funds/ scholarships    15.5      4.6             15.39
(10) Recurrent Costs           8.6            8.1             7.89
Total                          69.5           29.8            64.6
Total project costs (IBRD + Gol)
= (million US$) 99..3



Table 6
Performance Indicators
Note: In the absence of reliable data concerning project achievement against performance indicators, the following table - prepared by the government - tries to show the
percentage of students passing the National Equivalency Exam. The percentage is drawn by comparing the number students sifting for exam in 1997/98 and 1998/99,
against the total of grade 4 equivalent students in the previous 3 years (1995/96 and 199197 respectively). This calculation does not accommodate transition rates between grades.
Target number of participants                         Total                         Note
Component                                 1994/1995      1995/1996       1996/1997       1997/1998        1998/1999
1997198
1. Paket A (Primary)                                                                                                             )   Target number of participants for grade 4
Target number                                100,000        200,000         180,000          229,072         111,790                equivalent from (95/96) = (a)
a. Completing the program                    63,143         136,369         164,477         196,692          110,627                                                    115,675
- Grade 4 equivalent                       63,143          74,254          74,099          89,141           34.887                Passing Pehabtanas Exam = (b)
-GradeSequivalent                                          62,115          50,003          61,749           30,000                                                     40,164
- Grade 6 equivalent                                                       40,375          44.802           45,740                 Percentage (bla)
b. Not completing the progra                 36,867          63,631          15,523          33,380            1,163                                                       35%
- Grade 4 equivalent                       36,857          41,421           8,229          18,690             814                 1998/99
- Grade S equivalent                                       22,210           4,742          10,014             233            )   Target number of participants for grade 4
- Grade 6 equivalent                                                        2,552           6,676             116                 equivalent from (96/97) = (a)
c. Participating in the Final Exam                                                           44,802           45,740    90,542                                           82,328
d. Passing the exam                                                                          40,1D4           40,389    00,533      Passing Pehabtanas Exam - (b)
*)              )                                                      40,369
Percentage (b/a)
49%
2. Paket B (Jr. Secondary)                                                                                                            1997198
Target number                               123,490         246,880         340,000         431,163          327,690            )   # partcipants of gr 4 equiv.
a. Completing the program                    79,925         154,281         203,517         281,643          327,105                for previous 3 years (95/96)
-Grade 4 equivahent                        79,925          79,861          67,072         186,545          178,273                                                    132,165
-GradeS equivalnt                                          74,420          63,323          43,410          120,736                Passing National Exam
- Grade 6 equivalent                                                       73,122          51,688           28,096                                                     89.628
b. Not completing the progra                 43,585          92,599         136,483         153,520             585                  Percentage                             6S%
- Grade 4 equivaent                        43,565          52,304          75,066          76,760             351
-Grade 5 equivalet                                         40,295          34,120          46,056             119                 19S11
-Grade 6 equivalent                                                        27,297          30,704             115            *-)  # partiipants of gr4 equiv.
c. Participatitg in the Final Exam                                                           94,345          105,280   199,625      for previous 3 years (96/97)
d. Passing the exan                                                                          89,628           91,438   181,066                                          142,138
7                                  Pasi   National Exam
91,438
Percentaew                             64%



- 20 -
Table 7a: Status of Consultant Services
No   Category of     Date    Purpose/       Implementing
Consultant and          Activities    Agency
firm/individual
name                                                               Cost                 Consultant Month      Outcomes
Estimate         Actual            Estimat  Actual
e
IKIP Malang    Sept.   Implemen       IKIPMalang    Rp 19.080.000,-   Rp 19.080.000,-    12      12         3  Diklusepora
16,     tation of the                                                                      staff    finish
1993    S2 Program                                                                          semester 2.
for 3 Diklu
sepora staff
2.   IKIP Malang     Sept. 6,  Continuation  IKIP Malang    Rp 34.845.000,-   Rp 34.845.000,-    18    18         3  Diklusepora
1994    of implemen                                                                         staff  fisished
tation of the                                                                      master de- gree
S2 Program
for 3 Diklu
____ ____ ____   ___ ____ sepora  staff
3.   IKIP Jakarta    31       Implementati  IKIP Jakarta    Rp 306.000.000,-  Rp 306.000.000,-   36    36         20 Diklusepora
March   on of the S2                                                                        staff  finished
1995    Program  for                                                                        master de- gree
20
Diklusepora
staff
4.   Dra.    Haina  Nov. 1,  Implementati                  Rp 18.000.000,-   Rp 18.000.000,-    12     12         Report
Idham Ruswoto  1994     on support of
NFE   Dev.
Project
5.   Dra.    Haina  Nov. 1,  Project                       Rp 24.000.000,-   Rp 24.000.000,-    12     12         Repon
Idham Ruswoto  1995    Implementati
on  Support
for    NFE
Dev. Project
6.   Dr. Setijadi    Nov. 1,  NFE   Dev.                   Rp 48.000.000,-   Rp 48.000.000,-    12     12         Report
1994    Especially
Paket A and
Paket    B
___________ __  Programs
7.   Dr. Setijadi    Oct. 1,  Development                  Rp 60.000.000,-   Rp 60.000.000,-    12     12         Report
1996    of   out-of
school
equivalency
prog., ECD,
and    NFE
Policy
8.   Dr. Setijadi    Sept.    Development                  Rp 60.000.000,-   Rp 60.000.000,-    12     12         Report
30,      of    out-of
1997    school
equivalency
prog., ECD,
and    NFE
Policy
9.   Frank Hijmans   March   Providing                     USD    83,675+  USD       83,675+  12       12         Report
1, 1995   Management                 IDR.             IDR. 112,030,000
Support for                 112,030,000
PIU
10.  FrankHijmans   Dec. 9,  Advisory                      USD   115,575+  USD    115,575+  12         12        Report
1996    Services for                 IDR.             IDR. 128,750,000
Project                     128,750,000
Manajement
Support



-21 -
11.   Richard    W.  April    Advisory                        _  USD    38,655+   USD         38,655+   3         3           Report
Moore, Ph.D.     4, 1997   Services for                    IDR. 19,600,000   IDR. 19,600,000
Dcv.      of
Income-
Generating
Leaming
I G roups__                        _  _ _ _ _  _   __ _ _  _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _  _  _  _  _ _
12    Dr. Joan Dixon    Sept.    Functional                      USD.32,215   +   USD.32,215    +   12             12         Report
12,      Literacy                        IDR.52,500,000    IDR.52,500,000
1995     Consultant
(Phase I)
13    Dr. Joan Dixon   Oct 10,  Functional                       USD.69,350   +   USD.69,350    +   12             12         Report
1996     Literacy                        IDR.137,150,000   IDR.137,150,000
Consultant
(Phase  U)     _ _  _  _ _  _  _  _ _  _  _ _  __                        _  _
14    Dr. Joan Dixon   Oct 20,  Functional                       USD.34,300   +   USD.34,300    +   12             12         Report
1997     Literacy                        75,100,000         75,100,000
Consultant
(Phase   1II)                   _  _ _  _ _ _  _  _ _  _ _  _ _ _                _  _ _ _
15.   Dr. Joan Dixon   JuneI5,  Functional                       USD.23,200   +   USD.23,200    +   12             12         Report
1998     Literacy                        47,850,000         47,850,000
Consultant
(Phase  IV)                    _ _ _ _ _ _ _       _ _ _ _ _ _ _
16.   PT.     Insetra  June25,  Assist  the   PT.   Insetra   Rp 245,750,000    Rp 245,750,000           12        12         Report
Konsultana       1993      PMU  in the   Konsultana
dev. of Kejar
Paket    A,
Kejar Paket
B,       and
SPEM                        _
Table 7b: Studies Included in Project
No. Description of Study/ Purpose                                              Date of                Status
name of firm/                                                         completion
individual name
Effectiveness of the              To assess the                        1993                  Complete
Community Reading    effectivenss of the
Corner                            Community Learning
Centres in developing
reading habit.
2.    Analysis on literacy                 To find out the various   March1994                        Complete
level.                            level of literacy of the
participants of the
literacy program.
3.    Study on Literacy                    to find out the level of    July, 1994                     Complete
Level fo Package A                literacy that was
Program                           accomplised by
individuals living
completed the program               _
4.    Tracer Study on                      to get information on the  July, 1994                      Complete



- 22-
Diklusemas Course    status of graduates and
Participation        their employment.
5.   Study on the cost    To find out the cost   1996          Complete
benefit, relevancy and  effectiveness of Package
sustainability of    B in relation to students'
Package B.           training need and
parents' need.
6.   Evaluation Study of    Evaluating the       July, 1997    Complete
Field Workers        effectiveness of the
Effectiveness        community education
field workers (TLD)
7.   Impact Evaluation of  impact evaluation of the  January, 1998  Complete
NFE Programs in      programs financed NFE
Batch I and II      III
Intensive Kecamatan
8.   Tracer Study of the  To collect information    March, 1999   Satisfactory
graduates of Package   on the profile and
B.                   further study of
graduates, as well as the
impact oifPackage B on
the graduates and wider,
cormunity.
9.   Study on the         To assess the          March 1998    Complete
effectiveness of the    effectiveness of the
administration of    administration of
Package B.           Package B3 during April
96 - March 98.
10.  Study comparing the   To compare the        1998          Complete
learning performance   performance of Package
of Package B and     B and regular Junior
regular Junior High    High School in
School.
12.  Assessment on the    To assess the literacy  1998         Complete
literacy level of    level of reading
Reading Material at    materials made available
the Community        at the Cormmunity
Reading Corners.     Reading Corners.
13.  Study of the Economic  To identify the impact   March, 1999   Satisfactory
Crisis Impact to NFE   of econonmic crisis on
Programs             common interest to
participate in NFE Prog.



-23 -
Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants
Agree-   Section   Coven-    Present      Original    Revised    Description of Covenant       Comments
ment                ant       Status    fulfillment    fulfill-
Class                   date       ment
date
3431-
IND
1 (3)    10        Complied                            Furnish evidence of
(b)                with                                recruitment of peniliks
and required field
workers for each ip
subdistrict before
disbursement of
categories (9) and (10)
4 (A)     10       Complied                             Advise bidders that
(6)                with                                foreign vehicles eligible
for LCB procurement
and make available
import license in
necessary
5 (1)    05        Complied                             Select according to
with                                satisfactory criteria and
procedures: IP
subdistricts and
beneficiaries; private
training institutions'
apprenticeship
enterprises' TA resource
persons; and civil works
sites
5 (2)    10        Complied                             Provide scholarships and
with                                develop learning plans
for beneficiaries of the
intensive paket A, private
courses, apprenticeships
and income generating
programs, according to
satisfactory model
contracts and formats.
5 (3)     10       Complied                            Develop a satisfactory
with                                revised program before
implementing the paket
B lower secondary NFE
program
5 (4)     10       Complied                  10/31/    Prepare master training
with                     1995       plan for joint review with
Bank and update by
October 31 of each year.



-24 -
5 (5)    10       Complied                          Obtain necessary
with                              Government authori-
zations for establishment
of new SKBs before
completion of
construction.
5 (6)    10       Complied   04/01/      08/01/    Allocate equipment and
with       1993        1995       vehicles according to
satisfactory plan.
5 (7)    09       Complied   06/01/                 Adopt and implement
with       1992                   revised system for
SPEM.
5 (8)    10       Complied                          Carry out agreed staffing
with                             action plan in a
satisfactory manner,
including appointment of
12 PIU staff.
5 (9)    05       Complied                          Provide project
with                             implementation plan, for
bank comments, by
October 31 of each year



-25 -
Table 9: Bank Resources: Mission
Performance Rating
Stage of    Month/Year   No. of   Days    Specialized Staff Skills  Implementa  Development   Types of Problem
Project                 Persons    in           represented       -tion Status    Objectives
Cycle                             Field
Preparation   Nov 24 -   4                  * Economist and
Dec 14,                           mission leader;
(in          1989                           * Institutional and
conjunction                                    community
with                                           development
supervision                                    specialist
for NFE 11                                  * Vocational training
specialist
* Small-scale business
development
specialist
Appraisal
through
Board
Approval
Supervision
I           May 4-15,  3                    * Economist                                         Three emerging
1992                           * Institutional and                                issues: (a)
community develop-                              revolving scholar-
ment specialist                                 ships (b) slow
* Consultant                                       recruitment of
consultant (c)
procedures for
vehicle
procurement.
2           Oct 20- 31,  3                  * Operation Officer                                 Insufficient project
1992                           * Nonformal education                               staff; need to
specialist                                      recruit
* Institutional and                                implementation
community develop-                              advisor,
ment specialist                                 mechanism of
learning funds
3           April 20 -    3                 *   Economist
May 4,      3                      NFE specialist                                  Project manage-
1993                           *     ir-nepiement; Income
*   Micro-enterprse                                Generating
specialist                                     Program
4           Nov 9 - 26,  4                  * Economist                                         SPEMI MIS,
1993                           * Nonformal education                               coordinated and
specialist                                      timely implement-
* Operations Analyst                               ation
* Operations Officer



-26 -
5            May 29 --    3                   *  Operation Officer                                  Consultant recruit-
June 10,                         *  Nonformal Education                                ment; Action Plan
1994                               Specialist                                         for Resource
*  Income Generating                                  Person, ToR for
Specialist                                         Special Studies,
Plan for Intensive
Program Post
Activities
6            February 1   4                   *  Economist
- 17, 1995                       *  Insitututional and
Community Develop-
ment Specialist
*  Operation Officer
* NFE specialist
consultant
7            October 16   5
-27, 1995                       *   Institutional &
- 27, 1995community Develop
ment specialist
*   Human Resources
Specialist
*   NFE Specialist
*   NFE specialist
*   Training & Income
Generating
Activities specialist
8            April 22-     2                  *   Economist                                         Disbursement,
25, 1996                         *   Disbursement                                      covenant
officer                                          compliance,
performance
indicators, project
monitoring
9            October 16   4                   *   Sr. Economist                                     Availability of
- 29, 1996                       *   Insitutional                                      performance
Development Spec.                                indicators
*   NFE Specialist
*   Operation officer
S
10           July 4 -16,   5                  *   Economist                                         Restructuring of
1997                            *   Economist                                         Impact Evaluation
*   Literacy Specialist                               Study
*   Operation Officer
*   Disbursement
Officer
11           April 20-    3
1998                            *   Literacy Consultat    US                           Result of Impact
1*   Operations officer                               Evaluation study
on length of
attendance and
quality of training
material
Completion   August 5 -    3                  *   Operations Officer
25, 1999                         *   Economist
*   Micro-credit
specialist



- 27 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Non Formal Education (Loan no: 3431- IND)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation completion report (ICR) for the Non Formal Education Project in
Indonesia, for which Loan number is 4331-IND in the amount of $ 69,500,000 million were
approved on February 5, 1992 and made effective on April, 1992. The loan and credit were
closed on March 30, 1997, and extended up to April, 1998. They were fully disbursed, and the
last disbursement took place on March 1998.
The ICR was prepared by Sudjarwo,S. (as the Team leader) in the Environment of the
Development of Community Education project as the continuation of NFE-lII project number
3431-IND.
Preparation of this ICR began during the Bank's final supervision mission in December 1998 and
an ICR mission visited the Province in September 1999. The ICR is based on materials in the
project file. The borrower contributed to preparation of the ICR, by contributing views
reflected in the mission's aide- memoire, preparing its own evaluation of the project's execution
and initial preparation, and commenting on the draft ICR.
I. Introduction.
The government of the Republic of Indonesia - Ministry of Education has strengthened the
implementation of policies on Non Formal Education Development programs were conducted
through Third Non Formal Education (TNFE) Project No: 3431-IND since 1992 to 1998. The
management of this project was integrated with and supported the existing TNFE programs.
Because of that, outputs and outcomes of the project were claimed as the resultant of difference
efforts conducted by several government agencies and community based organizations concerning
non formal education.
NFE project was conducted in 1000 sub-districts at 27 provinces. The project were gradually
expanded and the sub-district selected based on certain criteria, such as:. the project area mostly
inhabited by poor families, high drop out rates of basic education learners, and ample of illiterate
people, compared to the other sub-districts.
Formerly, the main programs consisted of 11 categories: civil works, furniture, equipment,
vehicles, consultants/ fellowships, tutor incentives, local training, the development of
instructional materials, learning funds/scholarships and incremental recurrent costs. During the
project implementation there were cost adjustment between categories. Major changes occurred at
category 5 to 10; they were: Instructional Materials, books and manuals, consultants' services,
local training, tutor incentives, learning fund and scholarships; as well as incremental recurrent
costs. The changes were reduced the funds from one category added to other categories which were
need more budget, such as: reduced category 6 to cover category 6 and 9, etc.



- 28 -
The project was centralized in Jakarta as CMU (Central of Management Unit) and implemented
through 27 Project Implementing Unit (PIU) in 27 provinces with its 56 sub-projects at district
level. There were management problems faced by the project such as: limited span of control, less
appropriate planning, less appropriate in making decisions, and administration burden.
II. Project objectives and description
The Third Non Formal Education Project was designed to improve the human resource quality of
the poor, through enhancemernt of their basic education and income generating skills. Through this
project the existing NFE programs were developed, improved and expanded to some extent based
on the need of its clients. The number of illiterate, low skilled and unemployed clients reduced, for
example the number of illiteracy people were 6,4 millions person, declined to 6 million persons and
most of them are new dropped out since 1994. Through apprenticeship and micro credit programs
we have educated unskilled persons and employed unemployment. Some innovative programs and
applied research had been conducted to support the existing NFE- programs. Main programs
supported by this project were (1) Illiteracy program which consisted of Basic Program (Packet
Al- AIO), Intensive Program I (Packet A 11 -A20), Intensive Program II (Packet A21- 30), and
Advance Program (Packet A 31 to A 100), (2) Basic Education Program which consisted of-.
Packet A equivalent to Primary School, and Packet B equivalent to Junior Secondary School, (3)
Income Generating Program to train mainly women from poor families to increase their business
skills, (4) Apprenticeship Program at work;shops, factories, agriculture's, fisheries, etc, was served
for young people with senior high schools or less education background and skill- less in order to
get permanent job. (5) Beside of those programs, there was also private courses institutions
development, but since the project ran the commitment was less supported by world Bank. Only
small part the project fund used to scholarship which managed by private training courses, the total
participants were about 12.000 persons therefore all the budget needed for the development of
private training courses was provided by government. (6) The last programs were support services
such as SKB buildings, vehicles, consultants, furniture and supervision.
.II. Achievement of the project.
The indicators for measuring project achievements were: (1) some of mid term evaluations, (2)
impact evaluation, (3) aide - memoires carried out along the project period and (4) quantitative
data collected through supervisions and in annual reports.
In general, findings collected through supervisions, reports, researches, and evaluations were as
follows:
1. Illiteracy program (Paket A - PBH)
Participants of the illiteracy program increased dramatically but the quality of the program need
to be improved. Participants' ability in reading is better than writing and arithmetic's. Most of
the participants were drop out from primary school. Total target of the project was 1.700.000
persons. Since the government has strong political will in literacy eradication the target has
expanded to achieve more than 5.000.00() persons. Since 1995, when the agreement between



- 29 -
Ministry of Home Affair, Ministry of Religious, and Army forces, the government allocated
large APBN to eradicate illiteracy people through special project.
Based on the Staff Appraisal Report, project could develop functional literacy program at 9
provinces with total target 73.120 persons. Since 1998, this program has been implemented in
every province.
2. Equivalency programs.
At the beginning of the project, Packet B equivalent to junior secondary school was the only
equivalency program served by the project. Through the project period, Packet A equivalent to
primary school was developed in 1994 as innovative program. However, some problems were
found; such as the teaching model of equivalency programs (Packet A and Packet B setara) need
to be developed in terms of learning hours, learning effectiveness, quality of the tutors
particularly tutor for mathematics, English, and adequacy of the learning materials. Tutors'
honoraria was inadequate, it was less than the honoraria of the workers. The total target for
Packet B program was 16.620, and through government supports the target expanded to
1.879.800 learners for Packet B and 855.467 learners for Packet A. The government support for
this program mostly was in term of learning materials and tutors honoraria.
3. Income generating program (Kelompok Belajar Usaha)
This program was the least successful program among the implemented programs. The reasons
were: lack of control/ supervision, the policy often changed and the quality of the training itself
was inadequate. Furthermore, approximately 95% of the trained participants had no access to get
capital, neither through the project nor other donors. As a consequence they did not have any
opportunity to practice their skill to run business. This is the main reason why this program
failed, besides failure in administering the business. In terms of quantity, the total participant was
quite big. According to SAR, the target formerly was 300.000 persons, however, with the
government supports the target was enlarged to 322.200 persons.
4. Apprenticeship program
According to some studies and supervisions conducted during the project implementation,
apprenticeship program was one of the successful programs, because most of the graduates were
employed. This apprenticeship program were targeted to lower and middle level of skills asked
by factories, households, industries, workshops, etc. According to SAR the target of the project
was 60.000 persons. Because the government was concerned with this program, total target was
increased to 81.275 persons.
5. Private Training Courses program (Diklusemas)
Based on SAR plan there was 27.000 scholarships to be awarded to young people graduated from
Senior Secondary School. In the project implementation, the audiences mixed between graduates
from senior secondary school and Packet B. The project was supported by the government budget
also, so the target was increased to 42.509 persons. Compared to the apprenticeship program,
this program was less successful, because of inappropriate efforts in selecting the training needs.
The failure was also caused by putting all the group members at the same courses. The result
was that some of the graduates experienced difficulties in finding employment. In addition,
private training institutions had been planned to be developed, however in the implementation the



- 30 -
World Bank decided to stop the development, because the institution of private courses had the
ability and capability to run by itself.
6. Others.
There were some important activities such as (1) procurement for civil works, equipment,
furniture, vehicles and consultant, (2) scholarship, (3) study visit, and (4) a short course at USA
for the Dikmas and BPKB staff. The puipose of a part of the procurements were to develop SKB
facilities, and the task was successfully completed. Particularly for the vehicles procurement
which was aimed to support the transportation of field supervisors. Unfortunately, the vehicles
could only support about 57% of the toial needs of the transportation for field supervisors. The
procurement of consultants could fulfill the project needs. All of 20 Dikmas and BPKB staff who
got the scholarship graduated, even though the period of finalizing the study was longer than it
was planed. There were two study programs for Dikmas, BPKB and SKB such as study visit to
South Korea and China for 25 staff and ihis program was conducted successfully. A short course
to Massachusetts University was cancelled because the budget was inadequate as the dollars price
increased during the monetary crisis in the country.
IV.  Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project Implementation.
As mentioned before, this project was a centralized one based at Jakarta. The project covered 56
sub projects at kabupaten level which was distributed in 27 provinces. Therefore, management
were the biggest problems faced by the project and inadequate quality human resources supported
the project. Besides, the administration procedure applied by the World Bank was very
complicated. Such as we lost a lot of time in waiting NOL for annual plan, procurement
regulation, etc.
V. Project Sustainability.
1. Functional Literacy Program.
This program was a modification of the Basic Literacy and Intensive Literacy programs
implemented by NFE III. The modification was made based on a result of an action research
conducted 1997/1998 and 1998/1999 by a literacy consultant (Ms. Joan Dixon). Starting on fiscal
year 1999/2000, the program has been extended throughout the 27 provinces in Indonesia
(including Timor-Timur province).
2. Scholarship on Private Training Course and Apprenticeship Programs.
Both programs had similar cost units and objectives. The cost unit was counted per program
participant by providing scholarship. The objective of both programs was to provide practical
skills. However, the two programs differed in their learning process, since the scholarship
program also provided "an apprentice process" (learning by doing) in factories or other
apprenticeship places. The participant of the scholarship at least graduate from Package B, SLTP,
and they are study the difference of qualification for scholarship and apprenticeship in private
training courses. While apprenticeship programs participants at least graduate from illiteracy
program Book 10. They apprenticed directly at small factories, workshops, etc, without any
theoretical courses.



-31 -
Therefore budget allocation both programs was narrowed into one. With this approach the
program implementation was more flexible. In the fiscal year 1999/2000, GOI allocates for
program implementation Pp. 7,000,000,000,- which target, is for 20.000 learners located in 27
provinces.
3. Income Generating Learning Group program (Kegiatan Belajar Usaha or KBU).
This programs followed a different pattern, since the old pattern developed by the project was not
effective as it only provides skill training to the learners. The present pattern is an integration
between " Project pattern" and " old pattern".    The learners are provided with financial
assistance and simple equipments for business development. In fiscal year 1999/2000, the
government allocates Pp. 4,000,000,000,- for program implementation. The target is 10.000
learners in 27 provinces of Indonesia. In addition, the program also develop a business learning
based on the local economical resources by empowering the poor through certain guidance and
capital. Now this program is still in try out phase.
4. Package B equivalent to Junior Secondary School Program.
Package B equivalent Junior Secondary School is a new program developed at the beginning of
project implementation, in 1994/1995 academic year. Since 1998/99 Package B model has been
developed in order to have a more qualified model which emphasizes on skill for income
generating. Therefore, Package B is developed closely related to the continuing education. The
implementation of this program developed continuously fast, with an increasing target. In FY
1999/2000, through Non Formal Education project, the government of Indonesia allocates for
216,160 learners in 27 provinces. The government will develop the program further in order to
increase the quality of the program implementation.
5. Private Training Course Development.
As a follow-up of the Private Training Course development conducted during the project period,
the government will early out arrangement of course license, course standardization and
curriculum development; course accreditation and certification; Village Entry Course Try-Out;
the quality of national examination.
6. Institution
The government keeps increasing the quantity and quality of the institution of learning centers.
Provincial Learning Center (BPKB), as a center for learning activity development, keeps
increasing its function and extending the institution. Initially, there were only 9 BPKBS. The
number is increased to 20 BPKBs at present. The District Learning Center (SKB), as a Technical
Implementation Unit of the Directorate General of Out of School Education, Youth and Sport
(Diklusepore), is continually increasing its number, especially with their functional staff (Pamong
Belajar). Dikmas Field Force (TLD), currently assists Dikmas Supervisor in 1,000 intensive sub
districts, also keep continuing its contract although it has not been financed by the Loan. For
1998/1999, the existing Dikmas Field Force will gradually remove its function to become an
organizer of Community Learning Center, and permanently develop Dikmas program. By this
way Dikmas has supported TLO as a Dikmas partner who are operationally responsible for
organizing Dikmas program in the field.



- 32 -
The 23 participants of graduate school (S2-Master Degree) program (IKIP Jakarta 20 people and
IKIP Malang 3 people), finally can coniplete their study program. They are now in various key
positions; I person as echelon III officer, 15 people as echelon IV officers, 3 people as functional
staffs at Provincial learning Center, and the rest are still waiting for a formation.
7. Study Results.
Most of the study results were very useful for program development. Some improvement of
program components such as modules revision, curriculum development, tutor training, education
for street children as well as working children, Community Learning Center (CLC), teaching-
learning method, etc are conducted based on the study results done during the project period.
8. Learning Material.
Learning materials developed during the project period such as modules of Package A equivalent
to Primary school and Package B equivalent to Junior Secondary School are continuously being
developed. To enrich learning materials, we have been developing posters, leaflets, comic's
approach particularly for illiteracy an(d income generating programs. Referring to the new
government policy on curriculum of education, we plan to develop curriculum and learning
materials.
9. Community Learning Center (PKBM).
Since 1998, we have been developing PKBM. PKBM is one of the answer to answer the
problems found during the project period. The functions of PKBM are to accommodate,
integrate, and intensify the programs, as well as to guarantee that the programs are implemented
properly. Before we launched PKBM, the implementation of the Diknas programs were scattered
out in many places. Through PKBM, Dilknas ask various community potentials especially NGO
and government institutions to coordinate various community education programs and to increase
the community participation in organizing community education in PKBM. Therefore, PKBM
also functions as a partner in community education program implementation. PKBM are proposed
to be able to bring changes in program implementation such as: programs are easier to monitor,
to provide more variety in line with comrnunity interest and work/market chance.
VI. Bank performance.
1. Identification.
The capability of the World Bank on idenitification of the priority and field problems helped the
project in making more appropriate planning and decisions. However, in some cases and
problems World Bank skipped out and left the cases to the project. For example the reproduction
of modules by provinces project and other procurements activities.
2. Preparation assistance
It was mentioned on Aide-Memoire of 1997, that the intensity of the assistance of World Bank to
the project need to be more frequent than before, but the assistance towards the end of the project
was becoming insufficient. Apparently the World Bank staff who was in charge on this project
was too busy with other tasks. Therefore, some important and very urgent questions could not be
answered, some important meetings could not be attended by world Bank staff. As the
consequences, some minor mistakes took place and certain important decisions were delayed.



- 33 -
3. Appraisal.
In general, the World Bank performance was quite fair. In some cases the World Bank policy and
recommendations did not consider the GoI regulation and policy which were interpreted on the
programs planning, because the recommendation apparently were not in inline with the program
priority and community's needs. Administratively, World Bank has very strong accuracy and
capability but, substantively not, leaving the project to find out the technical solution by itself.
4. Supervision
The supervision conducted by World Bank was adequate, and properly done. The supervision
results have very important role in improving the quality of the program activities along the
project period, because there were plenty of new and very good findings from the field.
The only problem faced by the project related to the World Bank supervision mission was the less
adequate expertise on non formal education field in the composition of the mission member,
because most of the mission was done by economists. It has made it difficult for the project to
convince World Bank that certain activities were really important and should be given priority
and should be supported by sufficient budget.
5. Future operation.
As mentioned above, many fruitful concepts, ideas and experiences were produced and developed
along the project session. Now, its have been continually developed and implemented with some
modification according to the need of local areas. In the future, there will be a lot of changes at
the strategy of programs implementation, ideas and concepts based on autonomy law and
community needs. Some development need broader networking, restructuring of the organization
and resources which Community Based Organizations will actively involve in. For instance, to
develop CLC (PKBM) program a lot of resources and linkages with other government institutions
and Community Based Organizations are required as an integrated approach, in the village up to
the ministry level.
6. Key Lessons learned.
As described earlier, many lessons were learned from this project, such as management skills,
innovative programs development strategy, coordination experiences among the related
institutions, coping strategy with limited resources, trouble shooting and how to overcome those
problems coming from 27 provinces with rapid decisions, and so forth. Improving and adjusting
the programs and the activities moderately, along the budget years, based on the change of the
needs of the various clients at different time. All of those lessons motivated the project staff to
work harder, more efficiently and faster. The positive effect was the working ethos and the
profession of the staff in general improved.



- 34 -
INDONESIA
THIRD NON-FORMAL EDUCATION III PROJECT
(LOAN 3431-IND)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR) MISSION
AIDE-MEMOIRE
August 5-25, 1999
A. Introduction
1. A World Bank mission conducted a mission on August 5 - 25, 1999 to prepare the
Implementation Completion Report of the Non Formal Education III project. The mission which
consisted of Rosfita Roesli (Team Leader), Willem Struben (International consultant - education) and
Dina Lumbantobing (micro-credit specialist) visited three provinces: Sulawesi Tenggara, Kalimantan
Selatan and Jawa Tengah. At the Central .Level the mission met with Bappenas, the Director-General
of Non Formal Education-Youth and Sport, the Project Management Unit, Diktentis and UNICEF. At
the Regional Level the mission met with Kanwil staff, Dikmas staff at the District (Kabid) and Sub-
District (Kasie) level, Dikmas Field staff i'Penilik) and Field Workers (TLD), Tutor and participants of
the various activities under the project.
2.   The mission wishes to thank officials from the various levels of MoEC, together with the TLDs,
tutors, organizers (penyelenggara) and participants of the various programs at the village level, as well
as the local governments of the places visited by the mission, for their cooperation and hospitality.
3.   This draft Aide-Memoire summarizes the mission's observations of the project activities,
especially the Education programs (Paket A setara, Paket B setara and KF), Income Generating
Programs (KBU) and Vocational Training programs (Magang, Beasiswa) and briefly looks at some
parts of the National Support Services.
B. Statement of Purpose
4.   The mission was carried out to prepare for the Implementation Completion Report which will
be written subsequently. The mission's observations complement written materials produced by
previous missions and more specific repori:s produced by other consultants of the NFE III project.
Most of the observations made during the visit were based on qualitative data obtained through
discussions with various parties.
5.   The three provinces visited only rep resent a fraction of the overall nation-wide project. The
remote locations of DIKMAS activities and the variety of components covered under this project also
mean that the mission was only able to observe a limited number of activities.
6.   This mission marked the end of the series of supervision mission. As such, this Aide Memoire
differs from the previous supervision Aide Memoire in that it tries to summarize overall project
achievement and issues as well as going ini:o some detail analysis of various project activities and
components.
C. Outline of the Project
7.   The project, for which an original loan of US$69.5 million was approved by the Executive
Directors on December 20, 1991 and became effective on April 30, 1992 aimed at improving the
human capital of the poor, through enhancing their basic education and income-generating skills, by



- 35 -
assisting the Directorate of Community Education (Dikmas) to improve and expand its existing non-
formal education (NFE) programs and to develop and test new programs to meet the needs of its
clientele. The project covered (a) a basic program (Paket A), (b) an intensive program, and (c) the
strengthening of national support services to deliver NFE. The Paket A component was to continue
the provision of basic literacy training to illiterates and primary school drop-outs throughout the
country. The intensive program component was to implement a special strategy comprising modified
and new programs and test a more intensive delivery system in about one-quarter of the poorest
subdistricts, especially targeted to low-income beneficiaries, including (i) a strengthened version of the
Paket A literacy training program aimed at consolidating basic literacy and developing higher levels of
functional literacy, (ii) development, testing, revision, and limited implementation of an out-of-school
equivalent (Paket B) to junior secondary education, (iii) upgrading of private vocational courses,
including scholarships (bea siswa) for low-income trainees, (iv) expansion and improvement of an
informal apprenticeship (magang) program, and (v) training in small business management skills and
technical assistance to income-generating groups (KBU).
8.   The project was to contribute to the Government's poverty alleviation, human resource
development, and women in development strategies. It was expected to improve and consolidate the
basic education and family life skills of about 0.6 million learners (mostly illiterates and primary
school drop-outs below the poverty line) through Paket A, improve the income-earning opportunities
of about 400,000 disadvantaged beneficiaries from poor target areas through the provision of
vocational and income-generating skills, and focus heavily on women (more than 60 percent of
literacy learners and over half of income-generation beneficiaries). This would contribute to benefits
in terms of improved family health and nutrition, acceptance of family planning, encouragement of
their children's education, and increased interest in community development.
9.   The project's original closing date was March 31, 1998. A one year extension was approved
which moved forward the closing date to March 31, 99. The total disbursement of the project up to end
of September was USD 65,919,212,46 (94.8%). However, during the life of the project a cancellation
of USD 1,242,229.21 was made, bringing the net commitment down to USD 66,404,554, of which
USD 64,676,983.250 (97.4%) was disbursed.
D.   Summary of Achievement and Issues:
10.  Overall, the project has been reasonably successful in terrnP of:
i)   improving the literacy of the poor, especialiy tL.- school-age children
ii)  designing and starting the Paket B setara
iii)  implementing the Paket A program and successfully converting it into Functional
Literacy (KF)
iv)  providing skill] vocational training (Magang/ Beasiswa) and employment opportunities
v)   strengthening the Government's NFE delivery mechanism.
11.  The major cross-component issues are described in the following paragraphs:
i)   The lack of reliable Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation System (SPEM) data. One
of the major weakness of the project is the lack of reliable data for monitoring and evaluation
purpose. A substantial number of qualitative and quantitative indicators agreed during the
project design stage was eventually proven to be too complex. In October 96, an effort was
made to substantially reduce the indicators - however the result did not show significant
improvement. As a result, project monitoring and evaluation had to be done on an ad hoc and
qualitative basis as well as on the basis of the Impact Evaluation Report of 1997/98.



- 36 -
ii)   Un-even level of achievement. It should be emphasised that the degree of achievement
varied significantly across project components and across geographical regions. For example, of
the three provinces visited, Central Java appeared to be the strongest, followed by South
Kalimantan and Southeast Sulawesi. In terms of project components, Functional Literacy
appeared to be the most successful one, while Income Generating component (KBU) showed
considerable weaknesses.
iii)  Quantity vs. Quality of achievement. Even if targets are achieved in terms of quantity, the
quality of achievement needs further consideration. In Paket B, for example, curriculum and
language of instruction is not always relevant to the learners' need (the teaching of English by
unskilled teacher in remote areas arnd the use of Bahasa Indonesia to learners who communicate
in their local languages), the method of learner recruitment which is restricted by meeting the
quota which sometimes override learners' motivation. In the case of the Income Generating
component (KBU), it was found that the activity suffered from the lack of proper administrative
and basic business management skills of the learners and the lack of experience with business
and credit management on the part of Dikmas staff.
iv)  Insufficiency ofprofessional support:
the limited mobility of Dikmas Field Staff (Penilik and the Field workers/TLD) due to
transport problem which resulted in poor monitoring.
the limited skill of tutors in conducting 'non-formal-education' which resulted in the
tendency of shifting back to formal education mode.
-the under performance of the SKB (District Learning and Resource Center) and BPKB
(Regional Learning and Reso arce Center) in playing their role to develop model teaching
and disseminate the best prac-tice.
The following section will elaborate the above points in more detail:
E.   Project Implementation
12.  Project design. Although the original main objective was poverty alleviation through literacy
training and related income-generating and vocational programs, following the Government's decree
on mandatory nine-year education in 1995, a major part of Dikmas' activities shifted to the immediate
nation-wide implementation of Paket B. In addition, there were substantial weaknesses in the initial
inflexibility in project implementation by the Dikmas decision makers, and the initial lack of
community participation, including NGOs. Furthermore, implementation was affected by frequently
late and insufficient counterpart funding, particularly of operational expenditures, and very much by
the lack of a reliable data base for decision making. Also, the KBU activities were never properly
related to the literacy training, and were in general poorly managed and supported.
13.  SPEM (Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation System). At the project design stage, a
substantial number of quantitative and qualitative indicators were agreed and specified in annex 16 of
the SAR to help monitor and evaluate project progress. Unfortunately, these proved to be much too
complex; they were supposed to cover, by type of program, not only the number of learners, but also
tutors, field workers, books, learning materials, incentives, studies, consultants, etc. as well as
percentages of learners who completed the courses and passed examinations, the percentages of
learners and tutor drop-outs, the percentage of female participants, data on training, data on utilization
of books and other materials. Because of the multitude of proposed indicators, and even more the need
to obtain them from all of the individual field workers, who could frequently not handle this, the
regional data were mostly late and incomplete. As a result, the national data was not particularly
reliable.



- 37 -
14.  Despite major efforts aimed at establishing a proper Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation
System (SPEM) since the start of the project, the results were quite disappointing. A reduced,
substantially revised set of indicators was agreed in October 1996, but even these could not be
obtained for all components in all regions. As a result, project monitoring and evaluation had to be
done solely on an ad hoc and qualitative basis, as well as on the basis of the Impact Evaluation (IE)
Report of 1997/98. The following observations have to be read in that light.
15.  Reaching the poor. The project has largely been successful in reaching the poorest groups.
According to the Impact Evaluation Report, the selected 1,000 sub-districts for the intensive program
indeed showed higher illiteracy and poverty rates than the non-intensive sub-disetricts. Also, 27
percent of the literacy program, 26 percent of the income-generating program, and 24 percent of the
scholarship and apprenticeship program participants were below the poverty line, compared to 11
percent of the total population. In addition, an estimated 60 percent of the basic literacy program, 70
percent of the income-generating program, and 75 percent of the scholarship program were women.
Participants in the primary school equivalency program turned out to be the poorest, and in the junior
secondary school equivalency relatively better off.
16.  Paket A and Paket B. The Paket A and B setara programs were successful in terms of achieving
or even exceeding their target numbers. The quality of teaching is especially satisfactory where there
is strong cooperation with NGOs. Sometimes learning achievement in these programs is relatively
better than at formal schools. In a few cases, the setara programs even provide opportunities for non-
formal education participants to return to the formnal education system.
17.  However, there were various issues worth mentioning:
(i)  there is a strong need for DIKMAS to understand and accommodate the different needs of the
clients (some client groups are more interested in the vocational part rather than pure academic
content, for others the certificate is the most important achievement)
(ii)  because of its political sensitivity, local language materials got rarely produced. This hampered
the early training of non-Bahasa Indonesia speakers. In villages where Bahasa Indonesia is
rarely used, the learning materials written in Bahasa Indonesia are a serious problem, affecting
students' motivation to learn.
(iii) the literacy (Paket A) curriculum, with fixed sets of books,,was clearly too conservative;
however, that has now been corrected with the introduction of the new functional literacy (KF)
methodology. There are still some questions on the junior secondary school (Paket B)
equivalency curriculum; the learning requirements are exactly the same as those for the formal
education system and the available time much less. Furthermore, some the the subjects, in
particular English, are in many places and for most students irrelevant. It was interesting to
note, however, that learning went better with the inclusion of vocational skills teaching.
(iv)  the current official Dikmas guidelines on class size and age still seem overly restrictive. First,
40 students for Paket B groups seems to be too much to manage, and is in many places difficult
to put together. Second, if older poor people want to join Paket A and Paket B, they should have
that opportunity.
(v)  there is a need for the recruitment strategy to stress on motivating participants to enroll, rather
than forcing participants to meet national policies or quota.
(vi)  the quality of tutors is still a frequent problem; poor tutors are still hampering the success of
training, although it is evident that the average level of the tutors has increased substantially.
18.  Functional Literacy(KF) is clearly one the more successful components of the project, although
it was only introduced towards the end of the project life. The KF approach represented a move from a
top-down to a learner centered, flexible approach which is more relevant and much more interesting to



- 38 -
the learners. In the future there clearly has to be a functional emphasis rather than a purely academic
one.
19.  So far, tutor training has been limited to a one-off training for 5 days. Since KF introduces a
significant change from the conventional learning method, it requires continuous support and
intervention to avoid tutors returning to the traditional method. Dikmas clearly needs to maintain and
increase its support for KF.
20.  The role andfunction of DIKMA'S staff. One of the project's achievement in terms of
sustainability was the maintenance of the Field workers (TLD) using Government budget resources to
assist Dikmas field staff (Penilik).
21.  However, there is a serious problem in terms of Penilik and TLD capacity to perform their task.
The clients of DIKMAS are quite diverse, and their needs vary from one group to another. Moreover,
most of these clients are located in remote areas, requiring a high mobility of Dikmas staff (Penilik
and TLD) to work with them. On the other hand, Dikmas suffers from a limited amount of resources
(budget and personnel). In some areas, thleir mobility is restricted due to transportation problems (lack
of motorcycles, public transport or budget for gas). This shortcoming needs to be seriously addressed
by Dikmas in order to improve the quality of their programs.
22.  It took years before tutor training started to meet the needs, but training by the SKB has now
really shown results, particularly of the finctional literacy (KF) training. However, tutor remuneration
at Rp. 25,000-50,000 a month still provides little motivation.
23. Role and Function of SKB (District Learning and Resource Center) and BPKB (Regional
Learning and Resource Center). Under the project, the number of regional training centers (BPKB)
increased from 9 to 20, and the number of district training centers (SKB) from 116 to 261. The SKB
did improve substantially; although they did not provide sufficient learning materials, they did
improve teacher training, and working on their limited budget are now reaching out to the
communities.
24.  The SKBs, to a limited extent, produce supplementary learning material, usually leaflets about
vocational skills. Although SKB also do direct Paket A/ B training, they seem to be less aware or
successful in meeting their expected role in developing model teaching and disseminating the lessons
learned to other Dikmas-run Paket A/ B groups.
25.  The BPKB managed to produce some books and reports, but their quality is yet to be assessed.
One of the biggest problem remained that there is no sufficient budget for reproduction and
distribution of their product, resulting in the fact that their contribution to Dikmas activities has been
less useful.
26.  Community Learning Centres (PKBM). Although not part of the original project design, the
PKBM appears to be one of the best innovations of the project. The PKBM is 'a place where
community education activities are directed towards empowering the potential of the village to initiate
the development of the social, economic and cultural sectors'. The PKBM program started in August
1998 and there were 484 with a total of about 45,000 learners as of March 1999. They are established
in vacant buildings at the village level and are getting substantial Dikmas support. They are run by a
variety of management entities e.g.: CBO (Community Based Organization), religious institutions and
DIKMAS.
27.  There is a strong correlation between the quality/ capacity of the Penilik and the quality of
activities in his/ her area. A well motivated penilik usually managed to inspire a variety of activities as



- 39 -
reflected in the establishment of a dynamic PKBM. This again stresses the importance of providing
sufficient resources for Dikmas Field Staff (Penilik with assistance from TLD) to conduct their task
successfully.
28.  For the future management of PKBM, the plan is for Dikmas to limit their role as facilitator
while leaving the management of the Centre to CBO. In light of this, it is crucial that CBO as future
managers of PKBM should be strictly selected by evaluating their experience both in terms of literacy
and income generating programs. Contracts should only be awarded to local CBOs with a good track
record and considerable experience at the village level.
29. DIKMAS needs to do more socialization and social marketing to provide CBOs with a full
understanding of DIKMAS programs. Also, it is crucial to ensure that the community is actively
involved and fully empowered in the management of PKBM to ensure their sense of ownership.
30.  Village Reading Corner. This component did not work because the books were generally not
interesting for the newly literate, and the location, frequently in the office or home of the village head
was rather intimidating. This was recently corrected by moving some of the Village Reading Corners
to the PKBMs. However, there needs to be an active effort to develop the reading habits of the
community.
31.  Magang, Beasiswa, Vocational Training. In practice, it is difficult to distinguish one scheme
from another but this is quite acceptable. The program activities should be kept flexible. The magang
program is particularly useful in urban and sub-urban communities, but less successful in village
communities. Also, some business owners tend to take the best trainees as their employees, restricting
their motivation and opportunity to develop their own business.
32.  Income Generating Program (KB U). Despite the obvious importance of learning funds to go
together with the Paket A and Paket B program activities, the KBU program suffers from major
problems, mainly related to the lack of proper administrative and basic business management skills of
the learners and the lack of DIKMAS's experience with business and credit management.
33.  For all KBU members, business management training and group management is a must. For
economic development, DIKMAS needs to rely more on outside expertise, such as NGOs working in
micro business development and micro credit practitioners. KBUs also have to spend more time on
developing access to micro-credit institutions or banks, especially when the members, mostly women,
have no previous access to these institutions.
34.  The selection of KBU participants did not follow strict criteria. As a result, peniliks frequently
selected people they knew, instead of the poorest Paket A and B participants requiring learning funds
for their newly acquired skills.
35.  It is suggested that DIKMAS include several topics as suggested in the table below in a training
program for KBU members. The mission also suggests that DIKMAS consider concentrating its
involvement on the training aspects only, strengthening the capacity of the KBU members to develop
their basic business skill and motivation and to prepare the group to access financial institutions.
Example of Courses for KBUs
Stages of KBUs      Courses Needed
o  Start-up.        1. Group Motivation
2. Gender Awareness
3. Saving Motivation



- 40 -
4. Bookkeeping
5. Business Motivation
Feasibility Studies
o  Establishment     1. Business Plan
2. Production Management
3. Marketing
After completing the 'establishment' stage, the plan should be to transfer KBU to relevant institutions
with relevant experience, such as NGOs that have enough experience in development of micro-
business.
36.  Penilik and TLD need to be business-aware, by following courses similar to the courses in
KBU, in addition to participatory approach and gender sensitivity courses for providing 'group and
saving' motivation.
37.  With reference to recommendaticns by Richard Moore on the 8 key elements of the new
strategy', there are some points that need to be considered carefully:
*  Learning in KBU should not be understood as merely learning how to do business?, but should be
strongly linked to functional literacy (reading, writing and arithmetic)
*  Financial support should be given either as grant or interest-free loan to KBU, depending on the
level of poverty of the KBU members. This money should be transferred directly after the KBU
has attended at least the 4 courses (group motivation, gender awareness, saving motivation and
bookkeeping) and had started saving at least 10% of the amount of fund needed/proposed. The
funds should be managed by the group (for group business) and distributed based on the needs of
each member (depending on the individual business needs).
*  Experience with loans for women in microbusiness has shown that in fact loans do not go fully to
business. Some of it is used for primary needs such as food, medicine and school fees of their
children. As mentioned at the Microcredit Summit in Washington, DC. in 1997, the women micro-
enterpreneurs program should be associated with the provision of loans. However, the source of
money should be from the KBU capital, i.e. their own savings.
F.   Gender issues:
38.  Despite the fact that the project was designed to be gender sensitive and that most of the project
participants were women, indicators of gender sensitiveness in the project were not easily found. In
terms of project design, there were several assumptions that need reviewing: i) the project failed to
fully recognize that the foregone earning of family by letting their children attend the course -
especially the girls. This has lessened the participation of girls especially in Paket B. ii) the project
made an assumption that have stretch or ilexible time and a fixed role in the house and in the
community. Consequently, the types of business practised in the KBU (Income Generating Group)
were those traditionally accepted as 'business for women'. Such assumption not only created a stereo-
'See 'DIKMAS KBU Program Summary' by Moore 1999, p. 29.
2As happening in KBU Ngudi Rejeki, Klaten, the members are illiterate and never been engaged in any illiteracy
program.



- 41 -
typing of women's business as an additional source of income but also put heavier burden for women
since there is no redistribution of roles in their domestic works.
39.  As often found in text books in the formal education system, learning materials for the non-
formal education are also full of gender stereotyping. The women are depicted as being in the
domestic sphere with limited access and control over resources and decision making. The mission
suggests that any further revision of the learning materials should be more gender sensitive and try to
challenge the persistent inequality between men and women.
G.   Summary
40.  Although, as mentioned above, the project was overall reasonably successful, this varied
considerably over time and by component and region. Hard data were unfortunately unavailable, but
the mid-term evaluation report, discussions with a host of people associated with the project, and the
field visits to three provinces confirmed the proper targeting of the poor, as well as substantial
achievements in basic literacy coverage, the design and introduction of a much better needs-based
functional literacy methodology, the design and introduction of a better (but still deficient) junior
secondary school equivalency package, the expansion of useful vocational training and scholarship
programs, and the establishment of community-based and supported learning centers. On the negative
side, the implementation by Dikmas was slow and inefficient, and certainly initially completely top-
down. In addition, the KBU program never achieved its objective. Consequently, any further
improvements in Dikmas' NFE activities should be based on its current thinking on a demand-based,
bottom-up approach, as well as community participation from identification through implementation.






MAP SECTION






IBRD 26570
~~dokab    ~ >-~,tR5ND                                                                                                                                                                                       INO7ES7
Alada-        MALAYSIA}
cwSNGAPORE
Pakonbar 1   
DMKI.JAKAWrA                                                                               la2gkaraya
JAWABMAT                             Paean
DI1 YOGYAKAKrA   A?
JAWA TIMUR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I -
LAPFNGUU             EarA  YI4KA
SUMATERA SELTAN                   N           a7a
RAU
SUMATERA gMAT
SMAkTEPA UTMA
DJ. ACEJIc
KJALIMANTAN TENGAH
KALIMAWTAN SELATfiN
SuLAWEG TENGAHI
SLAWE&IUTARA
LIJAWEI SEATMAN
S&ILAWESJ TENOGARA       Th. adala  ~Ir
BAt]damntaaC    m
a     AATENWAG ARA ST      ana   ...tgm*aa
NUSA TENGGARATIMUR5      aO M  OhIsN-                                                                                 . d. age
PLAN JATAaga   tga   er7 
DECEMBER 1994



