Report No. PID8496
Project Name                     India-Madhya Pradesh District Poverty(*) ...
Initiatives Project
Region                           South Asia Regional Office
Sector                           Social Funds & Social Assistance
Project ID                       INPE59242
Borrower(s)                      Government of India
Implementing Agency              Government of Madhya Pradesh
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                November 10, 1999
Projected Appraisal Date         July 11, 2000
Projected Board Date             December 7, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
Since the early 1950s, the Government of India and state governments have
implemented direct anti-poverty programs (APPs) providing wage-employment,
productive assets (such as land or animals), skills, credit and food
security. However, these programs have been inadequately targeted and
inefficiently managed, and have not been very successful in reducing poverty
High levels of ill-health, low literacy among adults, and prevailing social
problems such as gender and caste discrimination, also constrain efforts to
reduce poverty. The government implements its development programs through
its sizeable presence in the form of administrative and technical agencies at
the district and sub-district levels. However, low beneficiary involvement
in planning, implementation and monitoring of these programs has resulted in
many being supply-driven, primarily by numerical targets.
2. Objectives
The ultimate goal of the proposed Madhya Pradesh District Poverty Initiatives
Project (DPIP) would be to contribute to the Country Assistance Strategy goal
of rural poverty reduction.    The project's overarching objective is to
improve the opportunities of the poor and the vulnerable to meet their own
social and economic development. The guiding principles would be to promote
decentralization, strengthening community participation and ensure
sustainability. This project outcomes would be (a) self-reliant and self-
managed community based organizations; (b) income security opportunities;
(c) improved services by private (profit and non-profit) and public
organizations; (d) more effective, accountable and inclusive local rural
governments (PRIs); and (e) more effective management of development funds
to rural organizations.
These goals and objectives require the participation of the people who will
be affected by the project. To ensure this, detailed Social Assessments have
been carried out in each of the ten districts, using participatory methods
such as conducting planning and policy formulation workshops with government
officials, Participatory Rural Appraisal techniques in villages and the



involvement of NGOs in the planning, implementation and evaluation of the
project. Project design is based on the Social Assessment's findings and
these will guide project implementation.
The project includes 10 districts in the north-west of Madhya Pradesh. The
selection of these districts was based on state-selected criteria relating to
individual and household poverty indicators, existing economic and social
infrastructure, current governmental financial support, institutional
capacity and nature resource endowments.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
There is now a growing recognition that the efficiency, effectiveness and
sustainability the rural development programs is significantly enhanced if
implemented through a decentralized and a participatory process taking a
holistic view. While there is recognition of the value of such approaches,
most of the programs continue to be focused on a single sector and
implemented in a top-down manner with limited accountability to the people.
Based on its wide experience, the Bank is well placed to offer significant
value-added in this type of project for the following reasons:
(a)     international experience with decentralized participatory approaches
such as demand-driven rural investment funds and social funds;
(b)     a large India portfolio providing related experience from other states
with participatory approaches, including successful interventions such as the
Uttar Pradesh Sodic Lands Reclamation Project, Integrated Watershed
Development Projects, Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh Rural Water Supply and
Sanitation Projects;
(b)     the only lender large enough to address the overall policy issues and
investment needs in a comprehensive manner; and,
(c)     broad experience with policy issues in all the key sectors.
4. Description
The project would be composed of two components which would allow for
district variations based on their specific characteristics. The components
include (a) Capacity Building, which focuses on (i) monitoring, evaluation,
information, dissemination and communication systems; (ii) formation and
strengthening of organizations; (iii) training in skills and orientation and
sensitization; and (iv) project administration; and (b) Community and
Village Investments in (i) infrastructure; (ii) income security; and (iii)
skills and organization.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Total Project Cost               US$100 m.
6. Implementation
The project would be implemented over a five-year period. At the state level,
a Project Unit would monitor and supervise project implementation, which
would be the responsibility of the districts. The district level Project Unit
(DPMU) would include district officials, NGO representatives and Panchayat
members.
-2-



7. Sustainability
The sustainability of project would depend largely on the extent to which the
capacities of community-based organizations and PRIs are successfully
strengthened. The rural poor, organized in Common Interest groups, would
assume responsibility for their own development, based on their own resources
and assisted initially through matching funds to be provided by the state
government. Such groups and their organizations would provide long-term
sustainability and vitality to social and economic development of the poor
communities and would become increasingly more independent from government
assistance.
As presently conceived, not all DPIP structures have to necessarily survive
the project. The proposed project design provides flexibility for them to
disappear - or get institutionalized - once the alternative service delivery
models demonstrated by, and the learning achieved through, the design and
implementation of DPIP have been absorbed into the regular local
institutions, e.g., PRIs, line departments of the state governments and the
district administration. Existing local institutions would then be expected
to operate more efficiently and equitably. Stronger linkages between
institutions/programs at the local level and the project financed activities
would contribute to the transfer of experience and learning as well as add to
sustainability. Furthermore, such linkages would ensure that DPIP financed
interventions do not duplicate or negate activities of other poverty
reduction schemes.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Bank assistance to India has usually been provided to individual sectors or
sub-sectors in which the poor have been involved and have benefited. Whilst
sectoral approach has its strong point such assistance is not best placed to
tackled the multiple constraints faced by the poor. Hence, their
effectiveness may have been lower than what can be achieved through a process
that empowers the poor to access resources to meet their priority needs
across a range of sectors, as is proposed in this project. The large scale
Bank-assisted projects have shown the importance of community participation
and ownership to achieving efficiency and sustainability. They have also
demonstrated how communities are working to contribute towards both
investment and operational costs if they are assured of good service. The
U.P. Sodic Lands Project has shown how the poor can establish their own
organizations and engage in multiple activities in order to mitigate risks
and participate more fully in the development process. Similarly, the
Integrated Watershed Development Projects, Karnataka and U.P. Rural Water
Supply and Sanitation Projects have demonstrated the viability of user groups
and their potential to manage project activities as well as to mobilize
community contributions. These projects have also demonstrated the potential
value of successful partnerships between community organizations, NGOs and
the Government.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     Y
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        Environmental assessments were an integral part of the
Social Assessments. The results of the Social Assessment guide the
appropriate areas of interventions, the target audience and the desirable
mechanisms to reach the poor and alleviate poverty. One criticism of past
- 3 -



poverty alleviation projects has been the targeting of distinct,
disadvantaged groups. DPIP is an integrated multi-sectoral project that
targets poor areas. Because of its broad nature, the project has a diverse
set of stakeholders both as implementing agencies and recipients of funds,
which have been identified in the Social Assessment. Social Assessments also
identified the poverty alleviation strategies for the selected districts,
evaluated existing programs and modalities for public investments and
identified priorities for DPIP intervention.
11. Contact Points:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Task Manager
Luis F. Constantino
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (202) 473-9698
Fax:         (202) 522-2420
Note: This is information on an envolving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending December 17, 1999.
- 4 -



