Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 21020-IN
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 84.2 MILLION
(US$110.1 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
INDIA
FOR A
MADHYA PRADESH DISTRICT POVERTY INITIATIVES PROJECT
October 5, 2000
SASRD
South Asia Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective March 2000)
Currency Unit - Rupee (Rs.)
Rs. 1.0 = US$.023
US$1 = Rs. 44.0
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 = March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB                Asian Development Bank                                              JRY           Jawahar Rozgar Yojana
APPs               Anti-Poverty Programs                                               JGSY          Jawahar Gram Samnridhi Yojana
AR                 Annual Review                                                       LEA           Limited Environmental Assessment
ARCS              Audit Repott Compliance System                                       LTO           Leading Training Organization
B1                 Beneficiary Insdtution                                              M&E           Monitoring and Evaluation
BP                 Busmness Procedures                                                 M&L           Monitoring and Leaming
BPL                Below Poverty Line                                                  MIS           Management Infornation System
CAS                County Assistance Strategy                                          MOU           Memorandum of Understanding
CC                 Community Coordinator                                               MP            Member ofParliament; MadhyaPradesh
CEO                Chief Executive Officer                                             MLA           Member of Legislative Assembly
CIG                Common Interest Group                                               NABARD        National Bank fbrAgriculture and Rural Development
cM                 Chief Minister                                                      NCB           National Competitive Bidding
DA                 Development Audit                                                   NGO           Non-Govenmmental Organization
DCBO               Disitict Capaidty Building Organization                             O&M           Operation and Maintenance
DCC                District Cormnurications Cordinator                                 OP            Operational Procedures
DPIP              District Poverty Initiatives Project                                 PFMS          Project Fuiancial Management System
DPM               District Project Manager                                             PFT           Process Facilitation Team
DPU                District Project Unit                                               PMR           Project Management Report
DRDA               District Rural Development Agency                                   PMU           Project Management Unit
EAR                Environmental Asseanent Report                                      PR            Peer Review
EAS                Employment Assurance Scheme                                         PRA           Partidipatory Rual Appraisal
EIA                Environnental lInpact Assessment                                    PRI           Panchayati Raj Institution
EMF                Environmental Management Framework                                  RD            Rural Development
EMP                Environmentl Management Plan                                        RGM           Rajiv Gandhi Mission
EPA                Entry Point Activity                                                SA            Social Assessment
ER                 Environmental Review                                                SC            Scheduled Castes
EU                 Euopean Union                                                       HG            Self-Help Group
FMS               Financial Management System                                          SGSY          Swamjayantb Gram Swarozgar Yojana
GO                 Government Official                                                 SPU           State Project Unit
GOI                Government of India                                                 SS            State Society
GOMP               Goveament of Madhya Pradesh                                         ST            Scheduled Tribes
GP                 Grm Panchiyat                                                       SSC           State Steering Comnittee
GS                 Gram Sabba                                                          TDP           Tribal Development Plan
GSDP               Gross State Domestic Product                                        TNA           Training Needs Assessment
HR                 Human Resoace                                                       TOR           Terms of Reference
HRD                Human Resource Development                                          UNDP          United Nabons' Development Program
IFAD               International Fund for Agricultural Development                     UNICEF        United Nations Children's Fund
IMI                Institutional Maturity Index                                        UP            Uttar Pradesh
IRDP               negated Rural Development Program                                   VDC           Vilage Development Committee of the Gram Panchayat
ITDA               butegrated Tnbl Deveopment Ageocy                                   VTDA          Village Tribal Development Agency
JFM                Joint Forest Management                                             ZP            Zi'la Parishad
Deflnitions                                                                                 ZPDPIS        Zilla Parishad District Poverty Initiatives Sub-Committee
Village:          Administrative unit consisting of a collection of habitations.
Gram Sabha:       AU adult residents of a villge (equivalent t the general assembly ofthe village; some large habitations in Madhya Pradesh also have Grain Sabhas).
Gram Panchayat:  Elected body representing one or several villages - pan of Panchayati Raj Institutions (local government).
Zila Parishad:    Elected body representing the rural inhabitants of a district.
Vice President:    Mieko Nishimizu
Country Manager/Director:    Edwin R. Lim
Sector Manager/Director:    Ridwan Ali
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Gajanand Pathmanathan/Luis Constantino/
Geeta Sethi/Ruth Alsop



INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH DISTRICT POVERTY INITIATIVES PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                        Page
1. Project development objective                                                        2
2. Key performance indicators                                                           2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project       2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                           3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                   4
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                   5
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                        5
3. Benefits and target population                                                       6
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                        6
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                            8
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies           9
3. Lessons leamed and reflected in proposed project design                             10
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                    10
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                         11
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                            11
2. Financial                                                                           12
3. Technical                                                                           12
4. Institutional                                                                       12
5. Environmental                                                                       15
6. Social                                                                              16
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                  20
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                      21
2. Critical risks                                                                      21
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                      22



G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            23
2. Other                                                                              23
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          24
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                         25
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          26
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                    28
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         70
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary           71
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Eaming Project Entities, or Financial Summary     73
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                       74
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     88
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                   89
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                  91
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            95
MAP(S)
IBRD 30986



INDIA
Madhya Pradesh District Poverty Initiatives Project
Project Appraisal Document
South Asia Regional Office
SASRD
Date: October 5, 2000                             Team Leader: Luis F. Constantino
Country Director: Edwin Lim                       Sector Manager/Director: Ridwan Ali
Project ID: P059242                               Sector(s): SA - Social Assistance
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Poverty Reduction
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Y
Project Financing Data
] Loan         [Z Credit       C: Grant        K Guarantee     F] Other (Specify)
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): SDR 84,200,000 (US$ 110.1 million equivalent)
Proposed Terms: Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                              Years to maturity: 35
Commitment fee: 0.5%                                  Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan:    Source                                   Local         Foreign         Total
GOVERNMENT                                                     9.30           0.00           9.30
IDA                                                          107.10           3.00         110.10
LOCAL COMMUNITIES                                             15.15           0.15          15.30
Total:                                                       131.55           3.15         134.70
Borrower: INDIA
Responsible agency: GOVERNMENT OF MADHYA PRADESH
Address: 2nd Floor Vindhyachal Bhawan, office of Development Commissioner, Bhopal, MP, India
Contact Person: Gauri Singh
Tel: 91-755-553171                Fax: 91-755-771403                Email: gauritysingh@hotmail.com
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$M):
FY         2001       2002       2003      2004       2005       2006
Annual     5.9        13.5       18.5       25.1      30.7       16.4
Cumulative     5.9        19.4      37.9       63.0       93.7     110.1
Project implementation period: 5
Expected effectiveness date: 01/01/2001  Expected closing date:  06/30/2006
XS PAD FD,.: Re, M - h, 2000



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
A: Project Development Objective
The project's development objective is to improve opportunities for the poor and vulnerable, especially
women, to meet their own social and economic development objectives. To achieve this objective the
project would: (i) create income security opportunities for the rural poor; (ii) empower active groups of
disadvantaged people; and (iii) through village organizations promote more effective, accountable and
inclusive District and Gram Panchayats (district and village governments) and other local support and
service organizations.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
* Household income by sources
* Household expenditures
*   Household assets
* People's perceptions of CIGs, VDCs, and ZPDPISs
Participation of disadvantaged people, particularly women, in subproject activities and
decision-making
*   Community contributions in cash
*   People's awareness of the community activities, anti-poverty programs and PRI initiatives
Data would be disaggregated by social and economic grouping thereby enabling analysis of differential
impacts and perceptions.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: R99-12 (IDA/R99-10)             Date of latest CAS discussion: 02/18/1999
A key objective of the Bank Group assistance to India is to reduce poverty through accelerated economic
growth with equity. The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) highlights a specific need to develop
well-targeted programs to assist the poor by promoting decentralization and beneficiary participation in
development. The proposed project targets some of the poorest villages in Madhya Pradesh (MP) and is to
be implemented by communities and local governments. The CAS also includes a focus on states with a
commitment to economic reforms. MP has shown such commitment through far-reaching reforms in the
public sector, fiscal management, governance, and decentralization. The Government of Madhya Pradesh
(GoMP) has also taken action to improve access to social services, has developed a State Policy on women
and passed a series of State Acts intended to protect the interests of tribals. A third CAS objective is to
work closely with other partners. GoMP is implementing its program of fiscal and administrative reform
with support from the Asia Development Bank (ADB). The program includes restructuring of public
corporations, control of the fiscal deficit, protecting investment in the social sectors, introducing a value
added tax, increasing competition in the power sector and increasing water charges. Madhya Pradesh
District Poverty Initiatives Project's (MPDPIP's) dual emphasis on increasing the effectiveness of both
existing mechanisms of local governance and poverty alleviation processes complements these reforms.
The GoMP has also initiated discussions with the British Government's Department for International
Development (DFID) regarding a poverty alleviation and livelihoods project in districts not covered by the
project--MPDPIP.
-2 -



2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Among the main rural sector issues throughout India, including MP, are (1) the lack of effectiveness of
public expenditures in rural areas, including limited success over many years of public rural development
and anti-poverty programs (APPs) to reduce poverty; and (2) the lack of success in fostering more
responsive, accountable and inclusive rural institutions through rural decentralization, despite the
considerable success in establishing elected local governments in rural areas. India's rural institutions are
plagued by poor governance and the country continues to have some of the poorest social indicators in the
world.
Issues in anti-poverty programs: Today the central and state governments spend close to 6% of state
GDP in rural development programs in MP. While this high level of expenditure targeted at rural areas
demonstrates the degree of commitment to rural poverty alleviation, there are concerns regarding the
effectiveness of these expenditures. Key issues include : proliferation of programs; tied funds; supply
driven investments; high administrative costs; and complex procedures.
GoMP has several key rural poverty alleviation programs championed by the Chief Minister since 1995,
which try to address some of the above problems. The Rajiv Gandhi Missions (RGM), as these are called,
focus on three broad areas - education health, and natural resource management. The RGM address some
of the problems in earlier rural development programs through: focus on outcomes (e.g. a school within one
kilometer of each child) which helps coordination between programs; improved targeting based on
marginalized areas and disadvantaged groups (e.g. women); and lower administrative costs through
community participation.
However, while there have been improvements in social indicators -- and there may even have been a
decline in poverty, the absolute number of poor people in MP has never been larger. The current fiscal
crisis in MP could make the situation worse by reducing funding for public services reaching the poor,
including the Rajiv Gandhi missions for natural resources, education and health.
Issues in rural decentralization: The GoMP has identified lack of responsiveness and accountability of
institutions as a key deterrent to poverty alleviation and rural development. The core strategy of the
government to improve governance and delivery of public services is decentralization but obstacles still
stand in the way of this process and the emergence of effective and inclusive rural governments. First, the
level and process of fiscal transfers is insufficient to allow rural governments to operate. Second, while
rural governments, particularly at the village level, have been given clear revenue authority few revenues
are being generated due to lack of capacity of local officials, administrative constraints and unwillingness
of tax-payers and service recipients to pay for local public services. Third, administrative decentralization
is weak. Fourth, there is little tradition of collective action at the village level. Fifth, there is lack of
adequate information of how the system is supposed to operate.
The GoMP strategy to deepen decentralization reform is based on: (1) community empowerment by
strengthening village level institutions such as the Gram Sabha; (2) untied grants to the Gram Panchayat
level (village); (3) improved accountability mechanisms, namely by establishing the people's right to recall
local elected officials; and (4) devolving state government powers to Zilla Sarkar (District Planning
Committee).
-3 -



3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
MPDPIP would experiment with and demonstrate ways of improving the effectiveness and efficiency of
rural development and anti-poverty programs by addressing: (i) the weak -- or lack of -- organization and
skills among the poor, to ensure that these groups have the capacity to voice their demands and to
pressurize local governments and anti-poverty programs to be more responsive to them; (ii) the ineffective
targeting and inefficient management of development programs for the poor, to ensure a greater impact on
poverty alleviation at the same level of expenditures; (iii) the lack of community control over the design and
implementation of local projects, to ensure that programs address their needs and investments are
sustainable; and (iv) the inflexibility of procedures and insufficient monitoring, to ensure that villagers and
organizations can learn from successes and failures of programs and act upon these.
Further, although MPDPIP's key objective is not decentralization and is not focused on Panchayati Raj
Institutions (PRIs) -- the local governments in rural areas -- it would help deepen decentralization in the
project districts by: (i) strengthening village and group organizations enabling them to pressure PRIs to
become more accountable, inclusive and responsive; (ii) requiring practices of cost-recovery and operation
and maintenance, to be financed by local communities, thus promoting a positive attitude towards local
revenue mobilization and taxation; (iii) supporting a training program for district and village level
panchayats on financial management, project management, information and monitoring; (iv) financing
studies on revenue generation at the local level including property taxes; (v) entrusting committees of
district and village PRIs with key project decisions; and (vi) closely monitoring the institutional
performance of district and village PRIs and disseminating results to local constituents, thus promoting
practices of transparency and accountability.
The state government specifically requested the Bank to support a GoMP project to: (i) demonstrate to the
numerous stakeholders (state and local governments, communities, NGOs) innovative and effective ways of
addressing rural poverty; (ii) work through local governments, deepening decentralization; and (iii) ensure
that fiscal liabilities of the state are not increased. To meet these objectives and constraints the proposed
project would:
*   empower disadvantaged groups by putting funds under their direct control in village level bank
accounts;
*   ensure that group investments are demand driven over a wide range of choices by untying funds,
avoiding bureaucratic interference and allowing rural people to procure technical and NGO
support;
*   foster group formation and strengthening by making funds available to groups organized around
common interests and problems;
*   ensure inclusion and participation by targeting group formation activities towards the most
disadvantaged, by closely monitoring participation and inclusion in local decision-making
processes and by tying subproject approval and budgets to the quality of this decision-making;
*   ensure ownership, create credibility and foster a culture of local financing, cost recovery and
taxation by requiring cash contributions for group subprojects and establishing village funds to be
financed by communities;
*   strengthen local governments at the district and village levels by giving them responsibility for the
budgeting, monitoring of and disbursing for group activities and assisting them through a training
program;
*   ensure transparency, widespread information, communications and learning about the project's and
groups performance, successes and failures, through formal and informal mechanisms created by
the project;
-4 -



*   facilitate changes in attitude and behavior of institutional stakeholders through human resource
development activities; and
*   improve infrastructure and public services in about 2,000 villages and/or their accessibility to poor
people, to increase income security opportunities for the poor.
Project activities would be implemented by community and village organizations in 2000 villages spread
over 14 districts in northern and northwestern MP. This would maxirnize the demonstration impact at the
district level, which, in MP's decentralization model, is key to the entire rural development and poverty
alleviation process. A project to be supported by DFID, currently under discussion, would extend a simnilar
approach to another seventeen districts. Careful monitoring, systematized learning, evaluation and
dissemnination of the project's successes and failures would develop collective understanding of systems and
processes appropriate foro effectively allocating and using resources to the benefit of the poor. This
learning could then be used to expand and draw in other poverty alleviation prograrns.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Indicative             Bank-      % of
Component                   Sector         Costs     % of    financing   Bank-
(US$M)    Total      (US$M)  financing
(1) Community Investrnents: (a)     Social Investment   109.00     80.9     93.70       85.1
sub-projects for infrastructure,   Funds
livelihood security and skills and
organization; (b) village funds; and (c)
innovation funds.
(2) Institutional and Human Capacity  Institutional    25.70       19.1      16.40      14.9
Building: (a) project administration; (b)  Development
human resource development; (c)
commnunications; (d) formation and
strengthening of organizations; (e)
monitoring and learning systems.
Total Project Costs                   134.70      100.0    110.10      100.0
Total Financing Required                    134.70      100.0    110.10      100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project would seek to establish processes demonstrating to govenmment and other stakeholders options
for refonns to improve:
* governance of district and village governments, enhanced collective action at the village level, local
resource mobilization, monitoring and better information flow;
* public expenditures, through more efficient and effective delivery of services and rural development
programs for the poor, and improved cost recovery;
* administrative reforrn, through greater accountability, transparency and responsiveness of the local
administration to locally elected officials and constituents.
- 5-



3. Benefits and target population:
Benefits. The major benefits to the rural poor participating in the project would include:
* increased incomes from greater access to productive assets (infrastructure, skills and
resources);
*   stronger organizations of disadvantaged groups;
*   improved ability to pressure village and district governments to become more responsive,
accountable, effective and inclusive.
Empowering the poor and changing the dynamics of power at the local level would be a long term
process with most benefits expected to accrue past the life of the project.
Tarzet Population. The target population would be socially and economically disadvantaged
people in MP. Three mechanisms for targeting would be used:
*   geographic targeting by first selecting districts that are not well covered by GOI and state
anti-poverty programs and within these the poorest blocks and villages/habitations.
Fourteen districts have been selected: Shajapur, Rajgarh, Vidisha, Guna, Shivpuri,
Narsinghpur, Raisen, Damoh, Sagar, Rewa, Tikamgarh, Chhatarpur, Panna and Sidhi;
?  group targeting, by actively promoting collective action, organization, inforrnation and
skills of the poorest and marginalized groups first, and enhancing their ability to negotiate
with formal organizations and demand project and other program resources;
?   individual targeting by rewarding good performance in targeting the poor and involving
them in decision-making by village and district governments through increased budget
allocations;
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The project would be implemented through seven core processes: (i) human resource development, (ii)
communications and information, (iii) formation and strengthening of organizations, (iv) sub-project
preparation, appraisal and implementation, (v) establishment of village funds; (vi) budgeting and
disbursements, and (vii) monitoring and learning.
Human Resource Development would ensure that project stakeholders share project values and have the
capacity to achieve project objectives. Primary stakeholders are beneficiary organizations Common
Interest Groups (CIGs), facilitation organizations (PFTs, NGOs), project management and support units
(SPU, DPU) and government. Human resource development would be the responsibility of District
Capacity Building Organizations (DCBOs -- these could be NGOs or government agencies) which could
cover more than one district. DCBOs would be supervised by a training coordinator in the State Project
Unit. One member of each DCBO would be part of the District Project Unit.
Communications and Information would ensure that the target population has full knowledge of the
project, its rules and funds available, as well as of other development programs and of decisions taken
by implementing agencies including village governments. Communications would be the responsibility
of the DPUs in each of the fourteen districts which would be staffed with a person responsible for
communications. A communications specialist at the state level would support district units. At the
village level, communication activities would be carried out by Project Facilitation Teams (PFTs)
composed of seconded local government staff, NGO members or villagers who would be trained in
communication skills.
-6 -



Formation and Strengthening of Organizations would ensure that disadvantaged people are
organized into groups capable of voicing their demands, accessing project resources and eliciting
responses from local governnents and other project organizations. To be eligible for sub-project
financing, villagers would organize themselves into Common Interest Groups (CIGs), either already
existing (self-help groups), or newly created around a common need. The majority of CIGs would be
composed of poor men and women. CIGs would undertake initiatives using their own resources, by
accessing on-going programs or by submitting proposals for DPIP support. PFTs would help ensure
inclusion of disadvantaged people in the project by building their capacity and assisting them to formn
collectives to access DPIP funds and by building links with other programs and institutions.
Sub-project identification, appraisal and implementation would ensure that disadvantaged groups
have a choice over local investrnents and are responsible for their implementation. Two organizations
would be involved in sub-project proposal and appraisal--CIGs and VDCs. The Village Development
Committee (VDC) would be a sub-committee of the Gram Panchayat and would be created for each
project village. At the village level, CIGs would identify and submit sub-project proposals to the VDC.
The VDC would be composed of all elected village representatives (panches), and representatives of all
CIGs. The VDC would appraise the sub-project proposals with the help of PFTs, prioritize all the CIG
proposals within the budget available to the village (project funds and other sources), and submit the
list of sub-projects (village plan) to the district for disbursements (details in Annex 2, Attachment 7).
CIGs would be responsible for sub-project preparation, implementation and operation and would be
able to procure technical assistance from government, NGOs or other private sources to assist them.
All sub-projects would require community cash contributions of at least 5%. An additional
contribution of 10% would be deposited in Village Funds (see below). The CIGs would submit a plan
(including a financial plan) for O&M, if needed, along with the sub-project proposal and would be
encouraged establish group OM funds where applicable. The Zilla Parishad District Poverty Initiatives
Sub-Committee (ZP DPIS) would review and approve plans submitted by an entire village (represented
by the VDC) or by a group of villages (represented by the Gram Panchayat).
Budgeting and disbursements. At the state level, the Board of the Society for Poverty Alleviation
Initiatives (MPSPAI), chaired by the Chief Minister, would allocate annual project budgets to districts
based on target population in the first year, and performance in the following years. Perforrmance
would be based on the quality of participation and inclusion in local decision-making and community
cash contributions. At the district level the ZPDPIS would allocate annual budgets to villages based on
the same criteria. Upon receipt of lists of sub-project (village plans) from a village, the District Project
Unit (DPU) would deposit the funds into CIG bank accounts. The VDC would authorize release of the
second half of the funds during implementation and upon proof of the quality of participation and
community cash contributions.
Village Funds would ensure some degree of cost recovery thus helping create a practice of local
revenue mobilization. Village Funds would finance village investments beyond the life of the project
and contribute to the sustainability of project benefits. Village Funds would be entirely financed by
community contributions equivalent to 10% of the cost of each sub-project, respectively. These
contributions would be in addition to the sub-project cost. Level of these contributions would be
reviewed after one year of implementation. All contributions in kind would be monetized.
Monitoring and Learning would ensure that project stakeholders learn from and act upon the project's
successes and failures. The project design is flexible and accommnodates possible changes in organizational
structures, support needs and activities. Monitoring systems that can quickly provide feedback to all
-7 -



stakeholders and link that to decision making are therefore critical. Monitoring would cover (1) inputs,
outputs and outcomes, (2) performance of project organizations, (3) project processes, and (4) project
impacts. Monitoringfor supervision would initially focus on: (a) quality and quantity of participation of
different social and economic groups in the CIG and VDC; and (b) the cash contributions of communities.
Monitoring of CIGs would be the responsibility of VDC and PFTs while monitoring of VDCs would be the
responsibility of PFTs. Monitoringfor learning would be undertaken by different levels of stakeholders --
both for their own decision making purposes and to improve management's understanding of project
processes. This is described in Annex 2, Attachment 6. Another dimension of project learning would be
cross-learning among the three DPIP states--Andhra Pradesh (Cr. 3332), Rajasthan (Cr. 3339) and
Madhya Pradesh. As the objectives and basic design of these three projects are similar, it is planned to
share information on their implementation experiences and transfer strategies, procedures and instruments
across locations.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
1. Support for existing anti-poverty programs such as Swaranjayanti Gram Swarozgar Yojana (SGSY) or
Employment Assurance Scheme (EAS) sponsored by the Government of India was rejected because:
*   Per capita administrative costs are high;
-   Tied funds, supply driven;
*   Limited focus on organization and skills of the poor; and
-   Not enough implementation experience.
2. A large specific investment project supporting a few selected activities identified by state governments
and implemented through the existing line departments, and a pilot Commnunity Fund for small community
investments, was rejected because:
:   Tied funds, supply driven;
* Relying on line departments and no support for decentralization;
*   Likely to increase the fiscal liabilities of the state; and
*   No focus on organization and skills of the poor.
3. The independently managed "social fund" approach relying mostly on NGOs was rejected because:
*   Doubtful long-term sustainability;
*   Lack of good NGOs in MP and loose accountability of NGOs to the people; and
*   Less ability to support local governments.
4. Implementation through PRIs only was rejected because:
*   PRIs are new institutions and have very limited capacity and no proven record in service delivery
or management of development interventions;
*   In multi-village Gram Panchayats there may be biases in the way resources are allocated among
villages; and
*   PRIs are vulnerable to control by local elites where the poor are not organized and civil society is
lacking.
-8 -



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                       Project                  (PSR) Ratings
_______ _______ _______ _______   _______________(Bank-financed  projects  only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                     Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Rural Development Reclamation of salt Uttar Pradesh Sodic Lands        S             S
affected lands using participatory  Reclamation Project Phase I
methodologies                       (1993) and Phase 11 (1999)
West Bengal Panchayat and
Rural Development Project
(2000)
Orissa Rural Development
Project (2001)
Natural Resource Management         Integrated Watershed               S             S
Development Projects
Plains (1990)
Hills (1990)                       S             S
Madhya Pradesh Forestry            S              S
Project (1995)
Integrated Watershed               S              S
Development II Project (2000)
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation  Karnataka Project (1993)            S             S
Uttar Pradesh Project (1996)       S              S
Social Sector, Gender specific initiative Rural Women's Development
for micro-enterprise development    and Empowerment Project
(1997)
Poverty Reduction                   Andhra Pradesh District
Poverty Initiatives Project
(2000)
Rajasthan District Poverty
Initiatives Project (2000)
Other development agencies
Poverty Alleviation                 Rajiv Gandhi Mission, 1994 for
Education (Education
Guarantee Scheme), Health
(Iodide Campaign), Natural
Resource Management
(Water-shed management)
Micro-finance                       AUSAID focusing on financial
intermediaries
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
Note: The two projects under Poverty Reduction (sector issue) has become effective only recently.
-9-



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The proposed project has drawn on Bank's global experience. The design of this project incorporates
lessons from projects that were effective at delivering basic infrastructure and services to the poor. In
particular it reflects lessons learned from several on-going and completed Bank-financed rural
development projects in India (e.g. UP Sodic Lands Project, Integrated Watershed Development
Projects, the Kamataka, UP Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Projects and the AP Forestry Project;
UNDP-assisted Project in Andhra Pradesh). Finally, the project is one of three DPIP projects in India,
the others being located in Rajasthan (Cr. 3339) and Andhra Pradesh (Cr. 3332). Experiences of
ongoing programs in each one of these states were shared between the three projects during
preparation. The key lessons incorporated in the project design are the following:
*   Put the community in the driver's seat through control over funds and investment decisions to
achieve efficiency and sustainability.
*   Communities can contribute towards investment and operational costs if they are assured of good
service.
*   It is not enough to mobilize communities for social action -- they want economic opportunities
and need investments to be made in these, alongside social mobilization.
*   Where there is an ongoing process of decentralization and local governments are emerging, it is
important to work through these institutions to reflect local needs, expedite decision making
and ensure the institutional sustainability of the programs.
*   Ensure speedy implementation through development of streamlined procurement and
disbursement rules and regulations, detailed operational manuals, computerized MIS,
standardized financial management procedures, regular and rigorous auditing, and quantitative
monitoring and evaluation.
*   Create competitive employment conditions for the project management staff to attract and
retain competent and motivated individuals.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
*   The GoMP has a track record in poverty alleviation, with significant outcomes in access to basic
education, health, and natural resource management through the Rajiv Gandhi Missions (RGM).
In a departure from the tradition of the centrally sponsored programs, the RGM focus on poverty
outcomes. Important achievements include access to schools under the Education Guarantee
Schemes--no child has to travel further than one kilometer from his home to attend primary
schools; Watershed Programs--25% of rural population is in a position to get benefits from this
program; and Health and Sanitation which provides access to iodide for the entire population.
*   GoMP has been persistent in its request for Bank assistance for a direct poverty-reduction project.
During 1995, following agreement with the Bank, GoMP identified 10 project districts on the basis
of poverty indicators. Four additional districts were added in 1999. The state has conducted
extensive Social Assessments and detailed District Capacity Assessments (Institutional
Assessments) in the selected districts with the help of field NGOs. It has prepared a State Project
Implementation Plan (PIP) and Operations Manual. The govemment has initiated pilot activities in
five district with financing from an Australian Trust Fund supporting the project. These activities
have been carried out jointly by government officials, NGOs, other private institutions and iocal
people -- including potential beneficiaries of the project.
*   The state established a DPIP Project Management Unit about four years ago and has maintained it
despite the delay in project preparation. Recently it established project units in five distric is where
the project is expected to start and it has staffed some positions in the SPU. It has already
identified NGOs in the state and districts to undertake start-up activities for the project, such as
- 10 -



community mobilization, group formation, and training. Finally it has established a state Society
which would play an important role in project implementation.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
*   The Bank brings its global experience on decentralized community driven rural development to
India. There is still a great need in India to promote 'alternative' approaches to rural development
and poverty alleviation, and the Government of Madhya Pradesh specifically requested the project
as a means to access the Bank's international experience.
* The Bank brings budgetary support for poverty alleviation in a situation of fiscal crisis in the state,
thus helping sustain current government efforts. at poverty reduction.
*   Bank support of three DPIP projects (MP, AP and Rajasthan) would facilitate the sharing of
information and experience among them thereby enhancing the quality of each project, their
demonstration impact and total value to India's development.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
o Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
o Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
The proposed project focuses on social organization and empowerment, improved local governance,
capacity building and community-initiated sub-projects, including rural infrastructure. Hence, economic
opportunities from sub-projects are but one of the project's outputs, the other two being empowered and
active groups of disadvantaged people and improvement in their ability to promote more effective,
accountable and inclusive local institutions.
Due to its demand driven character, the project does not lend itself to detailed ex-ante cost-benefit analysis
and rate of return calculations. Although the major types of community development sub-projects likely to
be demanded are known from the social assessments, it will be the beneficiaries who will ultimately
determine the scope and mix of the investments and -- as communities learn and feel more empowered in
the course of project implementation -- these may differ from the original demand assessment.
Nevertheless, indicative economic net benefits of some of the investments identified in social assessments
have been calculated. The results show financial and economic IRR with expected values of 38% and 51%
respectively. Given the budget constraint at the village level introduced in the project and the fact the funds
are untied in nature, poor groups will choose the best projects for themselves, which are likely to be the
ones with the highest economic return. Furthermore, because communities are actively involved in
prioritization, implementation, operation and maintenance, it is also expected that the sub-projects they
select will be viable for them, and sustainable. Experience from similar Bank supported projects in other
regions shows that demand driven projects of this type, involving beneficiary contributions, are usually
economically highly beneficial and cost-efficient.
- 11 -



2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Fiscal Impact:
MP DPIP is expected to have the following fiscal impacts: First, it would implement a more cost-effective
approach to anti-poverty programs. It is expected that over the long term, through a demonstration effect,
the project would bring about reforms in state and national anti-poverty programs with fiscal savings. The
willingness of the population to contribute a higher share of investment costs is expected to increase as a
result of the project, reducing the burden on the government budget. Second, an output of the project
would be village funds from community contributions which would improve the fiscal situation at the
village level, create a culture of local taxation and cost recovery and leave in place funds to cover operation
and maintenance of village investments. In addition, it can be expected that the tax base will increase due
to higher economic activities.
The project would amount to about 10 percent of public rural development expenditures in MP. The
GoMP put special care during project preparation in ensuring that the project would not increase the fiscal
liabilities of the state. Government's contribution of US$9.3 million (6.9% of project cost) would finance
recurrent costs, mostly for salaries and allowances of PFTs and Government staff in the SPU and DPUs.
However no incremental staff would be created. Instead, currently underutilized state staff would be
seconded to the project from governnent departnents and thus the government salary bill would not
increase, except marginally since seconded staff would receive a one step promotion ahead of time. No
increases in recurrent expenditures of state government are expected during the post-project period. All
the recurrent expenditures of sub-projects would be met by community contributions.
3. Technical:
The technical quality of sub-projects would be ensured by: first allowing communities to choose
technologies they are familiar with; second allowing communities to procure technical assistance from the
public, NGOs or private sectors if they choose to do so; and third ensuring that through the ZP DPIS,
VDCs and PFTs, the expertise of line agencies would be available to assist communities which request
technical expertise from governnent. Activities in different sectors would be carried out within the policy
framework and general guidelines established for other Bank-assisted projects, where applicable, or within
existing GoMP policies.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
Common Interest Groups. Common Interest Groups (CIGs) would be the key organizations of the poor
in project villages. These would be either existing groups such as watershed associations, savings and
credit groups or groups as yet to be formed. Disadvantaged people would come together around a
common need or an interest and develop the sub-project concept, plan and budget which they would
submit to a Village Development Committee (VDC) for approval and inclusion in village plans. CIGs
would assume responsibility for project implementation and would own and manage Bank accounts. They
would also represent the membership in interactions with formal organizations. In general the target
population currently faces social and skills constraints to organization. Thus Project Facilitation Teams
- 12 -



(PFTs) and communication experts would share responsibilities in communicating to the people the
overall project concepts, rules of operation and people's rights. They would also assist the weaker groups
with group formation and management and all aspects of project implementation. Training would be
provided on a wide range of skills.
Gram Panchayats. At the village level project execution would be the responsibility of the Village
Development Committee (VDC). Where the Gram Panchayat coincides with a village, the VDC would be
made of the GP elected representatives, one representative of each Common Interest Group (CIG) and
other people to be selected by the Gram Sabha. Where GPs cover more than one village, several VDCs
would be formed, one for each village. The VDC would approve CIG sub-projects, elaborate village
plans (prioritized list of sub-projects) for submission to the Gram Sabha and forwarding to the ZP DPIS
and monitor CIGs and their sub-project implementation. Both GPs and VDCs have very limited capacity,
since local governments in India and in MP in particular are relatively new. Thus like CIGs, VDCs would
be assisted by the Project Facilitation Teams (PFTs) and would benefit from training activities to be
supported by the project.
Project Facilitation Teams. PFTs main role would be to assist group and village organizations thereby
enabling them to perform their roles under the project. PFTs would also monitor the quality of the
participatory and decision-making process at the local level (see under project management). About 160
PFTs would be formed, with about 4 to 5 people, covering fifteen to twenty villages each. About half of
the PFTs are expected to be staffed and monitored by NGOs. However there is a limited number of
capable NGOs operating in the project districts, thus PFTs would also be formed by government staff
seconded to the project. Both NGO and govermnent staff would receive special orientation and training
related to their roles under the project. All PFTs would include women.
Zila Parishads. At the district level project execution would be the responsibility of a District Poverty
Initiatives Subcommittee of the Zilla Parishad (ZP DPIS), the district government, in each of the fourteen
project districts. The ZP DPIS would be chaired by the chairperson of the ZP and include elected
representatives of the Janpad Panchayats of the concerned blocks and representatives of NGOs and CIGs
(on rotation). The ZP DPIS would assume important monitoring and evaluation functions, as well as
decision-making responsibilities regarding district level issues, financing of VDC or GP proposals,
communications and capacity building. They would also assess village performance in practicing
participatory and inclusive decision-making and generating community cash contributions and following
project rules in general. Based on this the ZP DPIS would make budget allocation decisions. To address
capacity limitations at the district level, each ZP DPIS would be assisted by a District Project Unit (DPU)
which would assume administrative functions (see under project management) and would also be a
recipient of training.
Society. At the state level the project would be executed by the Madhya Pradesh Society for Poverty
Alleviation Initiatives (MPSPAI), which would be headed by the Chief Minister. The Society would allow
for a smoother and more predictable flow of funds to the District level than if the funds were to flow
through the state budget according to normal procedures, in particular because of the current fiscal crisis
in the state. The Board of the Society would include the Minister of Panchayat Raj and Rural
Development as vice-chair, the Chief Secretary, the Secretary of Finance, the Secretary of Rural
Development, the Mission Coordinator, four representatives from the districts (of which no more than two
from the bureaucracy), representatives from two NGOs and the Project Coordinator (Conveyor). The
Board of the Society would oversee project implementation, deal with state level policy and coordination
matters, assess district performance in targeting the poor and following project rules and based on them
make budget allocation decisions to the district. The Board of the Society would be supported by a State
- 13 -



Project Unit (SPU) which would assume administrative functions (see under project management).
4.2 Project management:
Day to day project management would be the responsibility of the State Project Unit (SPU) and District
Project Units (DPU) in each of the 14 districts (See Annex 2, Attachment 1). These units, which would
be part of MPSPAI, would carry out routine project monitoring, financial management, procurement,
disbursements and auditing activities. In addition to their administrative role the SPU and DPU would
help address institutional weaknesses at the district or village levels by assisting the executing agencies
at these levels with performance of their functions under the project.
Quarterly reports would be issued and would consist of: (a) physical and financial expenditure data, (b)
performance indicators and (c) briefing notes on successes, problems and project responses. Annual
Reviews (AR) would be carried out jointly by the Government and IDA with the first review to be
completed by December 31, 2001. The ARs would be in-depth assessments of progress and an opportunity
to change course where appropriate. As an input to the AR, the SPU would utilize monitoring information
for analysis or, when necessary, commission specific studies in the (a) effectiveness and efficiency of
institutional and implementation arrangements, (b) impact of the institutional and human capacity building
activities, and (c) other studies considered necessary by Govemrnent or IDA. The TORs for the proposed
studies would be developed by SPU and amended as necessary based on comments provided by the project
Steering Committee. The studies would be completed and reports provided to the Steering Committee one
month before the AR. The third year AR would be a more comprehensive Mid-Term Review addressing all
aspects of the project.
For implementation of a project of this kind where the underlying philosophy is devolution of
decision-making to the local level, it is important that project management staff share in the project's
values and objectives. The project's extremely decentralized and flexible approach represents a new
departure in the administrative tradition of India. Hence, there is currently limited capacity within
existing government staff or structures to effectively implement the project. Considerable effort would
be necessary to bring about required behavioral changes in project staff and the manner in which they
apply procedures or approach decision making. High priority would be given to the quality of the staff
recruitment and selection (R&S) process. R&S would be carried out by an independent agency to be
procured. Staff compensation would be competitive, and a widely disseminated and transparent reward
and accountability system would be established (See Annex 2, Attachment 2).
4.3 Procurement issues:
The matching grants component involves small sub-projects requiring procurement of works, goods and
services costing less than US$30,000 equivalent. These sub-projects would be implemented by the
communities, through direct contracting.
At the State level the SPU would have a trained procurement officer conversant with Bank's procurement
procedures, especially those related to small community-based investments. S/he would also: (a) play a
coordinating role in response to emerging demands from the district units, (b) oversee preparation of a
manual to serve as a reference point for procurement procedures applicable under different situations, and
(c) standardize technical details for the community works to be used as an aid to preparation and review of
the sub-project proposals. Since most of the procurement activities would be managed by DPUs each unit
would have a trained full-time staff to handle this work. Given that the formation of CIGs and hiring of
NGOs and PFTs would be a continuous process spread over the entire project period, workshops and
seminars on procurement issues would be organized at regular intervals to ensure good understanding of
procurement procedures amongst the district staff, the beneficiary institutions and NGOs.
- 14 -



4.4 Financial management issues:
Project Financial Management System (PFMS): Financial management arrangements for the project
are detailed in Annex 6. Govermment of India (GOI) would pass on the funds to Government of
Madhya Pradesh GoMP in accordance with the prevailing system of passing of funds from Center to
State in the case of Bank-assisted state sector projects. The state government will pass on the funds to
the bank account of the State Society established for the execution of the Project. The society's State
Project Unit (SPU) will transfer the funds to DPUs through banking channels based on their funds
requirement projection and work plan. The flow of funds from the DPUs to CIGs would be on the
basis of a Sub-Project Agreement/Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) entered between the DPU,
the relevant Village Development Committee (VDC) and the CIG. However, the pattern of flow of
funds to CIGs will ensure timely availability of funds at the operating level. The CIGs would be
required to maintain simple books of accounts recording all transactions pertaining to the sub-project.
An integrated computerized financial management system would be developed for the project. The
successful implementation of PFMS in the project would further entail certain key activities to be
completed by February 28, 2001 : (a) development of a software for PFMS implementation; (b) staffing of
key positions in SPU and DPUs; (c) procurement of computers for SPU and DPUs ; and (d) training of
staff in the PFMS operation. The PFMS is expected to be fully operational by March 1 st, 2001.
Disbursements: Disbursements from the IDA credit would initially be made in the traditional system
(reimbursement with full documentation and against statement of expenditure) and would be converted to
the Project Management Report (PMR) based disbursement after the successful implementation of the
computerized PFMS.
Audit: The financial statements of the project would be audited by a firrm of Chartered Accountants. The
annual project financial statements audited by the firm of Chartered Accountants would be submitted to the
Bank within 6 months of the close of GOI's fiscal year. This report will be monitored under ARCS . The
terms of reference and qualifications of the finn of Chartered Accountants will be reviewed by the Bank.
The firm of Chartered Accountants would be appointed by February 28th, 2001.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: F (Financial Intermediary Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
Environmental issues may arise in the matching grants component, but these are likely to be minor since
sub-projects would not exceed US$30,000, are expected to average US$5,000 and most would cost less
than US$1,000. An Environmental Management Framework (EMF) has been developed to:
* prevent execution of sub-projects with potentially significant negative environmental impacts;
* decrease potential minor negative impacts through modifications in sub-project design, location
or execution;
*   prevent or mitigate cumulative negative impacts as the result of multiple small-scale
investments;
* enhance the positive impacts of sub-projects; and
* prevent additional stress on environmentally sensitive areas.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The EMF incorporates the following elements, which together ensure the adequate management of the
-15-



project's environmental risks, and will help achieve positive environmental outcomes:
*   a methodology and administrative structure for environmental management;
*   an environmental capacity-building and awareness-raising program;
*   an environmental supervision, monitoring and audit plan.
These elements are described in more detail in Annex 2, Attachment 9.
The environmental risks of a sub-project would be screened according to location, scale and activity.
Based on this exercise, the sub-project would be assigned to one of three categories, requiring either (i)
Environmental Review, (ii) Limited Environmental Assessment, or (iii) Environmental Impact Assessment,
through which appropriate measures to mitigate environmental risks would be established.
To ensure that environmental screening and assessment are adequately implemented, the EMF also
specifies environmental capacity-building and awareness-raising activities to be supported by the project.
Capacity-building and awareness-raising would be lead by an Environment Agency (EA) to be appointed
by the SPU. The EA would also supervise the effective implementation of the EMF by the DPUs and
CIGs. To provide an independent assessment of the effectiveness of the design and implementation of the
EMF, once every two years the State Project Coordinator would contract an environmental audit of DPIP
to be conducted by an independent civil society organization.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: May 31, 2000
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Local Stakeholders would lead the Environmental Screening and Review process, as this would be
conducted by the CIGs, supported by PFTs. To assist the CIGs in this process, the project would support
environrnental awareness-raising for beneficiaries.
5,5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Environmental supervision would be conducted by the DPUs and the EA and an environmental audit of
DPIP would be conducted by an independent civil society organization. Supervision by this organization of
a sample of sub-projects would ensure that the EMF procedures are followed and mitigation measures
implemented. The EMF also suggests parameters to be examined during the independent audit to identify
any cumulative impact of the DPIP sub-projects. See Annex 2 Attachment 9 for a brief account of the
environmental supervision, monitoring and auditing requirements.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Outcomes: This project seeks to improve opportunities for the poor and the vulnerable, especially women
by addressing: (a) their capacity to act collectively; and (b) their ability to effectively use social and
economic infrastructure and services.
Ensuring the poor are included: The project has been pro-active in targeting poor people and
marginalized groups in several ways:
- 16 -



*   geographic targeting: project districts and blocks were selected by applying eleven weighted
poverty indicators to secondary source information. These included representation of scheduled
castes and scheduled tribes in any given location.
*   social assessments: primary data collection and analysis were undertaken to (a) identify the social,
economic and physical characteristics of the poorest people in blocks selected through the above
processes, (b) understand development constraints and opportunities particularly for these people,
(c) participatively develop preliminary plans for improving economic opportunities for socially and
economically disadvantaged people in villages.
*   district and state consultations: a range of stakeholders (government staff, elected representatives,
NGOs, academics and training organizations) were consulted and asked to use their experience to
define and refine proposed strategies, actions and approaches to implementation making them
appropriate to poor and marginalized groups.
*   identification of particularly vulnerable groups: the project recognizes that the poor are diverse
and some are more vulnerable than others. Within the overall strategy of poverty targeting special
efforts have been made to assess the position and condition of women and tribal people. Lower
caste group needs have not been specifically addressed as these already comprise the majority of
the target population.
The continuing effectiveness of targeting poor and marginalized people will be an important and integral
part of the project's monitoring and learning system. (See: Annex 2, Attachment 6 and the Project
Implementation Plan)
Women. Caste hierarchy, feudal norms and marginalization of women are common features of daily life in
the fourteen project districts. Poor gender ratios (between 848 and 946 wom.en to 1,000 men); low levels of
literacy -- particularly among the SC women (between 3.4 and 27.8 percent) and ST women (between 1.5
and 18.4 per cent); high infant and girl mortality rates (between 159 and 234 per 1,000, state average = 96)
illustrate the stark conditions under which women in these DPIP districts live.
The Government of Madhya Pradesh is at the fore-front of gender debates and has shown its concern by
being one of the first states to prepare a State Policy Document for Women. This policy has significant
implications for the empowerment of women, particularly in the economic sphere. It is committed to:
improving women's entitlements -- whether to inputs, resources or credit; to establish women's control over
decisions relating to their livelihoods and facilitate organization to strengthen their ability to establish their
rights as equal citizens. This ideologically represents a major departure from the earlier anti-poverty and
welfare programs, which although important, have characterized women as passive beneficiaries of, rather
than active participants in, the development process. The Policy provides a sound and useful framework
which DPIP can begin to articulate in both word and action.
Social assessments and an analysis of lessons from other government and donor projects undertaken in
project preparation indicate that there is a need to address both the practical needs of women -- through
interventions which can improve the physical and economic condition, and the strategic needs of women --
through interventions which address social perceptions of women's position in society. All project activities
would recognize that (a) women's opportunities are highly differentiated by the social or ethnic background
of their household, and (b) all interventions focusing on women need to also address their household and
community context if they are to be fully effective. Without this women could face insurmountable barriers
to participation including social ostracization and physical abuse.
- 17-



Structurally the project would address these issues in a number of ways:
*   conceptual and applied capacity building for rural women and project staff;
*   targeting women who are especially disadvantaged such as SC/ST women and sex workers;
*   positive discrimination and recruitment of women to the PFTs and DPUs;
*   review and reflection -- gender will be tabled as a regular part of these instruments of monitoring
and learning system;
*   making the effectiveness of support to women form part of project staff s performance appraisals;
and
*   using communications (a) to ensure that women have full access to information and (b) as tool to
change the behavior towards women.
Operationally, at least 30 per cent of CIGs membership would be women -- thus immediately giving
women access to economic opportunity and the empowerment which both that and group action bring.
This would be closely monitored. CIGs themselves would decide on their specific activities but social
assessments indicate that savings and credit groups, drinking water provision, agriculture and kitchen
gardening are likely entry point activities. Attention would also be paid to supporting other actions and
existing governnent/donor programs which focus on issues identified as important for women during
project preparation. These include health-related information and programs; provision of toilet facilities;
functional literacy and general motivational schemes and confidence building interventions.
A summary of the GoMP's women's development strategy and plan is given in Annex 2 Attachment 10.
The full paper can be found in the Project Implementation Plan and is available in the project file.
Tribals. The GoMP has been pro-active in operationalizing its responsibilities to the 23.3 percent of its
citizens who are tribal. It has passed several Acts which seek to protect the interests of tribal people and
has established a number of organizations charged with tribal development. The latter include: the
Department of Tribal and Scheduled Caste Welfare; the MP Scheduled Tribal Commission (a "watchdog"
headed by an NGO representative); the MP Minor Forest Produce Cooperative Federation; the MP Tribal
Finance and Development Corporation; and the Tribal Research Institute. All agencies have been
consulted in the process of preparing DPIP. They would continue to be part of six monthly regional
meetings, would have a representative on the State Level Steering Committee and would be part of the
audience for the project's annual report.
The other main body of actors concerned with tribal welfare and development are the NGOs. These vary in
their substantive interests and approach. Many of the "mainstream development" NGOs have participated
in the workshops and debate which have been part of DPIP's preparation. There is also a group of NGOs
who can be classified as "political organizations". At present they are active in mainly densely forested
areas where DPIP will not be implemented. The third category of NGOs are the, "activist organizations".
These are dedicated to empowerment of the poor, particularly tribal, people and have demonstrated less
willingness to enter into discussions with the State or with the World Bank. These groups tend to view all
foreign aid as bad and generally consider the government to be highly inefficient, deeply inequitable and
often corrupt. This group would closely monitor DPIP and have stated they will oppose any extemally
aided project in MP. GoMP is currently making efforts to open a creative dialogue with these
organizations.
Across all 14 DPIP districts 13 percent of the population are tribal. (see Annex 2 Attachment 11). While
this does not constitute "the bulk of direct project beneficiaries" (World Bank OD 4.20 para 13) nor would
DPIP have any negative impact on tribal people, the depth of their deprivation and exclusion from
development processes is such that the project considers this group of special interest and importance.
- 18 -



Hence, GoMP has, through social assessments and a commissioned participative consultancy, developed a
Tribal Development Strategy and Plan. With the exception of the Sidhi District, DPIP will not be
implemented in any Tribal Sub-Plan areas (Scheduled areas or tehsils in which the tribal population
exceeds 50 percent). However, because of lower and scattered tribal populations several pockets of DPIP
districts are designated as Modified Area Development Approaches (MADA--pockets of populations above
1 0,000 in which at least 50 percent are tribals) pockets or Special Clusters. In these designated areas
special government programs to aid tribal development apply.
During social assessments tribals living in DPIP districts were found to be amongst the poorest, most
vulnerable and seriously deprived members of the population. A dual strategy is proposed to redress the
balance in favor of tribal men and women. This encompasses first, general targeting of the poor in project
activities -- with few exceptions tribal people fall into this category, and second, specific targeting of tribal
populations, particularly tribal women, in DPIP villages. In relation to the latter the project would address
tribal needs and issues in four ways:
*   A summary of the GoMP's tribal development strategy and plan is given in Annex 2 Attachment
I 1. The full paper can be found in the Project Implementation Plan and in the project file.
*   taking affirmative action in favor of tribal people within project structures and processes at the
village, district and state levels;
*   focusing on activities of imnmediate relevance and importance to the income security and livelihood
portfolios of tribal people in villages;
*   making strategic linkages with development organizations working with tribals and development
programs or opportunities specifically addressing the needs of tribal men and women; and,
*   creating skills and awareness among project staff.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The entire project is designed to be participatory in terms of structures, processes and activities. Key
stakeholders include:
*   the rural poor, in particular women and tribal people: the project would provide support for the
poor to form and work together as CIGs. CIGs are perceived to be the local organizational
mechanism which would strengthen and enable the poor to take advantage of development
opportunities. The rural poor have been extensively consulted during DPIP preparation. CIG
members would participate in the identification, planning, implementation, operation and
maintenance of all activities at the local level throughout the project.
*   the project implementers these include government administration and NGOs. Representatives of
all parties have participated in the design and development of DPIP plans. This ownership and
identification with the ideas, activities and processes would be further encouraged by a highly
decentralized decision making system (see 6.4 below) supported by a high quality project
information and monitoring system (Annex 2, attachment 6).
*   other support and service organizations: training organizations, NABARD and line departments
have all been party to workshops and consultation during the DPIP design process. Consultation
and contracting would continue as and when services or support would be required by CIGs,
VDCs.
*   Political bodies: elected representatives from the panchayat to the Minister for Rural Development
have been party to various consultations during project preparation. The role of the gram sabha,
gram panchayat and the Zilla Parishad are described in preceding sections of this document. The
- 19-



Chief Minister would chair the State Society.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Consultations were held during project preparation with a broad cross-section of poor communities, a
number of NGOs and panchayat bodies. These would continue during the project to further develop
project modalities and procedures, as well as to expand an interested and supportive constituency for the
project. NGOs also conducted the social assessments, the district capacity assessments and participated in
the preparation of project strategy and plans.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
Preparation. Project preparation has been undertaken in a way that has maximized stakeholder agreement
over and understanding of project objectives and approach. This early buy-in has engendered high levels of
interest and a long term commitment of stakeholders to those processes and rules of engagement which are
essential to achieving project social development outcomes.
Design: Institutional arrangements have been selected to:
a   achieve a balance between minimal design (allowing for community driven choice and evolution)
and some basic features which protect the interests of the poor and marginalized (such as the initial
organizational foundations, monitoring and learning system, information systems and
accountability mechanisms);
*   factor into all organizational levels of the project the mandate to use information for decision
making over activities, processes and structures. This would increase local ownership and ensure
that outcomes more closely meet local needs;
*   pay considerable attention to staff selection, recruitment processes, staff compensations packages,
and terms of employment. These would ensure that staff have the professional profiles appropriate
to a poverty focused, community driven project, are happy in their jobs and are subject to
performance appraisal by their clients.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
See Section A2, Key Performance Indicators and Annex 2, Attachment 6.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Jolicy                                     Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)             0 Yes 0 No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                     0 Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                      0 Yes 0 No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                       0 Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                   0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                    0 Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                               0 Yes S No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                               0 Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)     0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)           0 Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
A Tribal (Indigenous Peoples) Development Plan in accordance with the World Bank OD 4.20 and OP
- 20 -



4.01 and an Environmental Management Framework have been prepared.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
There are several dimensions of sustainability (i) sustainability of community organizations,
collective action and social mobilization; (ii) sustainability of governance reforms at the local level;
(iii) sustainability of flow of investment funds for the village; (iv) sustainability of sub-projects
and/or their benefits; and (v) sustainability of institutions. The sustainability of community and
disadvantaged people's capacity for collective action would be promoted through training and
learning by doing for and by community members in organization and mobilization skills, namely by
including community members in the PFTs. These skills would remain beyond the life of the project.
The sustainability of governance reforms at the local level would depend on the acquired capacity of
communities and disadvantaged groups to exert vigilance and control over government officials. This
would be promoted by creating a habit for good practices, such as public availability of information,
inclusion and participation in meetings. The sustainability of investment funds for village
investments would be promoted through the constitution of village funds to be financed through the
community contributions to the sub-projects. It is expected that by the end of the project each village
would have on an average about US$6,000 in a Bank account to finance village O&M and
investments beyond the life of the project. The sustainability of sub-projects and their benefits would
be promoted by first, ensuring that villagers want the sub-projects and share in their cost; second,
ensuring cost recovery practices; and third, requiring each sub-project to include an O&M plan.
Finally the sustainability of the various processes piloted through the project would be promoted by
relying on existing, stable, democratically elected and constitutionally sanctioned institutions to
implement the project, such as ZPs and GPs.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth colunm of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating             Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Inability to forn strong CIGs of poor and   S        Give top project priority to the formation and
develop capacity for collective action               strengthening of organizations by creating
capacity to do this in NGOs and PTFs, and
closely monitoring the quality of participation in
groups.
Inability to create an opportunity space in  S       Careful design of institutional arrangements and
formal local structures for the poor to              processes and monitoring of their
voice their demands and have them acted              implementation to ensure participation of the
upon.                                                representatives of the poor in decision-making
and priority given to communications and the
ample flow of and accessibility of information.
Inability to influence state and GOI        S        Invest in close monitoring and evaluation and
anti-poverty programs                                dissemination of project success and failures,
and carry out specific studies evaluating the full
range of anti-poverty programs.
Poor poverty targeting at the village level.  M      Associate rewards (increased budgets) at district
and village levels to poverty targeting at the
village level.
-21 -



Political interference in project decisions   M         Very clear, simple, transparent and agreed
up-front rules for allocation of funds to districts
and villages.
Bureaucratic interference with devolution     H         Very clear and transparent institutional
of decision-making                                      arrangements and allocation of decision-making
powers; appropriate recruitment and selection
procedures for project personal to ensure their
commitment to project objectives; adequate
incentives to reward good performance.
From Components to Outputs
Slow flow of funds to the district level      H         Chanmeling funds through a State Society to the
District to avoid constraints on state budgets
from current fiscal crisis.
Beneficiaries are unable or inadequately      H         This would be closely monitored and reviewed
organized to contribute to costs of                     after one year.
implementation or O&M in cash, kind,
labor and/or participation
Limited number and/or NGOs in project         H         Use good NGOs as umbrella organization, to
districts                                               organize, supervise and train PTFs made of
community members and government officials
Overall Risk Rating                           S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Risk:
A small number of NGOs in MP (self-termed as Mass Tribal Organizations) have expressed their concerns
about the recently completed World Bank Forestry Project. They have organized demonstrations in front of
the Bank office in Delhi, have vowed to oppose every single Bank project in the State and may take issue
with the proposed DPIP.
Type of Risk:
H
Risk Minimization Measure:
A complete tribal development plan to ensure that the tribal people in the project villages are among the
main beneficiaries of the project and that the project is fully accessible and responsive to their needs has
been prepared. However, controversies are likely to remain given the militant attitude of some tribal
organizations. The Forestry Department of GoMP is currently engaged in district level consultations with
these organizations and the SPU is proposing expanding these into regular events for district stakeholder
interaction.
Risk:
Non-project village politicians are likely to try to extend the project to their constituencies. In general,
because all project processes and activities will be very visible, considerable social scrutiny over the project
can be expected with substantial controversies.
- 22 -



Type of Risk:
M
Risk Minimization Measure:
Very clear, agreed, and visible rules, such as for allocation of funds, and specific controversy management
activities (see the communications and information component).
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
Standard conditions of Effectiveness.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Covenants Related to Project Management Requirements:
(a)    MPSPAI shall not later than January 31 st of each year, starting 2001, prepare annual action and
procurement plans for implementation of the Project activities and, taking into account the
Association's recommendations, finalize, not later than March 15 of each year, such plans;
(b)    MPSPAI shall maintain the SPU and DPUs with the staffing, skills, qualifications and
responsibilities agreed with the Association; and
(c)    MPSPAI shall ensure that Sub-projects shall be carried out on the basis of a Sub-Project
Agreement (Annex 2, Attachment 7) to be entered into between the respective DPU and the
Beneficiary Institution, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Association. Such
Agreements, amongst other things, shall identify the type of Sub-project, describe the works and
goods to be financed and the cash or kind contribution of the Sub-project beneficiaries;
(d)    MPSPAI shall implement, in a manner satisfactory to the Association, the tribal development plan,
agreed with the Association, for the tribal population in the Project Districts, in order to ensure that
the tribal population in the Project Districts benefit fully from the activities under the Project,
GoMP;
(e)    MPSPAI shall select the NGOs assisting in the implementation of the Project in accordance with
criteria and procedures agreed with the Association;
(f)    GoMP and MPSPAI shall:
(i)    maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an
ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Association the carrying out of the
Project and the achievement of the objective thereof;
(ii)   prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and furnish to the
Association not later than June 30, 2003, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved
in carrying out the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of
- 23 -



the objective thereof during the period following such date; and
(iii)  review with the Association by December 31, 2003, or such later date as the Association
shall request, the reports referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and thereafter, take all
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the
objective thereof, based on the conclusions and recomrnendations of the said reports and the
Association's views on the matter.
Madhya Pradesh and MPSPAI shall engage, by no later than February 28, 2001, consultants to
carry out a baseline social and economic survey of beneficiaries for the Project on terms of reference agreed
with the Association.
Covenants Related to the Financial Management Requirements:
(g)    To establish an effective Financial Management System, MPSPAI in agreement with the
Association, shall:
(i)    maintain for the duration of the project, a satisfactory Financial Management System for
the Project including a computerized system, in accordance with the Financial Management
Manual;
(ii)   not later than December 31 st, 2000, engage for the duration of the project, a suitably
qualified professional accountant as a Finance Manager in the SPU, and accounts officer in each
of DPUs to manage the financial aspects of the project, with suitable experience and qualification;
(iii)   not later than February 28, 2001, appoint a firm of chartered accountants with terms of
reference and qualifications for auditing the records, accounts and financial statements of the
project;
Covenants Related to the Civil Works:
(h)    GoMP and MPSPAI shall:
(i)    ensure that any private land needed for any work under the Project shall be provided by the
owner of such land in a voluntary manner, and in accordance with a memorandum of
understanding, acceptable to the Association, between the Beneficiary Institution and the owner of
such land;
(ii)   not commence any work in locations where private land is needed until such memorandum
of understanding has been concluded; and
(iii)  to the extent practicable, ensure that any land to be made available by the owner shall be
free from any encumbrances and encroachment, and that no involuntary resettlement arises from
any use of such land under Part B of the Project.
H. Readiness for Implementation
D 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
- 24 -



1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
2 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
1] 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
M1 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Luis F. Constantino                dwan Ali                         Edwin Lim
Task Leader                       sector Manager                 V  Country Director
- 25 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
INDIA: Madhya Pradesh District Poverty Initiatives Project
Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Rural Poverty Reduction    Selected human development  State data and impact     Sound macro-economic
indicators                 evaluation.                fiscal management in
Madhya Pradesh
Project Development        Outcome I Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
To improve opportunities for  (1) Increase in quality,  (1- 3) Household surveys by   Local level organization
the poor and vulnerable,   diversity, and quantity of  an independent agency (pre   would improve (a) economic
especially women, to meet   income, expenditure and   and post project)          opportunity for all villagers,
their own social and economic consumption             (4) Development Audit.     and (b) give previously
development objectives.    (2) Improvements in                                   disempowered people equal
household asset positioning                           rights and responsibilities in
(human, material, social)                             development processes.
(3) Improved access to
government programs and
services.
(4) Positive stakeholder
evaluation of project
effectiveness.
Output from each           Output Indicators:         Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
(1) Income security       (la) Number of sub-projects  (I a) Performance tracking    Streamlined operational
opportunities for the poor    submitted, funded and   (lb) Performance tracking    mechanisms to review and
improved.                 implemented                 (lc) Peer reviews          finance sub-proposals
(lb) Number of assets created (Id) Project monitoring  functioning.
by category                system
(I c) Proportion of positive                          Adequate and timely
group assessments                                     institutional support available
(I d) Costs of sub-projects by                        for skills training, technical
category                                              support, marketing, and other
inputs identified in
community proposals
(2) Empowered and active   (2a) Percentage of CIG     (2a) Performance tracking  Villagers interested in
groups of disadvantaged    members belonging to poor   reports;                  organizing into effective
people.                    and vulnerable groups;     (2b) Institutional tracking  groups and developing their
(2b) Institutional maturity    reports                capacity to prepare viable
rank of CIG or VDC or ZP    (2c) Annual performance   proposals.
DPIS (aggregate,           evaluations
inclusiveness, autonomy rank)                         PFTs have the capacity to
(2c) Performance of                                   build and support valuable and
para-professionals supporting                         vibrant CIGs and VDCs
CIGs and VDCs
- 26 -



(3) Through village        (3a) Aggregate CIG         (3a) Performance tracking  GoMPs sustains its
organizations, promote more  contribution to local    reports                    decentralization drive and
effective, accountable and  organizations;            (3b) Development Audit     realistically addresses
inclusive PRIs and other local (3b) Community Satisfaction  (3c) Household surveys  associated problems of
support and service        Index                      (3d) Institutional tracking  governance, jurisdiction and
organizations.             (3c) Percentage of villagers   reports.               financing.
with bank accounts
(3d) Public resources utilized
by the village
Project Components /       Inputs: (budget for each   Project reports:           (from Components to
Sub-components:            component)                                            Outputs)
(1) Community Investments:  Total=US$ 109 mill.       Project financial management Adequate funds are made
(a)Matching Grant for      (la) 97.7 million disbursed   system                  available in time by the state
infrastructure, livelihood  and 5 million of community                           governments to project DPUs
security, and skills and   contributions by category of                          and executing agencies,
organization               sub-projects;                                         including counterpart funds
(b) Village Funds          (lb) 10.3 million of
(c) Innovation fund        community contributions                               Beneficiaries are able, willing
(Id) I million disbursed as                           and adequately organized to
Innovation Funds.                                     contribute to costs of
implementation or O&M in
cash, kind, labor and/or
participation
(2) Institutional and Human   Total US$ 25.7 mill.    Project financial management Staff with adequate skills and
Capacity Building:                                    system                     training are available.
(a) Project administration  (2a) SPUs, DPUs fully staffed
(b) Human Resource         (2b) Percentage of project
Development                stakeholders receiving
training
(c) Communications
(2c) Percentage of population
(d) Formation and          aware of project
strengthening of organizations (2d) Number of VDCs, and
CIGs
(e) Monitoring and learning
(2e) Timeliness of the reports
-27 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
INDIA: Madhya Pradesh District Poverty Initiatives Project
By Component:
Project Component I - US$109.00 million
Community Investments (Attachment)
The activities to be financed under this component would be demand-driven sub-projects to be proposed by
CIGs either on their own, or through village organizations (VDC, panchayats). The types of funds
available to the beneficiaries would be as follows:
Sub-Projects (US$97.7 million) would finance demand-driven sub-projects to be proposed by CIGs which
would be approved by VDC, or by VDCs or GPs, which would be discussed by ZPDPIS. Both would be
ratified by Gram Sabhas as part of the village plan. Based on the social assessments carried out it is
expected that CIG subprojects would fall into three categories:  (i) skills and organizations (e.g.
microenterprises);  (ii) infrastructure (e.g. habitation roads); and (iii) livelihood security (e.g.
micro-irrigation).
Village Funds (US$10.3 million) would be established through community cash contributions and would
last beyond the life of the project. They would finance operation and maintenance costs or any investments
chosen by the villagers.
Innovation Funds (US$1 million) would finance small demonstration projects to be proposed primarily by
NGOs.
Project Component 2 - US$25.70 million
Institutional and Human Capacity Building
The focus of this component would be to develop self-reliant and self managed community based
organizations. Accordingly, the majority of funds available under this component would be utilized in
capacity building of various institutions in the project districts. The focus would be on (a) project
administration; (b) human resource development; (c) communications; (d) formation and strengthening of
organization; and (e) monitoring and leaming. The majority of funds would be utilized in TA activities.
Project Administration (US6.Omillion, see Attachment 1) would focus on (a) day to day project
management activities and (b) supporting the executing agencies at the district and village level.
Human Resource Development (US$2.5 million, see Attachment 2) would focus on ensuring that all
project staff and staff of supporting organizations such as NGOs share in values, objectives and
methodology of the project, and have the skills to perform their roles. This would be achieved through
recruitment policy, selection process, orientation and training, and a rewards system.
Communications and Information (US$2.0 million, see Attachment 3) would (a) raise awareness,
motivate and engage the poor and disenfranchised people to challenge the existing barriers and adopt
participatory behaviors; (b) provide timely and well targeted information and facilitate leaming
opportunities for the poor to reduce the cost of participation; (c) use peer groups and team building to
counsel and motivate as well as conflict management, mediation and troubleshooting techniques; (d)
reinforce their ability to sustain the new behavior through social support systems; and (e) promote a
- 28 -



responsive and cooperative environment at the village and district level.
Formation and Strengthening of Organizations (US$14.3million, see Attachment 4) would (a) assist
villagers and in particular the weaker groups to form CIGs; and (b) monitor the quality of participation at
the CIG and village level.
Monitoring and Learning (US$0.9 million, see Attachment 6) would (a) support information gathering
and analysis by primary users; (b) link this to decision-making fora; and (c) develop information flows
between groups of users and/or decision-makers. Monitoring and learning activities would include: (a)
performance tracking; (b) institutional tracking; (c) internal learning; (d) evaluation; and (e) special
studies.
- 29 -



Annex 2
Attachment 1
Project Administration (US$6.0 million)
Details of Project Administration including duties and responsibilities of implementing agencies are
included in the Operational Manual.
At the state level, the Madhya Pradesh Society for Poverty Alleviation Initiatives (MPSPAI) would
oversee project implementation, deal with state level policy and coordination matters, resolve project related
conflicts rising to the state level, assess districts' performance in targeting the poor and fostering
participation, and based on those make budget allocation decisions. The Board of the Society would be
chaired by the Chief Minister, vice-chaired by the Minister of Panchayat Raj and Rural Development and
would include the Chief Secretary, the Secretary (Finance), Secretary RD, Mission Coordinator and Project
Coordinator (Conveyor). It would also include four representatives from the districts (2 each from
administrative and political government) and representatives from two NGOs. District and NGO seats
would rotate every two years. The Board would be supported by a small State Project Unit (SPU), which
would assume monitoring and supervision functions but would not intervene in project implementation and
decision-making. SPU would be staffed with a Project Coordinator, a Human Resources Specialist
Coordinator, a Monitoring and Learning Coordinator, a Communications Manager, a Financial
Management Specialist and an Administration and Procurement Specialist. In addition, SPU would include
three regional supervisors. These Supervisors would have technical expertise relevant to the project
activities and would be in charge of a cluster of districts.
At the district level, a District Poverty Initiatives Subcommittee of the Zilla Parishad in each of the
fourteen project districts (ZP DPIS) would be responsible for project implementation and management.
The ZP DPIS would be headed by the Zilla Pramukh and have 15 members including CEO (ex-officio), 2
ZP members, 2 Janpad Adhyakshas by rotation, 2 GP members by rotation, 2 PFTs by rotation (NGOs as
well as GO) and 2 CIG representatives, with DPM as convenor. The ZP DPIS would assume important
monitoring and evaluation functions, as well as decision-making responsibilities regarding district level
issues, capacity building activities, and assess village performance in targeting the poor and foster
participation, and make budget allocation decisions. The ZP DPIS would also approve such projects
proposed by VDCs and OPs. The ZP DPIS would be supported by a District Project Unit (DPU) headed
by the DPN and staffed with administrative and hired personnel. The DPU would not have a
decision-making role, and would only carry-out administrative and support functions.
At the village level, project decision-making and implementation would be shared between the village
Gram Sabha and a Village Development Committee (VDC). Gram Sabhas would ratify village plans,
nominate members to the VDC and play a monitoring and evaluation role. VDCs would be an executive
arm of the Gram Sabhas. They would be a village level committee of the Gram Panchayat, and would
include Gram Panchayat village elected members panches representatives of CIGs, and other people to be
selected by the Gram Sabha. VDCs would approve CIG project proposals, elaborate village proposals,
integrate CIG and village proposals into a village plan, submit them to the Gram Sabha for ratification and
channel them to the ZP DPIS for financing. VDCs would manage budgets and bank accounts and pay
PFTs.
At the people's level the key project organization would be informal groups of people: the Common
Interest Groups (CIGs). CIGs would comprise disadvantaged people with a shared interest who come
together to act upon them. These could be existing groups such as watershed associations or self-help
- 30 -



groups (SHG), or groups to be formed. CIGs would undertake initiatives using their own resources, by
accessing on-going programs, or by submitting proposals for DPIP support to the VDCs. In most cases
CIGs would assume responsibility for their implementation. To compensate for their marginalized status,
disadvantaged people would be over-represented at the village level through the automatic membership of
their selected CIG representatives in the VDC. Group formation would be promoted and assisted by Project
Facilitation Teams (PFTs). About 160 PFTs would be formed and each would include two to five people
with skills in group formation and managerial skills. Each PFT would cover fifteen to twenty villages each.
All PFTs would include women. About half of the PFTs are expected to be staffed and monitored by
NGOs.
Figure: Institutional Arrangements
ssC
State Society            Monitoring and evaluation
S e Le  SConflict management
State LeV l    State Steering            51    Guarantees enabling policy
r~ SPU J /1 SPU
Account Management
Reporting
Procurement; disbursement to
District                                                 ZP DPIS
, anchaya                       Allocation of village budget
Monitoring and evaluation
Securing line agency assistance
ZP District                          Coordination
Poverty          }
DPU
Sub,committee                        Manages accounts
Reporting
- FT t1       Procurement: disbursement to CIGs
PFT
Monitors participation VDCs and CIGs
Village Leve                                   Assists with CIG formation
VDC
,-    Vtllage        \         Approves sub-projects
Development                    Elaborates village plans
Committee (GP                  Monitoring and evaluation
members; CIGs)                 Coordination of village activities
Calls village meetings
Infornation Management
Villaee Procurement
Gram Sabha
Discussion and ratification of village plan
Selection of BDC members
Evaluation of BDC and CIGs
CiG
Organize disadvantaged people
Forum for participating problem solving
Identifying, designing, proposing,
implementing & evaluating micro- projects
- 31 -



Annex 2
Attachment 2
Human Resource Development (US$2.5 million)
Human Resource Development is the process by which project stakeholders acquire or improve their ability
to meet project objectives. This activity would focus on building skills and changing behavior and would
comprise the following elements:
* Orientation
*   Recruitment and Selection
*   Reward and performance appraisal system
* Training
Full descriptions of each element can be found in the Project Implementation Plan.
Orientation.
The project's core values are: participation, empowerment, process orientation, decentralization, learning,
transparency and collaboration. The project would institutionalize these in the following ways:
Develop joint vision and ownership among stakeholders.    DPIP stakeholders include elected
representatives (both to the legislative assembly and PRIs), members of the bureaucracy, project
beneficiaries and NGOs. For those at the state level retreats/ workshops would be convened for DPIP's
governing body. These would be used to develop a shared vision and mission for the project. For
stakeholders at the district level, workshops and field visits would be organized for members of Zilla
Parishad District Poverty Initiatives Sub-committee. These focused sessions would inform and encourage
dialogue about DPIP and village contexts.  At the village level, the project would involve PRI
representatives during annual preparation and review of village plans.
Early Orientation. A foundation course, including an "orientation camp", would be mandatory for all staff.
This course would be modeled on pedagogues of adult education including interactive, experiential
learning. Emphasis would be placed on changing traditional roles of government staff and on community
driven development. This course would assist in identifying further training/ learning needs among staff.
Phasing. In order to concentrate learning and create synergies, there would be phased geographic
launching of DPIP.
Recruitment and Selection System.
The project would institute a system for recruitment and selection of staff that can reliably check at the
point of candidates' entry the intensity of their achievement and motivations, their ability to work in a team
and their inclination to work in rural areas. This would apply to all three categories of staff joining DPIP
(government staff, contract staff and the staff of NGOs participating in the project).
Advertising. Information regarding project opportunities would be disseminated through contact with
heads of government departments and district administration, personal contact by project staff,
advertisement in local and national papers, and notice boards of departments and relevant organizations.
There would also be recruitment camps in selected offices and educational institutions.
- 32 -



Selection. Selection would be done by a panel drawn from external experts and internal project staff
trained in selection methods.  Methods would include motivation tests, group discussions. personal
interviews, and scrutiny of candidates records. The lead HRD agent would: train individuals within the
project (both government and NGOs) in R&S methods; develop a human resources database; and draw up
a plan for recruitment and selection for the entire project duration, including replacement when dropouts
occur.
Reward and performance appraisal system.
The project would develop a reward system which recognizes high quality performance. Without such a
system, it is likely that staff may lose interest in performing with involvement and commitment.
In addition, an effective performance appraisal system which gives weight to client assessment of staff
performance would be developed. This would be linked to the outputs from the project's M&L system.
Importance would be given to team's performance as well as that of an individual.
Training
Pedagogy. Training methods would include practical sessions for exercises such as PRA (resource
mapping), micro-planning, and accounts and record keeping, exposure visits, collective review sessions
and workshops and tutorials. Time schedules, locations, and language would take into account the needs
of women, tribals, poor villagers and field staff. Training would not generally be held in formal settings.
Residential training would be held to the extent possible to enhance informal interaction.
Training modules. On-going training needs assessment would be a regular part of project management.
To date, the following training needs have been identified.
Common Interest Groups      * Basic training on managing groups
*Account keeping
-Record keeping
* Specialized training on practical management skills
* Dispute resolution
*Monitoring for learning
*Peer reviews
'Participation
Village Development         * Account keeping
Committees                  * Sub-project appraisal
a Record keeping
a Dispute resolution
a Monitoring for learning.
a Peer reviews
' Addressing the needs of marginalized groups
'Participation
Panchayat Raj Institutions  'General exposure to DPIP and its various bodies and systems in villages, and
the CIGs
' Sensitization to issues of gender, tribal groups and deprived groups
' Development Audit
'Participation
'Information
- 33 -



Project Facilitation Teams    * Orientation to objectives, content, and systems of DPIP
*DPIP systems
' Sensitization to gender, tribals and deprived groups
*Linkages between DPIP and other programs
'Project formulation and appraisal under DPIP
*PRA techniques
* Dispute resolution
* Peer reviews
'Development Audit
' Participation
DPU                           'Project administration
'Project Systems
*PRA techniques
'Project appraisal and evaluation systems
' Development Audit
'Financial Management
' Procurement
Zilla Parishad Poverty        'Orientation to objectives, content, and systems of DPIP
Sub-Committee, District level    ' Sensitization to gender, tribals and deprived groups
government functionaries and    'Linkages between DPIP and other programs
other stakeholders            ' Monitoring
SPU                           'Project administration
* Project Systems
State level government        'Orientation to objectives, content, and systems of DPIP
functionaries, line department   'Sensitization to gender, tribals and deprived groups
officials and other stakeholders  'Linkages between DPIP and other programs
Commercial Bank officers      'Exposure to DPIP, especially CIGs and revolving funds
' Sensitization to needs of CIGs, especially women, tribals and deprived groups
'Exposure to micro enterprises under DPIP and their credit requirement
Implementation.
Two types of institutions would be responsible for implementing HRD activities. They would work closely
with the HR specialist in the SPU and with those responsible for HRD in the DPUs
* A lead training organization with a broad range of expertise and the ability to conceptualize and
manage training on a large scale would be recruited. It would be responsible for full articulation of
the DPIP training strategy and plan during the first six months of implementation. During years
1-3 this organization would also: (i) identify resource persons and specialized training agencies in
consultation with the State Project Support Unit; (ii) design and develop basic training materials
for trainers; (iii) select and train Master Trainers, (iv) co-ordinate and guide district level capacity
building agencies / core groups, and (vi) provide regular feedback on training activities. After year
3 the Lead Training Organization would play a diminishing role.
*   District level capacity building organizations (DCBO). These would be existing organizations
which would be supported by the project to develop their own capacity to meet the training needs
of project participants. They are expected to be present in 25 percent of project districts. Each
would therefore serve a number of surrounding districts. As their capacity develops they are
expected, with full articulation of a business and cost recovery plan, to take on increasing
responsibilities for training.
- 34 -



Annex 2
Attachment 3
Communications and Information (US$2.0 million)
Rationale
DPIP aims to increase the effectiveness of poverty alleviation programs by enabling a change process in
which the poor people in rural areas are put in charge of their own development. To this end, particular
emphasis is given to processes rather than projects, to participation at all levels and to decentralization and
empowerment of poor people in the planning and execution of their development initiatives. In remote rural
areas, in which traditional and caste rules have for centuries ruled individual mobility and defined the
boundaries of social interaction, promoting effective participation of the poorest and marginalized groups
will require a systematic, strategic and targeted effort to influence their behavior and to ensure a highly
responsive social and political environment. It is not enough to make information available when illiteracy,
political, social and cultural barriers, time constraints and lack of awareness of personal rights and
self-efficacy prevent poor people from actually using information for their development. It is important to
involve beneficiaries in participatory processes through effective comrnmunications strategies. This will
allow them to gain confidence in the facilitators, assess credibility of information sources and become
motivated to try and sustain new behaviors.
Strategic communications contributes to DPIP's objective of a demand-driven participatory project by
serving both as a behavior change tool to create incentive and transmit necessary information for
participation as well as a management tool to facilitate consensus and feedback from all stakeholders and
improve project administration. In line with its cross-sectoral scope, the communications and information
strategy advances and supports other activities under the Institutional and Human Capacity Building
Component of DPIP.
Objectives of Communications and Information
X To raise awareness, motivate and engage the poor and disenfranchised people to challenge the
existing barriers and adopt participatory behaviors in the framework provided by DPIP.
e To provide timely and well targeted information and facilitate learning opportunities for the poor to
reduce the cost of participation, i.e. give information on when, where, how and on specific action
steps to be taken in order to exercise their rights under DPIP.
* To use peer groups and team building exercises to counsel and motivate as well as conflict for
management, mediation and troubleshooting techniques to reduce existing barriers to change.
* To reinforce people's ability to sustain the new behavior through social support systems.
* To promote a responsive and cooperative environment at the village and district levels that would
encourage them to repetitively try and successfully maintain the new behavior.
Tasks and Responsibilities
The Project Facilitation Teams (PFTs) would be the key agents of strategic comnmunications at the village
and district level. The PFTs would be responsible and accountable for the design and implementation of the
communications and information strategy in their respective villages. They would elect a District
Communications Coordinator (DCC), who would be selected by their peers in the district PFTs. The DCCs
role is to serve as focal points for coordination in communications in their districts and across the project
area. They would be responsible for ensuring on-going knowledge sharing between them and across all
- 35 -



PFTs and would be accountable for guaranteeing the same quality standards in communications, promoting
synergies and overseeing communications activities across the districts.
Communications Managers (one in the SPU and or in each DPU) would support PFTs activities, DPIP
processes, M&L and project administration by ensuing (i) that consistent, accurate and timely project
information is disseminated across DPIP's infrastructure and to all external stakeholders, (ii) that there is
high level of cooperation in terms of communications and inforrnation between the various groups involved
in DPIP at the state, district and village level; and (iii) that the link between the information and M&L
systems is effectively operationalized.
In particular, the commnunications and information program would be designed and managed with the
assistance of a team of communications specialists, who would work closely with the SPU/DPUs
Communications Manager, DCCs, PFTs, beneficiaries and other stakeholders to accomplish the following
main tasks:
(1) Communications and information infrastructure. Set up the communications and information
infrastructure, i.e. identify appropriate institutional mechanisms and agents for communications in the
District as well as monitor and adjust them to the changing needs of DPIP.
(2) Capacity Building and Training. Carry out a comprehensive training program targeted at DCCs,
PFTs, and DPUs/SPU to enable them to implement a communications and information program and
develop it over time. The capacity building and training tasks would include the following:
* Training sessions and educational seminars in strategic communications with a double focus on
village level communications as well as district level communications skills.
* Seminars on team building, mediation, conflict management and troubleshooting in behavior
change as well as information management, public relations and media skills.
* Tailored training/ planning sessions with specific DCCs, PFT members and Commnunications
Managers in DPUs and SPU involved with priority or particularly difficult communications needs.
*   Study tours to expose DCCs, PFT members and Communications Managers to state of the art in
strategic communications as applied in other projects by communications experts and NGOs in
India.
(3) Strategy Development and Implementation. With the assistance of the communications specialists,
DCCs, PFTs, and Communications Managers would design and implement a communications and
information strategy to effectively promote the participation of beneficiaries in the planning and execution
of their own development, to allow them to use timely and well targeted information on DPIP's processes
and to ensure that consistent and accurate project information is disseminated across the spectrum of
stakeholders (i.e. CIGs, PFTs, line departments, state government private sector etc.). The establishment of
feedback mechanisms necessary for ongoing improvements of the strategy would ensure that the activities
developed are strategically oriented and relevant to each target group as the project develops. In particular,
the communications strategy would include:
*   Awareness raising and consensus building activities targeted at PFT members and DPU/SPU
Communications Managers to raise awareness on their role and responsibilities as behavior change
agents and the use of communications as a behavior change tool. This would contribute to a better
understanding of communications needs and requirements of different groups and to the
development of best practices.
- 36 -



*   Opinion research, audience segmentation, message and channel development, which are critical in
establishing networks and developing targeted outreach, information and behavior change
strategies to increase effective participation of the poor in DPIP.
*   Team building, mediation, conflict management and troubleshooting activities to facilitate the
formation of CIGs and VDCs and promote a more cooperative and responsive behavior on the part
of village and district authorities.
*   Material development and media programming activities to reinforce participatory and behavior
change processes at the village and district level, inform and educate the general public on DPIP
and raise DPIP's public profile, as well as ensure transparency and knowledge sharing with other
departments of the state. To this end, PFTs, DPUs/SPU Communications Managers would be
responsible for the production and dissemination of newsletters, posters, TV and radio
programming, videos, brochures and all other materials which would serve to reach the
above-mentioned objectives in a more effective manner.
(4) Monitoring Indicators and Link to M&L System. Monitoring of communications activities would be
conducted once every six months by the M&L Officers in coordination with the PFTs at the village level
and with the DPU Communications Managers at the district level. The assessment would examine the
impact of the communications strategies in terms of the target audience's access and usage of information,
their ability to negotiate with authorities, the awareness of their rights, the level of proactiveness and
determination in village level participatory processes, and in their participation in existing government
programs. The communications specialists would assist the DPUs/SPU and the relevant M&L Officers to
develop critical monitoring indicators and to operationalize the link between the information and the M&L
systems, so as to ensure that (i) information is supplied from the grassroots into the M&L system, (ii) that
"learning" experiences from the M&L system are fed back into the information infrastructure, reach DPIP
staff and beneficiaries and allow for the DPIP process and structure to evolve according to changing needs,
and (iii) that documentation and publication tools are used to effectively share the knowledge emerging
from the M&L system with other department of the states and with the outside world.
- 37 -



Annex 2
Attachment 4
Formation and Strengthening of Organizations (US$14.3 million)
Organizational Action and Development. At project launch villagers and PFTs would jointly identify
existing groups or develop a small number of new groups which would become responsible for action
related to a common interest. Actions initially funded to promote group formation would be small in scale
and therefore unlikely to represent the interests of the village as a whole. These Entry Point Activities
(EPAs), which would be proposed by PFTs to the group, would seek to build rapport and demonstrate the
approach and potential of DPIP. EPAs, which would focus on the needs of marginalized groups, may be
pre-defined (such as savings and credit activities) or emerge from initial village consultations. These
activities would not require a high level of extemal technical or advisory support and are anticipated to not
use more than I to 2 percent of the total program budget.
The time taken to stabilize groups would also be used as a time for the PFT to understand village
conditions and to develop rapport with all groups within the village. Once the CIGs are established,
representatives of the CIGs, along with representatives of the Gram Panchayat would form a VDC.
Subsequently, the PFT would engage in a participatory situational analysis. The PFT, where necessary
with the assistance of extemal resource persons would help the VDC and the CIGs assess the poverty
condition in the village. The outputs of this exercise would include:
3   documentation of the socio-economic composition of the village and analysis of the opportunities
that DPIP could offer them,
3 identification of gaps in resources, skills and linkages in existing livelihoods and practices,
i development of a vision for the village,
*   moving towards the development of a village plan, based on CIG proposals, for the village.
The next phase would be marked by:
- a shift of the PFTs to a facilitative and responsive, rather than pro-active guidance, mode of
operation,
* an increase in the scale and scope of sub-project activity. This phase is likely to occur after DPIP
has been operative between six to eighteen months in any village.
Experience with Entry Point Activities and their subsequent benefits are anticipated to increase levels of
awareness and enthusiasm about possibilities offered by DPIP.
- 38 -



Annex 2
Attachment 5
Partnership and Selection of NGOs
The project emphasizes strengthening disadvantaged groups' capacity to participate in and control the
process of their own development through CIGs, VDCs and community investment funds. Given that
NGOs have an inherent comparative advantage in providing support in this type of village level action, the
project would build relationships with NGOs of equality and mutual learning.
Range of Roles
NGOs would be asked to choose from a range of roles matching their organizational mandate, intemal staff
capacity and choice of geographical region. The following are some possible roles (given here as an
illustration):
(i) Direct Implementation Role.  NGO works as_a Process Facilitation Team (PFT). Normally, a
PFT would take up the work in a cluster of 15 to 20 villages, a size that is suitable for a majority
of NGOs. As a PFT demonstrates its ability, neighboring clusters/villages could be added.
(ii) Role of Capacity Building of PFTs in a district or a region.   An NGO could play a capacity
building role in specific processes (such as group formation and PRA), functions (production
skills, market linkages, credit), and sectors (such as rainwater harvesting, non-farm sector skills,
and irrigation). The size and spread of their project area would depend on an assessment of their
capacity.
(iii) Joint Implementation with Government. An NGO may choose to work in a cluster of villages but
may run short of staff. DPIP in such situation could assist the NGOs in procuring government
staff on deputation/ secondment on a full time basis. Typically NGOs may have staff with
extension and mobilization capabilities and may like to induct staff that has technical, sectoral or
other skills.
(iv) Agency for a cluster of villages in a district. Some NGOs may have the capacity to act as a PFT
in more than one cluster. It would set up local teams for cluster of villages and a central team of
professionals or capable staff to support local teams in implementation. The nodal agency would
take responsibility for results. Such a role may be necessary or suitable in regions/districts with an
otherwise weak NGO presence.
(v) Resource Agency - Some NGOs have been working on a specific issue or aspect of development
process and possess considerable experience. They could come in to the project to sensitize and
develop skills of partners and staff. The issues related to gender, PRIs and such like could be
covered by NGOs of this category.
Mechanisms for Working with NGOs
The project would devise several mechanisms for working with NGOs. This would include dialoguing on
project strategies, encouraging NGOs to undertake innovative projects, and reviewing of their experience in
the project through workshops or other means. The project would sign MoUs with NGOs. Since most
NGOs are not familiar with the QCBS and other procurement and contracting procedures of the World
Bank, the project would make a special effort, through workshops and individual meetings, to remove
misunderstandings, and to include clauses in the contract/MoU that would reflect the spirit of the
relationship. The project would review with partnering NGOs on an yearly basis the experience of working
under the MoU and revise the terms and conditions appropriately.
- 39 -



Below is the framework and a methodology of selection of partner NGOs. This is mostly applicable to
NGOs taking on the role of direct implementation, singly or jointly with the government (roles i and iii
above). The methodology of selection for capacity building role or for resource agency role would be
similar, except that assessment of the capacity would need to adopt a different method.
Framework for NGO Selection
Objectivity and transparency would be the two basic principles that would mark the process of NGO
selection.
The following are the components of the Selection Methodology:
(i) Setting up an eligibility criteria including a scoring system
(ii) Method of Searching and Inviting NGOs
(iii) System of Assessment
(iv) Setting up a Selection Panel
(v) Formalities of Signing up a Contract or MoU
Details are given below.
Eligibility and Assessment Criteria
An NGO would be eligible if it enjoys a legal status as a not-for-profit organization, and it has not been
black-listed by CAPART and the Central Social Welfare Board. Criteria of assessment would include those
related to the following
*   Competency: To carry out DPIP work as evidenced in past experience and staff capacity and its
ability to collaborate with other stakeholders, government and PRIs.
*   Organizational aspects: Accountability, ethics and governance mechanisms as needed in a public
organization and intemal environment and support for development work.
3   Accounts, systems and transparency: State of accounts, internal checks and balances, audit,
transparency, etc.
Qualitative Assessment - Scoring
Competency has a maximum weight of 60% followed by organizational aspects and state of
accounts/transparency with weight of 20% each. Each of these broad dimensions is further divided for
better scoring as appropriate to DPIP. This is given in the table below.
NGO SELECTION SCORING SHEET
No. Dimension for evaluation Points
I Competence 60
1.1 Effort in current work in community 10
1.2 Impact of current work on the community 10
1.3 Experience of group formation 10
1.4 Quality of staff- qualification, exp., skills, etc. 10
1.5 Sincerity of staff in community work 1o
1.6 Experience of working with the Govt., PRI 10
- 40 -



2 Organizational aspects 20
2.1 Governance and management 10
2.2 Internal environment of org. for development 10
3 Accounts and transparency 20
3.1 Accounts and systems 10
3.2 Transparency 10
100
The panel members would evaluate each of the above dimensions and allocate points independently. This would be
followed by a discussion on each dimension where the panel members woild gives data to support their grade.
After the discussion, consensus points given. The cumulative points would determine the final grade of the NGO.
The grading is given in the table below.
SI. No.    Cumulative points       Grade        Rating                 Selection
I         Above 80                 A            Outstanding            Selected
2         60 to 79                 B            Good                   Selected
3         50 to 59                 C+           Above average          Selected
4         40 to 49                 C-           Below average          Not selected
5         Below 40                 D            Poor                   Not selected
Method of Searching and Invitation
The project would adopt a method of inventorizing and establishing contacts with departments, donors, and
support agencies working with NGOs as a method of identification. In the experience of government, the method
of issuing advertisement in newspapers as a method of inviting applications from NGOs has proven to be
ineffective, producing large number of spurious applications which are difficult to scrutinize through desk reviews.
360 Degree Reference System for Assessment
The project would go beyond the method of scrutiny of written proposals as a basis for selection. It would include
a wider consultation, including the soliciting of references on the NGO's suitability. A selection panel would be
constituted to give recommendations for selection.
There would be three members on the Selection Panel with persons drawn from the NGO sector, a neutral sector
(Academy, etc.) and DPIP. This would bring diverse experience and mitigate against chances of collusion or
slackness/indifference.
Evaluation would be carried out over two days. The first day would be spent in the field exclusively where at least
two villages would be visited. The panel members would visit the field area of the NGO and interact with the
community members - in groups and otherwise - and see the interventions to evaluate the competence of the NGO.
The team would also see the specific hardware interventions. It would interact with the staff in the field and office
to get a sense of their skills and involvement. The field visit would be followed by a visit to their offices to interact
with their management to understand the governance and management structure, get a sense of the work and
- 41 -



development support environment, look into accounts and such aspects. Besides the physical visit the panel would
look into various documents of the NGO like annual reports, financial reports, constitution of the NGO, staff
profile, other publications, etc.
Besides the current NGO executive leadership, four categories of agencies and stakcholders may be consulted while
assessing the suitability of an applicant NGO. These are its beneficiary population, its staff, local administration,
and its governing board. This consultation would give a more realistic assessment than paper proposals.
Steps
Step 1. Set up a group to conduct the process of inventorying and shortlisting. Set up also a selection panel from
government and reputed NGO representatives. Include capacity building and human resource personnel and
consultancy organizations.
Step 2. Develop an inventory of NGOs by contacting government departments and agencies such as Rajiv Gandhi
Watershed Mission and Mahila Arthik Vikas Nigam, bilateral donor agencies such as Danida and AusAid, private
donor agencies such as ActionAid, and support agencies such as Samarthan, and established NGOs in the State
such as Eklavya.
Step 3. Based on initial consultations with agencies currently supporting NGOs, draw up a list of NGOs working
in DPIP districts who might be interested in continuing to do so in the future.
Step 4.  Organize a dissemination consultation workshop for shortlisted NGOs (invite NGO leaders or senior
staff). Participants would share his/her thinking about three aspects: how NGOs could contribute to DPIP, the
results expected from NGOs, and the enabling environment needed for NGOs. Based on quality of their
participation, the selection panel would further shortlist those who are worthy of detailed field assessment.
Step 5. The project would issue a request for proposal from NGOs shortlisted this time.
Step 6. Selection panel would make field visits to NGO area, have a meeting with its staff and conduct other
interviews in order to carry out the "360 degree reference system" and produce its assessment report. This would
help panel make an accurate assessment of NGO's suitability and verification of its strengths and weaknesses as
mentioned in its proposal. Under QCBS (Quality and Cost Based Selection) system, the selection panel would be
able to give its report on both technical component (social in case of DPIP), as well as on financial or costs of
services component.
Step 7. Finally NGOs would sign a contract with SPU or DPU as the case may be.
- 42 -



Annex 2
Attachment 6
Monitoring and Learning (US$0.9 million)
Rationale
The project proposes bringing about rapid change in the economic, social and political positioning of poor
and disenfranchised people. This requires considerable capacity building of both people and organizations.
As capacity is built, project requirements would change. This implies a flexible strategy which
acconmmodates evolution of organizational structures, support needs and activities. Those implementing the
project are faced with the dual challenge of both stimulating and responding to change. It is crucial that
they are able to easily access and use timely and reliable information.
Approach and Components
The DPIP Monitoring and Learning system is designed to (a) support inforrnation gathering and analysis
by primary users, (b) link this to decision making fcr or opportunities, and (c) develop optimal information
flows between these groups of users or decision makers. Information gathering would focus on:
*   Project inputs, outputs and outcomes. Input/output data are necessary for administration and
resource accountability. Outcomes tracking would enable project management to compare changes
in poverty indicators in project and non-project sites. All data would be disaggregated by social
and economic group thereby enabling tracking of differential impacts.
*   The performance of project organizations. Collective action is critical to empowerment of poor
people. Organizations (CIG/VDC/PFT/DPIS/SPU) are the project mechanisms which enable
people to work together for a particular purpose. It would be essential to assess how these different
organizations are performing internally and externally if optimal and inclusive functioning are to be
achieved.
*   Project processes i.e. how and why things are happening. A key objective of this M&L system is
to help people at different levels in the project make causal linkages and then take action on the
basis of that new knowledge.
*   Project impact. This is necessary to understand what project investment and action have achieved,
in particular project impacts for poorer sections and marginalized people.
In addition to the four main M&L activities funds would also be available, through the district and state
M&L units, for special studies. Such studies would allow for more intensive analysis of issues than those
covered by regular monitoring and leaming activities.
The table below summarizes the parts of the M&L system, the subject matter of each, instruments to be
used and frequency of reporting.
-43 -



Summary of M & L System
M  & L System   Subject                Instrument                Frequency
Component
Performance       Inputs/outputs/outco   Pro-forma reporting     CIG - DPU monthly
tracking          mes                                            DPU - SPU quarterly
Institutional     Organizational      Institutional   Maturity  Annual
Tracking          performance         Indexing
Internal Leaming    Project processes  1. Group Self Assessments   I. Six monthly
2. Exchange Visits       2. Annual (minimum)
Evaluation        Project Impacts &   I. Peer Reviews            1. Annual
outcomes            2. Development Audit      2. Biennial
3. Impact Evaluation     3. Before & after project
The M&L system would be closely integrated with (a) the communications component of the project in
terms of  supplying information, (b) the information and technology requirements of the finance,
procurement and disbursement system, and (c) the capacity building aspects of the project.
Roles and Responsibilities
Project Organizations. Within the projects administrative structure there would be monitoring cells within
the SPU and each DPU. The district units would work closely with PFTs. SPU and DPU would be the
repositories for the data generated through the performance tracking component and would be the primary
users of this data. At the state level, SPU would establish a Monitoring Cell consisting of an appropriately
trained M&L officer, one statistical officer, one program assistant and one data management specialist.
The DPUs' M&L Officers, assisted by project assistants would oversee the data flow, analysis and
reporting.
External Organizations. In addition to the project units, three types of extemal agencies would be
appointed, (1) an M & L facilitation agency, (2) an agency, or agencies, specializing in applying and
developing capacity in development audit, and (3) an impact evaluation agency.
(1) The M&L facilitation agency would play a crucial role in the early stages on the project as the
ideas and techniques of a monitoring learning system are introduced and developed. The role of this
agency would be facilitative i.e. its ultimate objective is to establish a system and the capacity to use,
manage and evolve the system with different levels of stakeholder (CIG, VDC, DPUs, SPU). This
agency would need to begin work in the pre-project period.
(2) Development Audit would be introduced and refined by an experienced extemal development audit
agency. The nature and scope of Development Audit would be determined collaboratively during the
pre-project pilot by the agency responsible and the relevant project management units. Important in the
piloting and discussion on nature and form would be the strategy and plan to create in-house capacity
to undertake such activities in the future.
-44 -



(3) An independent impact evaluation agency would be contracted to undertake the baseline survey at
the beginning of the project and impact evaluation at the end. This agency would be responsible for
gathering data, analyzing and interpreting the findings. This agency would need to be an organization
with experience and capacity to design, implement and analyze large scale surveys. They would also
need to demonstrate experience in understanding the multiple facets of poverty and the methodological
and analytic implications of studying diverse and complex social and economic situations.
Indicators, Instruments, Periodicity and Responsibility.
The following is a description of the M & L system as it would be at the outset of the DPIP. Components
and instruments of M&L would be refined over the life of the project as information needs emerge and as
capacities and systems to undertake different monitoring activities develop.
Performance tracking would monitor the following indicators:
1.  Number of CIGs & VDCs projected/formed
2.  Percentage of CIG members belonging to poor & vulnerable groups
3.  Number of CIG members receiving training by type of training
4.  Participation in CIG and VDC activities and decision making.
5.  Purpose & amount of sub-projects: submitted, approved, implemented
6.  Time taken for submission, approval and release of funds for sub-projects
7.  Number of sub-projects abandoned, delayed, completed on time, continuing to function
8.  Number of assets created by category
9.  Number of CIG groups/group members obtaining bank loans
10. Amount of cash contributions by CIG members to CIG activities
All data would be disaggregated by social and economic group.
The above indicators would be monitored on a monthly basis. Performance tracking information would be
reviewed at a monthly district level meeting of the Zilla Parishad Project Sub-Committee. DPU staff would
periodically monitor PFTs functioning and attend CIG / VDC meetings to obtain first hand information of
the implementation process. A monitoring component focusing on the performance of the communications
work of DPIP would be developed during the first year of the project and indicators for that assessment
added to the above list.
The DPU would pass on to the SPU electronic summaries of performance data along with any narrative
commentary on a quarterly basis. The SPU would prepare summaries of this inforrnation for the entire
project area and submit input and output reports on a six monthly basis to GOI and the World Bank.
Institutional Tracking would monitor:
1.  Overall institutional maturity score of CIG/VDC/GPDPU
2.  Inclusiveness rank of CIG/VDC/GPDPU
3.  Autonomy rank of CIG/VDC/GPDPU
An Institutional Maturity Index (IMI) comprises an aggregate of indicators but only (1) the overall
aggregate score, (2) the inclusiveness rank and (3) the autonomy rank of each organization would be
entered into electronic monitoring base.
-45 -



While the construction of IMIs may vary between CIGs, VDCs, GPs and DPUs levels, the IMI and all its
component indicators would be used consistently within organizational levels across all project locations
e.g. the same indicators would be used for all CIGs, or all VDCs or all DPUs.
The IMI would be applied on an annual basis for all levels of project organization. Data would be entered
into the project's computerized data base by the DPU M&L officer. Analysis of these data may trigger a
special study. Summary reports, containing data and commentary, would be forwarded to the SPU on an
annual basis.
Internal Learning would monitor indicators to be generated by Group Self Assessments and Exchange
Visits
The objective of groups self assessments and exchange visits is generation of information about processes
and cause-effect relations. This would enable (a) learning within groups (CIG/VDC/PFT/DPU), (b)
horizontal learning between groups of the same nature (CIG to CIG etc), (c) vertical learning within the
project e.g. CIG to DPU.
Group Self Assessment. These would take place at regular intervals throughout the project. The purpose
is to enable staff and organizations/groups within the project to (i) reflect on information available through
the monitoring system and benchmarks designed by themselves, (ii) to relate that to their own performance,
and (iii) to use that analysis to re-frame activities, systems and approaches. These scheduled events would
also enable the project to learn from experience and refine policy governing what the project does and how
it does it.
Each CIG, VDC, PFT and DPU would periodically undertake self-assessment on the goals it sets for itself
and measure them using indicators it selects. Self-assessments would track levels of satisfaction /
dissatisfaction of the groups, capacities to manage activities, to solve problems, to mobilize resources and
manage responsibility. PFTs would be responsible for reporting on the outcomes of CIG and VDC groups
self assessments and exchange visits to the concerned DPU. The DPU would make this information
publicly available and work with the communications of the project to develop appropriate mechanisms.
Annual summaries would be passed on to the SPU.
In order for these group self-assessments to be useful and be taken seriously by group/organization
members, each must be empowered to take decisions on the basis of their collective analysis. They may
also need to be effectively linked to a higher level of decision making body who would respond quickly and
effectively when required.
Exchange visits would be used for cross-group learning. These would involve experience sharing and
learning from groups with similar interests e.g. CIGs formed around the same activity, VDCs addressing
similar issues, DPUs managing particular project components. Peer reviews would focus on a limited
number of activities or topics. Because the emphasis is on constructive lessons, topics of the exchange
would normally be those with which at least one group is having positive experiences. A minimum of two
exchange visits per year between CIGs, one a year between VDCs and one annually for DPUs is
anticipated.
- 46 -



Evaluation would comprise of three activities: Peer reviews, Development Audit and Impact evaluation.
Peer Reviews combine cross-group learning with evaluation. Each group (CIG, VDC, PFT, DPU) would
be peer reviewed once a year. Outcomes of these exercises would contribute to performance appraisals but
would also support experience sharing and generate information which can be used to track project
effectiveness. Where possible peer reviews would be undertaken by a group of the same type and with
experience of similar activities.
Descriptive information would be generated and reported using narrative text but it certain indicators are
extracted from this for feeding into the quantitative project monitoring data base.
Development Audit would contribute to increasing transparency, accountability and efficiency of the
project. It is a tool to assess the effects of the project from the perspective of different stakeholders giving
voice to secondary stakeholders and placing the project, its activities, actors and effects in a broader social,
political and economic context. Development Audit is currently conceived as a series of steps that
culminate in a scored assessment of project effectiveness in the broader social, economic and political
context of DPIP. It would seek to:
*   Verify the sub-project activities, their costs and timeliness
3 Assess whether the project benefits have reached poor and vulnerable groups
o Assess whether CIGs and VDCs are empowering the poor and vulnerable groups
i Analyze whether selection process of the sub-projects, use of project resources, and decision
making in the project is transparent and inclusive
*   Understand whether different stakeholders have understood and accepted the project objectives
and strategy
Since this is a relatively new instrument, an independent agency with experience in this field would
facilitate and build DA capacity within Madhya Pradesh. Initially in pilot areas is anticipated that DA
would occur at least once every two years. The agency responsible for introducing and facilitating this
new instrument would also undertake comparative analysis of the cost-effectiveness of development audit
relative to normal monitoring activities.
Impact evaluation would as far as possible establish the net effect of the project on economic opportunity,
inclusion, vulnerability and capabilities of different groups of poor people. Findings would be relevant for
subsequent phases of the DPIP, for designing other similar projects and would be of sufficient quality to
inforn policy discourse.
Measuring impact would involve comparing qualitative and quantitative outcomes before and after the
project, and between project and control areas. It is accepted that attribution of causality would be difficult
and involve acknowledging some very major assumptions. The impact study would require a rigorous
methodology and high quality analysis.
Changes in poverty and poverty causing factors would be assessed through indicators such as increase in
earnings of the target groups, in land yield, in access to water, health and education facilities, and in their
skills and organizing capacity. The project impact would also be measured in terms of increased and
strengthened social capital of vulnerable groups in project villages. The indicators of social capital include
strength of formal and informal village networks, capacity of members to form new groups, members'
knowledge and participation in existing government programs, the responsiveness of PRI and government
administration to the needs of the poor.
-47 -



An independent organization would be appointed to undertake the baseline and end survey in a sample of
project and control villages.
Additional Studies. An additional source of learning would be studies on economic, institutional and
social aspects of the project including: (i) Government's Rural Development Programs and other
Safety-nets; (ii) Land Administration/Common land Management; and (iii) Decentralization--Revenue
Generation at the district and village level. Other studies may also be recommended as thought necessary
by the Association and GoMP
- 48 -



Annex 2 Attachment 7
Community Investments
1.    Community Investments.
(a) Sub-projects for Infrastructure, Income Security and Skills and Organization (US$ 97.7
million) would finance
demand-driven sub-projects to be proposed by CIGs and approved by Gram Sabhas and VDCs.
(b) Village Funds (US$10.3 million) would be established through community cash contributions
and would last beyond the life of the project. They would finance operations and maintenance
costs or any investments chosen by the villagers.
(c) Innovation Funds (US$1 million) would finance small demonstration projects to be proposed
primarily by NGOs and PFTs.
2.    Sub-Project Preparation, Appraisal and Implementation
Two organizations would be involved in sub-project proposal and appraisal--CIGs and Village
Development Committee (VDCs). At the village level, CIGs would submit sub-project proposals to the
VDC. The VDC would appraise the sub-projects with the help of the PFTs, prioritize all the CIG
proposals within the budget available to the village (project funds and other sources), prepare village plans
(lists of subprojects) for ratification and submit the list of sub-projects (village plan) to the district for
disbursements. Sub-project appraisal would entail the following:
Participation AppraisaL Proposals would have to show how participation has occurred in the
identification and preparation of the sub-project, and how it would occur in implementation and
management, monitoring and evaluation, operation and maintenance. Participation appraisal
would assess how many people, women, scheduled castes and tribals participate in decision
process through presence, voting and speaking.
Community Contributions. Proposals would have to detail the exact amounts of community
contribution, the type of bank account where it would be deposited (village, or CIG) and the period
over which these contributions would happen.  All sub-projects would require community
contributions of at least 15% (5% towards subproject cost and 10% towards village fund).
Social Appraisal. The expected social impact of each proposal would be assessed. Parameters
would include the percentage of beneficiaries expected to cross the poverty line, proportion of
beneficiaries belonging to social groups such as SCs, STs, OBCs, women, widows, female
headed-households, and physically handicapped persons, additional employment and income
generated and changes in the consumption patterns or quality of life of the beneficiaries.
Environmental Appraisal. An environmental checklist would be utilized for appraisal, including
impacts on natural resources, human safety, health risks, etc. as described in Annex 2, Attachment
8.
Sustainability and O&M Arrangements. The sustainability of a sub-project would be assessed
on the basis of proposed O&M arrangements (a detailed plan and firm commitments) and surety of
the resources required for maintenance being generated by the beneficiary community. Activities
such as micro-enterprises would need to ensure continued linkages to raw material supplies,
markets, etc.
- 49 -



CIGs would be responsible for sub-project preparation, implementation and operation and would be able to
procure technical assistance from government, NGOs or other private sources to assist them.
Where subproject proposals would be submitted by a VDC (e.g. for the entire village), or a GP (for more
than one village), the same appraisal methodology would be followed, but it would be carried out by the
DPO and the project would be approved by the ZP DPIS
3.    Budgeting and Disbursements.
At the state level, the steering committee (SSC of MPSPAI) would allocate annual project budgets to
districts based on target population in the first year. At the district level, a District Poverty Initiatives
Subcommittee of the Zilla Parishad (ZPDPIS) would allocate annual budgets to villages based on the same
criteria. Upon receipt of lists of sub-projects (village plans) from a village, the District Project Unit (DPU)
would deposit the funds into CIG bank accounts. VDCs would authorize release of the second half of the
funds during implementation and upon proof of the quality of participation and community cash
contributions.
Rewards and penalties. For the second and following years district budget increases would be conditional
on an overall positive assessment of district performance, to be carried out by the SSC in consultation with
the Association, in implementing project processes, fostering participation and targeting the poor. Similarly
only VDCs performing adequately in poverty targeting, fostering participation and generating community
contributions would receive budget increases. Decisions regarding performance would be the responsibility
of the ZP DPIS, based on recommendations of the DPU, and would have to be sanctioned by the CCS. All
budget decisions would be widely disseminated in districts and villages.
4.     Community Contributions
Communities would be expected to contribute a minimum of 5% in cash or kind towards the costs of the
sub-project, while IDA/Government would finance 95%. In addition, beneficiaries would be required to
contribute 10% of total costs of the sub-project towards a Village Fund, and have an O&M strategy
(where required by the nature of the project) which would include CIGs committing to any additional
financial requirements. Communities would be expected to meet their contributions from a variety of
sources including: paid labor in sub-project implementation, own savings, group loans, etc. The Village
Fund would remain beyond the life of the project and help ensure some sustainability in the flow of funds to
the villages or new investments. The amount of community contributions would be very closely monitored
and reviewed at the end of the first year, and changed if necessary.
5.     Eligibility Criteria
District and village eligibility. To be eligible for the project a district would have to put in place the
required institutional arrangements including staffing, the financial management system, identify target
villages using the project criteria, carry-out social assessments to identify the target population and have in
place at least one CIG and a VDC.
- 50 -



SUB-PROJECT ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA
Proposed Eligibility criteria include:
* The sub-project benefits the poor (i.e., inhabitants of DPIP villages including members of SC/ST,
women, landless, female-headed households, those engaged in backward occupations).
* The sub-project originates from the beneficiary community, which is provided sufficient
information to make an informed choice, and the design of the sub-project encourages community
participation in all sub-project phases.
* The sub-project is technically sound and technologically simple, and is consistent with what the
community can operate and maintain.
* The sub-project is labor intensive and uses local labor or otherwise generates a significant social
impact.
*   There is adequate evidence that the sub-project would be effectively managed and implemented by
the community making the request, with the community acting independently or contracting other
agencies.
*   The financial, technical, and institutional arrangements for operations and maintenance of the
sub-project are in place including assignment of responsibilities for maintenance works, provision
of maintenance-related training, and ensuring the necessary funding.
*   The sub-project is consistent with good practice sectoral policies and guidelines (e.g., with respect
to cost recovery) not simply with existing government policies, which may themselves need reform.
*   The total sub-project cost does not exceed $ 30,000.
* The beneficiaries have agreed to contribute 5% of total sub-project cost in cash.
* The beneficiaries have agreed, when appropriate, to contributions and operation of an operational
and management fund for the sub-project.
* The beneficiaries have agreed to a 10% contribution to a village fund (gram khosh).
* The sub-project is additional to existing or planned public investmnents.
* The sub-project meets the cost per unit and cost per beneficiary ceilings established by the project.
* The sub-project does not duplicate other sources of funds.
*   The sub-project is located in a public or communal land or land belonging to local bodies, or,
where the location proposed is private land, an appropriate written contract between owners of the
land and beneficiaries ensuring unlimited and unimnpeded access to beneficiaries exists.
* There will be no involuntary resettlement, involuntary land purchase or dispute over change of land
use as a result of sub-projects.
* The sub-project does not have negative environmental effects, or if it does, adequate mitigation
measures exist.
Activities not eligible for Project financing (Negative list)
*   Cash grants or loans to individuals or groups.
* Facilities that do not directly improve the productivity of the poor (e.g. public administration
buildings, political or trade union facilities, religious buildings).
* Sophisticated equipment that cannot be operated and maintained at the village level.
* Cost of running/operating constructed facilities under the CIF.
*   Relief activities and activities which directly support consumption.
- 51 -



Activities not eligible for IDA Credit financing (Negative list)
*   Rehabilitation or construction on private land or improvement of private property unless
contributing to and in agreement with groups or overall community.
* Purchase or leasing of land.
*   Taxes and duties.
- 52 -



Annex 2
Attachment 8
Sub-Project Agreement
Memorandum of Understanding
Between
The First Party                                    The Second Party
........................................  Beneficiary    DPU
Institution
........................................ Village  Represented by
Represented by its
President/Secretary
Sri/Smt ...........................                Sri/Smt .
S/o / W/o / D/o Sri ................................................................. (Designation)
Resident of .............    .............        NGO/DPU
...................................... District
Preamble
The two parties to this MOU being interested in the elimination of poverty through effective
participatory methods,
The first party to this MOU, being a Beneficiary Institution (BI) of poor consisting of ....... members, is
interested in upgrading the quality of life of its members through social/economic development
initiatives.
The second party, being an agency of the MPSPAI interested in the elimination of poverty, is interested
in contributing to the elimination of poverty of the first party.
This MOU is, therefore, entered into between the representatives of the parties specified above.
Mission
To contribute to the upgrading of the economic and social well-being of the members of the
......................... BI, the first party to this MOU
Objective
To  implement the  sub-project in the habitation  of .in  the revenue village of
..................... in the Janpad Panchayat of ...................   in the district of 
the details of which are as follows:
1. Name and type of the sub-project
2. Location of the sub-project
- 53 -



3. If the sub-project is benefiting a well defined number of persons of a reasonably small CIG:
* Number of persons who would benefit (list of persons who would benefit from the
sub-project is enclosed as
Attachment-I to the MOU)
4. If the sub-project is envisioned to benefit a large number of persons in a village or a group of
villages:
* Number of villages which would be benefited
* Number of families who would be benefited (list of habitations and the names of families who
would be
benefited from the sub-project is enclosed as Attachment-l (a) to the MOU
5. Activities to be carried out
i.
11.
i.
iv.
1V.
v.  ..
8.  Costing
Si. No Activity                 Unit            No. of   Unit   Total
8.______                          Description     Units    Cost   Cost
2
3 
4
TOTAL
- 54 -



9. Work Completion Milestones
Milestone       Agreed time to complete     Cost in Rupees; contributed by:
description     milestone
(month/year)
Total Second Party:
Total First Party:
Cash:          Labor:         Material:
1.
2.
TOTAL
10. Payment Terms
Installment number and amount*           Activity/milestone to be completed before release of installment
amount
Ist installment 50% of the estimated cost   (a) signing of this MOU, (b) Project Bank Account is opened by the
First Party, (c) the First Party has a trained village book-keeper, (d)
the First Party has demonstrated satisfactory financial management
capability on its initial savings activities, (e) certification of quality
of participation in decision making.
2nd installment 45% of the estimated cost  (a) Certification of completion of the first milestone, (b) all
contribution of First Party are deposited in community or village
bank accounts,  (c) First Party is up-to-date on submission of
monthly financial reports.
* Amount refers to the portion of the total cost which the Second Party agrees to provide.
11. Obligations of the First Party: The First Party undertakes to
i.      Facilitate training of its activists/members, organized by the Second Party for effective
management of the assets/services.
ii.    Complete the sub-project through a participatory process with due diligence and efficiency
as per specifications within the time agreed.
iii.    Follow satisfactory financial management arrangements as indicted in the Attachment-2 to
the MOU
iv.    Ensure its contribution in Cash/kind for the work.
v.     Ensure that the goods and services to be financed under the Project are procured in
accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement signed between the Intemational
Development Association and the Government of Madhya Pradesh, and such goods and services
are used exclusively in the carrying out of the Sub-project.
vi.    Monitor the work and report to the Second Party in the formats and according to the
periodicity agreed.
vii.    Maintain the asset at its cost through voluntary contributions or cost recovery.
viii.   Properly insure the asset wherever this is prudent.
ix.    Ensure equitable use of the asset by all the prospective beneficiaries.
x.     Permnit at all times, the second party or it's representatives to inspect the accounts, records
and physical works under the Project and comply the recommendations/observations as a result of
such inspection.
xi.    Deposit 10% of the total subproject cost in cash into the village fund.
- 55 -



xii.    Prepare an appropriate O&M plan for the sub-project if required.
12.   Obligations of the Second Party:       The Second Party undertakes to
i.     Release the installments within a week of the receipt of documents for completion of the
activity/milestone.
ii.    Organize required training programs for the CIG members for the effective management of
assets/services.
iii.    Secure coordination of other agencies involved for the sub-project.
Certification by VDC*
1st Certification by VDC
i.     Approval of sub-project by the VDC has been given.
2nd Certification by VDC to release second installment.
i.     Contribution deposited by the BI and first milestone achieved.
Note:* where the VDC or GP is a BI, certification to be provided by DPU.
Signature of the Representative of the      Signature of the Representative of the
First Party                                 Second Party
- 56 -



Attachment-1
List of persons benefiting from the Project agreed upon in this MOU
Attachment-l(a)
List of habitations and names of families who would be benefited from the Project agreed upon in
this MOU
Attachment-2
Satisfactory financial management arrangements comprise the following:
a)    The First Party shall open a separate Project Bank Account for project funds. The First
Party's cash contributions for project activities and the contributions received from the
Second Party shall be deposited into the Project Bank Account. The Project Bank account
shall be used for project-related receipts and payments only. Operation and Maintenance
contributions, savings contributions and related payments shall not be made into and from
this Project Bank Account.
b)    The First Party shall have a trained accounts bookkeeper (who is trained during social
mobilization).
c)    The First Party shall maintain the following accounts registers/records as per the formats
provided by the Second Party: (i) simple Cash/Bank book providing details of amounts
received and details of payments along with classification on major heads; (ii) register of
contributions received from members in cash, labor and materials; and (iii) register of
materials purchased using project funds and materials utilized.
d)    The First Party shall maintain vouchers/bills/supporting documents for the various receipts
and payments (systematically numbered), and copies of the Bank account statement (pass
book).
e)    The First Party shall prepare a simple report each month as per the format provided by the
Second Party. This summary would indicate: (i) amount received from First Party and
Second Party contributions, amount spent on the various items, and balance in the Bank
account or cash; (ii) the details of the work being carried out (activity to be completed,
cost, the work already completed and the work to be done in the next month); and (iii)
amounts of the First Party's contribution in labor and materials (the formats of the
accounts registers/records would facilitate easy preparation of this report).
f)    The First Party shall regularly present this report to its members and the VDC. The First
Party shall also display this report in the notice board of the Gram Sabha or village hall,
etc. In addition, the books/registers, vouchers and bank statements shall be brought to the
meetings of the First Party and Gram Sabha and be open for scrutiny by members.
g)    The First Party shall provide a copy of the report to the Second Party each month (within 7
days of the end of the month).
h)    The First Party shall provides the accounts registers/records, supporting documents, and
all other information and cooperation to the Project Auditor appointed by the Second
Party.
i)    The First Party shall maintain similar accounts for its Operation & Maintenance Bank
Account, where applicable, and present a summary account statement for this account to
its members and to the Gram Sabha.
- 57 -



j).    The First Party shall deposit 10% of sub-project costs into a VDC Bank Account (Village
Fund).
- 58 -



Annex 2
Attachment 9
Environmental Assessment
From an environmental perspective, the project component that is of concern is the Community Investment
Fund. To address this concern, an Environmental Management Framework (EMF) was developed. To
ensure the effective implementation of the framework, an Environment Agency (EA) would be appointed by
the State Project Administration Unit. This summary presents the principal elements of the EMF, and then
briefly discusses the role of the EA. The Terms of Reference for the EA are included in the Project
Implementation Plan.
Environmental Management of the Community Investment Fund
The Community Investment Funds (CIFs) to be financed under the project would support both
income-generating activities and small-scale infrastructure investments. In most cases, the small scale of
these interventions means that they are not expected to cause environmental impacts of any significance.
All sub-project proposals would, however, be subject to an environmental screening exercise in order to:
*   prevent execution of sub-projects with potentially significant negative environmental impacts;
*   decrease potential minor negative impacts through modifications in sub-project design, location
or execution;
*   prevent or mitigate cumulative negative impacts as the result of multiple small-scale
investments;
*   enhance the positive impacts of sub-projects;
*   prevent additional stress on environmentally-sensitive areas.
* though learning by doing, introduce environmental concerns into local decision-making.
To meet these objectives, an Environmental Assessment Report (EAR) has provided the following
inputs to the design of the overall project:
*   a methodology and administrative structure for environmental management;
*   an environmental capacity-building and awareness-raising program;
*   an environmental supervision and monitoring plan.
The requirements of the EAR would be included in the DPIP Operational Manual.
Methodology and Administrative Structure for Environmental Management
All sub-projects submitted for funding would be subject to an environmental screening process with the
following steps:
(a)    Determination of the Level of Environmental Analysis Required  Using the Environmental
Screening Criteria included in the Environmental Assessment Report, the VDC would determine the level
of environmental analysis required. The options would be as follows:
*   Environmental Review (ER) -- to be applied to sub-projects considered to be environmentally
beneficial or benign;
*   Limited Environmental Assessment (LEA) -- required for sub-projects with minor potential
impacts;
*   Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) -- required for sub-projects with significant potential
impacts. In most cases these sub-projects would not be eligible for funding.
- 59 -



(b)    Environmental Analysis and Mitigation  If the sub-project requires an ER, this would be
completed by the VDC using the Environmental Review Guidelines, an enviromnental mitigation checklist
providing standard guidance for mitigation of potential minor environmental impacts. The completed
checklist would be submitted with the sub-project proposal to the District Project Unit for review prior to
sub-project approval.
In the case of sub-projects requiring an LEA, the DPU would be responsible for ensuring that it is
conducted according to a generic TORs by a local consultant approved by the EA.
Sub-projects requiring an EIA would be forwarded for review to the SPU's Project Appraisal
Officer, who would request an estimate of the EIA cost from the EA.
Environmental Capacity-building and Awareness-raising
One of the principal tasks of the EA appointed by the SPU would be to provide adequate training to allow
the PFTs, DPU and SPU staff, and approved local environmental consultants to fulfill their environmental
responsibilities. To meet this goal, the EA would prepare four training courses as follows:
*   Environmental Awareness-raising for DPIP Beneficiaries;
* Basic Environmental Screening and Mitigation for PFTs;
e   Environrmental Screening and Mitigation for DPU and SPU Staff,
-   Limited Environmental Assessment for Environmental Consultants.
These courses would be prepared and delivered in close consultation with the SPU Training Officer and the
State Capacity-building Cell.
Environmental Supervision, Monitoring and Auditing
(a)    Environmental Supervision. Supervision of EMF implementation would be conducted at two
levels. At the district level, as part of their overall supervisory responsibilities, the DPU staff would be
required to verify that PFTs are correctly using the environmental screening and mitigation checklists and
guidelines, and that the environmental mitigation measures included in the approved sub-project proposal
are implemented. The DPUs would verify these matters for the same sample of sub-projects as they use for
other supervisory requirements, and the results would be included in their overall supervision reports
provided to the SPU. These supervision reports would be submitted to the EA for review of EMF
implementation.
At the state level, the EA would conduct six-monthly supervisions of EMF implementation, selecting a
representative sample of ER, LEA and EIA category sub-projects. The EA would verify whether the
screening process was correctly applied, suitable mitigation measures specified, and the measures correctly
implemented. The supervision report, to be submitted to the State Project Director, would include
recommendations for improving either the EMF approach, or its implementation.
(b)    Environmental Monitoring.  It would be the responsibility of the EA to remain abreast of
changing environmental conditions and emerging environmental concems in DPIP areas. This would not be
achieved through the collection of primary data, but rather through monitoring information collected and
provided by government and civil society sources. On the basis of this information, the EA would
recommend revisions to the EMF, and highlight local concems to the DPUs. Details of changing
conditions, emerging concems, recommended revisions, and local issues would be included in the
six-monthly supervision reports provided to the State Project Director.
- 60 -



(c)    Environmental Auditing.  To provide an independent assessment of the effectiveness of the
design and implementation of the EMF, once every two years the State Project Director would contract an
environmental audit of DPIP, to be conducted by an independent civil society organization. The principal
focus of the audit would be to assess the extent to which the EMF has lead to the implementation of
appropriate environmental mitigation measures in DPIP sub-projects, and has promoted the implementation
of environmentally-beneficial sub-projects. A secondary goal of the audit would be to attempt an
assessment of the extent to which the DPIP may have led to improvement or deterioration in environmental
quality.
Role of the Environment Agency
At the state level, the SPU would appoint an EA to undertake a range of environmentally-related activities.
The mission of the EA would be to:
*  prevent environmental degradation as a result of either: (a) the cumulative effect of many small
DPIP investments that individually have a negligible impact; or (b) the impact of individually
harmful sub-projects.  This duty would be fulfilled without imposing an unnecessary
administrative burden on the DPIP;
*  promote the implementation of sub-projects that would be expected to lead to improvements in
local environmental quality; and
* build capacity for environmental management at the local, district and state levels.
In order to achieve this mission, the EA would undertake six principal tasks:
*  the design and provision of training in environmental management;
*   supervision of the implementation of the Environmental Management Framework of DPIP;
*  monitoring of environmental conditions to ensure that the EMF remains responsive to
environmental concerns;
*  estimation of the cost of undertaking specific sub-project ELAs as requested by the SPU;
*   specific sub-project EIAs which may be requested by the SPU, but undertaken under separate
contracts;
*  the provision of ad hoc technical support on environmental issues, as requested by the SPU or
DPUs.
- 61 -



Annex 2
Attachment 10
Women's Development Strategy
Context.
The situation of women varies across and within Madhya Pradesh. Caste hierarchy, feudal norms and
marginalization of women are strongest in the Northern and the Western part of the State where DPIP is
concentrating its activities. Poor gender ratios (between 848 and 946 women to 1,000 men); low levels of
literacy -- particularly among the SC women (between 3.4 and 27.8 percent) and ST women (between 1.5
and 18.4 per cent); high infant and girl mortality rates (between 159 and 234 per 1,000, state average = 96)
illustrate the stark conditions under which women in these DPIP districts live".
The Government of Madhya Pradesh is at the fore-front of gender debates and has shown its concern by
being one of the first states to prepare, in 1996, a State Policy Document for Women. This policy has
significant implications for the empowerment of women, particularly in the economic sphere. It is
committed to:
*   improving women's entitlements -- whether to inputs, resources or credit;
O   establish women's control over decisions relating to their livelihoods;
o   facilitate their organization in order to strengthen their ability to establish their rights as equal
citizens.
This ideologically represents a major departure from the earlier anti-poverty and welfare programs which,
although important, have characterized women as passive beneficiaries of, rather than active participants
in, the development process. Although the DPIP social assessments found little awareness of it in villages
or amongst district officials, the Policy does provide a sound and useful framework which DPIP could
begin to articulate in both word and action.
Project Strategy
Social assessments and an analysis of lessons from other government and donor projects indicate a need to
address both the practical needs of women -- through interventions which can improve their physical and
economic condition, and the strategic needs of women -- through interventions which address social
perceptions of women's position in society. All actions would take a gendered perspective and recognize
that (a) women's opportunities are highly differentiated by the social or ethnic background of their
household, and (b) all activities relating to women need to also address their household and community
context if they are to be fully effective.
The project would seek to empower all women irrespective of their caste and wealth. However the project
would work with different caste and interest groups as separate groups. This is necessary to developing the
confidence and capability of women -- particularly more marginalized women -- if they are to be gradually
enabled to tackle the more complex issues of social structure.
During DPIP preparation, social assessments and analysis of lessons from other government and donor
projects in MP found that women are severely disadvantaged both in their current lives and opportunities
for social and economic improvement. Key issues and action points are detailed below:
1/ State was split into two states, Madhya Pradesh and Chhatisgarh, in November 1, 2000. These statistics apply to the whole
madhya Pradesh before the split.
- 62 -



Condition/Position of Women    Project Issue                            Project Action
Status of women. While the women  *  A   key  concem   for  projects  *  targeting CIG development towards
from   all  castes  and  classes  are   supporting economic improvement     women   who   are  especially
marginalized, gender equity within the    is the interplay between households  disadvantaged  such  as  SC/ST
households of poorer, low caste people is    increased income, the withdrawal --  women and sex workers
better relative to their higher caste or    for reasons related to ritual purity  *  participative  gender analysis to
richer counterparts.  In the former,    and household status -- of women     enhance staff and village women's
women suffer less from purdah norms     from  the public sphere and the      and   men's  understanding   of
and are often wage earners. However, the  impact of that on women's status   women's practical and  strategic
situation of poor lower caste women     within households                    needs across social and economic
within  the  community  is  difficult,  *  Encouraging  women  to  adopt     groups
particularly in villages where there is a  patterns of behavior consonant with  *  allocation of project resources to
dominance of upper castes. They face    gender equity is challenging to their    support actions such as exchange
exploitation, physical intimidation and  own and their communities' beliefs  visits between  women's groups,
sexual harassment.                      and norms                            referral mechanisms for strategic
support, federating women's groups,
assisting village women to develop
their understanding of the link
between their behavior, everyday
activities and strategic rights
*  recruitment of female project staff
for a demonstration effect
*  provision for mobility and a safe
work environment of female staff
Income  security  and  opportunity. Time allocation -- both total and spread  *  Begin working  on activities of
Women suffer from a triple burden of -- would affect women's ability  to    immediate interest to women such
productive, reproductive and domestic participate in CIGs and VDCs.          as a group health, better access to
functions yet have limited secure income                                     drinking water, fuelwood, savings
generating opportunities.                                                    and credit
*  at least 30 per cent of CIG members
would  be   women  --  thus
immediately giving women access
to economic opportunity and the
empowerment that both this and
group action bring
Old and destitute women. Widows and Special efforts are needed to identify  *  as above, with emphasis placed on
old women of the household are a very these groups and ensure that they are    increasing information about and
vulnerable and a marginalized group in encouraged to develop CIGs.           use  of  existing   safety  net
rural society.                                                               govemment programs
Women and nutrition. Malnutrition is a Nutritional/health education and support *  communications  component
common feature amongst women in rural for women to stop practices which reduce  developing appropriate mechanisms
areas. Basic requirements, such as food food intake are needed.              and techniques for (a) ensuring
and nutrition, are not met. Inadequate                                       women have full access to health
calorie and nutrition intake, especially                                    information   and   (b)   using
during  infancy,  which  carries  on                                         communications as tool to change
throughout their lives, even  during                                        the  behavior  of and  towards
pregnancy,  cause  high  infant  and                                         women's health
maternal mortality                                                       *  link         with        existing
organizations/project   concerned
with health and nutrition
Women and literacy.  Low levels of Existing literacy opportunities need to be  *  link with existing organizations
literacy handicap women's performance tapped and tribal women made aware of  working on literacy and literacy
in the world outside their home     the advantages of literacy.              programs
- 63 -



Condition/Position of Women    Project Issue                           Project Action
Women  in  development programs. Efforts  are  needed  to  change  the  *  conceptual and applied  capacity
Anti-poverty  programs  have  been perceptions and behavior of govemment    building  -- Df both rural women
designed for SC/ ST, landless labor, staff  in  "delivering"  projects  and  and project staff
small and marginal farmers. There are no programs.                      *  positive    discrimination    and
anti-poverty    programs    designed                                        recruitment of women to the PFTs
specifically for women, especially with                                    and DPUs
regard to land and credit.                                              *  review and reflection --  gender
issues and data analysis included as
a regular part of the monitoring and
learning system
*  gender sensitivity and progress in
working with women evaluated as
part of staff and group performance
assessments
Women in village governance. Despite DPIP is designed to improve inclusion of  *  focus on leadership development
reservations, social rules continue to marginalized people in local govemance.  among village women
undermine participation of women in Mechanisms  td  overcome  problems  *  communications        component
public life. Participation of women in posed by the social rules determining  developing appropriate mechanisms
local  governance  continues  to  be public behavior need to be addressed if    and techniques for (a) ensuring
abysmally low.                     women's participation is to increase.    women  have  full  access  to
information about democratic rights
and processes and (b) using
communications as tool to change
the behavior of and towards
women.
*  CIGs comprising women members
to meet prior to Gram Sabha/VDC
meetings   and  to  elect  a
spokesperson to report on their
meeting to the GS/VDC.
*  monitoring    (spot    checks,
performance indicators, IMIs and
development audit) the quantity and
quality of women's participation in
the project and local governance.
Each District Project Unit (DPU) would include a gender specialist and encourage hiring of women for
other project positions and activities. It is envisaged that the gender specialist would play a proactive role in
mainstreaming women. This would entail working closely with all technical managers at the district level
and strengthening the on going processes of communication, training, documentation, group formation,
investment opportunities (including marketing) and micro-credit initiatives. Additionally, the gender
specialist would strengthen the participation of women by monitoring the impact of activities and
empowerment processes to ensure that the status of women is raised from ignored and passive beneficiaries
to active, informed, energetic and equal partners.
- 64 -



Annex 2
Attachment 11
Tribal Strategy and Development Plan
Background. Over 23 percent of the population of Madhya Pradesh is tribal. However, as the table below
shows, the number of tribal people in each district varies. Tribals average 13 percent of the entire
population in the project districts. While this does not constitute "the bulk of direct project beneficiaries"
(World Bank OD 4.20 para 13) nor would DPIP have any negative impact on tribal people, the depth of
their deprivation and exclusion from development processes is such that the project considers this group of
special interest and importance. Hence, GoMP has, through social assessments and a commissioned
participative consultancy, developed a Tribal Development Strategy and Plan.
District                     Total Po ulation               % Tribals
Shivpuri                     127, 762                      11.3
Guna                          157,426                      12.0
Tikamgargh                   38,850                        4.1
Chhatarpur                   43,482                        3.8
Panna                        102.520                       14.9
Sagar    _                   139,467                       8.5
Damoh                         111,114                   0  12.4
Rewa                          193,1015                     12.4
Sidhi                        418,004                       30.4
Shajapur                     24,452                        2.4
Rajgargh                     32,775                        3.3
Vidisha                      42,689                        4.4
Raisen                        126,254                      14.4
Narsimhapur                   101,368                      12.9
With the exception of Sidhi District, DPIP would not be implemented in any Tribal Sub-Plan areas (these
include both Scheduled Areas as defined in Section 1 of Schedule 244 of the 73rd amendment and tehsils in
which the tribal population exceeds 50 percent). However, 22 blocks of DPIP districts are defined as
Modified Area Development Approaches (MADA--pockets of populations above 10,000 in which at least
50 percent are tribals) pockets or Special Clusters. The extended powers, i.e. increased revenue and other
powers, granted to panchayats in Scheduled Areas by GoMP after the recommendations of the Bhuria
Committee can only have positive implications for DPIPs agenda of strengthening local govemance.
The three major tribes in DPIP districts are Kol, Sahariyas and Gonds. Kols, who live mainly in Rewa,
Panna and Sidhi are mostly landless laborers. In Rewa 84 percent of tribals are reported to be agricultural
laborers. Sahariyas populate Shivpuri and Guna. They are designated as a primitive tribe. While they own
some land, they also depend on wage labor. Gonds are the dominant tribe in central regions of
Narsimhapur, Raisen, Damoh and Sagar. Amongst these main three tribal groups, they are relatively well
off. Their literacy rates are higher, they own land but also derive some of their income from wage labor.
(see Map at end of PAD for location of Districts)
- 65 -



During social assessments tribals living in DPIP districts were found to be amongst the poorest and most
vulnerable people living in project areas. Their situation differs across districts but certain common
features emerged during social assessments for DPIP:
*   Human development indicators are unifornly poor and below state averages. Tribal women are
particularly disadvantaged by poor health, high morbidity and mortality rates, extremely low
levels of literacy and high work burdens with low economic retums.
* Tribal settlements are closely associated with forests or degraded forest lands.
* Tribals' access to services and markets is generally very poor.
* Tribals depend heavily on conmmon property resources. Some scheduled tribes possess land, but it
is usually of poor quality. They rarely have adequate irrigation and their agriculture is traditional,
lacking mechanization and modem inputs.
*   Land owned by tribal people is usually insufficient to support their livelihood needs. They are a
group dependent on wage labor and on forest produce.
*   Agriculture labor is contracted locally. Migration to towns within and beyond MP is common.
* Tribals in the project locations have a strong sense of community and are well organized within
their villages. This however does not extend beyond the village and its interface with government
and other external organizations.
Tribal Development in DPIP
A dual strategy is proposed. This encompasses: first, general targeting of the poor in project activities --
with few exceptions tribal people fall into this category; and second, specific targeting of tribal
populations -- particularly tribal women. Specific targeting involves:
1. taking affirmative action in favor of tribal people within project structures and processes at the
village, district and state levels;
2. focusing on activities of immediate relevance and importance to the income security and livelihood
portfolios of tribal people in villages;
3. making strategic linkages with development organizations working with tribals and development
programs or opportunities specifically addressing the needs of tribal men and women.
4. creating skills and awareness among project staff.
1. Affirmative Action. Recognizing that STs as a group run the risk of marginalization and invisibility in
project governance, the following is proposed:
At the village level the tribal strategy would ensure that:
1. At least 60 percent of tribal Below Poverty Line (BPL) families in any project settlement
participate in DPIP.
2. In those villages where the ST population is above 30 percent, the first Common Interest Groups
(CIGs) to be formed would comprise tribal women.
3. In villages with 50 percent tribal population the VDC's Chairmanship would be reserved for an
ST.
4. The number of proposals approved, investments made in tribal CIGs and the quality of tribal's
CIGs participation would be monitored. These would count as key indicators of a VDC' s performance
and would influence decisions on future financial allocations from the project.
-66 -



At the district level it is envisaged that:
1. Coverage of tribal population, investments in tribal CIGs and performance would be monitored and
reported and form part of staff / PET perfornance appraisals and reward systems.
2. An annual meeting of all tribal CIG / VDC representatives from within the district would be
organized by the project office in order to collectively review the progress and problems being faced by
the project and its tribal partners.
3. The DPU would remain alert to moves to subvert equal participation of tribal CIGs in DPIP. This
would be carried out through regular reviews with PFTs and the monitoring of norms specified under
village level measures above.
At the state level the SPU would:
1. Monitor the effect of the project's tribal development strategies and activities.
2. Produce an annual public report, together with comparative expenditure, on the impact of DPIP on
tribal's lives and livelihood in the DPIP district.
3. Ensure representation of agencies working with tribals on the Steering Committee.
2. Livelihood and Income Security Activities. The district level Social Assessments undertaken as part
of DPIP planning illustrate well the social and economic constraints faced by the vulnerable groups that the
project would target. These  findings, combined  with   the  outcome  of participative  consultancy
commissioned by GoMP to develop the tribal strategy and plan, suggest the following interventions:
Issue                               Action                              Responsible Agency
Lack of income during implementation    *  Building wage component within    *  PFTs
period                                  work being executed by           *  VDCs
CIGNVDC/GP
Lack of awareness of markets, weights    *  Orientation Training         *  PFTs
and measures, terminology, and technical  *  Translation into local language and   *  DPUs
activities                              issue of information pamphlets   *  DCBls
*  SPU HRD Team
Lack of skills for off-farm economic  *  Market information              *  PFTs
activities                           *  Orientation about avenues of     *  DCBls
self-employment                 *  SPU HRD Team
*  Training by attachment with      *  Communications Team
on-going project and institutions to
acquire skills
*  Financial support and provision of
tools
Lack of knowledge of legal provisions  *  Orientation on Legal matters such    *  PFTs
as                               *  DCBls
*  Land tenure/tenancy              *  SPU HRD Team
*  Money lenders regulation         *  Communications Team
*  Pricing policy for NTFP and      *  Tribal and Scheduled Caste
agricultural produce                Department
*  Panchayat Raj Act as extended to
Scheduled areas
*  Constitutional safe guards and Rule
of reservation
*  Forest Acts and JFM
- 67 -



Issue                              Action                             Responsible Agency
Low human development indices, e.g.    *  Primary Education             *  PFTs
low literacy, high IMR, high incidence of  *  Social and legal Health,  *  Bls
diseases (water borne, Malaria, T.B.,  Immunization                     *  SPU HRD Team
etc.), alcoholism, etc.             * Nutrition                         *  Communications Team
*  Safe Drinking Water              *  Line agencies
*  Sanitation education
Low productivity and unreliable returns   *  Awareness creation through  *  PFTs
from land and forest                   demonstrations high yielding crops    *  BIs
and crops suitable to the area   *  SPU HRD Team
*  Soil Conservation and Land       *  Line agencies
Development
*  Irrigation
*  Horticulture
*  Protection and Re-generation of
Forests
* Modern agriculture practices,
suitable cropping patterns, etc.
*  Value added activities from local
produce
Lack of tribal women's empowerment    *  Awareness generation           *  PFTs
and low participation               *  Organization of CIGs             *  Bls
*  Training                        *  SPU HRD Team
*  Tours/visits                    *  Communications Team
*  Productive interventions        *  Line agencies
*  Market information
*  Health, Nutrition, and Sanitation
*  Education
3. Strategic Links. Despite the eligibility of parts of DPIP districts for special tribal schemes or programs
Social Assessments found little evidence of impact. Because of their physical location, social exclusion and
limited access to infonnation and services, scheduled tribals tend to even miss the limited development
opportunities available to the wider population. Their problems, unique to them, often remain unattended.
While the effect of government action on tribals appears to be limited, Government has passed several Acts
which seek to protect the interests of tribal people and established a number of organizations charged with
tribal development. Relevant legislation includes GOIs Scheduled Areas clause of the 73rd Amendment
and its Prevention of Atrocities Act. State Acts peculiar to MP include the MP Land Revenue Code 1959,
the MP Excise Act, the MP Money Lending Act and the Panchayat Act (Extension to Scheduled Areas)
1966. In terms of organizations, the Department of Tribal and Scheduled Caste Welfare is the most
prominent.  It oversees the general development of tribal areas and the implementation of related
government projects and programs. In 1995 GoMP constituted the MP Scheduled Tribes Commission.
This "watchdog" is headed by an NGO representative and monitors the application of state policies for
tribals. In addition to these agencies there is the MP Minor Forest Produce Cooperative Federation -- set
up to free tribal producers from exploitation by middle men, and the MP Tribal Finance and Development
Corporation -- established to provide finance for the educational and economic advancement of tribals. In
addition the Tribal Research Institute undertakes studies which monitor tribal issues and inform policy
discourse. All agencies have been consulted in the process of preparing DPIP. They would continue to be
part of the six monthly regional meetings, would have a representative on the State Level Steering
Conunittee and would be part of the audience for the project's annual report.
- 68 -



Non Government Organizations vary in their substantive interests and approach taken to tribal
development. Many of the "mainstream development" NGOs have participated in the workshops and
debate which have been part of DPIPs preparation.  Other, "activist organizations", dedicated to
empowerment of the poor and particularly tribal people have demonstrated less willingness to enter into
dialogue with the state or with the World Bank. These groups tend to view all foreign aid as bad and
generally consider the government to be highly inefficient, deeply inequitable and often corrupt. It is this
group who would closely monitor DPIP and who have stated they would oppose any externally aided
project in MP. GoMP is making efforts to engage in constructive discussions with these organizations. The
third group of NGOs are the "political organizations". At present they are active in mainly densely
forested areas where DPIP would not be implemented.
Within the first six months DPUs would undertake a short study to review projects and opportunities for
tribal people in each project location. The study would be circulated to all PFTs and would form the basis
of a workshop in each district to which district representatives from all the above organizations would be
invited to attend. The outcome of the workshop would be an annual action plan linking DPIP activities to
existing opportunities and organizations. The outcomes of each district workshop would be summarized by
the SPU and used as the basis of dialogue with organizations concerned with tribal issues at the State level.
4.     Staff Skills and Awareness.
Capacity building is an integral part of DPIP (see this Annex, Attachment 2, Human Resource
Development for a full description). Project staff and members of participating organizations would
undergo sensitization training and training in the operational implications of the special needs of tribal men
and women. In addition to these the GoMP has identified a need for specific training on legal and
development provisions for tribal people. These are summarized in the table below.
Level        HRD Needs                            Potential sources
CIG/VDC      Land issues                           PFT team
Revenue Department
PFT
Forest issues! JFM                   Forest Department
PFTs/DPU     Context (including laws and development Tribal Research Institute
opportunities) of tribals in DPIP districts    Government Department for Tribal Development
NGOs working in tribal areas
Land issues                          Govemment Revenue Department
Ekta Parishad
Labor issues                         National Labor Institute
Forestry issues                      Forest Department
- 69 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
INDIA: Madhya Pradesh District Poverty Initiatives Project
Local       Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Component                US $million   US $miilion   US $million
Sub-projects for Community and Village Investnents      106.40          1.10       107.50
Institutional and Human Capacity Building                23.60          1.60        25.20
Total Baseline Cost                                     130.00          2.70       132.70
Physical Contingencies                                   0.20          0.10         0.30
Price Contingencies                                       1.50         0.20         1.70
Total Project Costs            131.70          3.00       134.70
Total Financing Required             131.70         3.00        134.70
Local       Foreign       Total
Project Cost By Category               US $million   US $million-  US $rnillion
Goods and Equipment                                         1.80           1.30         3.10
Training and Consultancies                                  8.40          0.40          8.80
Sub-project for Community Investments                     107.85          1.15        109.00
Recurrentilncremental Costs; Unallocated                   13.70          0.10         13.80
Total Project Costs   131.75           2.95       134.70
Total Financing Required    131.75          2.95        134.70
- 70 -



Annex 4
INDIA: Madhya Pradesh District Poverty Initiatives Project
Economic Assessment
The main objective of the project is to alleviate poverty by improving the capacity and opportunities of
the poor to participate in and control their own development. The community investments component is
an incentive for the organization of these groups. Further, the main criteria for the sub-projects is
whether the projects are effectively targeting the poor and promoting their participation. Given that
there is a budget constraint at the village level and the fact the funds are untied in nature, it is expected
that poor groups will choose the best projects for themselves, which will be the areas with the highest
economic return.
Experiences from similar Bank projects in other regions indicates that demand-driven projects of this
type, involving beneficiary contributions, are highly cost-efficient. Communities have a vested interest
in achieving the best quality-price ratio and will seek to maximize cost-savings and ensure
accountability. Furthermore, because communities are actively involved in prioritization,
implementation, operations and maintenance, it can be assumed that the sub-projects they select will be
economically viable. This is even more so in projects, such as this one, where transparent information
flows are in place, enabling communities and villages to leam from each other regarding costs and
technologies.
Least cost analysis. It is estimated that about 400,000 families would benefit directly from the project.
This number corresponds to 70 % of the population of the targeted blocks or about 25 % of the 14
district villages. The total project investment is estimated to be US$ 126.7 million or about US$ 272
per family. A least return analysis indicates that the productivity per beneficiary family would need to
be raised by less than 20 US$ per year (starting from the second to third year) to let the investments
break even with an IRR of 12 %. An average increase in family productivity of less than two dollars
per month is a very modest assumption and it is expected that the impact of the project would be much
higher. It needs to be kept in mind that an increase in net productivity does not only include direct
increases in on- and off-farm income or farm and labor productivity. It also includes, for example,
improved health, fewer days spending unproductive due to labor saved fetching water, lower social
costs, etc. Moreover, the least return estimate is very conservative since it does neglect a considerable
number of people which would benefit from the project indirectly through spill-over effects.
- 71 -



The Internal Rate of Return (IRR) for selected possible investments has been calculated and is
presented below:
Activity          frequency        Financial Analysis             Economic Analysis
_   _                     ~     ~    ~~~~~~~~~% st. dev. _ _ %           st. dev.
Check dam                       20      44            9                65                13
Lift Irrigation       _          3_22           ___                 _    _9_                _
Hand pump                        4      125           38               62               22
Rural Road                      12      16            2                34                5
Dairy                   I__10   34                    14 _             44            1 4
Fish Pond                        5   _    _34         27 _             64         .      13
Forestry Nursery                 3      50            83    _          158              99
Sub-Total                       67      38                             51
1/ A detailed economic analysis is in the project file.
The IRR for the various sub-projects analyzed varies between 16 % (rural road) and 125 %
(handpump) for the financial analysis** and between 19 % (lift irrigation) and 158 % (forestry
nursery) for the economic analysis. For most cases, the economic IRR is greater than the financial IRR,
often reflecting the fact that the more labor is used on the cost side than saved on the revenue side. The
overall IRR show high expected values of 38 % and 51 % for the financial and economic analysis.***
The risk under assumptions discussed with experts in the field is relatively small. Most types of
sub-projects have an IRR above 12 % even if two standard deviations are subtracted from its expected
value, indicating a more than 95 % chance that the project returns are above its opportunity costs.
However, the risk analysis includes only the most influential economic risk and neglects other
important risk factors such as those related to possible leakages of funds, insufficient capacity building,
general macro-economic instability, etc.
Fiscal Impact. In the medium to long term, it is expected that (i) the program will spur economic
activity in rural areas and, therefore expand the tax base for both state and local governments;
(ii) the willingness of the population to contribute a higher share of investment costs will increase,
reducing the burden on the government budget. On the macro-front, the project's objective is to
demonstrate to the government that there could be a more cost-effective approach to anti-poverty
programs. It is expected, over the long-term, through the demonstration effect, the project would bring
about reforms in state and national anti-poverty programs with substantial positive fiscal impacts.
Also, an output of the project would be village funds which will improve the fiscal situation of village
governments. The project also supports local resource mobilization activities and cost-recovery
practices which would reduce future O&M liabilities on village, district and state governments. The
GOMP has put special care during project preparation that the project would not increase fiscal
liabilities of the state. No increase in recurrent expenditures are expected during the post-project
period. No incremental staff would be created and all the recurrent expenditures of subprojects would
be met by community contributions.
* Educational and health facilities as well as other social infrastructure were not included. Although research
shows, that the benefit of such facilities is often tremendous, an economic assessment for such facilities is
generally restricted to an cost-effectiveness analyses.
** The financial indicators are based on complete costs and benefits of the investment; the net benefit for the
beneficiaries will be considerably higher since up to 95 % of the investment sum is provided as grant to them.
*** It should be noted, that the assumption on the frequencies of individual types of sub-projects is on which
these figures are based is highly speculative.
- 72 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
INDIA: Madhya Pradesh District Poverty Initiatives Project
Years Ending
IM,L, ,NATIN ,- 14
| Year I    Year 2  L Year 3  | Year 4  | Year 5    Year 6  | Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs          11.4       16.3      24.1       31.7       37.4       0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs             2.9       2.7        2.7        2.7       2.8        0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs         14.3       19.0      26.8       34.4       40.2       0.0       0.0
Total Financing             14.3       19.0      26.8       34.4       40.2       0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                  11.8      15.2       21.8       28.4      33.0       0.0        0.0
Government                 1.3       1.8        2.0        1.8       2.3       0.0        0.0
Central                0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Provincial             0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Co-financiers              0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
User FeeslBeneficiaries    1.2       2.0        3.0        4.2       4.9       0.0        0.0
Others                     0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing    14.3       19.0       26.8      34.4       40.2       0.0       0.0
Main assumptions:
- 73 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
INDIA: Madhya Pradesh District Poverty Initiatives Project
Procurement
Procurement in the project would be carried out under the overall supervision and guidance of the
State Project Unit (SPU). Its actual management would be at the district level. The project design is based
on the concept of bottom-up planning, and most of the activities under the project would be decided by
village communities.
Sub-projects (US$ 109.0 million) : The project would finance matching grants for small
sub-projects proposed by Common Interest Groups such as village approach or link roads, community
halls, watershed development, strengthening of health care centers, improving animal health care and breed
upgradation facilities, drains, minor irrigation works, wells, drinking water arrangements, etc. The
sub-projects would also include the hiring of services or training of community members, wherever these
would be managed by the communities themselves. NGOs' assistance would be taken for preparation of
sub-projects. Procurement would follow direct contracting, quotation or community participation
procedures following Bank Procurement Guidelines (January 1995, Revised January and August 1996,
September 1997 and January 1999) as follows:
Direct Contracting/Shopping/Community Participation: Procurement of works under the MG
through: (a) direct contracting with registered NGOs or local community organizations such as
Common Interest Groups; (b) lump-sum fixed-price/unit rate contracts with qualified contractors
awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from at least 3 qualified domestic contractors in
response to a written invitation; or (c) community participation. These works would not be
suitable for competitive bidding due to the small amounts entailed, their scattered nature, and the
remoteness of potential locations.
Goods, Equipment, Furniture and Supplies (US$3. 10 million) : Goods would be procured
following Bank Procurement Guidelines (January 1995, Revised January and August 1996, September
1997 and January 1999) as follows:
NCB: Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of US$200,000 per contract (e.g., furniture,
computers and peripherals, office equipment, training equipment etc.) up to an aggregate value of
US$ 1.2 million would be procured following NCB procedures acceptable to IDA.
National Shopping: Goods (except vehicles) estimated to cost less than US$ 30,000 per contract
(e.g., small items of equipment, urgent requirements of computers, audio-visual equipment,
furniture, etc.) would be procured by the various implementing agencies in small lots using
National Shopping procedures in accordance with paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines, up to
an aggregate amount of US$ 0.8 million. Rate contracts of the Directorate General of Supplies
and Disposals (DGS&D) would be acceptable as a substitute for National Shopping.
- 74 -



Direct Contracting: Goods and equipment of proprietary nature estimated to cost less than
US$ 10,000 equivalent per contract upto an aggregate of US$0.7 million (e.g., books, periodicals,
extension and publicity materials, software, proprietary equipment and spares, etc.) would be
procured using direct contracting procedures in accordance with paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Petty items costing US$500 equivalent or less subject to an aggregate amount of US$100,000
would be procured following paragraph 3.7 of Guidelines.
Vehicles (US$ 0.2 million): The requirement of vehicles is small and thus would not be amenable
to central and lumped procurement. Vehicles estimated to cost the equivalent of upto (US$ 0.1 million) per
contract upto an aggregate amount not not exceed (US$ 0.2 million). These would be procured using the
National Shopping procedure or DGS&D rate contracts.
Training and Consultancies (US$ 8.8 million): Technical assistance and consultancy services,
including the hiring of NGO services, Project Facilitation Teams (PFT), quality supervisors for community
works, consultancies and studies would be contracted on Terms and Conditions which are in accordance
with IDA Guidelines for the use of Consultants (January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and January
1999). Technical Assistance and consultancy services would be procured using QCBS procedures. For
contracts with consulting finns/institutions valued below US$100,000 equivalent per contract, procurement
would follow QCBS or other methods mentioned in the Guidelines, depending upon the appropriateness of
the procedures relevant to the requirements. For individual consultants, this threshold would be US$50,000
equivalent per contract. The Standard Request for Proposals and Conditions of Contract would be used for
all contracts.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions: (Table B)
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to pre-qualify for bidding or to bid for contracts, the
proposed procurement plan for the project shall be fumished to the Bank for its review and approval, in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods
and works shall be undertaken in accordance with the procurement plan which shall have been approved by
the Bank and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. Annual Procurement Plans would be reviewed by
IDA/Bank.
Prior Review of Contracts
Civil Works and Goods Contracts. All packages for goods exceeding the equivalent of
US$ 100,000, and the first two contracts for goods above US$30,000 and first two contracts by Common
Interest Groups would be fully documented and subject to prior review by the Bank as per the procedures
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Bank Guidelines.
Consultancy Contracts. Prior review procedures would be as follows:
(a) With respect to each contract for emnployment of consulting firms/institutions estimated to cost
the equivalent of US$ 100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third
sub-paragraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply;
(b) With respect to each contract for employment of consulting firms/institutions estimated to cost
the equivalent of US $ 50,000 or more but less than the equivalent of US$100,000, the procedures set forth
in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix I to the
Consultant Guidelines shall apply; and
- 75 -



(c) With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost
the equivalent of US$50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, termns of reference, and terms of
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.
Post Review
Works and Goods: The contracts below the prior review threshold for Works and Goods shall be
subject to post- review as per the procedure set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 of the Bank Guidelines;
and
Technical Assistance, Studies and Training: Contracts for the employment of consulting firns
estimated to cost less than US$100,000 and contracts for the employment of individuals estimated to cost
less than US$50,000 shall be subject to post-review provided that the generic TORs and shortlists for
critical assignments have been cleared with the Bank.
Procurement Information:
Procurement information would be collected and recorded as follows:
(a) Prompt reporting of contract award information by SPU
(b) Comprehensive semi-annual reports by SPU indicating:
(i) revised cost estimates for individual contracts and the total cost;
(ii) revised timings of procurement actions, including advertising, bidding, contract award,
and completion time for individual contracts; and
(iii) compliance with aggregate limits on the specified methods of procurement; and
(c) Completion report by the Borrower within three months of the Credit Closing Date.
Procurement Schedule and Proposed Procurement Arrangements:
The proposed packages and the Procurement Schedules for goods/equipment re(luire(d for
capacity-building and project management have been provided by the SPU. The project elements, their
estimated costs, and proposed methods of procurement are summarized in Table A. Figures in parentheses
are the respective amounts to be financed through the IDA credit.
- 76 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (in US$ million)
Expenditure Category                        Procurement Method
ICB    NCB   Other   NBF   Total
A. Investment Costs
Community Sub-projects                                           109                    109
______ ______  (93.7)    _93.7)
Goods, Equipment and Vehicles                          3.1                              3.1
______ _____ _____ ______ ____   _____   (2.5)      __  _  _     _  _  _   (2.5)
Training
(6.0)                 (6.0)
Consultant Services and Studies
_______ ______ ______ _______ ______   ______     (2.7)      __  _  _   (2.7)
Subtotal of Investment Costs               ___ _  _             __=
B. Incremental Operating Costs  X                     _                     ______
Salaries                                                         5.9                    5.9
Allowances                                                       5.7                    5.7
(3.6)      ____ (3.6)
Vehicle Hiring                                                   0.2                    0.2
(0.1)                 (0.1)
Office Expenses                                                  0.3                    0.3
___________________         _________        ______    ______     (0.2)                  (0.2)
Operating Costs                                                  1.8                    1.8
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _(1.4 )  _ _ _ _ ( .4)
Total                                                  3.1       136.7                  134.7
(2.5)     (107.7)                ( 110.1)
NBF = Not Bank-financed (include both state govenmnent and beneficiary contributions).
Bank disbursements in parentheses.
- 77 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Contract Value                                 Contracts Subject to
Threshold              Procurement              Prior Review
Expenditure Category      (US$ thousands)              Method                 (US$ millions)
1. Works
2. Goods                      >30 to <200                 NCB             First two and all contracts
< 30                   Shopping            above US$ 100,000
>10 to <30            Direct contracting
3. Services
4. Vehicles                    < 100,000          Shopping/DGS&D Rate
contract
5. Community                     <30                 Quotation/Direct            First two
Investment funds                                  Contracting/Community
Participation
<0.5               Direct Contracting
6. (a) Consulting                >100                    QCBS                   Prior review
services, NGO services,
Training by firms                <100           CQ, sole source or any other Post award review except
(b) Consulting Services                          method as per guidelines  TOR of Generic nature and
by individuals                                           QCBS              the short-list for critical
assignments
>50                                        Prior award review
CQ, sole source
<50                                        Post award review
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 78 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Disbursement
The proposed allocation of loan proceeds is given in Table C.
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category        Amount in US$million          Financing Percentage
Community investments: (a) subprojects     93.70                         95%
Community investments: (b)                  0.00                          0
Community funds
Goods, including equipment, materials       2.41           100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of
and vehicles (excluding community                         local expenditures (ex-factory) and 80%
investments)                                                of local expenditures for other items
procured locally
Consultants' services (including NGOs'      8.56                         100%
services), training,.workshops and study
tours
Incremental Operating Costs                 5.36          80% until March 31, 20023; 60% from
April 1, 2003 until March 31, 2005; and
________ _____ _   40%  thereafter
Unallocated                                 0.08
Total Project Costs                        110.11
Total                                      110,1 1
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
When the existing disbursement procedures are used, disbursements would be made against Withdrawal
Applications for: (a) direct payments; (b) reimbursement of expenditures with full documentation; and (c)
reimbursement of expenditures against Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). IDA would disburse against
SOEs for the following expenditures: (a) Sub-project payments not exceeding US$100,000 equivalent; (b)
contracts for goods and equipment not exceeding US$100,000 equivalent; (c) contracts for consultants
services not exceeding US$100,000 in the case of consulting firms, and not exceeding US$50,000 in the
case of individual consultants, and/or workshop training and study tours; (d) training expenditure; and (e)
incremental operating costs.
Special account:
A Special Account would be maintained in the Reserve Bank of India; and would be operated by
the Department of Economic Affairs (DEA) of Government of India (GOI). The Special Account would be
operated in accordance with the Bank's operational policies:
(a) When traditional disbursement procedures are used, the authorized allocation of the Special
Account would be US$7.0 million which represents about 4 months of estimated disbursements
from the IDA Credit. The initial deposit into the Special Account would be US$3.5 million until
the aggregate disbursements from the IDA Credit reach the equivalent of US$14 million.
- 79 -



(b) When disbursements are based on PMRs, the authorized allocation of the Special Account
would be US$14.0 million. This represents 6 months of peak expenditure. The Special Account
would be replenished quarterly and be based on the next 6 mnonths funds forecast.
The disbursement would initially be made according to the traditional method (reimbursement with
full documentation and against statements of expenditure), and would be converted to PMR-based
disbursement after the financial management system has been demonstrated to be operating satisfactorily.
The target date for this conversion is November 1, 2001.
Financial Management
Current Financial Mana2ement System
The executing agency for the project will be a Society formed specifically for executing the project under
the aegis of Department of Rural Development, Government of Madhya Pradesh. The department follows
the government accounting system, the main focus of which is on book keeping and transactional control
over expenditures. There is no concept of financial management information being used for decision
making and hence there is very limited focus on meeting project management information needs. Project
financial statements indicating sources and uses of funds (including inforrnation on project expenditure by
components, types of expenditure, etc) are not prepared. There is no effective funds management in place
in the absence of a regular system of forecasting of expenditure and it's monitoring. The audit of
expenditure statements is carried out by the State Accountant General (Audit) which focuses on
authentication of individual transactions, verification of compliance with Government procedures, and
certification of reimbursement claims made to the Bank. The financial system is operated manually.
Specific Areas to Be Strengthened
The following aspects need to be addressed to ensure that a satisfactory financial management system
comrnensurate with the size and scope of the project is established:
*   Satisfactory staffing and training: Financial functions should be staffed by suitably qualified
professionals. The finance department at State Project Unit (SPU) should be supported by a full
time qualified professional accountant who can actively aid in setting up the financial management
system in the project. The districts accounts should be headed by an accounts professional
supported by an adequate number of assistants. The entire financial staff need to be trained in the
operation of the computerized FMS. Project managers and financial staff need to be sensitized on
the importance of financial management for effective project management. Since a significant part
of the accounting under the project is to be done at the village level, it will be very important to
impart elementary accounting training to the village accountants.
*   The need to analyze financial information and use it as a decision making tool: Financial reports
which provide timely and quality information on the financial performance of the project should be
prepared. The accounting system should ensure classification and compilation/analysis of
accounting data in a manner as to provide useful and timely informnation for project monitoring.
*   Transparency of project operations and establishment of clear financial policies and procedures: all
stakeholders need to be provided with clear, simple, user-friendly and consistent financial
information about the project's performance and financial status.
- 80 -



*   Ensuring satisfactory audit arrangements including timely submission of audit report.
* Ensuring Linking of physical progress with the financial progress.
* The need to have a simple and effective monitoring mechanism to ensure effective monitoring of a
large number of widely dispersed entities.
* The funds flow system adopted for the project must ensure smooth flow of funds to Common
Interest Groups (CIGs) at the operating level, as these groups may be highly vulnerable to periodic
funds shortages. The system of funds flow management must also ensure that the control over the
money actually passes to the VDCs and CIGs but the necessary controls are built in to check
misappropriation.
The SPU will develop, with the help of consultants to be specifically appointed for this purpose, a
comprehensive computerized financial management system which will address these issues.
Proposed Financial Management System
The proposed project financial management system would be documented in a 'Financial Management
Manual'. This Manual would be a part of the Borrower's Project Implementation Plan on financial
management. The Financial Management Manual would also serve as a reference document for all project
staff. The Financial Management Manual would be periodically updated based on implementation
experience. The Manual includes the following aspects of financial management:
(a)  budgeting and flow of funds
(b)  accounting system (including chart of accounts, formats of books, accounting and financial
procedures);
(c)  financial reporting (including formats of reports, and linkages with Chart of Accounts);
(d)  staffing and training aspects;
(e)  auditing arrangements including Terms of Reference;
(f)  procurement and contract administration monitoring system;
(g)  financial and accounting policies; and
(h)  service standards (benchmarks) for various accounting and financial activities.
Budaetin2 and Flow of Funds
The project would be budgeted under an identifiable budget line item in the GoMP budget. After the
budget is passed by the legislature, the state government would pass on the funds to the Bank account of
the Society specially established for the execution of the Project. From there, the funds would be passed on
to the districts in their bank accounts based on the cash flows forecasts of the districts. The Government of
MP would ensure adequate advance fund reserves with the MPSPAI during the entire project period.
During the first two years of implementation GOMP would make available the entire annual fund
requirement and in subsequent years make six monthly releases equivalent to the 50% of the annual fund
requirement on submission of the annual plan by the society.
Flow of Funds to CIGs
The Process of the flow of funds to the CIGs would be as under:
* Each village to be covered under the project would be allocated an 'upper ceiling' budget which
would be based initially on the village population and subsequently on performance.
- 81 -



*   On half yearly intervals, the VDC of the village would compile all the proposals received from CIGs
and present all these proposals in one submission to the DPU.
*   At DPU, the proposal would be processed and a MOU would be signed between DPU, and CIG,
VDC or GP for a 'fixed-price    contract' for all the sub-projects. The MOU would inter alia
specify separately for all the proposals: (i) the total cost of works; (ii) work completion milestones;
(iii) paymnent terms; (iv) beneficiary contributions; and (v) specific responsibilities of DPU, CIG,
VDC or GP.
*   The release of installments would be worked out to ensure that the processing time taken at the DPU
does not adversely affect the execution of the sub project by the CIG. The schedule would be worked
out as under:
On signing of MOU and fulfillment of initial actions incl. on    50% plus amount agreed
beneficiary contributions amounts for first mnilestone
On completion of first milestone                       50% including contributions.
*   Basis for release of all subsequent installments would be completion certifications for the previous
milestones. CIGs would provide completion certifications of each milestones through the relevant
VDCs (checked and certified by appropriate technical staff), along with request for next installment.
For village projects certification would be provided by VDCs or GPs.
v   Cash contributions from beneficiaries would be deposited into the Project Bank accounts of the CIG
and in the Village Fund Account and would be a pre-condition for release of second installment. The
beneficiary contribution would be accounted for as sources of funds on the respective sub-project.
o   Service Standards (benchmarks) would be developed to specifically monitor the turnaround time for
funds transfer from DPUs to CIGs. Regular feedback would be obtained from VDCs and CIGs on
whether there are any difficulties in release of funds.
Accountin2 and Internal Controls
The overall framework of the system is given below:
*   The financial management system would cover all project-related transactions i.e., all sources of
funds (GoMP Beneficiaries, and World Bank) would be accounted for and reflected in the project
financial statements; and similarly all project expenditures would be reflected in the project financial
statements.
*   A Chart of Accounts would be developed. The Chart of Accounts would enable expenditure data to
be captured and classified by project components and expenditure categories. The Chart of Accounts
would also have linkages to: (i) govermnent budget heads/categories; and  (iii)
disbursement categories. Similarly, the Chart of Accounts would enable data on sources of funds to
be captured.
*   The financial management system would be computerized. The computerized system would be
installed and operated at the SPU and all the fourteen DPUs. Accounts of the SPU and the fourteen
DPUs would be consolidated for project financial reports. Data transfer for the various
consolidations would be done by periodic data transfer through electronic mail or storage media
(diskettes/compact disks).
*   Books of accounts for the project would be maintained using double-entry bookkeeping principles.
- 82 -



Standard books/records of accounts (cash and bank-books, journals, ledgers, trial balance, etc.)
would be maintained at the SPU and DPUs using an integrated computerized accounting system. A
register of fixed assets, indicating assets created through the project or acquired under the project,
would also be maintained using the computerized system.
Accounting for Sub-Proiects Implemented by CIGs: The release of funds to CIGs for sub-projects would
be based on the terms agreed to in the MOU between the DPU, VDC and the CIG. The disbursements
would be based on these releases to CIGs. However, in the DPU books of accounts, advances to VDCs and
CIGs would be treated as advances and expenditures would be booked against these advances only when
milestones are reported completed. DPU would also maintain records of assets created.
Beneficiary Contributions: Cash contributions from beneficiaries would be accounted based on actual
amounts deposited by beneficiaries into their 'Project Bank Account' end in the Village Fund.
Accounting at CIGs: The communities would maintain (for their own purposes and to ensure transparency)
accounts of amounts spent and contributions received. Formats of simple accounting records to be
maintained by the communities will be developed and village-level bookkeepers engaged by the
communities would be trained in this system. Eligibility criteria for sub-projects and advances to
communities would include ensuring that satisfactory arrangements for accounting, and submission of
simple summary account statements.
CIG will maintain the following books (formats to be developed):
(i) Simple Cash/Bank book providing details of amounts received into the Project Bank Account
and details of payments;
(ii) Register of contributions received from members; and
(iii) Register of materials purchased using project funds and materials utilized.
Transaction information flow
SPU and DPUs would generate and maintain the transaction vouchers for their various receipts and
expenditures made at SPU and DPU level respectively. CIGs would also maintain
vouchers/bills/supporting documents for the various payments (systematically numbered), and copies of the
Bank account statement (pass book).
CIGs would prepare a simple report each month and submit it to DPU which would indicate:
*   amount received from DPU and beneficiary contributions, amount spent on various items, and
balance in the Bank account or cash (the format of the cash/bank book would facilitate easy
preparation of this summary).
* the details of the work being carried out (activity to be completed, cost), the work completed and the
work to be done in the next month.
The VDC or CIG would present this to their members and in the Gram Sabha. This would be displayed in
the notice board of the Gram Sabha or village hall, etc (the reports of the various VDCs and CIGs
operating in the village would be displayed). In addition, the books/registers, vouchers and bank statements
- 83 -



would be brought to the meetings of the VDCs and CIGs and Gram Sabha and be open for scrutiny by
members.
*   Accounting at DPU would not be based on this statement. DPUs would monitor the regularity of
submission of this statement. Up-to-date submission of these monthly reports would be required
before release of subsequent installments. This report would not be used at the district either for
accounting or for determining the amount of money to be released to the VDCs and CIGs. It's main
objective would be to inculcate a sense of responsibility in the VDCs and CIGs for regular updating
of accounts.
Consolidation of project accounts would be done first at the district level by consolidation of data of all the
CIGs and DPU and then at SPU by consolidation of accounts of SPU and all the DPUs using the
computerized system.
Internal Control
Internal control mechanisms for the project would include the following:
*   establishment of appropriate budgeting systems, and regular monitoring of actual financial
performance with budgets and targets, monitoring of physical and financial progress, monitoring of
unit costs, etc. Physical data on key items would be captured in the accounting system to enable
monitoring of physical data;
-   development and adoption of simple, clear and transparent financial and accounting policies which
would govern financial management of and accounting for the project;
-   regular monitoring of advances given to CIGs, reconciliation and confirmation of balances due from
them, bank reconciliation, etc.;
*  at the transaction level, the establishment of procedures and systems for ensuring standard internal
controls such as checking of expenditures, appropriate documentation, levels of authorization,
bifurcation of duties, periodic reconciliation, physical verification, etc.; and
*  establishment and operation of a comprehensive audit mechanism, including concurrent audit.
- 84 -



Financial Reporting
Project Management Reports would be generated from the computerized financial management system.
Quarterly Financial Management Reports would include:
*   comparison of budgeted and actual expenditure and analysis of major variances, including on aspects
such as sources of    funds (indicating separately funds from beneficiaries) and application of
funds (classified by components, sub-components, summarized expenditure categories, etc.);
*   comparison of budgeted and actual expenditure and analysis of major variances on key physical
parameters and unit rates for selected key items;
*   forecasts for the next 2 quarters; and
*   information on procurement management for major contracts.
Financial Reporting to Local Communities: To make the accounts of the projects implemented by VDCs
and CIGs transparent to all the local stakeholders, a simple summary of the accounts of each such
intervention (amounts received from the members and from the Government, amount spent, and balance)
would be publicly posted in a notice-board in the Gram Sabha.
Staffing and Trainint-
The finance and accounting department at SPU would be headed by a Financial Controller, who would be
an accounting professional with about 8/10 years experience in a similar position. The Financial Controller
would have the overall responsibility of all the financial and accounting aspects of the project. The
financial controller for the project has already been selected. He would be responsible for development,
updating and operation of the PFMS, financial planning and management of the project including financial
forcasting.
The Finance and Accounting Department at DPU would be headed by an Accounts Officer who would be
an accounting professional with about 4,15 years work experience.
Both SPU and DPUs would have an appropriate number of accountants/account clerks to carry out the
various routine activities under the direction of the key professional staff indicated above. To promote
efficiency and maintain a lean organization, all routine activities relating to generation of books of
accounts, compilation, preparation of financial reports, etc. would be handled through the computerized
financial management system to the maximum extent possible.
An intensive training program is being chalked out to train the accounting personnel at the SPU and DPUs
in the operation of the financial management system and the software.
Bookkeeping/financial management would be one of the modules to be covered in the group formation
training to be imparted at the CIG level. VDCs and CIGs would be trained to maintain proper accounting
records for their activities, including proper records of contributions received and operation of their Bank
Account.
- 85 -



Auditini- Arrangements
The audited annual project financial statements audited by a firm of Chartered Accountants would be
submitted to the Bank within 6 months of the close of GOI's fiscal year. The terms of reference and
qualifications of the firm of Chartered Accountants would be reviewed by the Bank. The firm of Chartered
Accountants woild be appointed by February 28, 2001.
Thus the following audit reports will be monitored in ARCS:
Implementing Agency        Audit                       Auditors
State Society              SOE/Project Audit           A firm of Chartered Accountants to be
appointed.
DEA/GOI                    Special Account             Comptroller & Auditor General of India
The audit would be carried out in accordance with International Standards of Auditing. The audit would be
comprehensive and cover all aspects of the project (i.e., all sources and utilization of funds, and
expenditures incurred by all implementing agencies). The Terms of Reference of the auditors would include
both audit of financial transaction, and an assessment of the operation of the financial management system,
including review of internal control mechanisms. A special emphasis would be placed on the audit of the
sub projects being executed by VDCs and CIGs. The books/records of the VDCs and CIGs would be
audited by the Project Auditor on sample basis. Any issues arising in these audits including systemic issues
would be promptly addressed. All implementing agencies would provide the auditor with access to
project-related documents and records, and information required by the auditor for the purposes of the
audit.
The Accountant General (Audit) of the state would also carry out audit in accordance with prevailing
practice.
Time Table for implementation of Proiect Financial Management System and next steps
An integrated computerized financial management system would be developed for the project. The
successful implementation of PFMS in the project would further entail certain key activities: (a)
development of a software for PFMS implementation expected to be completed by February 28th, 2001;
(b) staffing of key positions in SPU and DPUs expected to be completed by February 28th, 2001; (c)
procurement of computers for SPU and DPUs expected to be completed by February 28th, 2001 and (d)
training of staff in the PFMS operation expected to be completed by February 28th, 2001 . The PFMS is
expected to be fully operational by March 1st, 2001.
- 86 -



Annex 6
Attachment 1
Procedures to be followed for NCB Contracts
With reference to the procedures for undertaking procurement on the basis of National Competitive
Bidding (NCB) referred to in Part C-I of Section I, Schedule 1, of the Project Agreement, all NCB
contracts shall be awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines
for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in
January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines). In this regard, all NCB
contracts to be financed from the proceeds of the Credit/Loan shall follow the following procedures:
* Only the model bidding documents for NCB agreed with the Government of India Task Force
(and as amended from time) shall be used for bidding;
* Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated national daily newspaper,
at least 30 days prior to the deadline for the submission of bids;
* No special preference would be accorded to any bidder when competing with foreign bidders,
state-owned enterprises, small-scale enterprises or enterprises from any given state.
* Except with the prior concurrence of the Bank/Association, there shall be no negotiation of
price with the bidders, even with the lowest evaluated bidder;
o Except in cases of force majeure and/or situations beyond control of the Borrower, extension
of bid validity shall not be allowed without the prior concurrence of the Bank/Association (a)
for the first request for extension if it is longer than eight weeks; and (b) for all subsequent
requests for extension irrespective of the period.
* Re-bidding shall not be carried out without the prior concurrence of the Bank/Association.
The system of rejecting bids outside a pre-determined margin or " bracket " of prices shall not
be used.
3 Rate contracts entered into by DGS&D would not be acceptable as a substitute for NCB
procedures. Such contracts would be acceptable for any procurement under National Shopping
procedures.
- 87 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
INDIA: Madhya Pradesh District Poverty Initiatives Project
Project Schedule                                   Planned          I           Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       24                           60
First Bank mission (identification)                                           06/01/95
Appraisal mission departure                      07/11/2000                   05/25/2000
Negotiations                                    09/18/2000                    09/18/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   01/01/2001
Prepared by:
Government of Madhya Pradesh
Preparation assistance:
Consultants and India Country Department
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Luis Constantino                  Natural Resource Economist
Geeta Sethi                       Economist
Ruth Alsop                        Social Scientist
Rajat Narula                      Financial Management Specialist
Jayashree Shahria                 Project Assistant
Yoshiko Masuyama                  Project Assistant
Sara Gonzalez Flavell             Lawyer
Paul Martin                       Economist
Luis Coirolo                      Community Development
Beatrice Renzi                    Communication Specialist
D.J. Baxi                         Procurement
Meera Chatterjee                  Social Scientist
P.C. Mohan                        Communication specialist
Parmesh Shah                      Community Development (peer reviewer)
Mauricio Guadagni                 Agriculturist (peer reviewer)
David Marsden                     Social Scientist
Arpana Agarwal                    Micro Finance
Jaques Toureille                  Micro Finance
Zoubida Allaoua                   Economist (peer reviewer)
- 88 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
INDIA: Madhya Pradesh District Poverty Initiatives Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Draft State Project Implementation Plan
Draft Operational Manual
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Economic Analysis of Demand-driven Investment Projects: The case of Madhya Pradesh District Poverty
Initiative Project by Achim Fock, 2000
Micro-finance issues in MP by Arpana Agarwal, 2000
Tribal Development Plan by Ruth Alsop, 2000
Monitoring and Learning by Ruth Alsop, 2000
Gender Strategy by Ruth Alsop, 2000
C. Other
Field Work Report (Draft), Vidisha District, Operations Research Group, August 1997
DPIP District Plan, Vidisha, Operations Research Group, March 1998
District Capacity Assessment, Vidisha District, Operations Research Group, November, 1997
A Proposal for Establishment of Milk Chilling Plant at Block - Lateri, Project Report, Vidisha District
Development Profile of District Vidisha for District poverty Initiative Project, Collector, Vidisha
Desk Review of District poverty for Vidisha, Raisen, Damoii and Sagar, Operations Research Group,
February, 1997
Innovative Project for Fisheries Development, District Vidisha
DPIP Social Assessment: Fieldwork Report, Guna District Sanket
DPIP District Plan, Guna, Sanket
District Capacity Assessment, Guna District, Operations Research Group, December, 1997
Desk Review of District Poverty & Stakeholder Analysis, Guna District, Sanket
Perspective Plan for Raisen (Draft), 8th Give Year Plan 1992-97, Decentralized Planning for Rural
Employment and Poverty Alleviation, National Institute of Rural Development
DPIP District Plan, Shajapur, 1998
Desk Review of District poverty and Stakeholder Analysis, Shajapur District, 1998
DPIP Social Assessment: Shajapur District, 1998
DPIP District Plan, Rajgarh, 1998
Desk Review of District poverty and Stakeholder Analysis, Rajgarh District, 1998
DPIP Social Assessment: Rajgarh District, 1998
DPIP District Plan, Shivpuri, 1998
Desk Review of District poverty and Stakeholder Analysis, Shivpuri District, 1998
DPIP Social Assessment: Shivpuri District, 1998
DPIP District Plan, Narsinghpur, 1998
Desk Review of District poverty and Stakeholder Analysis, Narsinghpur District, 1998
DPIP Social Assessment: Narsinghpur District, 1998
DPIP District Plan, Damot, 1998
Desk Review of District poverty and Stakeholder Analysis, Damot District, 1998
DPIP Social Assessment: Damot District, 1998
DPIP District Plan, Damot, 1998
- 89 -



DPIP Social Assessment: Sagar District, 1998
DPIP District Plan, Sagar, 1998
Desk Review of District poverty and Stakeholder Analysis, Rewa District, 1998
DPIP Social Assessment: Rewa District, 1998
DPIP District Plan, Rewa, 1998
Desk Review of District poverty and Stakeholder Analysis, Tikamgarh District, 1998
Desk Review of District poverty and Stakeholder Analysis, Chhatarpur District, 1998
Desk Review of District poverty and Stakeholder Analysis, Panna District, 1998
Desk Review of District poverty and Stakeholder Analysis, Sidhi District, 1998
*Including electronic files
- 90 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
INDIA: Madhya Pradesh District Poverty Initiatives Project
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions            disbursements
Project ID     FY   Borrower                         Purpose                                         IBRD       IDA        Cancel.   Undisb.         Orig   Frm Rev'd
IN-PE-41264    1999 GOI                          WTRSHD MGMT HILLS II                                  85.00      50.00        0 00     134.38        0.00       0.00
IN-PE-45050    1999 GOVERNMENTOF INDIA           RAJASTHANOPEP                                          0.00      85.70        0.00      84.31        0.00       0.00
IN-PE-45051    1999 GOI                          2ND NATL HIV/AIDS CO                                   0.00     191.00        0.00     188.45        0.00       0.00
IN-PE-49537    1999 GOI                          AP POWER APL I                                      210.00        0.00        0.00     199.83       11.83       0.00
IN-PE-50637    1999 GOI                          TN URBAN DEV II                                      105.00       0.00        0.00     105.00        0.00       0.00
IN-PE-50646    1999 GOVERNMENTOFINDIA            UPSODICLANDSII                                         0.00     194.10        0.00     189.62        6.17       0.00
IN-PE-50651    1999 GOI                          MAHARASH HEALTH SYS                                    0.00     134.00        0.00     127.99      131.01       0.00
IN-PE-10496    1998 GOI                          ORISSA HEALTH SYS                                      0.00      76.40        0.00      72.55        1.99       0.00
IN-PE-10561    1998 GOI                          NATLAGRTECHNOLOGY                                     96.80     100,00        0.00     189.78       14.20       0.00
IN-PE-35160    1998 GOVERNMENT OF INDIA          HARYANA POWER APL-1                                  60.00        0.00        0.00      38.19       14.18       0.00
IN-PE-35169    1998 GOVERNMENT OF INDIA          U.P FORESTRY                                           0.00      52.94        0.00      44.86        4.44       0.00
IN-PE-35824    1998 GOI                          UP DIV AGRC SUPPORT                                  79.90       50.00        0.00     124.48       16.35       0.00
IN-PE-35827    1998 GOI                          WOMEN & CHILD DEVLPM                                   0.00     300.00        0.00     297.75        0.00       0.00
IN-PE-38021    1998 GOVERNMENT OF INDIA          DPEP III (BIHAR)                                       0.00     152.00        0.00     136.06       23.92       0.00
IN-PE-49385    1998 GOVERNMENTOF INDIA           APECONRESTRUCTURIN                                  301.30      241.90        0.00     469.19        5.45       0.00
IN-PE-49477    1998 CIL                          KERALA FORESTRY                                        0.00      39.00        0.00      34.77       -0.74       0.00
IN-PE-50638    1998 GOI                          UP BASIC ED II                                         0.00      59.40        0.00      29.75       -1.80       0.00
IN-PE-9979     1998 GOI                          COAL SECTOR REHAB                                    530.00       2.00       15.00     433.64       40.82      40.82
IN-PE-10473    1997 GO)                          TUBERCULOSIS CONTROL                                   0.00     142.40        0.00     126.88       53.54       0.00
IN-PE-10511    1997 GOI                          MALARIACONTROL                                        0.00      164.80        0.00     148.70       29.73       0.00
IN-PE-10531    1997 GOI                          REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH1                                   0.00     248.30        0.00     229.98       64.51       0.16
IN-PE-35158    1997 GOI                          AP IRRIGATION III                                    175.00     150.00        0.00     252.96       32.20       0.00
IN-PE-36062    1997 GOI                          ECODEVELOPMENT                                         0.00      28.00        0.00      21.98        4.13       0.00
IN-PE-43728    1997 GOI                          ENV CAPACITY BLDG TA                                   0.00      50.00        0.0o      42.38       11.29       0.00
IN-PE-44449    1997 GOVT OF INDIA                RURAL WOMENS DEV                                       0.00      19.50        0.00      16.86        7.12       0.00
IN-PE-45600    1997 GOI                          TA ST'S RD INFRA DEV                                 51.50        0.00        0.00      32.49       17.99       0.00
IN-PE-49301    1997 GOVT OF INDIA                A.P. EMERG, CYCLONE                                   50.00     100.00        0.00     118.99       50.67       0.00
IN-PE-9995     1997 GOI                          STATE HIGHWAYS I(AP)                                350.00        0.00        0.00     327.32       42.32       0.00
IN-PE-10480    1996 GOI                          B SEWAGE DISPOSAL                                    167.00      25.00        0.00     119.89       95.74       0.00
IN-PE-10484    1996 GOI                          UP RURAL WATER                                        59.60       0.00        000       50.24       11.33       000
IN-PE-10485    1996 GOI                          HYDROLOGY PROJECT                                      0.00     142.00        0.00      93.33       54.34       0.00
IN-PE-10529    1996 IL&FS                        ORISSAWRCP                                             0.00     290.90        0.00     155.24        5.97       0.00
IN-PE-35170    1996 GOI                          ORISSA POWER SECTOR                                  350.00       0.00        0.00     322.28      102.28       0.00
IN-PE-35821    1996 GOI                          DISTRICT PRIM EDUC2                                    0.00     425.20        0.00     296.10       11.50       0.00
IN-PE-35825    1996 GOI                          STATEHEALTHSYSII                                       0.00     350.00        000      259.15      116.27       0.00
IN-PE-39935    1996 GOI                          ILFS-INFRAS FINANCE                                 200.00        5.00        0.00     178.91       99.84       0.00
IN-PE-43310    1996 GOI                          COAL ENV&SOCIAL MIT.                                   0.00      63.00        0.00      44.70       15.58       0.00
IN-PE-10461    1995 GOVERNMENT OF INDIA          MADRAS WATER SUP II                                  275.80       0.00      189.30      53.37      171.86       6.30
IN-PE-10463    1995 GOI                          INDUS POLLUTION PREV                                 143.00      25.00        1.72     142.89       80.05      88.33
IN-PE-10464    1995 GOI                          DISTRICT PRIMARY ED                                    0.00     260.30        0.00     123.72       42.05       0.00
IN-PE-10476    1995 GOVT OF INDIA                TAMIL NADU WRCP                                        0.00     282.90        0.00     208.09      117.37       0.00
IN-PE-10489    1995 GOI                          AP 1ST REF. HEALTH S                                   0.00     133.00        0.00      63.06       12.17       0.00
IN-PE-10503    1995 GOI                          AGRIC HUMAN RES DEVT                                   0.00      59.50        0.00      33.18       28.00       0.00
IN-PE-10506    1995 GOI                          MP FORESTRY                                            0.00      58.00        0.00      15.79        9.67       0.00
IN-PE-10522    1995 GO                          ASSAM RURAL INFRA                                      0.00     126.00        000       95.78       42.46       000
IN-PE-10563    1995                              FINANCIAL SECTOR DEV                                 700.00       0.00      250.00     216.97    -233.03        0.00
IN-PE-10448    1994                              FORESTRY RESEARCH ED                                   0.00      47.00        0.00      20.08       38.61       5.28
IN-PE-10449    1994                              ANDHRA PRADESH FORESTRY                                0.00      77.40        0.00      21.22       12.04       0.00
IN-PE-10455    1994                              BLINDNESS CONTROL                                      0.00     117.80        0.00      80.26       40.27       0.00
IN-PE-10457    1994                              POPULATION IX                                          0.00      88,60        0.00      49.48       21.70       0.00
- 91 -



Difference between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions             and actual
disbursements
Project ID     FY   Borrower                       Purpose                                       IBRD          IDA    Cancel.   Undisb.        Orig   Frm Rev'd
IN-PE-9870     1994 GOVT. OF INDIA             CONTAINER TRANSPORT                                 94.00       0.00       0.00      67.92      63.93       -0.18
IN-PE-9964     1994 GOI                        WATER RES CONSOLID H                                 0.00     258.00       0.00     136.97      78.91        0.00
IN-PE-10407    1993 GOI                        ADP- RAJASTHAN                                       0.00     106.00       0.00      21.83      24.99        0.00
IN-PE-10408    1993 GOI                        BIHAR PLATEAU                                        0.00     117.00       0.00      48.54      55.32        0.00
IN-PE-10410    1993 GOI                        RENEWABLE RESOURCES                                 75.00     115.00       0.00      68.28      98.17        0.00
IN-PE-10416    1993 GOI                        PGCPOWERSYSTEM                                     350.00       0.00      75.00      41.79     112.19        0.00
IN-PE-10418    1993 GOI                        KARNATAKAWS & ENV/S                                  0.00      92.00       0.00      26.93      26.50        0.00
IN-PE-10424    1993 GOI                        NATL LEPROSY ELIMINA                                 0.00      85.00       9.07      24.37      33.63        9.36
IN-PE-9955     1993 GOI                        UTTAR PRADESH BASIC                                  0.00     165.00       0.00      20.47      -5.30     -143.45
IN-PE-9959     1993 GOI                        RUBBER                                               0.00     92.00       36.58      22.87      57.04       16.27
IN-PE-9961     1993 GOI                        UP SODIC LANDS RECLA                                 0.00      54.70       0.00      12.76       8.33        0.00
IN-PE-9977     1993 GOI & STATES               ICDS II (BIHAR & MP)                                 0.00     194.00       0.00     116.76      91.36      101.67
IN-PE-10390    1992 GOI                        MAHARASHTRA FORESTRY                                 0.00     124.00      16.18      32.36      48.55       31.87
IN-PE-9921     1992 GCI                        SHRIMP & FISH CULTUR                                 0.00     85.00       48.51      15.83      63.78       15.17
IN-PE-9946     1992 GOI                        NAT. HIGHWAYS 11                                   153.00     153.00       0.00     150.69     103.15        0.00
IN-PE-9963     1992 GOI                        POPULATION VIII                                      0.00      79.00       0.00      55.10      53.91        0.00
IN-PE-9877     1991 GO]                        DAM SAFETY                                         23.00      130.00      60.03      25.35      84.06        3.39
IN-PE-9988     1991                            TECH EDUC II                                         0.00     307.10      51.37      72.53     131.94       68.41
IN-PE-9982     1990                            NOR REG TRANSM                                     485.00       0.00       0.00     173.96     173.95        0.00
Total:    5,169.90    7,364.84      752.76     7,998.18   2,791.90    243.40
- 92 -



INDIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
3 1 -Jul- 1999
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                       Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
0                 IAAF                          0.00    0.00    6.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.11    0.00
1964/75/79/90      MUSCO                          0.00    0.00    1.08    0.00    0.00    0.00     1.08    0.00
1978/87/91/93      HDFC                          40.00    0.00    2.29    0.00   40.00    0.00    2.29    0.00
1981               Nagarjuna Steel                0.00    0.00    0.07    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.07    0.00
1981/86/81/91/93/96  ITW Signode                  0.00    0.00    1.55    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.55    0.00
1981/86/89/94/92   TISCO                          1.58    0.00   15.37    0.00    1.58    0.00   15.37    0.00
1981/90/93         M&M                            0.17    0.00    6.49    0.67    0.17    0.00    6.49    0.67
1984/90/94         India Lease                    0.44    0.00    0.86    0.00    0.44    0.00    0.86    0.00
1984/91            Bihar Sponge                  12.21    0.00    0.68    0.00   12.21    0.00    0.68    0.00
1986               EXB-City Mills                 0.48    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.48    0.00    0.00    0.00
1986               EXB-NB Footwear                0.19    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.19    0.00    0.00    0.00
1986               EXB-STG                        0.34    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.34    0.00    0.00    0.00
1986               EXB-TAN                        0.03    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.03    0.00    0.00    0.00
1986/92/93/94      GESCO                          0.00    0.00   11.80    0.00    0.00    0.00    11.80    0.00
1986/93/94/95      India Equipment                0.33    0.00    0.00    0.80    0.33    0.00    0.00    0.80
1987               Hindustan                      2.87    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.87    0.00    0.00    0.00
1987/88/90/93      Titan Watches                  0.34    0.00    1.03    0.00    0.34    0.00    1.03    0.00
1988/90/92         Tata Telecom                   0.00    0.00    0.10    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.10    0.00
1988/94            GKN Invel                      0.00    0.00    1.40    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.40    0.00
1989               AEC                            9.28    0.00    0.00    0.00    9.28    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989               UCAL                           0.00    0.00    0.63    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.63    0.00
1989/90/94         Tata Electric                 24.87    0.00    0.00    0.00   24.87    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989/91            Gujarat State                  2.17    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.17    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989/95            JSB India                      0.00    0.00    1.21    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.21    0.00
1990               HOEL                           0.00    0.00    0.28    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.28    0.00
1990               TDICI-VECAUS II                0.00    0.00    1.23    0.00    0.00    0.00      1.23    0.00
1990/92            CESC                          39.49    0.00    0.00   53.60   39.49    0.00    0.00   53.60
1990/93/94/98      IL & FS                       16.50    1.81    6.23    5.00   16.50    1.81    6.23    5.00
1990/94            ICICI-IFGL                     0.00    0.00    0.30    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.30    0.00
1990/95            ICICI-SPIC Fine                0.00    0.00    1.88    0.00    0.00    0.00      1.88    0.00
1991/93            Triveni                        0.00    0.00    1.11    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.11    0.00
1991/96            VARUN                          0.00    0.00    1.35    0.00    0.00    0.00      1.35    0.00
1992               Indus VC Mgt Co                0.00    0.00    0.01    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.01    0.00
1992               Indus VCF                      0.00    0.00    1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      1.00    0.00
1992               Info Tech Fund                 0.00    0.00    0.64    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.64    0.00
1992               SKF Bearings                   1.90    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.90    0.00    0.00    0.00
1992/93            Arvind Mills                   0.00    0.00   17.10    0.00    0.00    0.00    17.10    0.00
1992/94/97         Ispat Industries              30.35    0.00   15.41    0.00   30.35    0.00   15.41    0.00
1992/95           IL&FS Venture                   0.00    0.00    1.05    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.05    0.00
1992/96/97         NICCO-UCO                      6.13    0.00    0.50    0.00    2.13    0.00    0.50    0.00
1993/94/96         IndoRama                      18.75    0.00    11.98    7.50   18.75    0.00    11.98    7.50
1993/97            20TH Century                  11.66    0.00    0.80    0.44   11.66    0.00    0.80    0.44
1994               Centurion Growth               0.00    0.00    2.39    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.39    0.00
1994               Chowgule                      12.63    0.00    4.58    19.38   12.63    0.00    4.58   19.38
1994               Crdcap Asset Mgt               0.00    0.00    0.32    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.32    0.00
1994               DLF Cement                     7.70    0.00    4.94    10.63    7.70    0.00    4.94   10.63
1994               Gujarat Ambuja                 0.00    0.00    8.23    0.00    0.00    0.00    8.23    0.00
- 93 -



Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                        Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
1994               Taurus Starshare               0.00    0.00    7.17    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.17    0.00
1994/97            GVK                           26.66    0.00    7.45   30.19   26.66    0.00    7.45   30.19
1994/98            Global Trust                   5.00    5.00    3.19    0.00    5.00    5.00    3.19    0.00
1995               Centurion Bank                 0.00    0.00    3.87    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.87    0.00
1995               EXIMBANK                      15.91    0.00    0.00    0.00   15.91    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995               GE Capital                     8.75    0.00    5.00    0.00    8.75    0.00    4.39    0.00
1995               Prism Cement                  14.06    0.00    5.02   10.50   14.06    0.00    5.02   10.50
1995               Rain Calcining                19.25    0.00    5.46    0.00   19.25    0.00    5.46    0.00
1995               Sara Fund                      0.00    0.00    6.06    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.60    0.00
1995/98            RPG Communicatns               0.00    0.00    11.25    0.00    0.00    0.00    11.25    0.00
1996               India Direct Fnd               0.00    0.00    7.47    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.52    0.00
1996               Indus II                       0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.00    0.00
1996               Indus Mauritius                0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996               United Riceland               10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996/99            MoserBaer                     20.05    0.00   10.14    0.00    2.30    0.00    10.14    0.00
1997               Asian Electronic               0.00    0.00    5.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.50    0.00
1997               CEAT                          20.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   20.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997               Duncan Hospital                7.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997               EEPL                           0.00    0.00    0.03    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.03    0.00
1997               Owens Coming                  25.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   25.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997               SAPL                           0.00    0.00    0.07    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.07    0.00
1997               SREI                          15.00    0.00    3.00    0.00   14.00    0.00    3.00    0.00
1997               Walden-Mgt India               0.00    0.00    0.01     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.01    0.00
1997               WIV                            0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      1.63    0.00
1998               IDFC                           0.00    0.00   15.46    0.00    0.00    0.00    15.46    0.00
Total Portfolio:      427.09    6.81  238.54   138.71  394.34    6.81  219.76  138.71
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                          Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
Total Pending Commitment:         0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
- 94 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
INDIA: Madhya Pradesh District Poverty Initiatives Project
919/99
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                 South      Low-
Itdia      Asia   Income        DOvelopment dismond
t99S
Pooulalion. mid-vear (millions)                         979.7       1.305     3.515                   Life expectancy
GNP car caoita (Atlas method. US$)                        430        430        520
GNP (Atias method. USS billionsl                        421.3        555      1.844
Averaao annual rowth. 1992-98
Pooulation 1                                               1.7        1.8       1.7
Labor force (%l                                            2.1        2.3        19      GNP                                 Gross
per                               primary
Most recont estimate tlatast vear avaIlable. 1992-981                                    capita                          enrollment
Povertv f% of oooul*tion below national oovertv line)      35
Urban population (% of total oooulation)                   28         27         31
Life eXDectancv at birth ivears)                           63         82         63
Infant mortalitvy oer 1.000 live birlhs]                   71         77         89
Child malnutrition (% of chifdren under 5)                 53         53                            Access to safe water
Access to safe water /% of oooutationl                     85         81         74
Illiteracv (% of ooouletion ace 15+1                       47         49         32
Gross orimarv enrollment (% ofschool-ace Doousation)      100        100        108         -ndia -         Low-income group
Male                                                    109        109        113
Female                                                   90         90        103
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987       1997       1998
GDP fSS billions)                              102.7    247.6       397.1     420.8       Economic ratlos'
Gross domestic investment/GDP                   20.4      22,6       23.1      23 4
EXDOotS of ooods and services/GDP                68.       5.5       10.5      10.7                       Trade
Gross domestic savinos/GDP                      21.1      20.1       19.6      20.0
Gross national savinoasJGDP                              20.5        21.8      21.8
Current account balancelGDP                      1.3      .2.4       t1.3       -1.4
Interest oavmentslGOP                            0.3       0,7        1.0       0.9      Domestic                       Investment
Total debt/GOP                                  14.1      19.4       23.5      22,4      Savings
Total debt servicetexoorts                      1S.3      32.0       23.2       19.0
Present value of debt/GDP                                            17.S
Present value of debt/exoorts                                       135.8
Indebtedness
1977-87  1988.98      1997       199J   1999.03
(avereae annual erowshi
GDP                                    4.4       5.7       7.3        5.0       6.0        -India             Low-incomegroup
GNP oer caoita                         2,1       3.8       5.8        3A4       47
Exoorts of coods and services          3.4      12,0       7.0       10.1       4.7
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987       1997       1998       Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
/% of GDPI                                                            ~
Aoriculture                                     38.2      31.4       29.3      27.5      30
Industrv                                        23.0     26.2        26.1      26.1      20
Manufacturina                                 15.5      16.1       16.8       16.8     10        I
Services                                        38.9      42.3       44.7      46.4       o      93   94   9s   96   97   99
Private consumDtion                             69.3      68.2       70.2      68.9    -20
General oovernment consumotion                   9.6      11,7       10.2      11.1                      GDl            GOP
Imoorts of ooods and services                    5.9       8.1       14.0      14.1                       GD        *-GP
1977-87  1988-98       1997       1998      Growth rates of exports and imports 1%)
(averaoe annual arowtsh)
Aoriculture                                      2.6       3.7        9.4      -1.0      40
Industrv                                         5.2       6.6        6.0       5.9      30                       JN
Manufacturino                                  5.5       7.1        7.7        6.8    20                   _
Services                                         5.5       7.2        8.0        8.2    is
Private consumDtion                              4.8       5.1       10.6        2.0                                      I 9
General oovernment consumotion                   6.9       6.6       11.3      19.4    -iO953 >              95                go
Gross domestic investment                        4.2       6.4       -1.3       7,7      20
Imoorts of ooods and services                    8.7       8.9       10.3      12.2              -Exports            mports
Gross national oroduct                           4.3       5.7        7.5        5.0
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv (in boldt comoared with its income-arouo averaoe. If data are missino. the diamond will
be incomolete.
- 95 -



India
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic porices                              i977     187       1997      1998      Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                          20
Consumer prices                               -7.6      8.8        9.4       6.8     5
Implicit GDP deflator                          5.9      6.5        7.9       5.6    10
Government finance
(% of GDP, Includes current grants)                                                  o
Current revenue                                 ..    23.3        21.0      22.0             93   94   95   96 
Current budget balance                          ,,      1.5        0.4       0.0              -GDP deflator        '*CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                         ..   -12.3        -7.8      -8.9
TRADE
(USS millions)                               1977      1967      1997      1198      Export and Import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                             ..  10,420    34,133    35,680       90,000
Tea                                            ..    451         292       410
Iron                                          ..    428          481      475       *00
Manufactures                                   ..   6.458    25,490    28,022
Total imports (cif)                             ,.  17,740    48.948    51,187
Food                      ..   1.068                           1,536     1.687     20,000
Fuel and energy                                ..   2.187      9,626     7,624
Capital goods                                  ..   5,074      8,413     7,140         o
92  93  94  95  90  97  98
Exnort nrinp Indltx 11995-1001                           RA        qn        87
Imoort onrice index (1995=1O0)                  ..       77       101       104                 *Exports      *Irnports
Terms nf Iraile (1995=100)                       ..    11fi        89        84
RALANCE of PAYMENTS
fUSS millions)                                1077     1987      1997      1998      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                p,800   13,637    41,607    45,109 o
Imports of goods and services                6,060   19,962    55,896    59,297
Resource balance                               720  -4,325   -14.089   .14.188
Net income                                     -98   -2,046     -3,307    -3,521
Net current transfers                          692  2,327  12,367  11,830   .*                 1         lIII
Current account balance                      1,314   -6,043     -5,029    -5.879
Financing items (net)                       -1.314    6,114     10,256     9,475
Changes in net reserves                          0      -72     -5.227    -3,596     2
Memo:
Reserves includina oold (USS millionst       3.747    7.200    26.050    28.757
Conversion rate (DEC. Iocal/USS)               8.9     12.8       35.5      37.2
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1877     1987      1997      1998
(USS millions)                                                                       Composition of total debt, 1998 (US5 millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        14,471   48,124    93,435    94,404
IBRD                                        458    3,475       8,768     8,138                   0: 5,046 A: 8,139
IDA                                        3,333   10.529     17,816    17,912
Total debt service                           1,178    5,273    12,058    10.586
IBRD                                          88      469      1,514     1.482                                     5:17,912
IDA                                           30      152       365       381
Composition of net resource flows                                                    F: 35.574                        C: 664
Official grants                              377      403       410       379
Official creditors                         1,058    1,404       184       -65                         ,:3,341
Private creditors                            *14    2,793      -147      2,520
Foreign direct Investment                     0       206      2,851    3,525
Portfolio equity                               0        0      3,312     1.828                              E:22,729
World Bank program
Commitments                                  315    1.790      1,532     1,755     A-IBRD                        E-Bilateral
Disbursements                               610    1,297       1,592     1,373     B-IDA     D-Olther rnultilateral   F-Private
Principal repayments                         6e       235      1,074     1,144     C.  UF                        r (1h-.-
Net flows                                    544    1,062       518       229
Interest payments                             52      388       804       719
Net transfers                                492      676       -287     -490
Development Economics                                                                                                    9/9/99
- 96 -



MAP SECTION






\~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lb crete as perMPnb  laseE2'aE2   illoI
f tt_>*S \ sHIV?Ut ^~~~8 0>s,        8, j 1
24'/-~~~~74                76'
'I       Unit of The  nk                 n =                                     of A Ut252G0  2  0
1-   [--I    PRJC  DISTRICTSOJC D< adatJMl
t   r             n   R    re:u:          2   2   looKirk  Mreno  B H                       ,      26
My RI VE
26~~~~~~~~   TT CAIA                 EDNAO AIO
- -  DISTRICT BOUNDARIES~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fv  -
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
-   STATE BOUNDARIES  0~~~~~~~SA
7 4 '         7 6 '            7 8nd s8          0r                                    2 4 '



