E-372
VOL. 2
ENVIRONMENTAL
ASSESSMENT
INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH DISTRICT
POVERTY INITIATIVES PROJECT






TRIBAL DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY FOR DPIP'
Introduction
Madhya Pradesh is a predominantly tribal state with 23.3% of its population identified as
tribal. The area of tribal concentration accounts for nearly 40% of the state and it
comprises of 5 whole and well over 40 part districts. The state is home to several tribes -
small, large and even those nearing extinction in numbers - and it presents among the
most challenging scenarios for human development anywhere in the country.
This strategy document broadly outlines the context of tribal's socio-economic and
development status in Madhya Pradesh and presents a plan to address these within the
framework of the World Bank financed District Poverty Initiatives Project (DPIP). The
DPIP is a people centered, participatory poverty alleviation program that targets the poor
and disadvantaged sections of the population in 14 districts of Madhya Pradesh. The
implementation of the project is based on an innovative approach that highlights demand
sensitive development, promoting and supporting effective decentralized governance and
addressing obstacles to income security.
It is well established that the tribal communities as anywhere else in the country are
among the most vulnerable and marginalized groups. In various forms they face social
adversity, oppression and economic hardships. They have to contend with unequal and
insecure access to productive resources and share poor participation in governance. Tribal
areas and communities largely remain underserved through public systems - both on
account of supply (resources fail to reach the target or programs fail to bring long term
change) and demand factors (poor ability to demand and elicit resources and services).
Poor educational achievements, a vulnerable health status and a insecure livelihood base
increasingly dependent on exploitative wage labor has kept these groups to the margins
of development in Madhya Pradesh.
The districts selected under DPIP in Madhya Pradesh fall outside the concentrated tribal
areas of the state. Proportion of tribals in the total population of the districts is less than
15 percent with the exception of one district Sidhi where this is 30 percent (Refer Table 2
on page for district wise details). Even so the number and status of tribal as among the
poorest in these districts warrants specific attention to aspects of their participation and
intended benefits from the DPIP. This tribal development strategy document is a
recognition by the Government of the fact that benefits from programs and schemes
intended for the tribal do not reach them automatically. Deliberate, strategic measures
and protective regimes have to combine with relevant programs in order to ensure that
benefits actually accrue to vulnerable sections such as tribal. Accordingly, this documents
sets out an agenda of action for DPIP and identifies measures and provisions intended to
' Paper prepared by Rajiv Khandelwal and Sudhir Katiyar, Sudrak under contract from World Bank. The
authors wish to thank Dr Ruth Alsop, Senior Social Scientist, WB and Ms Gauri Singh, Project Director,
DPIP, GoMP, Bhopal. We also acknowledge the inputs and insights of the several individuals associated
with tribal and rural development within the Government and NGOs who we met during the course of this
exercise. Valuable assistance during the assignment was received from Mr. Prasan Khemariya, who we
wish to specially thank.



protect and enhance the participation of and benefit to the tribal communities in the
selected DPIP districts. District level social assessments carried out under DPIP have
taken note of the presence of the tribal community as amongst the poorest communities in
these districts. The district SAs have analyzed the special predicament of these
communities and possibilities of interventions in their favor. This paper identifies broad
principles and directions for institutional and programmatic intervention with the tribal in
the DPIP districts.
This strategy document is structured as follows:
1. Context of Tribal Communities of MP - An Overview
2. Legal and Policy Framework for Tribal in MP
3. Government and Non Government Organizations working for Tribal
Development in MP
4. Status of Tribals in DPIP Districts
5. Tribal Development Strategy for DPIP
6. Institutional and Programmatic Interventions for Tribal in DPIP
1.    The Context of Tribal Communities in Madhya Pradesh : An Overview
The state of Madhya Pradesh is home to the largest number of tribal anywhere in the
country. Not only are the tribal large in numbers, they are also extremely diverse in
location, origins, socio-cultural history, language, livelihood and level of development.
With the exception of some isolated tribes which continue to be in the food gathering
stage, settled cultivation is the dominant mode of occupation for tribals. However forests
continue to be a significant source of livelihood. This is a result of the historical pattem
of settlement whereby the tribal communities reside in forested areas. The areas of tribal
concentration in Madhya Pradesh can be classified as under:
North Eastern Zone.: Comprising of Surguja, Shahdol, Raigarh, Bilaspur, Sidhi and areas
of other adjoining district the primarily hilly north eastern zone is the abode to the
Oraons, Korwa, Kol, Kamar and Panika tribes. The area has number of primitive tribes
such as Korwa-s and smaller groups of Baiga and Bhaina-s.
Central Zone : Mandla, Chhindwara, Seoni, Balaghat and Mandla together with parts of
other districts form this pocket of tribal concentration. The area is also hilly and well
forested in parts. Gond, Korku, Kol and Baiga are the prominent tribal groups of this
zone.
Western Zone : This zone comprises Jhabua, Dhar, Khargone, Khandwa, Ratlam and
parts of adjacent districts. Some parts of the area have seen sharp degradation but forest
tracts survive in Ratlam and Dhar. Bhils, Bhilala, Patlia and Barela are the main tribal
communities of the state.
North West Zone : Sahariyas are the main tribal groups in the districts of Shivpuri,
Morena, Guna and other parts of adjoining districts. Proportion of tribal population is low



compared to other zones. The area has rich forest cover remaining in some belts of
Shivpuri and Guna.
Southern Zone: Comprising of Bastar and other districts which have been carved out of
Bastar, this is a large area with very high. tribal concentration. It is clearly the most 'tribal'
of all the areas - heavily forested and with little traces of development. This area is
populated by various sub tribes of Gonds.
Numerically the Gonds are the largest tribe of MP followed by Bhils. Kol, Kawar and
Oraon are the other significant tribes. There are a few sections, such as among Gonds and
Korkus, who, by virtue of their location and entitlement, have derived benefits of settled
agriculture under favorable conditions and have also sought to assert a higher social
identity. However for most tribal, settlements are along hill tracts, forests or marginal
lands; social status and economic endowment is low and precarious. The following are
the main development indicators that highlight the problems and challenges facing the
tribal communities in the state.
Education
Education is among the most powerful tools of socio-economic empowerment but the
tribal communities of the state have lagged far behind both in terms of access and
scholastic achievement. The state has been investing considerably in infrastructure
development for universalization of education yet large proportion of tribal, particularly
girls, remain outside the scope and reach of formal schooling. The 1991 census revealed
that the overall literacy rate among the tribal stood at 21.5%: 32.2% among men and a
mere 10.6% among women. There are of course spatial variations within these - for
example the north zone of tribal concentration viz. Shivpuri, Morena, Guna have among
the lowest literacy rates among its tribes (mainly Sahariyas). Lack of social motivation,
economic stress, limited perceived relevance of schooling, poor teacher motivation and
training and inadequate resources have combined to jeopardize the tribal's access to
education. These act even more aggressively on the girl child. Hence the gender gap in
education remains persistent.
MP has been witness to a number of innovative government programs (Education
Guarantee Scheme, Alternative Schooling, DPEP) and initiatives by voluntary
organizations in the field of education. The initiatives have sought to fulfill the supply
gap by offering more and better equipped facilities and also to improve effectiveness of
public education system by focusing upon pedagogy and aspects of teacher motivation.
The Education Guarantee Schemes aims to provide a schooling facility on demand to all
settlements with 40 children (25 for tribal areas). During one and a half year of its
operation, 19289 schools were opened, mostly in tribal areas. MP declared universal
access to primary education in August 1998. DPEP is a World Bank sponsored project
targeted at universalisation of primary education through multiple interventions at
programmatic and institutional levels, covering all aspects of education. Alternative
Schooling was introduced as an intervention under DPEP for education of children who
are not able to study in formal schools for a variety of socio economic reasons.



MP is also home to perhaps the best known NGO working in the field of education in the
country: Eklavya. Interventions by Eklavya have focused on evolving better teaching
methods and training of Government teachers in these methods. Eklavya has been able to
influence the curriculum in primary and middle schools of the state and its efforts have
been received well by the state education system.
Livelihood and Employment
Agriculture, animal husbandry, forestry and allied activities are the single largest
contributors to the livelihood of tribal' communities in the state. These are carried
primarily for own subsistence and often under endemically adverse ecological and
economic factors. The major constraint in enhancing agriculture returns among the tribal
groups has been marginal land ownership, feudal structures of production and low ability
for investment.
The HDR for MP illustrates that for the state as a whole 24.7% of all land holdings are
owned by tribal cultivators and this constitutes 25.2% of the total land under cultivation.
Considering that the tribal population accounts for 23.3% of the total population this
distribution may appear to be equitable. This is however not correct since the state
averages are pushed up by the land ownership patterns in a few tribal dominant districts
such as Jhabua, Shahdol, Bastar, Dhar and Ratlam. Further, in all cases the quality of
lands held and tilled by tribal is the least productive. This is a result of the historical
pattern of settlement where tribal have come to inhabit the marginal lands in hills around
cultivated tracts. Proportion of cultivated land to total geographical area is low in tribal
areas. Incidence of irrigation is also low (Land use classification in MP, 1992-93, Table
EL-3, page 242, MPHDR 1998). Even in tribal areas, often the best quality lands are held
by non tribal.
Table I
Number and Area of Operational Holdings of Scheduled Tribe in MP
SNo.   Size Class in    Total number of      % age        Area of       % area
Hects.          holdings        holdings of    holdings    operated by
__________ _  _______ _________ST s                     ST s
1-      Below 0.5           2143             21           563           21.1
2-      0.5 & 1.0           1735             22.8         1233          23.2
3-      1.0 & 2.0           2312             24.8         3336           25
4-      2.0 & 3.0           1244             28.8         2969          28.4
5-      3.0 & 4.0           674              26.8         2320          26.7
6-      4.0 & 5.0           454              26.9         2014          27.3
7-      5.0 & 10.0          785              26           5349           26
8-     10.0 & 20.0          213              22.5         2817          29.4
9-    20.0 and above         43              23.5         1289          22.4
Total            9683             24.2         21890         25.1
Land alienation and insecurity of tenure has been a regular feature of tribal land
ownership and this makes their stakes even more uncertain amounting to virtual
landlessness among them. Wrongful dispossession, unfair tenancy arrangements and
bondage are common in areas dominated by non-tribal peasant caste elites. In these



situations the tribal families exist on the margin of the agrarian economy serving it with
their cheap labor and skills.
Farming is further constrained by the predominance of rainfed conditions, lack of assured
or protective irrigation, declining soil fertility, untimely and inadequate availability of
inputs such as seeds, drought power, fertilizer a generally low level of technological
adoption among small and marginal tribal farmners.
Commercially oriented animal husbandry based on cattle rearing and dairying is again
limited both on account of the paucity of feed base, low investment ability and poor
marketing options. However goatery, piggery and small scale poultry is common among
many tribal groups. Its products are used for exchange, localized sale and domestic
consumption thus these usually remain outside the scope of commercial marketing.
Forestry
Forest and forest produce occupy an important place in the tribal economy and
employment. In the state the richest forest reserves are found in the tribal homelands. The
access to and use of these has been the source of much contention between the tribal,
private interests and the state machinery for which the forests also represent an important
source of revenue.
The forests of the state are rich in timber and non-timber forest produce. These have been
traditionally collected, processed and sold by the tribal and form an important source of
cash income for them. Estimates indicate that nearly 100 million mandays of employment
are generated in the forestry sector and the largest share (70%) of these accrues to the
tribal residents of the forest areas (Ref HDR). Yet the forests present a precarious
livelihood source for the tribal.
With legal trade in timber highly restricted, most employment generation in forestry takes
place through collection and sale of Non Timber Forest Products (NTFPs). The five most
important NTFPs are nationalized with Madhya Pradesh State Minor Forest Produce Co-
operative Federation having monopoly rights of collection. The federation undertakes
collection of nationalized NTFPs through primary cooperative societies. The most
important NTFP from livelihood generation point of view is tendu patta. Rs 154 crores
were paid as wages to tendu patta collectors in 1997. This is significant supplementary
income to agriculture that accrues to tribal families in the lean agriculture season.
Headloadini of firewood around towns is frequent and provides critical income to poor
households.
The MP Government has accepted the responsibility of meeting the forest produce
requirements of people living around forest areas. This is called 'nistaar'. Under nistaar,
the Forest Department supplies fuel and fodder requirements of villagers at lower rates.
The latest Nistar policy of the government promulgated in 1994 restricts this facility to
villagers located within five km of forest boundary. However local residents do not have
any claim on commercial revenue from forest.
2 Reliable data on this activity is not available since it is often illegal.



Tribal have a close linkage with the Forest Department as they reside in and around forest
areas that are managed by the department. The relationship has been problematic to say
the least. At the crux of myriad problems lies the question of ownership - who owns the
forest land, the FD or the tribal who are the original inhabitants. The uneasy co existence
has at times broken into open hostilities also. The new initiative of FD viz. Joint Forest
Management (JFM) seeks to resolve this crucial issue by offering tribal communities a
stake in the management of forest lands.
Labor and Employment
The census reveals that for the state as a whole, the STs constitute 27.4% of the main
worker force. In rural areas they form 32.5% of all main workers. They are
predominantly engaged in activities in primary sector - agriculture, animal husbandry,
and forestry related activities. Given the low asset base in terms of land and livestock and
few options for self employment, wage labor forms an important component of the
tribal's economy in the state. The overwhelming source of wage labor for tribal is
agriculture operations. In addition forestry, mining and quarrying, and construction are
the other important consumers of tribal labor.
Labor arrangements and practices vary across the state but are uniformly pitted against
the poor. In most cases these are governed by traditional exchange relations dominated by
the upper caste landholding elites and merchant classes. Economic relations based on
social control are highly exploitative and have sustained in the light of credit dependence
of the tribal poor on the peasant castes forcing them into virtual bondage in many places.
The quest for wage labor has guided the tribal poor to urban centers and regions of high
agriculture production which provide opportunities for wage labor. Thus the Western
tribal belt of Jhabua Ratlam witnesses heavy migration to Gujarat on one side and Malwa
on the other after the monsoons are over. Young women also migrate (though in lesser
numbers) alongside adult men leaving behind the elderly and children in homesteads.
Employment is available in agriculture, public works, and construction. The wage labor
available is casual and completely determined by vagaries of market forces. None of the
numerous labor laws are applied to this mode of employment. Laborers have to depend
upon their employers for a basic need like sheltre. This vast casual workforce has been
described as 'footloose people' by researchers studying their conditions.
Active participation by women in manual labor is a feature of rural societies everywhere.
This is even more so for tribal society which is unhindered by caste taboos that place
restrictions on women's mobility for wage labor. If is common to find tribal women
going out on their own for wage labor on public works and to towns. While men folk cut
and gather fuelled, it is often the women who bring it into urban centers for sales.
Finally, children enter the workforce early in tribal society. Low average years of
schooling, high dropouts and establishment of nuclear family immediately after marriage
means that young tribal adults have to be independent very soon. Children work as



construction labor and in quarries and are also provide critical labor at the home and
farms.
Poverty and Deprivation
Given the adverse social and economic relations governing their lives the tribal of MP are
among the poorest and most vulnerable groups in the state. The recent poverty surveys by
the GoMP show that 18,02,487 tribal famnilies live below the poverty line. They comprise
35% of all families below poverty line in the state. This is much higher than their
proportion in the total population which stands at 23.3 percent.
2.     Legal and Policy Framework for Tribal Communities in MP
The Constitution of India makes special provisions for tribal. It lists out predominantly
tribal areas in Section 1 of Schedule 244 that are referred to as Scheduled Areas.
Similarly Schedule 342 gives state-wise list of communities to be designated as
Scheduled Tribes. Following widespread cases of atrocities against members of
Scheduled Castes and Tribes, the Center has passed Prevention of Atrocities (SC and ST)
Act. This Act stipulates stringent punishment to those who commit atrocities against any
tribal.3
In addition to the above significant act the main State Acts intended to protect the
interests of tribal in MP are as follows:
MP Land Revenue Code 1959: This Act governs tenancy regulation in MP. Section 170
(A) & (B) of this Code place restrictions on transfer of agricultural land owned by tribal
to non tribal. The transfer is completely prohibited in TSP Areas. In non TSP areas,
transfer is possible only with the permission of the District Collector.
MP Excise Act : Sections in this Act permit tribal to brew liquor for their personal
consumption and for use at social occasions. The relaxation is given keeping in mind the
traditional place of liquor in the social life of tribal.
MP Money Lending Act: This Act regulates activities of moneylenders with a view to
protect interests of weaker sections of society. It puts a limit on interest rate that can be
charged and the total interest that can be charged. It makes registration obligatory. It
further limits powers of civil court to issue decree in money lending cases and instead
provides for relief for the debtor.
3 The strict hierarchical caste divisions in the Indian society place the tribals at the very bottom of the social
ladder even though they are strictly not part of the caste system. Social discrimination is widespread and it
takes numerous forms like denial of public facilities to members of SC/ ST, derogatory forms of address,
forced show of subservience in the presence of upper caste people, and segregatory practices. Violence is
often resorted to for enforcing these norms. While legislation existed earlier also against these practices, the
new powerful Act provides for strong punitive action in these cases. It makes commitment of atrocities
against SC/ST a non bailable offence.



Panchayat Act (Extension to Schedules Areas) 1996: A chapter was added to the state
Panchayati Raj Act to incorporate recommendations of the Bhuria Committee. This
amendment provides for formation of Gram Sabhas and grants extensive powers to these
Gram Sabhas in Scheduled Areas. Acquisition of land and grant of leases for quarrying of
minor mineral are also brought within the purview of Gram sabhas. The legal framework
for Panchayati Raj is governed by the 73r amendment to the Constitution. This was not
applicable to Scheduled Areas as it was thought that Panchayati Raj bodies in tribal areas
should be formed in keeping with the existing social organization in these areas. Bhuria
Committee made recommendations for extension of Panchayati Raj to Scheduled areas.
The new chapter gives more autonomy and power to the gram sabha and ward sabha in
tribal Panchayats through bringing additional revenue and judicial rights under their
wings.
Besides the Panchayati Raj Act, MP Government has also amended other Acts to bring
them in line with recommendations of Bhuria Committee. The changes empower Gram
Sabha to undertake executive functions in exercise of these Acts. The Acts thus amended
are MP Land Revenue Code and MP Excise Act. Amendments in MP Money Lending
Act and MP Village Court Act are under process.
Designation of Tribal Areas as TSP, MADA and Clusters: An important policy that has
governed tribal development administration is the designation of Tribal Sub Plan areas in
the Vth Five year Plan. TSP areas include Scheduled areas and those tehsils in which
tribal population exceeds 50% of the total. In order to cover villages that could not be
included in TSP areas as per their definition the concept of MADA was introduced in the
VIth Plan. Under this clusters of villages with aggregate population of 10,000 and above
that have 50% tribal population have been identified as MADA (Modified Area
Development Approach) pockets. Finally, steps were taken in the VII Five Year Plan to
cover isolated and scattered pockets of STs in the state through the identification of more
pockets with tribal population of 50% in clusters of 5000 population. In sum Madhya
Pradesh now has 49 TSP areas, 39 MADA pockets and 5 Clusters. Each of these has a
specific project and fund allocation which is handled and coordinated by the Department
of Tribal Development and SC Welfare.
3.    Government Structures, Services and NGOs for Tribal Development in MP
Government Agencies
Department of Tribal and Scheduled Caste Welfare The Department of Tribal and
Scheduled Caste Welfare is the most prominent agency designated for development of
tribal areas and communities in the state. The department is charged with the following
main functions:
> To promote and protect the rights of tribal communities in accordance
with the spirit of the Constitution.
>  To implement programs for educational and economic development
among tribal of the state.



> To act as a channelising agency of funds to various line departments and
agencies for tribal development interventions.
> To coordinate and monitor funds application by various line departments
in tribal areas.
The Department is headed by the Minister Tribal Welfare assisted by a Principal
Secretary. The Commissioner Tribal Development is the State level executive in-charge
of the department. The Divisional level Deputy Commissioner's offices were removed in
1999 and substituted by four Divisional Legal Cells (Indore, Jabalpur, Gwalior and
Raipur) to oversee cases under its jurisdiction. (Refer Annex la for an organogram and
activities of the Department)
The Department has district level offices in 61 districts of the state. In TSP areas these
are headed by Assistant Commissioner whereas in non TSP areas District Organizers are
in charge of district level departmental activities. Block level offices of the department
have been established in 174 tribal blocks of the state - these have been placed under the
Zilla Panchayat under the three tier panchayati raj institutional arrangement.
Creation and maintenance of educational infrastructure and services in tribal areas forms
the overwhelming part of the Department's work. It invests in construction of school
buildings, recruitment and administration of teachers, management of hostels,
scholarships and other incentives for improving access to schooling in tribal areas. Nearly
14,000 primary schools, 400 middle schools and 14 model schools are run directly by the
Department in 174 tribal blocks all over the state.
In addition to Education, the Department is the principal planning and coordination body
for Tribal Sub Plan through the Integrated Tribal Development Program (ITDP) and
MADA projects in tribal areas and clusters. Through its district level offices, the
department monitors the flow and utilization of TSP / MADA funds that are allocated to
various line departments.
Madhya Pradesh Scheduled Tribe Commission. The ST Commission was set up in
1995 by the Government to monitor application of state policy for ST. It is headed by a
non-government representative and is located in Bhopal. The main role of the
Commission is that of a "watchdog" protecting legal, development and human rights of
tribal communities and its principal functions include:
> Protecting constitutional and legal rights of STs
> Monitoring and vigilance of development programs aimed at tribal and
providing feedback for their improved implementation.
> Making recommendations on reservation policy for public services and
educational institutions.
The Co'mmission has been accorded judicial powers of a civil court and it can initiate
legal action accordingly through summons, investigations and demand for
documentation. In the 5 year period since its inception the Commission has responded to
a number of cases of atrocities against tribals and has been instrumental in bringing



justice to aggrieved families. As an independent Commission it has a vital role to play in
protecting the rights and dignity of tribals.
MP State Minor Forest Produce Cooperative Federation. The Bhopal based Federation
was set up to free the tribal from exploitative practices of middlemen in the trade of Non
Timber Forest Produce (mainly tendu patta) and ensure that tribal collectors get a fair
price. It is the apex body of a three tier structure comprising of 1947 Primary Societies
and 82 District Unions that undertake procurement of tendu patta and now other minor
forest produce such as Sal seeds, Harra and gum. The Federation is also diversifying to
other high value forest based produce such as honey, aonla, imli, chironji, mahua and
lac.
The interventions of the Federation have been instrumental in ensuring a fair return from
tendu patta collection, a large scale seasonal forestry activity in the state. The Federation
reported a net surplus of Rs 100 crores in 1998 and is poised for an expansion in its trade
in other forest based commodities.
MP Tribal Finance and Development Corporation. The MPTFDC was set up as a non-
profit company under Section 25 of the Companies Act in 1994 with the main purpose of
providing institutional finance for educational and economic advancement of tribals in
the state. The Corporation has a paid up capital of Rs 50 crores shared by the State and
Central Government in 51: 49 ratio.
MPTFDC implements the schemes of the National Tribal Finance and Development
Corporation and NABARD intended for entrepreneurial development of tribals. It also
acts as a channelising agency of the National Disabled Persons' Finance and
Development Corporation funding rehabilitation activities of physically disabled tribals
in the state. The Corporation has branch offices across the state that receive and appraise
loan applications and are charged with providing promotional support to small enterprises
of the tribal.
Under its various schemes the Corporation has emphasized the promotion of small
enterprises in the service sector such as transport, freight and trade. It had extended an
accumulated finance of over Rs 31 crores till March 2000 under the Central scheme thus
covering 2288 tribals in the state since its formation. An additional amount of Rs 51
crores had been refinanced to banks for providing assistance to tribal borrowers under the
NABARD scheme.
Tribal Research Institute. The TRI of Madhya Pradesh was set up in 1954 with the
purpose of carrying out comprehensive research and surveys related to tribal society,
culture and development concerns. Its work is intended to inform state policy and
academic discourse surrounding tribal life and development. Based in Bhopal the
Institute conducts evaluations and studies on programs intended for tribal welfare and
also organizes training programs for government functionaries on various related issues.



The Institute is under the administrative charge of the Department of Tribal Welfare and
receives financial aid from the Government of Madhya Pradesh.
Non Government Organizations
As compared to other North Indian states Madhya Pradesh has a smaller presence and
tradition of NGOs working in the field of rural development. The growing NGO sector
now has a range of agencies/groups working for tribal welfare. The non-government
organizational sphere ranges from mainstream NGOs working with the state at one end to
extremist groups committed to overthrow of state apparatus at the other.
The following three broad categories describe the range of non-government action among
tribal communities of the state:
NGOs. This category comprises of mainstream development, service delivery NGOs that
access state and private funds for implementation of development programs and services.
Such NGOs now exist in all districts of the state; the recent encouragement to NGOs to
participate in watershed management prompted many to set up new agencies. As most
districts of MP have some tribal population and these groups are generally poor and
deprived, NGOs work considerably with tribal constituents. However good NGOs with a
proven track record and demonstrated capacity to work with the community are scarce.
The prominent NGOs working in tribal pockets of the state are listed in Annexure 2.
More comprehensive list of NGOs in the state are available in directories published by
various agencies (UNICEF, SPWD, Development Alternative)
Activist organizations. Activist groups including mass tribal organizations focus their
work on awareness generation amongst tribal on issues of their rights and entitlements.
These groups are guided by the conception that awareness and mobilizations of the tribal
is critical to their struggle for development, dignity and justice. Activist groups are
promoted and led by people with very similar social profile to NGO leaders and in a
sense can be considered off shoots of the mainstream NGO sector. MP by now has a rich
diversity of activist organizations of which the main ones are as follows:
> Narmada Bachao Andolan. NBA came into being as a protest campaign
against the massive Sardar Sarovar Dam on river Narmada. It has since then
grown to a movement against the modern development paradigm that leads to
widespread displacement and disempowerment of marginal groups mainly
tribals.
> Bharat Jan Andolan. Led by Dr. BD Sharma, erstwhile Commissioner for
ST, and a retired officer of the MP IAS cadre, Bharat Jan Andolan has focused
on 'tribal self rule'. The movement has been a strong advocate of
recommendations of Bhuria Committee for self governance in scheduled
areas.
> Khedut Majdoor Chetna Sangthan. Active in the Alirajpur sub division of
district Jhabua, the group has mobilized local tribal demanding greater access



to forest areas and fair treatment from local administration including the
police.
> Adivasi Mukti Sangthana. This group is based in the tribal belt of Nimar
region. It has conducted agitations against exploitation of tribals.
>  Ekta Parishad. It can be best described as a cross between activist groups and
NGOs. Its current focus is ensuring that tribal and marginalized communities
receive their due rights on land, water, and forests. The Parishad mobilizes
tribal around these issues and also facilitates more mainstream development
work. It has a large cadre of local workers and volunteers in all tribal pockets
across the state.
The activist groups display considerable ideological diversity - from Gandhian to
Marxist. By and large, they believe that project based development work will not be
effective unless the poor are empowered first and power equations change. They are also
generally opposed to foreign aid and as such are likely to oppose projects like DPIP.
They however do engage in lobbying the government, demanding responsive action and
policy to benefit tribal.
Political groups. Extreme leftist (Naxalite) groups committed to the overthrow of the
state, have made their inroads in some tribal pockets of MP viz. Bastar and other districts
bordering Andhra Pradesh and Maharashtra.
4.    Scheduled Tribes in DPIP Districts
The districts selected under DPIP for implementation under implementation are such that
have a relatively small proportion of tribal. According to the Census of 1991 the total
tribal population of the DPIP districts stood at 20,09,742 constituting 13 percent of the
total population of these districts. Of the 14 districts selected under DPIP, only one
(Sidhi) has proportion of tribal population more than 30 percent. Seven districts have
tribal population between 10 and 15 percent, one between 5 and 10 percent, and five less
than 5 percent. The DPIP districts fall primarily in two zones - Northern MP comprising
of Bundelkhand, Baghelkhand, and Chambal divisions and Central regions comprising of
Madhya Bharat and Mahakoshal areas. The main tribes in the DPIP districts include
Gond, Sehariyas, Saur, Bhils and Kols (See Annex 3 for tribe wise population in DPIP
districts).
Table 2
Tribal Population in DPIP Districts
SNo  District                     Total Population       STs           % of Total
._______________    Population
1    Shivpuri                         1132977           127762             11
2     Guna                             1310317          157426              12
3     Tikamgarh                        940829            38850              4
4     Chhatarpur                       1158076           43482              4
5     Panna                            687945           102520              15
6     Sagar                            1647736          139467              9
7     Damoh                            898125           111114              12
8     Rewa                             1554987          193105              12



9     Sidhi                               1373434            418004               30
10    Shajapur                            1033248            24452                2
11    Rajgarh                             992764             383231               3
12    Vidisha                             970388             42689                4
13    Raisen                              876461             126254               14
14    Narsimhapur                         785496             101386               13
TOTAL                              15362783           2009742               13
Source: Census 1991
The fact that the tribal population in DPIP districts is scattered and lower in concentration
has important bearing on their social context as well as on the potential for their
economic advancement. While economic status of tribal is universally poor, their low
proportion in DPIP districts subjects them to social oppression as well. In multi caste
settlements, the tribal minority faces social oppression resulting from its position at the
bottom of social ladder. This oppression can also result into atrocities referred to in
Section 1. The tribal community in tribal majority areas does not face this type of social
pressure as it is the dominant community in these areas.
Occupational profile of STs in DPIP districts
Occupational classification of main workers in Census reveals that agriculture labor is the
primary occupation for majority of tribal population. In eight of the 14 districts,
agriculture laborers outnumber cultivators. In Rewa, almost 84 percent of tribal main
workers4 have been reported as agriculture labor. Only in six districts cultivators
outnumber agriculture labor and the difference is small. Mining and quarrying have been
reported by more than one percent of main workers as their occupation in five districts of
Shivpuri, Panna, Sagar, Vidisha, and Raisen.
As noted in Section 1 tribal wage laborers in DPIP districts face harsh exploitation from
landed peasantry, particularly in the Kol and Sahariya dominated areas. Traditional labor
arrangements are compounded by social control and conditions for tribal wage dependent
families quickly turn to virtual bondage (Refer to SAs for DPIP districts).
Literacy Rates
Literacy rates are low in all the DPIP districts. Average literacy rates vary from a high of
24.2 percent in Narsimhapur district to a low of 4.8 percent in Shivpuri. In fact the
Sahariya belt of Shivpuri and Guna has the lowest literacy rates. Female literacy rates
vary between 14.5 and 1.5 percent. Only the district of Narsimhapur has female literacy
more than 10 percent.
Table 3
Literacy Rates Amongst tribal of DPIP districts (in %/) _
SNo  District                            ST (All)          ST (Male)    |  ST (Female)
1     Shivpuri                             4.83               8.34               1.69
2     Guna                                  5.86              8.49                1.43
3     Tikamgarh                             9.93              14.69              4.82
4     Chhatarpur                            7.33              11.68              2.59
4 Census enumeration in India classifies workers into main workers and marginal workers. If a person has
spent more than 180 days in an occupation, he is considered as a main worker engaged in that occupation.



5     Panna                                  8.59               13.59               3.31
6     Sagar                                  15.49              22.83               7.60
7     Damnoh                                 17.03              25.47               8.16
8     Rewa                                   10.62              17.60               2.96
9     Sidhi                                  9.65               16.43               2.47
10    Shajapur                              19.74              30.99               7.09
11    Rajgarh                               15.91              25.80               5.19
12    Vidisha                               10.19               15.58              4.31
13    Raisen                                11.45               17.82              4.58
14    Narsimhapur                           24.22              33.58               14.45
Land and Livelihood
Land, both private and public, remains the main source of livelihood in rural areas. The
status of agriculture and allied activities described in Section 1 reflects the precarious
situation under which farming is carried out by the tribal population. Land holdings are
small, fragmented and unable to meet subsistence requirements of the family. The table
below gives proportion of tribal landholdings and the total area operated by them in DPIP
districts.
Table 4
Share of STs in Land Holding and Cultivated Land in DPIP Districts
DPIP                 % of Tribal        ST share of          ST Share of
District             Population       Land Holding         Cultivated Land
Shivpuri                 11.3              10.5                   7.3
Guna                     12.0              12.4                   8.2
Tikamgarh                4.1                3.4                   3.1
Chhatarpur               3.8                3.7                   3
Panna                    14.9              11.6                   9.1
Sagar                    8.5                 8                    5.4
Damoh                    12.4              11.8                   9.7
Rewa                     12.4               4.6                   2.5
Sidhi                    30.4               32                   28.6
Shahjapur                2.4                2.7                   1.6
Rajgarh                  3.3                3.4                   2.5
Vidisha                  4.4                 4                    1.7
Raisen                   14.4               11.4                  8.6
Narsimhpur               12.9               10                    12.1
The table shows that in most of the districts less number of tribal families own land and
the size of these holdings is smaller compared to general population. Proportion of tribal
land holdings is lower than their proportion in the total population in 10 of the 14
districts. Further their share of cultivated land is smaller than their share in population in
all the 14 districts.
Moreover in the DPIP districts access of tribal population to land remains highly unstable
and insecure. There is widespread land dispossession, alienation, encroachment of
commons and wrongful tenancy practices. The SAs have accurately described the socio-



political conditions that support such inequity and these are confirmed by other field
reports as well. Ekta Parishad is carrying out a foot march that passes through DPIP
districts and the group has reported numerous cases of land alienation and documented
them in its field reports. During a foot march through four districts of Chambal region
(which included one DPIP district Shivpuri) from 10Ih December 1999 to 25h January
2000, the Parishad received 547 applications for securing possession of land and 879
applications for securing entitlement. A fair number of these applicants are likely to be
tribal. Such cases have also been reported by the SC/ST commission set up by the MP
Government.
The major problems that tribal face in securing access to land in the DPIP districts are
described as under:5
Access to Revenue Land5
>  Scheduled Tribes are deprived of their land through illegal means and extortion.
>  While the State has adopted a progressive policy of distributing government
revenue land to landless, incomplete land records and their unavailability subvert
this policy effectively. Thus for example often the patwari does not have a list of
the landless.
>  The Land Ceiling Act provides for appropriation of surplus land by the state and
their distribution amongst the landless. However these provisions are not
enforced.
>  Questionable methods are employed to auction land of weaker sections by the
banks.
>  Development and conservation projects acquire land of the weaker sections.
>  Illegal sale of land owned by Schedule Tribes continues despite restrictions.
Access to Forest Lands
>  Forest policies can on occasion lead to the loss of land use and even eviction from
homestead areas of tribal people if the policy declares these as protected areas.
>  The survey of encroachments prior to 1980 is not impartial. Encroachments on
forest lands and their subsequent regularization used to be a permanent feature in
forest areas. The Forest Conservation Act passed in 1980 put a stop to this
practice. It imposed very stringent conditions for diversion of forest land for non
forestry uses. However following agitation by forest dwellers, Government issued
guidelines to regularize encroachments prior to 1980.
> Forest villages continue to remain outside the mainstream as their conversion into
revenue villages has been hampered by the Forest Act of 1980.
Forestry
' This section is based upon the extensive research and documentation work undertaken by the Ekta
Parishad on land issues. See field reports of Ekta Parishad from the foot march called Land Rights
Agitation (1Oth December 1999- 19th June 2000).
6Land ownership and management is vested in two Government Departments - revenue and forest. Lands
managed by revenue department are further divided into a number of categories dpending upon their use
and ownership like private khatedari land, grazing lands known as charnoi in MP, and wasteland whose
ownership vests with the Revenue Department.



Forests continue to be an important source of livelihood for tribal inspite of increasing
degradation. In DPIP areas, but for the two districts of Shajapur and Rajgarh, rest all 12
districts have more than 10 percent area under forest cover (EL 4, MP HDR). In fact half
the districts have more than 20 percent area under forest. The tribal population in DPIP
districts is concentrated in areas with forest. Forests provide subsistence items like grass/
grazing for domestic animals and firewood. They also provide cash income through sale
of NTFPs collected by tribal. The 1991 census reports 10,839 persons as employed in
activities allied to agriculture which includes forestry. However forestry is more an
important source of secondary employment. In 1997, Rs.154 crore was distributed as
payment to collectors of tendu patta.
Relative Development
The three major tribes covered under DPIP districts are Gond, Kol, and Sahariyas. They
populate different areas though there does exist some overlap also. There are also
considerable differences between them. Kols who populate the Bundelkhand7 districts of
Rewa, Panna, and Sidhi are mostly landless laborers. In Rewa 84 percent of tribal have
been reported as agricultural laborers. They face extreme exploitation and often are
forced into bondage. Sahariyas populate the districts of the Chambal division - Shivpuri
and Guna. They are also designated as a primitive tribe. While they own some land, they
also depend on wage labor.
Conditions are exploitative in these areas also and bondage exists. Extreme backwardness
of Sahariyas is also demonstrated by the fact that the ST population of the two Sahariya
dominated districts of Shivpuri and Guna have the lowest literacy rates amongst all the
DPIP districts. Gonds are the dominant tribe in central regions of Narsimhapur, Raisen,
Damoh, and Sagar. Amongst the three, they are relatively better off. They own land but
also have to undertake wage labor. Literacy rates for Gond dominated districts are higher
than the rest. Wage labor conditions do not seem so oppressive.
The survey of Below Poverty Line (BPL) families conducted by the Govermnent in Year
2000 indicates that in DPIP districts, the tribal families form a significant portion of the
overall number below poverty line. Proportion of tribal families in BPL families is much
higher than their proportion in overall population in all the districts. Refer to the table
below
Table 5
Tribal BPL Families in DPIP districts of MP
S    District                 Total no.              %age           %age of tribal
No                         of rural families    of BPL families        families
to BPL families
1    Narsimhpur                143842               55.43               20.42
2    Guna                      234454                43.34              23.47
3    Rajgarh                   169200                47.32              06.61
4    Shajapur                  175797                36.27              05.99
7Bundelkhand comprises of districts in North MP - Satna, Chhatarpur, Tikamgarh, Panna, and Sagar.
Bagelkhand is an adjoining area comprising of Rewa and Sidhi districts. Both these areas were under
princely rule prior to independence and the continue to be feudal.



5    Vidisha                      168305                39.39                11.43
6    Sagar                       287712                 51.79                15.98
7    Shivpuri                    211649                 29.62                31.77
8    Damoh                       189495                 51.88                19.48
9    Rewa                        371963                 56.86                17.55
10   Raisen                      176860                 50.52               21.60
11   Sidhi                       294688                 56.48               33.61
12   Panna                       156591                 48.82               23.40
13   Chatarpur                   210982                 42.30                9.20
14   Tikamgarh                   187376                 35.69               12.89
Tribal Development Programs in DPIP Districts
As noted earlier the DPIP districts fall outside the region of high tribal concentration in
the state. With the exception of Sidhi district, the other DPIP districts are in non-TSP
areas. Because of lower and scattered tribal population several pockets of the districts are
designated as MADA pockets or Special Clusters. (See table below).
Table 6
TSP /MADA / Clusters in DPIP Districts
TSP      District                   Block                              No. of Villages
1.       Sidhi                      1. Kusumi                          140
2. Simhaval                        22
3. Rampur                           8
4. Majholi                         48
5. Gopadbanas                       87
6. Singroli                         59
MADA  District                      MADA Pocket   Blocks               No. of Villages
1.       Shivpuri                   1. Shivpuri      1. Shivpuri       47
2. Pohri         2. Pohri          42
2.       Rewa                       1. Mauganj        1. Mauganj       49
2. Hanumana
3.       Raisen                     1. Silvani       1. Silvani         161
2. Bareilly      2. Bareilly
4.       Narsihmpur                 1. Narsihmpur     1. Narsihmpur     181
2. Gotegaon
3. Kareli
._______  .________________________               4.  Bavai   Chichli
5.       Damoh                      1. Jabera        1. Jabera         81
2. Tendukheda    2. Tendukheda     66
6.       Sagar                      1. Devrikalan     1. Rehli
2. Devri          215
3. Kesli
7.       Guna                       1. Guna           1. Guna           120
._______  _________________________  2.  B am hori
8.       Panna                      1. Pavai          1. Shahnagar      119
2. Pavai
Cluster  District                   Name of          Block              No. of Villages
Cluster
1.       Chhatarpur                 1. Kishangarh    1. Vijavar        42
2.       Shivpuri                   1. Kotla         1. Badarvas        41



2. Kolaras
The tribal development department's programs in DPIP districts, as in other parts of the
state, emphasize most significantly on education. The Department runs schools (except in
4 low tribal population districts of Rajgarh, Shahjapur, Chatarpur and Tikamgath),
hostels and extends scholarship incentives to tribal students. (Refer to Annex lb for
details of department's activities and coverage in DPIP districts).
5.    Tribal Development Strategy for DPIP
As an identified poor and vulnerable group in all the districts under DPIP, the
interventions with the tribal communities will bear both strategic and practical
considerations in mind. The following are the key elements of the strategy for tribal
development within the project that hold good over and above the fundamental strategies
of DPIP (participation, equity and decentralization):
> Fair participation and representation at all levels of the project with a view to
influence its decisions and outcomes for the tribal constituents.
> Ensuring protection of social, economic and cultural interests of tribal
communities in project interventions among both the tribal and non-tribal groups.
> Overcoming structural constraints to poverty and deprivation among tribals
through direct socio-economic interventions of the project as well as induced
actions under other available public resources and legal provisions of the
Government.
>  Optimizing productivity of communal and privately held land, water, forest and
livestock resources among tribal with a view to primarily ensure food security and
generate sustainable surplus.
> Enhancing options for labor and improving conditions surrounding returns from
labor as a growing basis for livelihood activity for largest number of tribal
families in the region.
> Rigorous capacity building of tribals' village level organizations and its
leadership to plan, prioritize and place demands on the project services and
resources.
Thus the tribal development strategy covers two inter-related aspects:
1. Institutional relating to participation, representation, decision making and
resource allocation to tribal development.
2. Sectoral issues relating to project activities, interventions and investments
relevant to tribal's development within DPIP.
Given the absolute poverty in which the DPIP districts' tribal population lives,
multifaceted responses are needed to overcome their complex socio-economic
constraints. To an extent these were also identified as part of the Social Assessments
(SA-s) conducted as part of the DPIP preparation. Identification of key bottlenecks and
overall directions for change for the poor and disadvantaged groups in DPIP districts was



attempted in some of the SA-s (Refer Annex 4 for a Summary). The proposed strategy
has also drawn upon that analysis wherever feasible.
6.    Institutional and Sectoral Interventions
6.1 Coverage, Participation and Representation : Recognizing that STs as a group run
the risk of marginalisation and invisibility from project governance, the following is
proposed:
At the village level the tribal strategy will ensure that:
1. DPIP is able to cover and facilitate the participation of at least 60% all the tribal
BPL families in a settlement.
2. In those villages where the ST population is above 30% of the total the first CIG
to be formed will be a tribal women's CIG. This will demonstrate the priority of
DPIP and establish clearly the section with which it is most concerned.
3. In villages with 50% tribal population the VDC's Chairmanship will be reserved
for an ST.
4. Number of proposals approved, investments made in tribal CIGs, the quality of
tribal's CIGs participation will count as key indicators of a VDC's performance
and will influence the decision on its future allocations from the project.
At the district level, it is envisaged that:
1. Coverage of tribal population, investments in tribal CIGs and performance will be
monitored and reported and form part of staff / PFT performance appraisals and
reward systems.
2. An annual meeting of all tribal CIG / VDC representatives from within the district
will be organized by the project office in order to collectively review the progress
and problems being faced by the project and its tribal partners.
3. The project office will remain alert to moves to subvert equal participation of
tribal CIGs in DPIP. This will be carried out through extensive review with PFTs
and the monitoring of norms specified under village level measures above.
4. In order to ensure adequate pooling of experience and formulation of shared
strategies to work with tribal communities, it may be useful for the project teams
to selectively function and interact at the regional level as well. Though there are
no regional level structures envisaged in DPIP, districts may be clustered into
three regions on the basis of the homogeneity of tribal's socio-economic profile.
The DPIP State Unit could then convene a six monthly regional meeting of
district officers charged with overseeing and monitoring tribal development
activities. These meetings will be used to review the progress with tribal CIGs,
exchange experiences and share strategies relevant to tribal development.
At the state level, the DPIP State Unit will:



1. Monitor the project's tribal development strategy and programs in and across
various districts.
2. Produce an annual public report, together with comparative expenditure, on the
impact of DPIP on tribal's lives and livelihood in the DPIP district.
6.2 Programme and Sectoral Interventions : The District level Social Assessments
undertaken by Sanket as part of DPIP planning illustrate well the social and economic
constraints faced by the vulnerable groups that the project will target. Taking the analysis
contained in the SAs and the outcomes of the tribal development strategy exercise it is
evident that the programs will focus on the following set of interventions:
> NRM based livelihood development through agriculture, livestock and forestry
resources
>  Wage and Employment
>  Savings and Credit
> Human Resource Development through training, awareness and skill building
activities
Specific district level interventions in these will be designed keeping in mind broad
principles and pointers described as under:
6.2.1 Agriculture and Allied Activities
Investments in sustainable land and water resources development: Tribal farmers
practice cultivation under adverse and uncertain conditions. The small holding of land are
poor quality, marginal and rainfed. There is poor potential to invest in the improvement
of land productivity thus returns are low and unassured. In order to close the investment
gap and contribute to long term, sustainable improvement in productivity activities the
following will be considered as priority CIG activities:
> Land leveling, reclamation, bunding and fertility management of privately
holdings
> Common and / or individual farm family level water resources development
through wells, harvesting structures and creation of additional provision for
localized protective irrigation.
CIGs will be encouraged to access technical guidance from within the project or
externally for the planning and implementation of these proposals.
Improving extension services and input provision: Agriculture extension services are
poorly spread in the DPIP districts and these are at their thinnest in locations where tribal
cultivate their marginal lands. There is little technology dissemination and adoption by
farmers and basic provisioning of seeds and inputs is absent. In order to help overcome
input and extension advise related constraints in tribal's agriculture, DPIP will seek out



and support proposals from CIGs of tribal resource poor farmers interested in undertaking
any of the following or allied activities.8
>  Identification and hiring in of village based para extension workers by CIGs
for providing counseling and technical guidance to tribal farmers. These
PEWs will need to be equipped with basic technical information and will
serve as the link between farmers and sources of inputs and technology. Para
extension workers may also be identified by more than one CIG in order to
ensure more efficient and cost effective coverage. The DPIP project team will
help in building the capacities of such village based workers identified and /
or recruited by CIGs through linking with sources of training, technology and
inputs.
>  CIGs may formulate proposals for group based provision of draught power
and agriculture implements which may be supported by DPIP.
>  CIG managed decentralized seeds and fertilizer retail and distribution outlets
undertaking collective procurement and timely distribution thus overcoming
cost disadvantages. Within the Rajiv Gandhi Watershed Mission an agreement
has been reached wherein local self help groups will be licensed as seed and
fertilizer retailers by the MP Agro Industries. This experiment is currently
underway and its experiences will be relevant for encouraging and appraising
similar proposals from CIGs or groups of CIGs. Alternately, CIGs may also
take up seed replacement activities and collective production of foundation
seed for use in the same village. PFTs will need to provide linkages with the
necessary technical back up, training and information for setting up such an
activity by CIGs.
Promoting diversification to horticulture and livestock : Agriculture change strategies
among small, marginal and resource poor farmers cannot rest alone on improving crop
production. The limits to land holdings make it difficult to stretch crop husbandry beyond
a level hence diversification becomes imperative. Inability to invest and lack of access to
technology hampers the move on small farmers' part to diversify their land based
production. DPIP will assist in closing this gap through encouraging and responding to
proposals from CIGs of tribal farm families for horticulture and livestock development.
Horticulture production is generally difficult at current levels of resources, infrastructure
and market linkages. Thus proposals from tribal CIGs will be selectively encouraged only
if favorable conditions exist and food security concerns are not compromised. In the area
of livestock husbandry DPIP may assist tribal farmers through raising their production
levels from goatee, piggy and poultry. Greater priority will be given to CIGs' requests for
provision of assured feed and health services for animals. More intensive horticulture and
livestock activities are possible in those cases where the minimum regeneration of land
and water resources has taken place by CIGs using DPIP funds or accessing other
existing provisions of the government.
It may be noted that the list is an indicative one which needs to be added to keeping in mind local needs
and demands of the farming system.



There are well established experiments in maximizing returns from limited land, water
and livestock resources and these need to be adapted at least on a pilot basis in the DPIP
districts. The Vida initiative of BAIF is one such project wherein tribal families of
Gujarat / Maharashtra have been successfully assisted to transform their agriculture
returns despite limited land and water resources. The strategy focused on pooling
together resources for inputs, diversifying to horticulture and livestock rearing and
ensuring on-farm value addition to production. It combined private initiative with
collective decision making in order to optimize use of resources, maximize group returns
and derive benefits from scale. Elements of this initiative may be studied further by
DPAUs and be replicated as a pilot for learning and dissemination through CIGs.
Food Security: Maximizing food security among tribal families will receive highest
attention from the project and will form the core of its support to agriculture and allied
interventions by the farmers organized as CIGs. In order to protect the tribal populations
from food shortage and hence turning to "distress" purchases in lean seasons the DPIP
will remain alert to opportunities in the following areas and will respond favorably to
CIG proposals and actions in the following direction:
>  Revitalizing PDS in tribal villages. This will entail liaison by the DPIP project
teams together with lobbying by CIGs on local administration.
>  Establishment of community managed grain banks also to be used for purposes of
seed supply.
>  Bulk purchase and stocking of food grain through the use of gram kosh generated
by CIGs.
Forestry: Two types of interventions are possible to increase and secure more income
from forests. These relate to a) collection and sale of NTFPs and the b) expansion of
areas under joint forest management.
Non Timber Forest Produce (NTFP): A large number of NTFPs are collected by
tribals across the state as in the DPIP districts. The most important of the NTFPs are
nationalized and these include tendu patta, sal seed, gum and harra. Collection and
marketing of nationalized products is carried out by the Madhya Pradesh State Minor
Forest Produce Cooperative Federation. The important non nationalized forest products
include Chironji, Mahua flower, Bahera, and Safed Moosli, all of which are found in the
DPIP areas of tribal concentration. Typically the market rates for these products come
down at the time of collection and increase immediately after it. A number of studies
have been undertaken by various agencies to map the current status of NTFPs in MP and
ascertain options to increase the incomes accruing to tribal from sale of NTFPs. The
DPIP State Unit will access these studies and compile major area specific
recommendations bearing in mind the strategy and approach of DPIP. These will be made
available to the district teams in order to increase their general understanding and
DPIP will be willing to extend the support to tribal CIGs for enhancing returns from
forestry activities through the following kind of interventions:



>  Advancing capital to CIGs wishing to stock and store local NTFPs at the time of
collection. This will ensure that collectors are able to release their produce at a
more favorable time and gain better prices.
>  Making linkages for technical advise and providing financial support for value
addition of NTFPs through simple processing
>  Ascertaining market linkages for NTFPs
Market interventions surrounding NTFPs inherently carry some risk and to minimize this,
it is proposed that NTFP based proposals will be encouraged selectively and appraised
carefully by the project for their viability. The project may make pilot grants to CIGs in
the initial year with a clear emphasis on improving learning and experience building in
NTFP operations both at the project and CIG level.
Joint Forest Management: The Forest Department and tribal communities in
forest areas have had an adversary relationship for long. The conflict has its roots in
alienation of tribal residing in and around forests from this land. It is only recently that
the JFM initiative shows signs of resolving this conflict. JFM leads to increase in
incomes in the short run by allowing more secure access to NTFPs and in the long run by
sale of timber. This is a promising initiative and has good potential. By 1998, a total of
8,301 JFM committees covering more than 38 lakh hectares had been formed in the state.
A number of success stories have been reported from different parts of the state. The
initiative is ready for replication across a wider area.
JFM will be a good activity to support under DPIP if CIGs show interest. Only four of the
fourteen DPIP districts feature in the list of FPCs formed till 1998. DPIP field teams
could support CIGs in formation of FPCs in their respective villages where these are not
present. If physical activities are necessary to restore the degraded lands, funds for
undertaking these should be accessed from other sources. A FPC is a higher order
organization compared to CIGs and might comprise of a number of CIGs operational in
the village. An existing FPC could be also strengthened.
If JFM emerges as a priority intervention in an area, it will be necessary to train members
of DPIP field teams in the subject. The project will have to closely liaise with the Forest
Department in order to gain sanction and registration of FPCs.
Land alienation, security of tenure and ownership: All land based interventions such as
proposed in DPIP assume that the tribal families have secure access and entitlement to
land. The district level analysis shows however this is not true in many cases and the
tribal (together with other vulnerable groups such as SCs) operate land under persistent
threat of dispossession from powerful landed upper caste elite, insecure tenurial
arrangements, unfair share cropping systems pitted against the tenants. These unlawful
practices are a manifestation of the social inequities and they serve to keep the rural poor
in chronic poverty and deprivation. Further, these erode the stakes that the poor have in
improvement of their land resources and present the biggest challenge to long term
change in their status.



Government programs aimed at poverty alleviation generally fight shy of undertaking
action on these points. They instead seek to strengthen the economic well being of their
target groups. It is clear however that economic interventions undertaken in isolation will
not help. Investments on improvement of tribal's land and water may be rendered futile
in case of insecure title and ownership. Thus a poverty alleviation strategy that focuses on
strengthening land based livelihoods will be incomplete if it does not address these
issues. The main reason why Government programs do not take up these issues is their
potential for generation of conflict between different sections of people. Some of these
issues are clearly beyond their scope. For example redistribution of land on any
significant scale is not possible by administrative fiat but requires political will and
strong organizations of rural poor.
Yet there are issues that can be addressed by a sympathetic and sensitive DPIP project
staff. Allotment of government land to rural landless is one such area. The recent MP
Government order releasing more government land for distribution is an opportunity that
could be utilized by the DPIP project to ensure that the needy get the land and are able to
practice agriculture on it. Similarly access to Government revenue records can be made
easy by a process of awareness raising and training of social animators in revenue record
keeping. Action on these fronts is possible without any serious intra community conflict.
This could be also be a part of the communications strategy of DPIP. It will help build the
credibility of DPIP in its target segment and establish it as a different program from other
Government programs.
It is therefore proposed that
>  DPIP project teams will be sensitized to land issues in their respective regions.
Residential trainings focusing specifically on land issues will be organized. An
agency with a good record of working on land issues will be invited to provide
resource support. Such an agency may also be invited to work in the district and
deal with cases of exploitative land practices through legal aid, lobbying and
mobilization of the affected sections of the poor. If any field team has the
inclination to take up more intensive work on land issues, it will be supported by
the top management. Work on these issues will be counted as legitimate project
work.
>  At the minimum, the PFTs will be required to survey instances of land alienation
and exploitative tenurial practices pitted against tribal farmers in their clusters.
This data may be used in formulating realistic plans for investments under DPIP
and for longer termn action by the project for working on these issues.
>  The project teams may liaise with local administration for land allotment to
landless laborers and assist CIGs in making representations for the same.
6.2.2  Wage Labor and Employment
The analysis of occupational classifications of tribal population in the state as a whole
and for DPIP districts in particular clearly demonstrates that wage labor is a major
component of the livelihood for tribals. Limited land resources and virtual landlessness



among large sections makes it imperative for them to seek wage labor on farms and in
cities or industrial areas further afield. Reports indicate that while Gond and Sahariya
tribes own some land, Kols are largely landless. In the Kol dominated Rewa district for
example, more than 80 percent of tribal have reported agricultural labor as their primary
occupation.
Deep rooted social inequities and political realities work towards extensive exploitation
of tribal labor. Wage rates are low and differentiated between men and women (Refer to
SAs for DPIP districts). Even in agriculturally advanced areas like Narsimhapur, in-
migration keeps the wage rates depressed (Refer to SA for Narsimhapur). Widespread
incidence of bonded labor has been reported both from the Kol areas of Bundelkhand and
Sahariya areas of Chambal. This again is an area in which Government poverty
alleviation programs do not normally intervene.
Migration is a common strategy for survival. Migrant workers toil under harsh and
difficult conditions. While there exists Government legislation to ensure minimum rights
of this category of workers, this is observed more in breach.
It is recommended that
> Project teams of DPIP will be made sensitive to labor issues through training
programs and resource material on the subject. Special programs may be
organized for training in identification of bondage and minimum wage issues in
order to equip them better to respond to situations that may need action at the CIG
level.
> Survey and identification of tribal families in virtual bondage or indentured labor
will be made by the PFTs. Incidence of labor among children will be particularly
identified and acted upon.
> Careful costing of labor component in CIG proposals will be ensured such that
labor is not under priced and reflects appropriate returns. Proposals from tribal
CIGs which entail a labor component and seek to improve productive assets of the
members through the use of own labor will be particularly encouraged.
> The provision of contribution in development projects is often misused to pay
lower than official minimum wages to laborers. DPIP should develop a
contribution policy that does not leave any scope for this practice. It is
recommended that there should be no contribution in kind for public works. All
contribution should be in cash prior to start of work. For individual works also a
policy should be devised which does not allow owners to pay lower than
minimum wages to outside laborers.
> Pilot studies will be undertaken in selected blocks to understand the movement of
labor and to identify possible strategy for pushing up wage rates.
> In clusters where there is significant migration for wage labor, options to alleviate
the hardships associated with migration will be considered. Thus if children are
also migrating and therefore not able to access a school, a traveling school may be
supported. Similarly if any special support is needed for the children and women
who are left behind, this may be provided.



6.3.3 Credit
Lack of access to institutional and formal credit suitable to the needs of poor families is a
major economic constraint that the DPIP will need to overcome. The needs of the poor
are small, unpredictable, urgent and consumption oriented and are not catered to by
banks. As a result of this they have a high dependence on private moneylenders who
extract high interest rates and also enforce other insidious conditions of repayment (lien
on crop produce, mortgage etc). Lack of credit also inhibits ability to invest in productive
purposes hence poverty remains persistent among vulnerable groups such as tribals.
Though DPIP funds cannot be extended to CIGs as credit or loans, the program can assist
in promotion of self help based saving and credit activities and in making appropriate
institutional linkages. Recognizing that lack of access to credit is a major barrier for poor
in general and the tribal in particular, DPIP will specifically:
> Encourage the promotion of self help thrift and credit activity among the CIGs.
> Foster linkages of CIG / SHGs with banks for group loans for consumption and
production purposes.
The PFTs will receive training and inputs for the promotion of this activity among CIGs.
Further, training and capacity building of CIGs will be needed for strengthening their
ability to manage their pooled funds and in making linkages with sources of institutional
finance. The above actions also fall in line with the recommendations made for
interventions in the credit sector under DPIP.9
6.4   Promotion of Alternative Livelihoods
Low employment opportunities in sectors outside of agriculture and forestry activities
mark the depressed economy of tribal communities in the selected districts. DPIP will
seek and support innovative and lucrative proposals from tribal CIGs that assist in
their better integration the local non-farm based economy and created sustainable self
employment opportunities. Though more detailed locale specific feasibility studies may
be required in relation to CIG proposals the following sub-sectors show promise as a
whole:
> Eco tourism.
> Small manufacturing and repairs.
> Rural transportation.
> Highway centered retail and dining businesses.
Eco-tourism. Of the DPIP districts with tribal presence, Panna, Sidhi and Shivpuri have
considerable potential for being developed as centers for eco-tourism. These districts are
already on the tourist map but there is scope for developing these further with a particular
view to engage and benefit the tribal population residing in these locations. The project
will liaise with the Department of Tourism and identify opportunities for participation of
9 Arpana Agarwal paper on Micro credit in MP



tribal CIGs in the growing tourism sector of these districts. These may include setting up
of rural restaurants, resorts, local guiding facilities and interpretation services.
SmaUl manufacturing and repairs. In the vicinity of growing towns and kasbas of the
DPIP districts opportunities may exist for setting up small manufacturing and repair
businesses on individual or joint ownership basis. These manufacturing cum repair
businesses may include light mechanical repairs, vehicle maintenance / repair, ancillary
level production that engages a reasonable local employment among the tribal
communities. Normally these kinds of enterprises require a period of individual
apprenticeship with existing businesses. The CIG may offer to place individual members
with some entrepreneurial potential as apprentices in order to give sufficient experience
of the businesses involved. Exposure to these and investment in CIGs' skills for these is
an important contribution DPIP can make towards diversifying tribals' livelihood options
in the DPIP districts.
Rural transportation. Transport services being poor and thinly spread, suggest a
possible business line for tribal groups under support from DPIP, at least in some
locations. The transport services may be limited to running of small buses / matadors for
carrying passengers on routes earmarked by the governnent for private operators. Even
though lucrative this is certainly not an easy commercial activity for tribal groups - it
requires initial start up investments, licenses etc and may result in high maintenance
costs. DPIP team
will evaluate the risks in such proposals and the project will extend support to such an
activity at least on a pilot basis in three districts.
Highway centered retail and dining businesses. Small dhabas, small refreshment shops
and stores have a growing clientele along the district / state highways and these offer a
good opportunity for the small enterprise. Pilot projects in these would be helpful in
establishing the potential for this business activity on a group basis.
The District SAs and plans developed in preparation of DPIP do not point to any major
non-farm based alternate livelihood activity for the target population of DPIP and indeed
significant potential may not exist anywhere. Yet micro, local specific contexts may favor
viable non-farm, self employment based enterprise options for the poor. The PFTs need to
be trained to identify such opportunities and encourage their ground level testing through
innovatively designed projects with CIGs. DPIP District Units may also additional
studies and feasibility exercises in order to ascertain the viability of promising activities.
Close links with NABARD / SIDBI in this regard are likely to prove beneficial in raising
venture capital from institutional sources for CIGs engaged in these activities.
6.5    Education and Health
Education and health are priority areas of social development for tribal communities and



gains in these will result in long term socio-economic change. There are other significant
initiatives in these sectors such as DPEP in education and RCH program in public health
and DPIP will not duplicate efforts or investments being made under these programs.
As a general principal such proposals from CIGs that seek funds for education and health
related activities will be justified if they represent a genuine gap in the available services
and resources. However as an area program with a wide village level institutional base
DPIP will also be in a good position to contribute to the effectiveness of the existing
programs in the following manner:
>  Project teams will assist in dissemination of information on these programs to
CIGs in meetings. Plans developed by these programs, that relate to the DPIP
villages, will be collected by the DPIP project teams in order to be informed
and identify opportunities for linkages and collaboration.
> As a critical contribution in the, health sector, DPIP will respond favorably to
CIG proposals for provision of safe drinking water in tribal settlements.
Project teams can assist CIGs to source other existing schemes for provision
of safe drinking water. Similar support may be made available by the project
teams in linking up with safe motherhood services being provided by existing
departmental and / or special projects in the DPIP areas.
> DPIP will invite and encourage NGOs to initiate innovative, need based
activities to close the gap in educational and health services in tribal areas.
DPIP may help the NGOs access funds and help them to link up with CIGs as
the village institutional base for their work.
6.6    Human Resource and Capacity Development
Capacity building at various levels is an integral part of DPIP. However the special
development predicament of tribal in DPIP districts will call for special efforts to ensure
that tribal community benefits fully from the project. Training and Skill Building Needs
for tribal development exist at all levels of the project and these have been identified as
under:
Level               HRD Needs                   Potential sources
CIG/VDC            Land issues                  PFT team (after it has been trained)
Sympathetic officials of Revenue
Department
Forest issues/ JFM          PFT (after it has been trained)
Sympathetic officials from Forest
VDC______________________   Department
V D C_ _                _  _  _   _  _  _  _  _ _   _  _  _  _  _  _  _   _  _   _
PFTs                Context of tribals in DPIP  TRI
districts                   Government Department for tribal



development
A good NGO working in tribal areas
Land issues                Sensitive officers from Government
Revenue Department
Ekta Parishad
Labor issues               National Labor Institute
Forestry issues            Forest Department
ZP DPIS
State level



Annexure lb
Department of Tribal Development's Educational Infrastructure and Coverage in
DPIP Districts
Schools Under Department of Tribal Development (As on March 2000)
DPIP District  Pre       Primary   Upper       High       Senior     Special
primary              Primary   School    Secondary  _        -
1-     Narsinghpur    08         20        11         &          01          &
2-     Guna           04         12         08        &          &           &
3-     Rajgarh        &          &         &          &          &           &
4-     Shajapur       &          &         &          &          &           &
5-     Vidisha        &          &         01         &          &           &
6-     Sagar          &          15         06        &          &           &
7-     Shivpuri       03         09        04         &          &           &
8-     Damoh          &          25        04         01         &           &
9      Rewa           06         01        06         01         &           &
10-    Raisen         10         24        09         &          &           &
11-    Sidhi          06         172       47         18         11          01
12-    Panna          &          22        07         01         01          &Model
school
13-    Chhatarpur     &          &         &          &          &           &
14-    Tikamgarh      &          &         &          &          &           &
Hostels for Tribal Students in DPIP Districts
Sno    District                       Post Matric Hostels          Pre Matric Hostels      Ashram
Number           Seats          Number        Seats     Number
1-     Narsihpur                      &               &               12          320         3
2-     Guna                            &               &               8           250         8
3-     Rajgarh                        &                &               &            &          3
4-     Shajapur                        &               &               1           20          1
5-     Vidisha                        &                &               2           40          1
6-     Sagar                           3              150              11          330         3
7-     Shivpuri                       &                &               10          214        12
8-     Damoh                          &                &               13          480         3
9-     Rewa                            4              250              12          345         7
10-    Raisen                          1              50               15          380         8
11-    Sidhi                           3              130              56         1290        29
12-    Panna                          &                &               13         325          8
13-    Chatarpur                      &                &               4           95          5
14-    Tikamgarh                      &                &               2           40          &



Annexure 2
List of NGOs Working for Tribal Development in MP
Samarthan: It is a resource agency for capacity building of small NGOs in MP. It is the
regional collaborating agency of PRIA. The two main areas of work are (I) Capacity
building of small NGOs (ii) Strengthening panchayati raj institutions. Is headquartered in
Bhopal. Has a network of NGOs with whom it is in touch through its newsletter or the
programs it undertakes.
Lupin Human Welfare & Research Foundation: Working in districts of Rajgarh and
Raisen. It s major work is in the field of watershed. It is the PIA for four mili watersheds,
comprising of 25 micro watersheds and an area of appx. 23, 000 hectares in these two
districts.
BAIF: Working in Rajgarh. Implementing watershed programs.
Ekta Parishad: This is a Sarvodaya organisation with a network all over MP. It is
working in activist mode on the issues of land, forest and water. However it also
undertakes more conventional economic programs like SHG formation and promotion of
green practices in agriculture. Ekta Parishad works through six organizations that are
located in different parts of MP. These are
Parivartna: Bastar
Prayaog: Chattisgarh
Nav Rachna Samaj Sansthan: Bundelkhand
Prasoon: Malwa
Mahatma Gandhi Sewa Ashram: Chambal
Mahakoshal Gram Swaraj Samiti: Mahakoshal
The agency has its central office and a resource centre in Bhopal.
Madhya Pradesh Vigyan Sabha, Tamiya Chhindwara: Headed by Dr. Ajay Khare,
the agency has worked in the field of NTFP to ensure higher returns to tribal collectors.
Prabhash in Sarguja, Tarun Sanskar in Jabalpur, Prayas in Chhindwara - All these
three agencies work in the field of forestry, developing innovations to ensure a more
secure livelihood for tribal through forests.






Annex 3
Main Tribe wise break up of Population in DPIP Districts (According to 1981 Census)
Shivpuri  Guna      Tikam    Chatar-   Panna      Sagar     Damo   Rewa        Sidhi     Shaja     Rajg
__ _ _ _ -garb  pur     _  _ _ __h                   _  _  _ _ _  _ _ __  -pur      h
TOTAL      86,471    109,859   30,642    26,511    76,315     114,856   86,354  145,476   309,864   18422      23,7
ST Popn      ,          ,                                                                                     7
Agariya    180                                                                            8015                 =
Baiga               I__                                                         346       32,234       _
Bharia                                             17795*     874       1420                                  =
Bhil       2399      39946     856                                                                  17780*    205
Biair                                                                                     4106
Gond                 2078                6176     3501       63870*    73912   9509       147914*
.                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*_
Kherwal                                  1167
Kol                                                                             27884*    16592
M eena__                          _ _ _ __ _ _ ___              _ _ _  __ _ ___              _ _ _
Panika                                                                                    23284
Sahariya    75472*    63637*    1028                         5237                                             957
Sonta                          7207
Sauir    I _ _                 21302*   7048                  15936    2465                                   =
Sonr          ___                 ==                -        24509     4587
Tribe wise population figures have not been compiled for 1991 census hence 1981 data is presented here.
This will indicate relative proportion of different tribes in the districts. * indicates majority tribe for the
district.






Annexure 4
Identified Problems for Tribal and Suggested Solutions for Selected DPIP Districts
(Extractedfrom Social Assessment Reports prepared by Sanket)
District         Requirement                                 Solution
Guna             Improved agriculture practices              Roads
Capacity building of extension
functionaries
Land development                           Regularisation of land through
allotment
Forestry                                   JFM
Credit                                     SHGs
Food security                              Food credit
Employment                                 Employment guarantee rather than
assurance
Rajgarh          Soil Erosion                                Land leveling and conservation
Wages                                      Ensuring fair wages in peak time
Credit                                     SHGs
________ __    Food security                         PDS, Grain banks
Narsimhpur       Forestry                                    JFM
Fair wages and employment                  Employment guarantee rather than
assurance
Overcoming exclusion in primitive tribe    Improving road access and
improving govt sensitivity
Shivpuri         Agriculture improvement                     Extension services
Forestry                                   JFM
|          | ~~~~Credit                                  SHG
|           | ~~~~Food Security                          PDS, Food credit
|           p~~~~Employment                              Employment guarantee rather than
I   l                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~assurance
:           l ~~~Improvement in quarry labor conditions
jOvercoming bondage in labor
Rewa             Forestry                                    JFM
Eradication of child labor                 Provision of employment to
.______________   ______________ _____________ ________p aren ts
Improving quarry labor conditions



