E-372
ENVIRONMENTAL
ASSESSMENT
INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH DISTRICT
POVERTY INITIATIVE PROJECT


﻿
﻿*  4.
23
22                              25
39 4       8                                  19       397:           41
33                                                 26
21       6           26
Pilot Districts (Narsinghpur, Guna, Rajgarh, Shajapur, Vidisha)
Rest DistricrS (Sagar Shivpuri, Danoh, Rewa, Raisen,
Sidhi, Panna. Chhalarpur, Tikarngarh)


﻿l


﻿Contents
CHAPTER 1 - INTRODUCTION.....................................
1.1  STUDY AREA...........................................
1.2  REGIONAL PROFILE.....................................
1.2.1 THE PLATEAU OF MAL WA..............................
1.2.2 THE PLATEAU OF cENTRAL INDIA.
1.2.3 THE PLATEAU OF BUNDELKHA ND .......................
1.2.4 THE PLATEAU OF REWA AND PANNA .....................
1.2.5 THE PLATEAU OF NARMADA-SONE VALLEY...............
1.3  THE TYPE OF ACTIVITIES TO BE FINANCED UNDER THE
COMMUNITY INVEST FUNDS CAN BE BROADLY GROUPED INTO
1.3.1. SOCIAL SECTOR AND RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE RELATED
ACTIVITIES
1.3.2. INCOME GENERATING
1.4  SCOPE OF WORK.......................................
TASK I .................................................
TASK I/..................................................
TASK /// ....................... ..........................
TASK IV..................................................
CHAPTER 2 - ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT  .....................
2.1  ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS.   ...............................
2.2  CRITERIA FOR ENVIRONMENTAL SCREENING.................
2.3  SCREENING PROCEDURE.     ................................
2.3.1 FIRST STEP: Location of the project. .......................
2.3.2 SECOND STEP: Classification of sub projects.................
2.3.3 STEP THREE: Environmental Assessment...................
2.4  RESPONSIBILITIES......................................
2.4.1 ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW.............................
2.4.2 LIMITED ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT..
2.4.3 ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTASSESSMENT..   ...............
CHAPTER 3 - ENVIRONMENTAL SCREENING CHECKLISTS............
3.1  LOCATION SENSITIVE CHECKLIST..........................
3.1.1 HIGHLY SENSITIVE AREAS (A OR D).............. ...........
3.1.2 MODERATELY SENSITIVE AREAS (B ORE).................
3.1.3 LESS SENSITIVE AREAS (C)............................
3.2  ENVIRONMENTAL ATTRIBUTES FOR CLASSIFICATION OF AREAS.....
TABLE:1  ....................LOCATION SENSITIVENESS OF THE AREA
3.3  GENERIC CHECK LIST....................................
3.3.1 REPAIRS AND UPGRADATION OF EXISTING FACILITIES......
3.3.2 NEW SUBPROJECTS..................................
3.3.3 ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW (ER)............. .................
3.3.4 LIMITED ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT (LEA) .............
3.3.5 ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA) .............
Page 1


﻿3.4 ENVIRONMENTAL  ATTRIBUTES  FOR   SCREENING  AND
CLASSIFICATION OF SUBPROJECTS ........................
1 RURAL ROADS..........................................
2  BRIDGES..............................................
3 COMMUNITY HALLS.....................................
4 SCHOOLS / TRAINING CENTERS / OTHER EDUCATIONAL CENTERS
17
5 HEALTH CENTERS! CLINICS.  ...............................
6  MARKETS.............................................
7 DRINKING WATER SUPPLY ....................................
8. SANITATION FACILITIES................................
9   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL................................
10 FLOOD/ EROSION PROTECTION BARRIERS .................
11 MINOR IRRIGATION............... .....................
12  CROPS..............................................
13 HORTICULTURE................... .....................
14 ANIMAL HUSBANDRY............. .....................
15  SERICULTURE............................................
16 PISCICULTURE AND RESTOCKING OF VILLAGE PONDS.........
17 ENERGY....................... .......................
18 PASTURE DEVELOPMENT/SOCIAL FORESTRY................
TABLE: 2................................... GENERIC CHECKLIST
3.5  CONCLUSIONS..........................................
CHAPTER 4 - ADMINISTRATIVE STRUCTURE AND DATA MANAGEMENT
SYSTEM FOR ENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT IN MP-DPIP.............
4.1 INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS PROPOSED FOR THE PROJECT28
4.2  DATA MANAGEMENT SYSTEM.  .............................
Page 2


﻿SPSU- DPIP-MP                                             EAR
CHAPTER 1 - INTRODUCTION
Madhya Pradesh District Poverty Initiatives Programme aims at Poverty
alleviation in 14 districts of the State using a judicious development strategy
that is sustainable both economically and environmentally. The development
projects for poverty alleviation would address the environmental aspects so as to
ensure that environment is not endangered and that development needs of the
present are met without compromising on the ability of the future generation to
meet their own needs.
The environmental strategy for DPIP hopes to meet the following objectives
* Contributes to the goal of poverty alleviation by helping the project to
better address the linkages between environmental degradation and
poverty and,
* Prevents environmental degradation as a result of either (i) the
cumulative effect of many small DPIP investments that individually
have negligible impact, or (ii) the impact of individually harmful sub
projects;
* Does not impose an unnecessarily administrative burden:
1.1. Study Area:
The districts selected under MP-DPIP are Vidisha, Guna, Narsinghpur,
Rewa, Sidhi, Panna, Chhatarpur, Tikamgarh, Sagar, Damoh, Rajgarh,
Shajapur, Shivpuri, Raisen. These fall into 5 broad natural regions -
Plateau of Malwa, Plateau of Bundelkhand, Plateau of Central India,
Plateau of Rewa and Panna, Plateau of Narmada-Sone river valley.
1.2. Regional Profiles:
1.2.1. The Plateau of Malwa: Covering almost the entire western region
of Madhya Pradesh, this plateau, formed by the Deccan trap rocks,
starts north of the Narmada and extends up to the Chambal river in
the north. In the east it reaches Sagar, dividing the Ganga and
Narmada valleys. The Vindhyas extend from Neemuch eastward to
Sagar. The height ranges between 300 to 500 m. The plateau is
drained by the Chambal, Narmada and Betwa rivers and covers 18
districts of the States. The capital Bhopal lies at one edge of the
plateau. The average annual rain fall in the plateau is over 900 mm.
The climate is moderate though in month of May, temperatures
touch f 42 to 430 C. The temperature in winter is rarely 8c C. While
the northern portion of the plateau has almost no forests, the
southern portion consisting of Raisen has good deal of teak forest.
Soil type of this region is medium black. Raisen, Sagar, Shajapur,
Rajgarh, Guna and Vidisha DPIP districts fall into this region. Per
capita land availability in this region varies between 0.45 to 0.50 ha.
Narsinghgarh sanctuary (Rajgarh), Noradehi sanctuary (Sagar),
MP-EAR-Reportl.doc         Page 3 of 33                     3


﻿SPSU- DPIP-MP                                            EAR
Singhori, Ratapani sanctuaries (Raisen) fall into these DPIP
districts.
1.2.2. The plateau of Central India: This region covers the northern part
of the State in the lower basin of the Champbal river. It is formed by
the Vindhyan rock groups with the Decacan trap in the south and
the Bundelkhand gneiss rocks in the east. The Bundi and Karauli
hills form it western boundary. The region presents and amalgam of
low land and up land topography. The area is marked by the deep
ravines of the Chambal, Kalisindh and Parwati rivers. The plateau
is 200 - 300 m high but close to the Yamuna river and on the
northern side, the average hight is less than 150 m. The average
rainfall is less 750mm and the area undergoes a vide range of
temperature, fluctuation rising to 42.50 C during summer and falling
as low as 5.10C in winter. Alluvial soil is found in this region. The
region has no mneral resources and per capita land availability is
0.35 to 0.45ha. Shivpuri district falls into this region. Madhava
National Park and Karera Great Indian Bustard Sanctuary lies in
this district.
1.2.3. The plateau of the Bundelkhand: This plateau lies to the east of
the central India plateau and is bounded on the north - east by the
Rewa - Panna plateau. The area consists of granite rocks of the
Archean era. Generally the plateau is a flat marginal slope and the
general topography is smooth and undulating. One third of the
northern plan area is monotonously flat and stands in strong
contrast with the Vindhya tableland, which rises, in three well-
marked escarpments roughly delineated by 300, 375 and 450m
contours. It is drained by the Betwa, Dhasan, Ken and Sindh rivers.
The average rainfall is 750 - 1030mm and the temperature ranges
between 42.50C and 7.50C. The region consists of Chhatarpur and
Tikamgarh districts and is poor in mineral resources. Mixed red and
black soil is found in this region. The per capita land availability is
0.35 to 0.45 ha. Ken, Ghariyal sanctuary lies in Chhatrpur district
and Orchha sanctuary lies in Tikamgarh district.
1.2.4. The plateau of Rewa and Panna: This is also known as Vindhyan
- plateau and lies to the north east of the Bundelkhand plateau. The
max. height of the plateau is 750m. The Bhander hills of the
Vindhyan shale group and Kymore ranges have no. of waterfalls
with heights up to 450m. The area is drained by the Ken, Sonar,
Berma, and Tones rivers. The average rainfall is between 1125 to
1250mm and the temperature ranges between 42.50C and 12.50C.
The region has thick forests with an abundance of bamboo and is
also rich in mineral resources. Panna in fact is the only diamond-
MP-EAR-Reportl.doc        Page 4 of 33                     4


﻿SPSU- DPIP-MP                                               EAR
producing district in the country. Rewa and Damoh districts also fall
into this region. Per capita land availability of this region varies
between 0.25 to 0.45ha. Soil type is mixed red and black. Panna
National Park, Gangau sanctuary falls into Panna district and
virangana sanctuary is situated in the Damoh district.
1.2.5. The Narmada-Sone river valley: This is largest valley in the State,
extending from the north - east to west with an average height
300m. It is bounded by the Vindhyan, Bhander and Kaimur hills in
the north of the valley, the Satpura, and Maikal hills in the south
and Baghelkhand highlands in the east. The valley is narrow, and
the trap falls in the Narmada river do not allow much navigation. It
is drained by the Narmada and Sone rivers. The Narmada valley
contains lime stone, fire - clay, manganese and marble, while the
sone valley has limestone and coal mines Sidhi and Narsinghpur
districts fall into this region. Per capita land availability is 0.35 to
0.50ha. Deep black soil is found in Narsinghpur whereas mixed red
&black soil is found in Sidhi. Narsinghpur district has no wild life
sanctuary or National Park. Sanjay National Park, Bagdara, Sanjay
(Dubri), and Sone Ghariyal sanctuaries are situated in Sidhi district.
Sidhi district has low level of irrigation development and low
agricultural productivity. The average annual rainfall is 1000mm to
1200mm.
1.3. The type of activities to be financed under the community invest funds can
be broadly grouped into:
1.3.1. Social sector and rural infrastructure related activities: health,
education, and community asset creation.
Income Generating Activities: Integrated land and water Management,
Agriculture productivity related, Agriculture Allied Sector and Micro
enterprises.
MP-EAR-Report L.doc         Page 5 of 33                       5


﻿
﻿SPSU- DPIP-MP                                             EAR
CHAPTER 2 - ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
The philosophy and the practice of Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) or
Environmental Assessment (EA) is not only to assimilate and integrate a broad
range of geological, physical, cultural and legislative considerations along with
that of environmental aspects, but also to maintain inherent simplicity and
flexibility of the approach. One of the main objectives of E.A. study is to ensure
that potential problems are foreseen and addressed at an early stage (the project
planning and design stage) to prevent environmental degradation by equipping
the decision-makers with good information about consequences that
development could possibly have on the environment.
2.1  ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS
Environmental analysis focuses on the relationship between the project activities
and its surrounding environment. It first examines how the project might affect
human health and the stocks of natural resources. It then goes on to consider
what measures might be introduced to mitigate the damaging environmental
effects of the project. Finally it tries to inform the decision-makers on the options
for avoiding or reducing the adverse impacts and to analyze the trade-off
involved in choosing between alternative actions.
In principle, all subproject proposals can have potential environmental effects
and should therefore be subjected to environmental appraisal. However, certain
types of subprojects can be excluded from environmental appraisal, as the
magnitude of environmental impact expected will be low due to the size or nature
of the subproject. Hence certain screening criteria are required to identify the
degree or level of environmental studies required for the proposed subproject
activity. For example in case of 'Repair of Rural Roads', the impact on
environment will be minimal and hence an environmental review with standard
mitigative measures would be sufficient for environmental clearance. But in case
of "New Roads" the impacts on the environment may have to be reviewed from a
broader perspective before being cleared, hence requiring a Limited
environmental Assessment.
2.2 CRITERIA FOR ENVIRONMENTAL SCREENING
MP-DPIP project, the screening checklists prepared for screening the proposals
are simple and clear, so that a non-specialist (with no environmental background)
can use them with suitable training.
2.3 SCREENING PROCEDURE
There are basically 3 steps in the screening process.
MP-EAR-Reportl.doc         Page 6 of 33                     6


﻿SPSU- DPIP-MP                                             EAR
2.3.1 FIRST STEP: Location of the project
In the first step, the location of the subproject plays an important role in broadly
classifying the areas into three categories and in predicting the range of impacts
and their magnitude based on the sensitivity of the area. Thus the areas of the
sub projects can be broadly identified as Environmentally highly sensitive-A,
Environmentally moderately sensitive-B and Environmentally less sensitive-C,
depending on the terrain, vegetation and other natural resources in the region. It
is the responsibility of the PFT member who will be trained for this purpose to
categorize the subproject location into one of the above classes with the help of
the "Location sensitivity checklist" given in table 3.1.
2.3.2 SECOND STEP: Classification of sub projects
In the second step depending on the location category, type of activities
proposed in the subprojects, the possible range and magnitude of environmental
impacts and the mitigative measures required, the subprojects will be
categorized into four classes. These are
i.   Environmentally beneficial: Subprojects with positive environmental
impacts on the environment.
ii.  Environmentally benign: Subprojects likely to have some less significant
impacts on the environment but for which standard mitigative measures
have been identified.
iii.  Minor Potential Environmental Impacts: Projects that have some
moderately significant environmental impacts (which do not set off a chain
of other environmental impacts) for which standard mitigative measures
are not readily identifiable.
iv.  Significant Potential Impacts: Subprojects that have potentially
significant impacts and may set off a chain of other environmental impacts
or impacts requiring detailed environmental studies.
2.3.3 STEP THREE: Environmental Assessment
In the third step, the level of environmental analysis or study required is decided
keeping in view the different environmental considerations and actions required.
They are Environmental Review, Limited Environmental Assessment and
Environmental Impact Assessment.
ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW (ER): It is required for subprojects that are
Environmentally beneficial or Environmentally benign (screening categories i&ii).
Environmental Review checklists (ER) with standard mitigative measures for
various sub projects are annexed (Annexure 1)
LIMITED ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT (LEA): It is required for
subprojects with minor potential impacts (screening category iii). LEA checklists
with Terms of Reference (TOR) for various sub projects are annexed (Annexure
I1)
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA): It is required for subprojects
with significant potential impacts (screening category iv). In most of the cases
these subprojects will not be eligible for funding.
MP-EAR-Report 1.doc        Page 7 of 33                      7


﻿SPSU- DPIP-MP                                               EAR
The above classification with level of environmental Studies required is in-built in
the Generic checklist.
2.4 RESPONSIBILITIES
Depending on the level of analysis required, the responsibilities for the
environmental screening, mitigation and clearance of subprojects are shown in
figure 1.
2.4.1 ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW
If the subproject requires ER according to the Generic checklist, then the PFT
member will fill up environmental review checklist. The filled up checklist will be
submitted to PFT Coordinator for review prior to the subproject approval by the
VDC.
2.4.2 LIMITED ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
In case of subprojects which require LEA as per the Generic checklist the DPSU
will be responsible for ensuring that it is conducted according to the TOR by
specialist or by a trained person at DPSU.
2.4.3 ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT
In case of a subproject requiring an EIA as per the Generic checklist, the DPSU
or SPSU will decide if the subproject proposal is to be rejected, or whether a full
EIA is warranted (likely to be only in few cases).
The screening flow chart with the level of involvement and responsibilities (of
people) is given in figure 1.
Fig1 SCREENING PROCESS
PROJECT IMPACT           CATEGORY   ACTION REQUIRED AND
RESPONSIBILITIES
Environmentally beneficial     i     Environmental Review to be
conducted by PFT member.
YES         AoDroved by PFT Coordinator
Environmentally benign        ii     Environmental Review to be
conducted by PFT member.
YES          Approved by PFT Coordinator
Limited Environmental
Minor Potential Environmental       Assessment to be conducted.
Impacts                             It is DPSU staffs responsibility
for contracting approved
environmental consultant for
YES           carrying out the study as per
LEA guidelines or having it
carried out by their own
DPSU trained staff.


﻿SPSU- DPIP-MP                                                       EAR
Significant Potential Impacts.   IV       Environmental Impact
Assessment is required. In
most cases project will not be
funded.
MP-EAR-Reportl.doc             Page 9 of 33                            9


﻿SPSU- DPIP-MP                                            EAR
CHAPTER 3 - ENVIRONMENTAL SCREENING CHECKLISTS
3.1  LOCATION SENSITIVE CHECKLIST
The Location sensitive checklist (LSC) for sub projects shown in Tablel is
prepared taking into consideration environmentally sensitive parameters like
terrain, vegetation, slope, population etc to identify and classify the areas into
Environmentally Highly Sensitive-A, Environmentally Moderately Sensitive-B and
Environmentally Less Sensitive-C.
3.1.1 HIGHLY SENSITIVE AREAS (A OR D)
Those areas where, if the subproject is taken up, the possibility of direct impact
with considerable magnitude due to the project activities is high on the area.
3.1.2 MODERATELY SENSITIVE AREAS (B OR E)
Those areas, within which if the subproject is located, possibility of direct impact
of considerable magnitude on the area due to the proposed activities is low, but
the indirect impacts can be of appreciable magnitude.
3.1.3 LESS SENSITIVE AREAS (C)
Those areas, within Which if the subproject is located, the possibility of direct or
indirect impact of appreciable magnitude on the area due to the proposed
activities is low.
3.2 ENVIRONMENTAL ATTRIBUTES FOR CLASSIFICATION OF AREAS
The Environmental attributes taken into consideration for the classifications of
these areas are:
1. SLOPE: During the subproject execution, the slope of the terrain will have a
significant influence on the type and magnitude of the environmental impact.
Hence based on slope as criteria (as per Indian Road Congress rules) the areas
have been divided into the following three groups keeping in view the possible
type & magnitude of impacts:
A. Mountain or Steep terrain as highly sensitive
B. Rolling or undulating terrain as moderately sensitive
Level or plain terrain as less sensitive.
2. PERENNIAL FRESH WATER BODIES: In order to preserve and reduce the
possible impact due to the proposed subproject activity on the water bodies,
MP-EAR-Reportl.doc        Page 10 of 33                    10


﻿SPSU- DPIP-MP                                             EAR
these areas have been classified depending on the distance from the water
bodies:
A. The areas within 50 m from the water bodies as highly sensitive
B. The areas between 50 to 500m from the water bodies as moderately sensitive
C. The areas with distance more than 500 m as less sensitive
3. NATURAL HABITATSNEGETATION/ RESERVED FOREST: In order to
preserve and reduce the possible impact due to the proposed subproject activity
on natural habitats/vegetation/ reserved forest, these areas have been classified
as
The areas within 50 m from natural habitats/vegetation/ reserved forest as highly
sensitive.
The areas between 50 to 500m from the natural habitats/vegetation/ reserved
forest as moderately sensitive.
The areas with distance more than 500 m from the natural habitats/vegetation/
reserved forest as less sensitive
4. NATIONAL PARKS AND SANCTUARIES: As these have endangered
species or protected wildlife, no activity must be allowed or encouraged around
them. The areas surrounding them are classified into
The areas within 500 m from National park/ sanctuaries as highly sensitive.
The areas between 500 m to 1 Km from National park/ sanctuaries as
moderately sensitive.
The areas with distance more than 1 Km from National park/ sanctuaries as less
sensitive.
5. SITES OF CULTURAL OR HISTORICAL SIGNIFICANCE: Care must be
taken to preserve the historical monuments and traditional centers of national
/state/local importance. Hence activities which can endanger their existence must
be avoided. The area surrounding them have been classified into
A. The areas within 50 m from sites of cultural or historical significance as highly
sensitive.
MP-EAR-Reportl.doc        Page 11 of 33                    11


﻿SPSU- DPIP-MP                                             EAR
B. The areas between 50 to 500m from sites of cultural or historical significance
as moderately sensitive.
The areas with distance more than 500 m from sites of cultural or historical
significance as less sensitive
6. POPULATION DENSITY: The villages/ habitations are divided into 2 classes
depending on their population, (1)Having more than 2000 people and
(2) Having less than 2000 people. This classification is made considering
Issues like the amount of resources required (like water etc) and wastes
generated (like waste water, solid waste etc). The distance from the
habitat is used to classify areas to plan suitable mitigative measures to
minimize the adverse impacts of the proposed activity on the people.
D. The areas within 500 m from habitation with a population > 2000 as highly
sensitive.
E. The areas between 500 m to 1 Km from habitation with a population > 2000
as moderately sensitive.
The areas with distance more than 1 Km from habitation with a population > 2000
or the villages with a population < 2000 people as less sensitive.
Tablei gives the list of environmental attributes taken into consideration for the
classification of these areas.
MP-EAR-Reportl.doc         Page 12 of 33                    12


﻿SPSU- DPIP-MP                                               EAR
Table:1    LOCATION SENSITIVENESS OF THE AREA
S.n   OTHER CHARACTERISTICS                  SENSITIVITY Pleas
o                                            CATEGORY    e Tick
1    SLOPE ( Cross slope of the country)
Mountainous or steep terrain( Slope > 25% )  A
Rolling terrain ( slope 10-25%)         B
Level or plain terrain ( Slope < 10 %)  C
2    PERENNIAL FRESH WATER BODIES
Distance of river, channel, drains, lakes, ponds or
any other water bodies
Less than 50 m                          A
Between 50 and 500 m                    B
More than 500 m                         C
Distance from Creeks/back water/High Tide
line/mangroves
Less than 50 m                          A
Between 50 and 500m                     B
More than 500m                          C
3    NATURAL
HABITATSNEGETATION/RESERVED
FORESTS
Distance from gazette forest reserves /Reed
lands/ mangroves/ swamp forest
Less than 50 m                          A
Between 50 and 500m                     B
More than 500m                          C
4    NATIONAL PARKS AND SANCTUARIES
Distance from National Parks or sanctuaries
Less than 500 m                         A
Between 500 and 1 KM                    B
More than 1 KM                          C
5    SITES  OF   CULTURAL   OR   HISTORICAL
SIGNIFICANCE
Distance from sites of cultural or historical
significance
Less than 50 m                          A
Between 50 and 500m                     B
More than 500m                          C
6    POPULATION DENSITY
Distance from  nearest habitation  with a
population more than 2000 people
Less than 500m                          D
500 to 1 Km                             E
More than 1 Km                          C
MP-EAR-Reportl.doc         Page 13 of 33                     13


﻿SPSU- DPIP-MP                                             EAR
The PFT member will classify the location of the proposed subproject into one of
the 3 categories for each of the attributes in the location sensitive checklist. The
area is declared as category A, if it falls under it at least in case of one attribute in
checklist. Else, in case of the area not falling under category A, if it falls under B
for at least one attribute then it is declared as category B. Else it is declared as
category C.
3.3 GENERIC CHECK LIST
While preparing the Generic checklist the following issues were given due
importance
1) These projects are basically meant for meeting the minimum requirements of
the habitats.
2) In most of the cases the cost of the sub projects will be between Rs.10,
000.00 - Rs.25000.00
3) There is no major rehabilitation required for taking up these projects.
Depending on the subproject type, activities and location, the checklist identifies
the level of environmental analysis or study required for the proposed subproject.
In some cases the sub projects have also been classified depending on
parameters like number of people, size of the project, area affected, ground
water utilization and depth etc to incorporate the already existing guidelines or
standards being followed by the concerned departments in their already existing
or completed projects.
Hence keeping the above issues in view the sub projects have been mostly
divided into three categories: a) Repairs or Rehabilitation b) Up gradation and c)
New ones depending upon type of expected activities, their impacts and level of
environmental analysis required.
3.3.1 REPAIRS AND UPGRADATION OF EXISTING FACILITIES
As the subproject under consideration is already existing, it only needs to be
improvised to meet today's needs and demands, and to increase its utilization
and survival. In most of these cases the impacts of these activities are not of
considerable magnitude. Hence an environmental review with suitable and
standard mitigative measures is sufficient to take up the project. In very few
cases due to some environmentally sensitive conditions a Limited Environmental
Assessment may be required.
3.3.2 NEW SUBPROJECTS
In most of the cases, the impacts due to the proposed activity may have to be
reviewed from a broader perspective with more details. It may require more
information and data of the prevailing conditions in order to take up suitable
mitigative measures or look into other possible alternatives.
MP-EAR-Reportl.doc         Page 14 of 33                    14


﻿SPSU- DPIP-MP                                            EAR
In few cases due to a number of inter linking conditions and factors the
subprojects may require a detailed Environmental Impact Assessment to know
the environmental impact of the project. The Table 2 gives the generic checklist.
3.3.3     ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW (ER)
It refers to a very simple level of environmental assessment. It does not require
sophisticated environmental expertise and can be adequately completed by the
PFT member. The checklist basically identifies all the possible impacts due to
the proposed activity perceived from the past experiences of similar projects. It
also provides suitable mitigative measures to reduce or nullify the adverse
impacts expected.
The PFT members can identify the likely and applicable impacts of the proposed
subproject from the ones listed in the relevant checklist. Then he must look into
the corresponding mitigative measures suggested and see that they are
implemented. The ER checklists are annexed.
3.3.4 LIMITED ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT (LEA)
Certain projects might have some unforeseen impacts. In order to withstand
these impacts, one needs to know the profile of the region and the projects in
greater detail. LEA helps in equipping with the relevant information with the help
of which any number of unforeseen impacts can be managed with certain
mitigative measures. Thus, a subproject requiring a LEA needs to be reviewed by
an environmental/technical specialist. The information regarding baseline
conditions and potential site-specific impacts must be analysed. The outline for
collection of baseline information is given in the LEA checklist. The mitigative
measures recommended by the expert must be incorporated into the design by
the PFT members or the implementers of the project.
For subprojects requiring a LEA, it is important to monitor the work, both during
construction and also operation to ensure that mitigative measures are
implemented and that no unforeseen negative impacts are left unmanaged. The
LEA checklists are annexed.
3.3.5 ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)
An EIA would be required in the event of significant direct or indirect impacts due
to the proposed subproject. Such subprojects would generally be subjected to
national requirement for an EIA. The necessity of a full EIA appears to be very
rare for DPIP subprojects: normally, a subproject requiring this kind of
environmental analysis would be refused funding.
MP-EAR-Report l.doc       Page 15 of 33                    15


﻿SPSU- DPIP-MP                                             EAR
3.4  ENVIRONMENTAL     ATTRIBUTES    FOR    SCREENING    AND
CLASSIFICATION OF SUBPROJECTS
1    RURAL ROADS
Considering the activities associated with the repair and up gradation of rural
roads, the impact will be marginal and can be addressed by standard mitigative
measures. Hence ER with standard mitigative measures is sufficient to take up
these projects in all categories of areas.
For construction of new roads/widening in areas (B, C, D and E) LEA is required
because the impacts due to the proposed activities are far fetched and must be
looked into from a broader perspective. They may require more information and
data (location specific features like slope and drainage pattern etc) to come up
with suitable mitigative measures.
In the case of construction of new road/widening falling under category A (e.g.
area very close to sanctuaries or hilly terrain), the sub project may have
significant and long-term impact, which needs detailed impact evaluation. Hence
it requires an EIA.
2    BRIDGES & Culverts
The sub projects under this category generally constitute repairs to the existing
bridges or construction of new bridges on existing roads. Considering the
activities associated with the sub project and the costs allocated, the impact will
be marginal irrespective of the location. Hence an ER with suitable and standard
mitigative measures is sufficient to take up the project.
Where as in the case of construction of new minor bridges in all areas, site
specific data (like drainage pattern of the area, upstream and down stream
activities etc) is required for evaluating the impact of the project on the
surroundings and to suggest suitable mitigative measures. Hence it requires a
LEA.
3    COMMUNITY HALLS
Keeping in view the utilization of the multi purpose community halls (for activities
like group meetings, social functions, community festivals, cyclone, flood
rehabilitation etc.) and the activities associated with repair and rehabilitation in all
areas and construction of new community halls in areas falling under category B,
C, E, the impacts on the surrounding environment will be marginal and concern
mostly waste disposal considerations. Hence they can be addressed by standard
mitigative measures. So an ER with standard mitigative measures regarding
waste disposal, sanitation facilities etc., is sufficient to take up the project.
In case of D and A categories which are nearer to sensitive zones like
sanctuaries and habitats etc., LEA is required because the impacts due to the
proposed activities on surrounding environment should be looked into specific to
the context of community fetes and festivals etc. Hence it may require more
MP-EAR-Reportl.doc         Page 16 of 33                    16


﻿SPSU- DPIP-MP                                            EAR
information and data (location specific features like water availability and ground
water details) to come up with suitable mitigative measures.
4    SCHOOLS / TRAINING CENTERS / OTHER EDUCATIONAL CENTERS
Keeping in view the proposed activities for which it will be used (like, schools
etc.) and the activities during repair and rehabilitation (in all categories), the
impact on the surrounding environment will be marginal and can be addressed
by standard mitigative measures. Hence art ER with standard mitigative
measures is sufficient to take up the project.
In case of construction of new ones (in all categories) the evaluation of impacts
due to the waste generation on the surrounding environment will require more
site-specific information and data (like quantity of waste generated, ground water
levels, drainage pattern etc) to come up with suitable mitigative measures.
5    HEALTH CENTERS/ CLINICS
The health centers are meant for health care in the village. Owing to the gravity
of the cases, the quantity and characteristics of wastes (organic especially
biomedical and inorganic) generated and the population of habitats (number of
people using the facility), the impact on the surrounding environment will be
marginal and concern mainly disposal of waste, both biomedical and general. As
the scale of the projects is very small, these issues can be addressed by
following standard mitigative measures. Hence an ER with suitable and standard
mitigative measures is sufficient to take up the project in B, C, D, E category
areas.
Whereas in case of health centers located in category A will require site specific
data like the degree of impact that can be allowed taking into consideration the
importance of the area and species in the surrounding for careful handling and
disposal of the wastes generated. Hence a LEA is required.
6    MARKETS
Keeping in view the proposed activities, the quantity and characteristics of
wastes (organic and inorganic) generated and the population of habitations
(number of people using the facility), the impact on the surrounding environment
will be marginal and concern mainly waste disposal. Hence they can be
addressed by standard mitigative measures. Therefore, an ER with suitable and
standard mitigative measures is sufficient to take up the project in B, C and E
category areas.
The location of Markets/ Commercial centers in category A and D must be
avoided as far as possible. The amount of organic and inorganic waste
generated will be of considerable magnitude posing health problems, increasing
congestion and enhancing the human interference in the sensitive/protected
areas. In case of unavoidable circumstances an EIA study is required for
clearance of such subprojects.
MP-EAR-Reportl.doc        Page 17 of 33                    17


﻿SPSU- DPIP-MP                                            EAR
7    DRINKING WATER SUPPLY
SURFACE WATER
Keeping in view the proposed activities during up gradation of multipurpose
village ponds and the waste (organic and inorganic) generated due to such
activities on the surrounding environment, the impacts will be marginal and can
be addressed by standard mitigative measures. Hence an ER with suitable and
standard mitigative measures is sufficient to take up the project.
In case of construction of new multipurpose village ponds in areas C and E which
are environmentally less sensitive require a ER as the impact due to change in
drainage pattern on the aquatic life will be minimal and standard mitigative
measures can be suggested to reduce them. LEA will be required is case of
subprojects located in category B as it may require more information and data
(location specific features like drainage pattern, aquatic life etc.) to come up with
suitable mitigative measures.
The construction of new multipurpose village ponds in category A and D must be
avoided as far as possible. As Problems associated water stagnation and change
in drainage pattern can have irreversible damage in the sensitive areas (like A)
and spread diseases in the surrounding areas (like D). In case of unavoidable
circumstances an EIA study is required for clearance of such subprojects.
GROUND WATER
NEW OR UP GRADATION OF (TUBE WELLS/OPEN WELLS/HAND PUMPS)
In case of dark areas where the ground water exploitation is more than 85% of
the available water, the up gradation or new construction of tube wells will require
a LEA because the impacts due to the proposed activities may result in depletion
of water resources. Moreover it may require additional information and data
(location specific features like drainage pattern, groundwater aquifer details etc)
to come up with suitable mitigative measures. In case of Grey or white area the
impact on the surrounding environment will be marginal and can be addressed
by standard mitigative measures. Hence an ER with suitable and standard
mitigative measures is sufficient to take up the project.
PIPED WATER SUPPLY OR GRAVITY SCHEMES
The major activities in this subproject are digging, laying of pipes and refilling the
trench. The impact of these activities on the surrounding environment will be
marginal and can be addressed by standard mitigative measures. Hence an ER
with suitable and standard mitigative measures is sufficient to take up the project
in categories B, C, D, E. Whereas in case of subprojects located in category A
require site specific data to propose suitable mitigative measures. Hence a LEA
is required.
MP-EAR-Reportl.doc        Page 18 of 33                    18


﻿SPSU- DPIP-MP                                            EAR
8.   SANITATION FACILITIES
The individual latrines with soak pits in areas where the ground water depth is
within 10 m require a LEA because the possibility of ground water contamination
has to be looked into. This will require additional information and data (location
specific features like ground water table, aquifer characteristics and ground water
movement etc) to come up with suitable mitigative measures. Where as in
areas where the ground water depth is more than 10m the possibility of ground
water contamination is less. Hence the impact of these activities on the
surrounding environment will be marginal and can be addressed by standard
mitigative measures. Hence an ER with suitable and standard mitigative
measures is sufficient to take up the project.
The community open channel drainage system is mostly required in C, D and E
category areas. It may create foul odor, health risks and community conflicts. In
order to address these problems, site-specific information is required for
suggesting suitable mitigative measures. Hence a LEA is required. Where as in
case of subprojects located in category A & B require an EIA as a detailed study
is required to identify suitable mitigative measures to minimise the impact. Some
of the impacts can create serious environmental and health problems that will be
irreversible if not managed properly.
The compost pits must be allowed only in category C area as they can create
serious environmental and health problems. It requires an EIA because in some
cases there might be irreversible environmental damage due to the proposed
activity. So an in depth study is required to propose suitable mitigative measures.
9    SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL
Keeping in view the proposed activities, the quantity and characteristic of wastes
(organic and inorganic) generated and the population using the facility, the
impact on the surrounding environment will be marginal and can be addressed
by standard mitigative measures. Hence an ER with suitable and standard
mitigative measures is sufficient to take up the project.
The construction of new waste disposal sites must be allowed only in category C
areas as they can create ser[ous environmental, health problems and social
conflicts. It requires an EIA because in some cases there might be irreversible
environmental damage due to the proposed activity. So an in depth study is
required to propose suitable mitigative measures.
10   FLOOD/ EROSION PROTECTION BARRIERS
The impacts of structural barriers (dams, reservoirs, dikes etc) and non-structural
barriers (involving zoning, floodplain regulations) vary from each other. The
project overall would be beneficial as flooding recharges soil moisture and helps
in preservation of topsoil and nutrient enrichment. The activities related to the
subproject would involve only marginal impacts and can be addressed by
standard mitigative measures, which are sufficient to take up the project. Only in
MP-EAR-Reportl.doc        Page 19 of 33                    19


﻿SPSU- DPIP-MP                                              EAR
case of construction of new embankments with height greater than 2 m in
category A areas may require a LEA. As site specific information like area that
will get submerges and water-logging etc is required for predicting the magnitude
of impacts.
11   MINOR IRRIGATION
TUBE WELLS
In dark areas as there is over exploitation of the ground water and any additional
pressure on it must be very carefully analysed from the environmental point of
view. It requires an in depth study to avoid grave environmental problems. Hence
an EIA is required. Moreover these must be allowed only in Category C so that
there is protect highly sensitive and moderately sensitive areas from further
exploitation of ground water.
In Grey areas suitable mitigative measures are to be suggested to prevent the
region from becoming a dark area. For this purpose site-specific information such
as aquifer details, ground water availability etc., is required. They must be
allowed only in category C, and E, to avoid conversion of forests to agricultural
use. Hence a LEA needs to be carried out. The sanction of new bore holes in
category B areas must be avoided as far as possible. As they may initiate series
of impacts of which some be irreversible. Hence requires an EIA for their
sanctions.
In the case of white areas as the pressure on ground water is less the impact due
to the proposed activity on the environment will be marginal and can be
addressed by standard mitigative measures in category C and E areas. Hence
for these ER with standard mitigative measures is sufficient to take up the project
in Category C and E. In case of projects at category B will require an LEA as site
specific data (like as aquifer details, topography etc) are required to predict the
impacts and suitable mitigative measures. Where as in case of sanction of new
bore holes in category A areas must be avoided as far as possible. As they may
initiate series of impacts of which some be irreversible. Hence requiring an EIA.
STOP DAMS, CHECK DAMS, EARTHEN PONDS, TANKS AND
PERCOLATION TANKS
REHABILITATION OF EXISTING STRUCTURES
Keeping in view the proposed activities in the subproject and the waste (organic
and inorganic) generated the impact on the surrounding environment will be
marginal and can be addressed by standard mitigative measures for sub projects
located in categories C and E. Hence an ER with suitable and standard mitigative
measures is sufficient to take up the project. Where as a LEA is required in case
of sub projects located in Category B areas, as it requires site-specific
information (like drainage pattern, and aquatic life etc).
MP-EAR-Reportl.doc         Page 20 of 33                    20


﻿SPSU- DPIP-MP                                            EAR
CONSTRUCTION OF NEW STRUCTURES
In the case of construction of new ones LEA is required as the impacts due to the
proposed activities may have to be looked into from a broader perspective.
Hence it may require more information and data (location specific features like
drainage pattern, aquatic life, submergence area details etc) to come up with
suitable mitigative measures. They must be allowed only in category C and E to
avoid conversion of forests to agricultural use. . But in case of unavoidable
circumstances an EIA study is required for clearance of such subprojects in
category B areas.
IRRIGATION CHANNEL
REHABILITATION OF EXISTING CHANNELS
Keeping in view the proposed activities in the subproject and the waste (organic
and inorganic) generated the impact on the surrounding environment will be
marginal and can be addressed by standard mitigative measures. Hence an ER
with suitable and standard mitigative measures is sufficient to take up the project.
They must be allowed only in category C and E to avoid conversion of forests to
agricultural use. Where as a LEA is required in case of sub projects located in
Category B areas, as it requires site specific information (like drainage pattern,
and aquatic life etc). But in case of unavoidable circumstances an EIA study is
required for clearance of such subprojects in category A areas.
CONSTRUCTION OF NEW CHANNELS
In case of construction of new ones LEA is required as the impacts due to the
proposed activities may have to be looked into from a broader perspective.
Hence it may require more information and data (location specific features like
drainage pattern, and aquatic life etc) to come up with suitable mitigative
measures. They must be allowed only in category C and E areas to avoid
conversion of forests or sensitive areas to agricultural use. But in case of
unavoidable circumstances an EIA study is required for clearance of such
subprojects in category B areas.
12   CROPS
IMPROVED FARM/CROP MANAGEMENT
GREY AND WHITE AREAS
The project includes new and improved techniques of farming so as to improve
crop varieties as well as management practices so that better yield is obtained in
a limited area of given land. The activity is environmentally beneficial but needs
an ER so as to maintain the improved condition on a long-term basis.
DARK AREA
It will require a LEA because the impacts due to the proposed activities (like
suitability of soil, increase in water uses and fertilizers etc) may have to be
looked into from a broader perspective. Moreover location specific features (like
drainage pattern, type of soil, microenvironment and type of fertilizers used etc)
are required to come up with suitable mitigative measures. They must be allowed
MP-EAR-Reportl.doc        Page 21 of 33                    21


﻿SPSU- DPIP-MP                                            EAR
only in category C areas to avoid conversion of forests or sensitive areas to
agricultural use.
AGRICULTURE TOOL DEVELOPMENT
Keeping in view the type of agricultural tools developed and the number, the
impact of the proposed activity on the surrounding environment will be marginal
and can be addressed by standard mitigative measures. Hence an ER with
suitable and standard mitigative measures is sufficient to take up the project.
They must be allowed in category B, C, D and E to minimise/discourage the use
of forest and sensitive area resources like (felling of trees or animal bones etc)
for tool development.
13. HORTICULTURE/VEGETABLE GROWING
DARK AREA
An activity related with extraction of the ground water in dark areas must be
evaluated carefully to avoid the serious environmental problems (micro climatic
changes eg conversion to barren lands etc). Hence it requires a LEA as
additional information and data (location specific features like drainage pattern,
ground water potential, quantity of water required and type of fertilizers used etc)
is required to come up with suitable mitigative measures. They must be allowed
only in category C and E areas to avoid reduction of availability of water to
habitats or conversion of sensitive areas for the above purpose. It must be
discouraged to take up such activities in category B areas. But in unavoidable
situation a detailed environmental analysis is requires to identify the possible
impacts of the proposed activity on the environment and to come up with suitable
mitigative measures. Hence an EIA is required
GREY AND WHITE AREAS
The impact of the activities involved with horticulture (like use of ground water or
surface etc) on the surrounding environment will be marginal and can be
addressed by standard mitigative measures. Hence an ER with suitable and
standard mitigative measures is sufficient to take up the project. They can be
allowed in category B, C, D and E areas. The use of category A areas must be
avoided to protect them from land cleaning and encroachments. In unavoidable
circumstances an EIA study must be carried for taking a decision regarding
clearance of the project.
14   ANIMAL HUSBANDRY
GOAT, SHEEP REARING, DAIRY AND POULTRY FARM (Stall Fed) STOCK
IMPROVEMENT
The activities under the project are intended to support the livestock population
providing stall-feeding facilities to prevent grazing in the surrounding areas or
encroaching into core forest lands. The project will involve sheep rearing, dairy,
poultry farming. The impacts arising through these are negligible and can be
undertaken with the help of an ER with standard mitigative measures in cases of
MP-EAR-Reportl.doc        Page 22 of 33                   22


﻿SPSU- DPIP-MP                                             EAR
sub projects involving Dairy and sheep in categories C, B & E areas and Poultry
form in category C.
A LEA is required for sub projects involving Poultry form in category B and sheep
rearing which are not stall-fed, as location specific information like water
availability, vegetation, demography and drainage pattern of the area is required
for predicting the impacts.
15   SERICULTURE
Sericulture is a highly remunerative programme and therefore helps in increasing
the economic gains of the local population. It can also be supported in the
conventional fields along margins, along contours of less sloppy areas, and in the
form of terrace cultivation along highly sloppy regions. The impacts due to the
sericulture on environment are very marginal, as all types of wastes such as
waste from reeling units, double cocoons, silk waste, pupae etc are put to use in
some form or the other. The only problem that can be foreseen is the use of dyes
and wastes from dyes. Hence suitable standard mitigative measures through an
Environmental Review are sufficient to take up the project in category C area.
Where as LEA will be required in case of sub projects located in category B
areas, as site specific information (like water availability, drainage pattern etc) is
required to predict the possible impacts. .
16   PISCICULTURE AND RESTOCKING OF VILLAGE PONDS
These projects involve taking up fish culture activities in already existed village
ponds or in ponds constructed under the DPIP sub projects while restocking of
village ponds will aim at increase in fish production, by providing good quality fish
seed to replenish the normally available fish stock in the existing village ponds. It
is environmentally benign but needs an ER to ensure proper management to
avoid over dense fish population, change in productivity of pond.
17   ENERGY
The sub projects in energy involve using of smokeless chulhas or fuel -efficient
cooking stoves. As these are environmentally beneficial but still need to be
looked into regarding
Fuel wood resources, an Environmental Review with suitable measures would be
sufficient.
18   PASTURE DEVELOPMENT / SOCIAL FORESTRY/PLANT NURSURIES
The project has a number of positive impacts by way of planting of species for
fodder, fuel and fruit production to meet the needs of the inhabiting human and
livestock population. It can enhance slope stabilization, form shelterbelts and act
as wind breaks, form live fences etc. and helps in increasing the soil fertility,
moisture content and soil nutrients. However, it needs an ER with standard
mitigative measures in category areas B and C. This is because care must be
taken with regard to the choice of species for specific purposes, suitable to the
region taken up for the project. Also the activity is to be restricted only to the
MP-EAR-Reportl.doc        Page 23 of 33                    23


﻿SPSU- DPIP-MP                                                   EAR
buffer zones and should not be allowed to encroach the core forest areas
keeping in view the serenity of the habitat.
MP-EAR-Reportl.doc           Page 24 of 33                        24


﻿SPSU- DPIP-MP                                              EAR
Table: 2   GENERIC CHECKLIST
S. no Subproject Type                  Screening category
ER       LEA      EIA
1     Rural Roads
a) Repair                        A,B,C,D,
b) Upgrading without widening    E
c) Construction of a new road/widening  A,B,C,D, B,C,D,E  A
E
2     Bridges & Culverts
a) Repair                        A,B,C,D.
b) Upgrading, widening           E
c) Construction of new bridge    A,B,C,D,
1) Piped Culverts              E
2) Minor Bridges                        A,B,C,D,
A,B,C,D, E
E
3     Community Halls
a) Repairing/Rehabilitation      A,B,C,D,
b) Construction of new one       E        A,D
B,C,D,E
4     School /training centers/ educational
centers
a) Repairs/Rehabilitation        A,B,C,D,
b) Construction of new ones       E       A,B,C,D,
E
5     Health centers/clinics           B,C,D,E  A
6     Markets/Commercial centers        B,C,E             A,D
7     Drinking water supply
a) Surface Water multipurpose village
pond
1) Up gradation                A,B,C,D,
2) Construction                E        B        D,A
b) Ground water (New or Up gradation of C,E
(tube/open) wells)
1) Dark Areas                           A,B,C,D,
2) Grey or White areas                  E
c) Piped  water supply  or gravity A,B,C,D,         E
schemes                        E        C,B
MP-EAR-Reportl.doc         Page 25 of 33                    25


﻿SPSU- DPIP-MP                                              EAR
S. no Subproject Type                     Screening categ ory
ER       LEA      EIA
9     Solid waste disposal
a) Up gradation of existing collection A,B,C,D,
(segregation) and disposal system  E
b) Construction of new waste disposal              C
sites ( ex land fills )
10    Flood / erosion protection barriers ( soil
protection)
a) Rehabilitation of existing embankment A,B,C,D,
b) Construction of new embankment < 2 E
m                             AB,C,D,E A
c) Construction of new embankment >2 B,C,D,E
m                             A,B,C,D,
d) Lining of river banks (with rocks, E
poles, etc.)
11    Minor-Irrigation projects
a) Tube wells
1) Dark areas                                   C
2) Grey                                C,E      B
3) White areas                C,E      B        A
b) Check dams, pond, lakes and
percolation tanks
1) Rehabilitation of existing ones  C,E  B
2) Construction  of  new  ones         C,E      B
(Submergence area < 0.5 Ha)
c) Irrigation Channels
1) Rehabilitation of existing ones  C,E  B      A
2) Construction of new ones            C,E      B
12    Crops
a) Improved farm/crop management
1) Grey or white areas         B,C,D,E
2) Dark areas                           C
b) Agriculture tool development  C,D,E    B
13    Horticulture  with  new  irrigation
source/vegetable growing with existing    C,E      B
irrigation source                B,C,D,E           A
a) Dark areas
b) Grey or white areas
14    Animal Husbandry
a) Dairy, Goat and sheep (Stall feed)  C,B,E
b) Poultry form                  C        B
15    Sericulture                      C        B
16    Pisciculture and Restocking of village A,B,C,D,
ponds with indigenous fish species or E
fishponds.
MP-EAR-Reportl.doc        Page 26 of 33                    26


﻿SPSU- DPIP-MP                                             EAR
17    Energy (renewable)
a) Improved cooking/smokeless Chulha A,B,C,D,
E
18    Pasture  development  and  social B,C     A
1 Forestry/Plant Nursuries.
3.5 CONCLUSIONS
A comprehensive environmental screening procedure, which is simple and
appropriate to the size and nature of the subproject must be evolved and
implemented. This should not only look into the relevant environmental issues
but must also help the decision-makers in speedy clearance of the subproject
proposals.
Keeping the above issues in view the present exercise is a first step to integrate
the environmental issues into project planning at an early stage. This will not only
help the policy planners and decision makers to foresee the environmental
problems in advance but also to evaluate the influence on the over all objective
of the proposed mission.
By ignoring the environmental factors at the project initiation stage, project costs
go up due to additional environmental precautions and measures needed. For
instance, instead of proposing a tube well in the dark area where the ground
water exploitation is high, a rainwater collection pond or water shed management
will be more feasible and may lead towards sustainable development by
recharging the groundwater aquifer.
Moreover there are two main reasons why environmental development planning
has given great importance to the issue of the interrelationship between
development and environment. The first is that the destructive effect on
environment has negative repercussions on development itself. The second is
that adequate considerations of natural resources and the environment
development strategies, plans and policies constitute rich source of opportunities
for improved social and economic development, while mitigating the effects of the
proposed subproject activity.
MP-EAR-Reportl.doc         Page 27 of 33                    27


﻿SPSU- DPIP-MP                                             EAR
CHAPTER 4 - ADMINISTRATIVE STRUCTURE AND DATA
MANAGEMENT SYSTEM FOR ENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT IN
MP-DPIP
The activities to be financed under this project would be demand driven and
community- based. These projects will be targeted to mobilise poor rural
community to seek fulfillment of felt needs and to improve their access to
services provided by the public institutions.
The comprehensive administrative structure for MP-DPIP projects has be
addressed in detail in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD).
4.1 INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS PROPOSED FOR THE PROJECT
In accordance with the proposed institutional arrangements agreed with GOMP,
a district level autonomous society dealing directly with the CIGs will be
established. The management structure proposed for the MP-DPIP project
consists of 5 levels
1) State Steering Committee (SSC)
2) State Project Support Unit (SPSU)
3) Zila Panchayat Support Unit (ZPSU)
4) District Project Support Unit (DPSU)
5) Project Facilitating Team (PFT)
6) Gram Panchayat Village Development Committee (GP-VDC)
7) Common Interest Groups (CIG).
The key elements of the institutional arrangements for Environmental
management of the MP-DPIP is designed keeping the above management
structure and sequences of activities involved in formulation, implementation and
monitoring & evaluation of the sub projects. The sequences of activities is
illustrated below
1) Need for the project is felt and identified by CIGs in consultation with the PFT
member.
2) The PFT MEMBER will help the CIGs in formulating the project proposal and
filling up the required application forms.
3) PFT MEMBER will screen the sub projects using the Location Sensitivity
Checklist (LSC) and Generic Checklist (GC) included in the Environmental
Assessment Report (EAR). In most cases, it is expected that the checklists
will indicate that only an Environmental Review (ER) is required, which will
also be conducted by the PFT member using the Environmental Review
Guidelines (ERG) included in the EAR.
4) The PFT MEMBER will submit the completed screening checklists and
relevant sections of the ERG to the District Project Support Unit (DPSU) as
part of the subproject proposal.
5) The DPSU staff will review the completed LSA, GC and if submitted the ERG.
MP-EAR-Reportl.doc         Page 28 of 33                    28


﻿SPSU- DPIP-MP                                             EAR
6) If the screening checklists indicate that a Limited Environmental Assessment
(LEA) is required, then DPSU staff will be responsible for contracting
approved environmental consultants.
7) The State Project Support Unit (SPSU) will appoint an Environmental Agency
(EA). EA or its environmental consultant will follow the Limited Environmental
Assessment Guidelines (LEAG) to carry out the study.
8) In the few cases that the screening checklists indicate that a full
Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) is required, if the subproject costs
less than Rs: 10 lakh, the DPSU will request an estimate of the EIA cost from
the EA. If the subproject requiring an EIA costs more than Rs. 10 lakh, the
DPSU will refer the subproject to the SPSU's subproject appraisal expert, who
will request an estimate of the cost from EA.
9) For subprojects costing less than Rs. 10 lakh, if the estimate of the EIA cost
exceeds 20% of the total subproject cost, the proposal will not be approved.
If the EIA cost estimate is less than 20% of the total cost, then subproject
preparation may continue at the DPSU's discretion.
10)For subprojects costing more than Rs. 10 lakh, the SPSU subproject
appraisal expert will decide whether to approve further processing of the
subproject proposal based on a comparison of the EIA costs and expected
economic benefits.
11) In the unusual case that a subproject requiring an EIA is approved, it will be
undertaken by the EA under separate contracts with the DPSU or SPSU.
12)ln accordance with the finding of the EIA study, the DPSU or SPSU
subproject appraisal expert will decide on the funding of the subproject.
13)The environmental agency shall carryout monitoring and supervision of the
project as per the guidelines given in chapter on Monitoring and supervision.
For carrying out the above activities related to environmental issue the
administrative structure proposed is shown in the figure below & table 3.
MP-EAR-Reportl.doc         Page 29 of 33                    29


﻿SPSU- DPIP-MP                                              EAR
Proposed administrative structure for
Penvironmental management
SPSU                      Environmental Agency
EIA
DPSU                       Environmental Consultants
Trained
Subproject Management Expert
T_* LEA
PFT
Trained Member
ER
Village level unit
Common interest groups/PFT
members
4.2 DATA MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
The MP-DPIP project is proposed to be initially implemented in three districts
with a project cost of RS 6000 millions to be spread over a period of five years.
The number of sub projects that shall be funded will be around 2000 to 5000.
These sub projects will be spread over 10 to 15 Sub blocks of each district over a
period of five years. From the generic checklist it can be seen that there are
about 17 category of sub-projects with each category being again subdivided.
The process of environmental information collection and status of project with
respect to environmental issues related to it has to be maintained effectively for
initiating prompt action and effective implementation of the project. Moreover to
speed up the process of environmental clearances and reduce delays, an
effective data documentation system that is easy to handle with in-built warning
system to identify and reduce delays and easy to transfer information among
different units must be setup.
Number of sub-projects that shall be funded are in thousands and these will be
1) Spread over five years
MP-EAR-Reportl.doc         Page 30 of 33                    30


﻿SPSU- DPIP-MP                                             EAR
2) Will be implemented in different Sub block of the districts, being handed by
different individuals at different stages of the project.
3) The sub projects shall be in different categories requiring environmental
inputs from different units of MP-DPIP and external agencies.
In the above context it becomes very difficult for manual maintenances of
environmental status of all projects by the available staff. Hence for prompt
handling of environmental issues and systematic documentation a user friendly
computer documentation system is required.
The proposed Environmental Information Documentation System (EIDS) shall
contain following modules
a) Status of environmental clearance procedure (Environmental issues)
b) Status of environmental activities and responsibilities in ongoing projects
c) Information on completed project and environmental reports
As the environmental information related to the projects will be maintained at the
DPSU level hence the EIPS shall be installed and maintained at DPSU. The
Environmental Officer and Computer operator at DPSU shall input the required
information and down load the information required as per their requirements.
EIDS can be integrated with the overall project management system software.
MP-EAR-Reportl.doc         Page 31 of 33                   31


