Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3430 IN
Development Credit Agreement
(Madhya Pradesh District Poverty Initiatives Project)
between
INDIA
and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated December 5, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3430 IN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated  December 5, 2000, between INDIA, acting by its President (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association);
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project, described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Project will be carried out by the State of Madhya Pradesh (Madhya 
Pradesh) and Madhya Pradesh Society for Poverty Alleviation Initiatives (MPSPAI) (as 
hereinafter defined) with the Borrower’s assistance, as part of such assistance, the 
Borrower will make available to Madhya Pradesh the proceeds of the Credit as provided 
in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith among the Association 
Madhya Pradesh and MPSPAI (the Project Agreement);
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, as amended through October 6, 
1999, (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
“12.  ‘Participating Country’ means any country that the 
Association determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 11 
of Resolution 
No. 194 of the Board of Governors of the Association, 
adopted on April 8, 1999; 
and ‘Participating Countries’ means, 
collectively, all such countries.”; and
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise 
agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (i) on account of expenditures 
in the 
territories of any country which is not a Participating 
Country or for goods 
produced in, or services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) for the 
purpose of any payment to persons or 
entities, or for any import of goods, if 
such payment or import, to 
the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a 
decision of the 
United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the 
Charter of the United Nations.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Beneficiary Institutions” means the Common Interest Groups, the Gram 
Panchayats and the Village Development Committees (as each is hereinafter defined), 
and the term “Beneficiary Institution” means any of those institutions;
(b)
“Category” means a category of items set forth in the table in Section 1 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(c)
“Common Interest Groups” (CIGs) means a group of poor individuals in any 
of the Project Districts (as hereinafter defined) who agree to organize themselves as 
a group for common socio-economic activities;
(d)
“Community Investments” mean Sub-Projects and community cash 
contributions to village fund;
(e)
“DPU” means the District Project Units established by Madhya Pradesh in 
each of the Project Districts (as hereinafter defined);
(f)
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1), (2), (3), and (4) set forth 
in the table in Section 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(g)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods and services 
referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(h)
“Fiscal Year” means the fiscal year of the Borrower, Madhya Pradesh and 
MPSPAI starting April 1 and ending March 31;
(i)
“Gram Panchayats” means local government bodies established under the 
Madhya Pradesh Panchayati Raj Act, 1994;
(j)
“Line Departments” means the departments of the Government of Madhya 
Pradesh; 
(k)
“NGOs” means non-governmental organizations established and operating in 
the territory of the Borrower;
Page  3
(l)
“Operations Manual” means the Operations Manual prepared by Madhya 
Pradesh dated September 23, 2000, as may be amended from time to time by agreement 
between the Association and Madhya Pradesh, outlining, inter alia, community level 
institutional arrangements, procedures and criteria for selection, appraisal and 
implementation of sub-projects (as hereinafter defined);
(m)
“Project Agreement” means the agreement among the Association, Madhya 
Pradesh and MPSPAI of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to 
time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project 
Agreement;
(n)
“Project Districts” means the districts of Shajapur, Rajgarh, Vidisha, 
Guna, Shivpuri, Narsinghpur, Raisen, Damoh, Sagar, Rewa, Tikamgarh, Chhatarpur, Panna 
and Sidhi of Madhya Pradesh;
(o)
“Project Implementation Plan” means the implementation plan of Madhya 
Pradesh and MPSPAI for the Project dated September 23, 2000, and, including time-bound 
action plans, procedures and criteria agreed with the Association;
(p)
“Project Management Report” means each Project Management Report prepared 
in accordance with Section 4.02 of the Project Agreement;
(q)
“Madhya Pradesh” means the Borrower’s state of Madhya Pradesh, or any 
successor thereto;
(r)
“MOU” means the Memorandum of Understanding between Madhya Pradesh and 
MPSPAI outlining the rights and obligations of each party with regards to the carrying 
out of the Project;
(s)
“MPSPAI” means Madhya Pradesh Society for Poverty Alleviation 
Initiatives, a society established and registered under the Madhya Pradesh’s
Society 
Registration Act, 1973, as amended to date, and operating according to its Memorandum 
and Articles of Association, and By-Laws dated July 18, 2000;
(t)
“Self help groups” means Common Interest Groups which, in lieu of, or in 
addition to carrying out sub-projects, engage in thrift and credit activities;
(u)
“SPU” means the State Project Unit established in MPSPAI for assisting in 
carrying out the Project;
(v)
“Sub-Project” means a specific project under Part B of the Project which 
meets the criteria set forth in the Operations Manual and the Project Implementation 
Plan;
(w)
“Sub-Project Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between 
any of the DPUs and any of the Beneficiary Institutions for carrying out a 
Sub-Project; and
(x)
“VDCs” means the Village Development Committee comprising of 
representatives of, inter alia,
the Common Interest Groups and the Gram Panchayats at 
the village level.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to eighty-four million two hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 84,200,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit.
Page  4
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2006, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each April 1, and October 1, commencing April 1, 2011
and ending October 1, 2035.  
Each installment to and including the installment payable on October 1, 2020 shall be 
one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment 
thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies  the Borrower that the events  set out  in this 
paragraph 
(b)
have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a 
minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
Page  5
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Development 
Credit Agreement, shall cause Madhya Pradesh and MPSPAI to perform in accordance with 
the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of Madhya Pradesh and 
MPSPAI as therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including 
the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or 
appropriate to enable Madhya Pradesh and MPSPAI to perform such obligations, and shall 
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such 
performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit available to Madhya 
Pradesh in accordance with the Borrower’s standard arrangements for developmental
assistance to the States of India.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the 
Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project 
shall be carried out by Madhya Pradesh and MPSPAI pursuant to Section 2.03 of the 
Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or Statements 
of Expenditures, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with 
sound accounting practices, records and accounts 
reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures be retained until at least one year after 
the Association has received the audit report for the 
Fiscal Year 
in which the last withdrawal from the 
Credit Account was made; 
and
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine 
such records.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph 
(a)(i) of this Section and those for the Special 
Account for each Fiscal Year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
Page  6
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in 
any case not later than six months after the end of 
each such Fiscal Year the report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association 
shall have reasonably requested, including 
a separate opinion by said 
auditors as to whether the 
Project Management Reports or Statements 
of  
Expenditure submitted during such Fiscal Year, 
together 
with the procedures and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning said records and accounts and the audit 
thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the 
Association may from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Either Madhya Pradesh or MPSPAI shall have failed to perform any of its 
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that Madhya Pradesh or MPSPAI will be able to perform its 
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c)
Any change shall have been made in the Memorandum and Articles of 
Association of MPSPAI, or its By-laws, so as to materially or adversely affect the 
ability of MPSPAI to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any event specified in Section 
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after 
notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association namely, that the Project Agreement has 
been duly authorized or ratified by Madhya Pradesh and MPSPAI and is legally binding 
upon Madhya Pradesh and MPSPAI in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director, 
Deputy Secretary, and Under Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs in the 
Ministry of Finance of the Borrower are each designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Page  7
The Secretary to the Government of India
Department of Economic Affairs
Ministry of Finance
New Delhi, PIN 110001
India
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
ECOFAIRS
953-3166175
011-3017511
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI)
(202) 522-1709
Washington, D.C.     64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
New Delhi, India, as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
By /s/ Adarsh Kishore
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Edwin R. Lim
Country Director, India
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
 Amount of the    
Credit Allocated
 % of
 (Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)  
to be Financed
(1)
Community Investments
(a) Sub-projects under  71,650,000
95%
 
Part B of the Project
(b)
Community Funds
 -
-
(2)
Goods, including
     1,840,000 
100% of foreign expendi-
Page  8
equipment, materials
tures, 100% of local expen-
and vehicles (excluding)
ditures (ex-factory cost)
Part B of the Project)
and 80% of local expendi-
tures for other items
procured locally
(3)
Consultants’ services    6,550,000
100%
(including NGOs’
services), training, work-
shops and study tours
(4)
Incremental operating
4,100,000
80% until March 31, 2003;
costs
60% from April 1, 2003
until March 31, 2005
and 40% thereafter
(5)
Unallocated
  
60,000
 
TOTAL
    84,200,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
(c)
the term “incremental operating costs” means the costs of operation and 
maintenance of equipment and vehicles, office rental and expenses, hiring of vehicles, 
and salaries and allowances of additional staff, incurred for the purposes of carrying 
out the Project.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding SDR 500,000 may be made 
on account of payments made for expenditures before that date and after 
November 1, 1999. 
4.
The Association may require withdrawal from the Credit Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditures for expenditures: for (i) Sub-projects under Part 
B of the Project; (ii) goods not exceeding $100,000 equivalent; (iii) services under 
contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent for employment of consulting firms and 
$50,000 for employment of individual consultants, respectively; (iv) training, 
workshops and study tours; and (v) incremental operating costs, all under such terms 
and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the 
Reserve Bank of India on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
2.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Association shall have received: (i) the first Project 
Management Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of the Project Agreement; and (ii) a 
request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, 
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this 
Schedule 1; and 
(b)
upon receipt by the Association of a Project Management Report pursuant 
to Section 4.02 (b) of the Project Agreement, accompanied by a request from the 
Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further 
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this  
Page  9
Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Association determines at any time that any Project Management 
Report does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 3.02 
of the Project Agreement;
(b)
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of: (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) 
the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals 
were made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any 
time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account 
pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the 
Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the 
Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the 
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Development Credit 
Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account when Withdrawals are 
not made on the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount 
of $7,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount of $3,500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit 
Page  10
Account, plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal or 
exceed SDR10,800,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On 
the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be 
withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under one or more of the Eligible 
Categories. 
3.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such procedures as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after 
and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account when Withdrawals are
made on the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from 
the Credit Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each applications for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on the 
Project Management Report accompanying said applications, is required to be deposited 
in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the 
date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to 
the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special 
Account shall not exceed the equivalent of $14,000,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist Madhya Pradesh in improving 
Page  11
opportunities for the poor and the vulnerable in the Project Districts, specially 
women, to meet their own social and economic development objectives through: (i) 
establishing/strengthening self-managed Common Interest Groups that empower poor rural 
people; (ii) building capacity of Common Interest Groups and other local institutions, 
particularly the VDCs' and Gram Panchayats; and (iii) supporting investments in small 
sub-projects proposed by the poor to accelerate entry and expand involvement of the 
poor in social and economic activities.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objective: 
Part A:
Institutional and Human Capacity Building
1.
Formation and strengthening of Common Interest Groups, including self-help 
groups, and their support organizations, and provision of consultants’ services, 
including NGOs’ services, training and start-up activities.
2.
Carrying out information campaigns on socio-economic issues relevant to the 
rural poor. 
3.
Building capacity of Common Interest Groups, VDCs’ and Gram Panchayats for 
planning, financial management and implementation of the sub-projects and other 
matters related to village development through provision of consultants’ services, 
including NGOs services, and training.
4.
Reorientation/sensitization of the staff of Line Departments seconded to the 
Project, and financial institutions in the Project Districts to the needs of rural 
poor, including technical support for implementation of the sub-projects through 
provision of consultants’ services, including NGOs’ services and training.
5.
Facilitating linkages between Common Interest Groups and lending institutions to 
meet the credit needs of such groups through provision of consultants’ services, 
including NGOs’ services, and training. 
6.
Strengthening of SPU and DPUs through provision of office equipment, vehicles, 
consultants’ services, and incremental operating costs.  
7.
Carrying out monitoring and evaluation of the Project activities, including base 
line survey and impact assessment, and establishing learning systems for the Project.
Part B:
Community Investments
Carrying out of sub-projects covering social, economic and infrastructural 
activities including: (i) group based income generating activities; (ii) 
infrastructure investments;
and (iii) skills and organization.
*           *          *          *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2005.
