                                      Document of
                                   The World Bank



                                                          Report No: ICR00001029




              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                  (IDA-34300 TF-53826)




                                         ON A


                                        CREDIT


                        IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 84.2 MILLION
                           (US$110.1 MILLION EQUIVALENT)


                                        TO THE


                                  REPUBLIC OF INDIA


                                        FOR A


           MADHYA PRADESH DISTRICT POVERTY INITIATIVES PROJECT




                                    December 30, 2008




Sustainable Development Sector Unit
Agriculture and Rural Development Unit
India Country Management Unit
South Asia Region

                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                 (Exchange Rate Effective March 2000)

                          Currency Unit = Rs
                          Rs. 1.00 = US$0.23
                         US$ 1.00 = Rs.44.0

                           FISCAL YEAR
                          April 1 ­ March 31



            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB        Asian Development Bank
APP        Anti-poverty programs
BPL        Below Poverty Line
CIF        Community Investment Fund
CIG        Common Interest Groups
CBO        Community Based Organization
COM        Community Operations Manual
CS         Country Strategy
DFID       Department for International Development
DPSU       District Project Support Unit
DPM        District Project Manager
DPU        District Project Unit
EFC        Employment Facilitation Centers
EPCO       Environmental Planning & Coordination Office
EMF        Environmental Management Framework
GoI        Government of India
GoMP       Government of Madhya Pradesh
GP         Gram Panchayat
HOD        Head of Department
IES        Impact Evaluation Survey
ILP        Integrated Livelihood Program
M&E        Monitoring and Evaluation
MP         Madhya Pradesh
MP-DPIP    Madhya Pradesh District Poverty Initiatives Project
MP-SPAI    Madhya Pradesh Society for Poverty Alleviation Initiatives
MTR        Mid-Term Review
NABARD     National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development
NCHSR      National Center for Human Settlement and Environment
NGO        Non-Governmental Organization
PIP        Project Implementation Plan
PFT        Project Facilitation Teams
PPP        People-Private sector Partnerships
PO         Producer Organization
P&RD       Panchayat and Rural Development
PRI        Panchayati Raj Institutions

RGM        Rajiv Gandhi Missions
ST         Schedule Tribe
SC         Schedule Caste
SHG        Self-Help Groups
SIDBI      Small Industries Development Bank of India
UC         Utilization Certificate
VDC        Village Development Committees
ZPDPIS     Zila Parishad District Poverty Initiatives Sub-Committees




          Vice President:         Isabel M. Guerrero

          Country Director:       Rachid Benmessaoud

          Sector Manager:         Adolfo Brizzi

          Project Team Leader:    Nathan M. Belete

          ICR Team Leader:        Biswajit Sen

          ICR Primary Author      Sati Achath

                                                       INDIA
     MADHYA PRADESH DISTRICT POVERTY INITIATIVES PROJECT


                                                 CONTENTS

Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives, and Design ..........................................................1

 3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................................13

 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome .....................................................................19

 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance..................................................................20

 6. Lessons Learned....................................................................................................................23

 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......................25

 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing ......................................................................................27

 Annex 2. Outputs by Component..............................................................................................28

 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis..............................................................................31

 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes .........................33

 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................................35

 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ...............................................................37

 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................................39

 Annex 8. List of Supporting Documents...................................................................................49

 MAP IBRD No. 30986R ...........................................................................................................50

A. Basic Information

                                                                     Madhya Pradesh
Country:                India                 Project Name:          District Poverty
                                                                     Initiatives Project
Project ID:             P059242               L/C/TF Number(s):      IDA-34300,TF-53826
ICR Date:               12/30/2008            ICR Type:              Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     SIL                   Borrower:              INDIA
Original Total
                        XDR 84.2M             Disbursed Amount:      XDR 69.8M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: F
Implementing Agencies:
MP-DPIP
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date            Process          Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                                 Date(s)
Concept Review:        05/05/1999    Effectiveness:         02/27/2001        02/27/2001
Appraisal:             06/19/2000    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              11/07/2000    Mid-term Review:                         04/16/2004
                                     Closing:               06/30/2006        06/30/2008


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Moderate
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower                 Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory          Government:            Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory          Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:       Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory          Performance:           Satisfactory


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                              QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators             (if any)               Rating

Potential Problem Project No                  Quality at Entry      None


                                              i

at any time (Yes/No):                            (QEA):
Problem Project at any                           Quality of
                          No                                         None
time (Yes/No):                                   Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                               Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector                35                 47
General industry and trade sector                                                  46
Power                                                           15
Roads and highways                                              25                  7
Sub-national government administration                          15
Water supply                                                    10


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Education for all                                                               Secondary
Gender                                                         Primary          Secondary
Other rural development                                       Secondary          Primary
Participation and civic engagement                             Primary           Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                      At ICR                         At Approval
Vice President:           Isabel M. Guerrero                 Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:         Rachid Benmessaoud                 Edwin R. Lim
Sector Manager:           Adolfo Brizzi                      Ridwan Ali
Project Team Leader:      Nathan M. Belete                   Luis F. Constantino
ICR Team Leader:          Biswajit Sen
ICR Primary Author:       Sati Achath



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project's DO is to improve opportunities for the poor and vulnerable, especially
women, to meet their own social and economic development objectives in the poorest
villages of fourteen districts of the state.




                                                ii

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The objective was not revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target     Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator        Baseline Value         Values (from        Revised         Achieved at
                                              approval         Target         Completion or
                                            documents)         Values         Target Years

Indicator 1 :  Increased incomes and assets enjoyed by project beneficiaries as a result of
               investments supported through matching grants provided by the project.

               Rupees 6963              - 8% increase in
                                        household                          55% increase in

                                        expenditures as                    real median
                                                                           household income
Value          Rupees 7026              compared to the                    -16% increase in
quantitative or                         baseline.                          real median
Qualitative)                            - 5% increase in
                                        ownership of                       household

                                        household assets                   expenditures
                                                                           -183% increase in
               26.1%                    as compared to
                                        the baseline.                      household savings

Date achieved 06/30/2006                06/30/2006                         06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target     Formally         Actual Value

   Indicator        Baseline Value         Values (from                         Achieved at
                                              approval         Revised        Completion or
                                            documents)     Target Values      Target Years
Indicator 1 :  Number of subprojects financed by the project
Value
(quantitative  0                        12,000                             56089
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2006                06/30/2006                         06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 :  Beneficiary population (no. of households)
Value
(quantitative  0                        300,000                            325724
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2006                06/30/2006                         06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)



                                              iii

Indicator 3 :  Participation of tribal groups (% of beneficiary population)
Value
(quantitative  0                          6%                                26%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2006                   06/30/2006                       06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 4 :  Participation of women (% of beneficiary population)
Value
(quantitative  0                          30%                               37%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2006                   06/30/2006                       06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 5 :  Value of formal bank loans to project beneficiaries (Rs million)
Value
(quantitative  0                          15                                575.33
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2006                   06/30/2006                       11/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived                DO                         IP               Disbursements
                                                                             (USD millions)
  1     03/27/2001           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    3.50
  2     05/17/2001           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    3.50
  3     10/28/2001           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    3.71
  4     06/27/2002           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    4.43
  5     12/26/2002           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    6.03
  6     06/23/2003           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   11.31
  7     12/16/2003           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   14.56
  8     05/24/2004           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   26.50
  9     12/27/2004           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   38.00
  10    06/06/2005           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   49.68
  11    11/24/2005           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   62.62
  12    04/14/2006           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   78.58
  13    10/16/2006           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   92.09
  14    03/09/2007           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   96.23
  15    09/07/2007           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   99.15
  16    04/02/2008           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  103.11



                                               iv

H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




I. Disbursement Profile




                             v

1. PROJECT CONTEXT, DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES, AND DESIGN

1.1 Context at Appraisal


Country Background

1.      The main sector issue throughout India, including Madhya Pradesh (MP), was: (i)
the lack of effectiveness of public expenditures in rural areas, including limited success
over many years of public rural development and Anti-Poverty Programs (APPs) to
reduce poverty; and (ii) the lack of success in fostering more responsive, accountable,
and inclusive rural institutions through rural decentralization, despite the considerable
success in establishing elected local governments in rural areas.

2.      Since the early 1950s, the Government of India (GOI) and most state
governments had been implementing APPs providing wage-employment, productive
assets (such as land or animals), credit, and food security to the poor. For the most part,
these programs were poorly targeted, inefficiently managed, and highly fragmented. The
central and state governments were spending close to 6% of state gross domestic product
(GDP) in rural development programs in MP. While this high level of expenditure
targeted at rural areas demonstrates the degree of commitment to rural poverty
alleviation, there were concerns regarding the effectiveness of these expenditures. The
key issues included: (i) proliferation of programs; (ii) tied funds; (iii) supply-driven
investments; (iv) high administrative costs; and (v) complex procedures.

3.      The Government of Madhya Pradesh (GOMP) had several key rural poverty
alleviation programs championed by the Chief Minister since 1995, which tried to
address some of the above problems. The Rajiv Gandhi Missions (RGM) focused on
three broad areas ­ education, health, and natural resource management. The RGM
addressed some of the problems in earlier rural development programs by: focusing on
outcomes (e.g., a school within one kilometer of each child) which helped coordination
between programs; improving targeting based on marginalized areas and disadvantaged
groups (e.g. women); and lowering administrative costs through community participation.

Sector Background

4.      The GOMP had identified lack of responsiveness and accountability of
institutions as a key deterrent to poverty alleviation and rural development. The core
strategy of the government to improve governance and delivery of public services was
decentralization but obstacles stood in the way of this process and the emergence of
effective and inclusive rural governments. First, the level and process of fiscal transfers
was insufficient to allow rural governments to operate. Second, while rural governments,
particularly at the village level, were given clear revenue authority few revenues were
generated due to lack of capacity of local officials, administrative constraints and
unwillingness of taxpayers and service recipients to pay for local public services. Third,
administrative decentralization was weak. Fourth, there was little tradition of collective
action at the village level. Fifth, there was lack of adequate information of how the
system was supposed to operate. The GOMP strategy to deepen decentralization reform


                                             1

was based on: (i) community empowerment by strengthening village level institutions,
such as the Gram Sabha; (ii) untied grants to the Gram Panchayat (GP) level (village);
(iii) improved accountability mechanisms, namely by establishing the people's right to
recall local elected officials; and (iv) devolving state government powers to Zilla Sarkar
(District Planning Committee).



Rationale for Bank assistance

5.      An important objective of the Bank Group's assistance to India was to reduce
poverty through accelerated economic growth with equity. The Country Strategy1 (CS)
of January 15, 1998 and CS progress report of February 18, 1999 highlighted the need to
develop well-targeted programs to assist the poor, by promoting decentralization and
beneficiary participation in development. The project targeted some of the poorest
villages in MP and was to be implemented by communities and local governments. The
CS also included a focus on states with a commitment to economic reforms. MP had
shown such commitment through far-reaching reforms in the public sector, fiscal
management, governance, and decentralization.

6.      The GOMP had also taken action to improve access to social services, developed
a State Policy on women and passed a series of State Acts intended to protect the interests
of Tribals. A third CS objective was to work closely with other partners. GOMP was
implementing its program of fiscal and administrative reform with support from the
Asian Development Bank (ADB). The program included restructuring of public
corporations, control of the fiscal deficit, protecting investment in the social sectors,
introducing a value added tax, increasing competition in the power sector and increasing
water charges. Madhya Pradesh District Poverty Initiatives Project's (MPDPIP's) dual
emphasis on increasing the effectiveness of both existing mechanisms of local
governance and poverty alleviation processes complemented these reforms. The GoMP
had also initiated discussions with the British Government's Department for International
Development (DFID) regarding a poverty alleviation and livelihoods project in districts
not covered by the project.

7.      The Bank brought its global experience on decentralized community driven rural
development to India. There was still a great need in India to promote 'alternative'
approaches to rural development and poverty alleviation, and the GoMP specifically
requested the project as a means to access the Bank's international experience. The Bank
brought budgetary support for poverty alleviation in a situation of fiscal crisis in the state,
thus helping sustain current government efforts at poverty reduction. The Bank support
of three District Poverty Initiatives Project's (DPIP) (MP, AP and Rajasthan) was also
envisioned to facilitate the sharing of information and experience among them thereby
enhancing the quality of each project, their demonstration impact and total value to
India's development.




1Document numbers: 17241-IN, and R99-12 (IDA/R99-10)

                                             2

1.2. Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)

8.      The Project's Development Objective (PDO) is to improve opportunities for the
poor and vulnerable, especially women, to meet their own social and economic
development objectives in the poorest villages of Fourteen districts of the state. To
achieve this objective, the project would: (i) create income security opportunities for the
rural poor; (ii) empower active groups of disadvantaged people; and (iii) promote more
effective, accountable and inclusive district and GPs (district and village governments)
and other local support and service organizations through village organizations.

9.      Key indicators included: (i) household income by sources; (ii) household
expenditures; (iii) household assets; (iv) people's perceptions of Common Interest Groups
(CIGs), Village Development Committees (VDCs), and Zila Parishad District Poverty
Initiatives Sub-committees (ZPDPISs); (v) participation of disadvantaged people,
particularly women, in subproject activities and decision-making; (vi) community
contributions in cash; and (vii) people's awareness of the community activities, anti-
poverty programs, and Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRI) initiatives.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification


10.     The PDO was not revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries


11.     The project's main beneficiaries included socially and economically
disadvantaged people in MP. The project sought to improve opportunities for the poor
and the vulnerable, especially women by addressing: (i) their capacity to act collectively;
and (ii) their ability to effectively use social and economic infrastructure and services.
The expected major benefits to the rural poor participating in the project included: (i)
increased incomes from greater access to productive assets (infrastructure, skills and
resources); (ii) stronger organizations of disadvantaged groups; (iii) and improved ability
to pressure village and district governments to become more responsive, accountable,
effective and inclusive.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)


12.     The DPIP program was implemented in 14 districts of Madhya Pradesh. The
project consisted of the following two components:

13.     Component I. Community Investment: (US$109 million.) The activities to be
financed under this component would be demand-driven sub-projects to be proposed by
CIGs either on their own, or through village organizations (VDC, Panchayats). The types
of funds available to the beneficiaries were as follows:




                                              3

    ·   Sub-Projects (US$97.7 million) would finance demand-driven sub-projects to be
        proposed by CIGs which would be approved by VDC, or by VDCs or GPs, which
        would be discussed by ZPDPIS. Both would be ratified by Gram Sabhas as part of
        the village plan. Based on the social assessments carried out it was expected that
        CIG subprojects would fall into three categories: (i) skills and organizations (e.g.
        microenterprises); (ii) infrastructure (e.g. habitation roads); and (iii) livelihood
        security (e.g. micro-irrigation).

    ·   Village Funds (US$10.3 million) would be established through community cash
        contributions and would last beyond the life of the project. They would finance
        operation and maintenance costs or any investments chosen by the villagers.

    ·   Innovation Funds (US$1 million) would finance small demonstration projects to
        be proposed primarily by Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs).

14.     Component II. Institutional and Human Capacity Building: (US$25.70
million). The focus of this component would be to develop self-reliant and self-managed
community based organizations. Accordingly, the majority of funds available under this
component would be utilized in capacity building of various institutions in the project
districts. The focus would be on: (a) project administration; (b) human resource
development; (c) communications; (d) formation and strengthening of organization; and
(e) monitoring and learning. The majority of funds would be utilized in Technical
Assistance (TA) activities.

    ·   Project Administration (US$6.0 million) would focus on: (a) day to day project
        management activities and (b) supporting the executing agencies at the district
        and village level.

    ·   Human Resource Development (US$2.5 million) would focus on ensuring that all
        project staff and staff of supporting organizations, such as NGOs share in values,
        objectives and methodology of the project, and have the skills to perform their
        roles. This would be achieved through recruitment policy, selection process,
        orientation and training, and a rewards system.

    ·   Communications and Information (US$2.0 million) would: (a) raise awareness,
        motivate and engage the poor and disenfranchised people to challenge the existing
        barriers and adopt participatory behaviors; (b) provide timely and well targeted
        information and facilitate learning opportunities for the poor to reduce the cost of
        participation; (c) use peer groups and team building to counsel and motivate, as
        well as conflict management, mediation and troubleshooting techniques; (d)
        reinforce their ability to sustain the new behavior through social support systems;
        and (e) promote a responsive and cooperative environment at the village and
        district level.

    ·   Formation and Strengthening of Organizations (US$14.3million) would: (a) assist
        villagers and in particular the weaker groups to form CIGs; and (b) monitor the
        quality of participation at the CIG and village level.

                                             4

    ·   Monitoring and Learning (US$0.9 million) would: (a) support information
        gathering and analysis by primary users; (b) link this to decision-making fora; and
        (c) develop information flows between groups of users and/or decision-makers.
        Monitoring and learning activities would include: (a) performance tracking; (b)
        institutional tracking; (c) internal learning; (d) evaluation; and (e) special studies.

1.6 Revised Components

15.     The components were not revised.

1.7 Other significant changes


16.     While there were no changes in the project's design, scope and scale, and
implementation arrangements, there were changes in the project's schedule and funding
allocation, which are described below.

17.     Project Schedule: The GOMP had requested a two-year extension of the closing
date from June 30, 2006 to June 30, 2008. Although the Bank had agreed in principle to
this request, it was decided to provide the extension in two steps of one year each.
Accordingly, the project closing date was extended first by one year from June 30, 2006
to June 30, 2007, and then by one more year until June 30, 2008. The objective of the
extensions was to allow the project team to bring the sub-project portfolio to an orderly
closure, put in place conditions for sustainability, and to ensure a smooth transition to the
second phase of the project.

18.     Funding Allocations: During implementation, the Development Credit
Agreement was amended twice to reallocate funds. First, by the end of May 2005 the
disbursement rate was about 23%, which was low four years into the project. It was
estimated that the project would not be able to use the undisbursed balance of about $75
million within the remaining one year of implementation, so $20 million was re-allocated
to Tsunami emergency reconstruction project. The second reallocation aimed to increase
the allocation under the incremental operating cost expenditure category and accordingly
reduce the allocation under the goods expenditure category. The need to do so reflected a
decision that was taken early in the project to rent rather than purchase vehicles as
originally envisaged. Also the decision to extend the closing date of the project from
June 30, 2006 to June 30, 2008 implied higher than originally envisaged incremental
operating costs. The credit amount was fully disbursed at the time of project closing.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design, and Quality at Entry

19.     During preparation, the project design took into account lessons learned from
several ongoing and completed Bank-financed rural development projects in India.
Further, lessons were also learned from many large scale community development



                                              5

programs in South Asia. The design considered the risk factors and appropriate measures
were adopted to mitigate them.

20.     Lessons Learned from Previous Bank-assisted Projects. The key lessons
incorporated in the project design were the following: (i) put the community in the
driver's seat through control over funds and investment decisions to achieve efficiency
and sustainability; (ii) communities can contribute towards investment and operational
costs if they are assured of good service; (iii) it is not enough to mobilize communities
for social action--they want economic opportunities and need investments to be made in
these, alongside social mobilization; (iv) where there is an ongoing process of
decentralization and local governments are emerging, it is important to work through
these institutions to reflect local needs, expedite decision making and ensure the
institutional sustainability of the programs; (v) to ensure speedy implementation through
the development of streamlined procurement and disbursement rules and regulations,
detailed operational manuals, computerized MIS, standardized financial management
procedures, regular and rigorous auditing, and quantitative monitoring and evaluation;
and (vi) create competitive employment conditions for the project management staff to
attract and retain competent and motivated individuals.

21.     Risks and their mitigation: The project faced the following High and
Substantial risks and the measures mentioned below were taken to mitigate them:




                                        Risk
 Risk                                   Rating         Mitigating measure
 Bureaucratic interference with         High           Very clear and transparent institutional
 devolution of decision-making                         arrangements and allocation of
                                                       decision-making powers; appropriate
                                                       recruitment and selection procedures
                                                       for project personal to ensure their
                                                       commitment to project objectives;
                                                       adequate incentives to reward good
                                                       performance.
 Limited number and/or NGOs in          High           Use good NGOs as umbrella
 project districts                                     organization, to organize, supervise
                                                       and train PTFs made of community
                                                       members and government officials
 Slow flow of funds to the district     High           Channeling funds through a State
 level                                                 Society to the District to avoid
                                                       constraints on state budgets from
                                                       current fiscal crisis.
 Beneficiaries are unable or            High           This would be closely monitored and
 inadequately organized to                             reviewed after one year.
 contribute to costs of
 implementation or O&M in cash,

                                             6

                                      Risk
 Risk                                 Rating         Mitigating measure
 kind, labor and/or participation
 Inability to form strong CIGs of     Substantial Give top project priority to the
 poor and develop capacity for                       formation and strengthening of
 collective action                                   organizations by creating capacity to
                                                     do this in NGOs and PTFs, and closely
                                                     monitoring the quality of participation
                                                     in groups.
 Inability to create an opportunity   Substantial Careful design of institutional
 space in formal local structures                    arrangements and processes and
 for the poor to voice their                         monitoring of their implementation to
 demands and have them acted                         ensure participation of the
 upon                                                representatives of the poor in decision-
                                                     making and priority given to
                                                     communications and the ample flow of
                                                     and accessibility of information.
 Inability to influence state and     Substantial Invest in close monitoring and
 GOI anti-poverty programs                           evaluation and dissemination of
                                                     project success and failures, and carry
                                                     out specific studies evaluating the full
                                                     range of anti-poverty programs.


22.     In addition, the risks deemed moderate were also taken into account and
appropriate measures to mitigate them were incorporated into the project design.

23.     Adequacy of participatory processes: Consultations were held during project
preparation with a broad cross-section of poor communities, a number of NGOs and
Panchayat bodies. These continued during the project to further develop project
modalities and procedures, as well as to expand an interested and supportive constituency
for the project. NGOs also conducted the social assessments, the district capacity
assessments and participated in the preparation of project strategy and plans.



2.2 Implementation

24.     The project was not restructured and it was never at risk during implementation.
The Bank conducted a mid-term review (MTR) of the project in April 2004, and assessed
the progress to date on all project components, the current issues, and the actions to be
taken to ensure the successful completion of the project.

The following factors affected project implementation:

Factors outside control of government or implementation agency

25.     Positive Factors: The flexibility built into the project design enabled the project
to use new information and learning to adapt the implementation to make them more

                                           7

effective in addressing problems faced by the poor, women, tribal and the marginal
communities.

26.      Negative Factors. The serious drought situation in many districts in the
Bundelkand region from 2001 to 2004 reduced the capacity of communities to mobilize
their cash contributions and also led to distress migration of people from villages to
cities. This delayed implementation in the affected villages. In addition, heavy rain and
flood in 2005 in Damoh, Chattarpur and Pannah districts led to loss of livestock and
affected many beneficiaries.

Factors subject to control of government or implementation agency

27.      Positive Factors: The following positive factors contributed to implementation of
the project:

      ·    Direct transfer of funds to beneficiaries from the district office without layers of
           clearances or intermediaries.

      ·    Proper identification of the poor in the project villages through a participatory wealth
           ranking process.

      ·    Creation of assets through a demand-based system ensuring that the assets were put to
           productive use.

      ·    Aggregation of base level groups--CIGs--into producer companies and cooperatives
           that ensured the supply of a variety of services to make assets more productive in a
           sustainable manner, such as marketing services.

      ·    Quality leadership and its continuity provided by the project directors throughout the
           project, without frequent changes in project directorship.

      ·    Communities did more with less money than originally expected for several types of
           works; and communities effectively pulled together their contributions, often exceeding
           the 15% required, and raised resources from other sources, such as MLA, and district
           and Panchayat funds.

      ·    Direct access of the implementing agency (the DPIP-Project Management Unit (DPIP-
           PMU)), to highest authorities of the State, including the Chief Minister as the head of
           the Governing Body2 and the Principal Secretaries as the members of this Body. This
           direct access gave opportunities for the agency to present implementation difficulties
           and get support from the Governing Body to resolve problems and issues expeditiously.
           Similarly, the Executive Committee3 consisting of the Chief Secretary and the Head of


2Governing Body is the main policy-making committee of the project. This body is in charge of giving
overall policy guidance and direction to the project. It approves the Annual Plan, and also ensures the pro-
poor policies of the government.

3 Executive Committee is the implementing body, responsible for project implementation and the
achievement of performance indicators. It coordinates with various departments and agencies on behalf of
the project.

                                                   8

          Departments (HODs) supported the agency in resolving coordination problems with
          various departments and in convergence.

28.    Negative Factors: The factors that had affected the project implementation
adversely were:

       ·    The initial absence of a broad based social capital in the state on which to build the
            groups, leading to a greater focus on asset creation than group formation.

       ·    Complex procedures of sanctioning subprojects and their certification leading to
            delays in both the transfer of funds to the beneficiaries and the closure of sub-projects
            after completion.

       ·    Elections to the Union Parliament, State Assembly, and local body elections in 2003-
            2004 affected normal project activities, especially welfare activities, which came to a
            standstill during this period.

       ·    Slow disbursements caused by the effort and time needed to create the project
            organization, recruit staff, and establish credibility and trust with villagers was
            underestimated, slowing disbursements in the first two years. Project implementation
            capacity was affected by the high number of vacant positions, representing about
            10% of all sanctioned posts. This problem was mainly due to demand for experienced
            staff from other projects elsewhere in MP, and also from the private sector which was
            offering attractive salaries.


2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation, and Utilization

(a) M&E design and implementation

29.    Monitoring covered: (i) inputs, outputs, and outcomes; (ii) performance of project
organizations; (iii) project processes; and (iv) project impacts. Monitoring for
supervision focused on: (a) quality and quantity of participation of different social and
economic groups in the CIG and VDC; and

30.    Monitoring of CIGs was the responsibility of VDC and Process Facilitation
Teams (PFTs) while monitoring of VDCs was the responsibility of PFTs. Monitoring for
learning was undertaken by different levels of stakeholders--both for their own decision-
making purposes and to improve management's understanding of project processes.

31.    Performance tracking monitored several indicators such as: (i) number of
CIGs and VDCs projected/formed; (ii) percentage of CIG members belonging to poor
and vulnerable groups; (iii) number of CIG members receiving training by type of
training; (iv) participation in CIG and VDC activities and decision-making; and (v)
purpose and amount of sub-projects: submitted, approved, and implemented.
32.    Institutional Tracking monitored: (i) Overall institutional maturity score of
CIGs, VDCs, and GPDPU; (ii) Inclusiveness rank of CIGs, VDCs, GPDPUs; and (iii)
Autonomy rank of CIGs, VDCs, and GPDPUs.



                                               9

        Internal learning monitored indicators generated by group self assessments and
exchange visits. The objective of groups self assessments and exchange visits was
generation of information about processes and cause-effect relations. Group self
assessment took place at regular intervals throughout the project.

33.     Exchange visits were used for cross-group learning. These involved experience
sharing and learning from groups with similar interests--e.g., CIGs formed around the
same activity, VDCs addressing similar issues, DPUs managing particular project
components.

        Evaluation comprised three activities: peer reviews, development audit and
impact evaluation.

34.     Baseline survey. At the inception of the project, a baseline survey was conducted
in 2001 covering sampled villages in the 14 project districts. The aim of the survey was
to identify and study the then existing economic base and social equations at the village
level. Upon the completion of four years of operation, DPIP sponsored an impact
evaluation survey (IES) in the same project villages to assess the impact of CIGs over the
lives of people and the changes that were expected to have taken place at the grass-root
level. It also included a survey of the control villages covered in 2001, where the project
was not implemented.

(b) M&E utilization

35.     Outcomes of the monitoring and learning (M&L) analysis regularly informed
decision-making processes at all levels. At the district level, an M&L committee headed
by the District Project Manager (DPM), analyzed data and used data to make decisions
and maintain the direction of the project. These decisions and actions were shared by the
PFTs with the CIGs. At the state level, data were analyzed on physical, financial,
activity-wise, sector-wise, and gender-wise categories. The information collected and
analyzed was also used to update the side-letter with key performance indicators.
Monthly M&L reports were also shared with concerned stakeholders on demand. This
was considered as a good practice in terms of ensuring transparency, effective follow up,
and accountability.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

36.     There were no significant deviations or waivers from the Bank's fiduciary
policies and procedures during the implementation of the project. However, in the initial
stages, environmental safeguards compliance was deemed moderately unsatisfactory as
screening procedures for sub-project preparation and implementation, and corresponding
mitigation measures were not systematically followed. This was mainly because of the
slow start by Environmental Planning & Coordination (EPCO), an autonomous registered
agency sponsored by the Housing & Environment Department.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase



                                           10

(a) Transition arrangements

37.    The project has put appropriate transition arrangements in place related to
organizational, economic, financial, and policy issues as described below.

38.    Organizational Sustainability: CIGs that have been functioning during
implementation will continue as responsible local institutions that can sustain beyond the
project period.

    ·  Village Development Committees (VDCs). The VDCs will continue as service-providers
       to their members, managing the Village Funds (Apna Kosh), assisting new CIGs,
       monitoring existing ones, bookkeeping, procuring inputs, trading and marketing services,
       etc. Out of the 2,900 villages in which project work is ongoing, 2,650 VDCs have been
       registered and $8.32 million in Village Funds (Apna Kosh), funds have been transferred
       to VDCs. VDCs have also initiated microfinance activities in their villages.

    ·  Activity-based federations. These will continue to provide three types of services: (i)
       market linkages, consisting of input procurement and marketing produces; (ii) bank
       linkages, currently for production loans and insurance; and (iii) knowledge linkages with
       universities, private companies, scientists for getting new technology, training for
       producers and staff. They also pool equipment banks such as tractors, crushers,
       generation sets, pump sets and other equipment. For details, see below under
       Government Policies.

    ·  Producer Companies. The CIGs are functioning as production units and federated as
       primary producers of 17 district based producer companies. These producer companies
       have an active membership base of 62,000 shareholders with a share capital base of
       approximately $155,000. They supply quality inputs to their members and link them with
       the market for better prices.
    ·  All assets created by the project, such as internal roads, dams, and ponds which are
       public utility social infrastructure assets for the villages, have already been handed over
       to Gram Panchayats. They have been registered with Patwari records and panchayats.
       User groups working as subcommittees of VDCs will maintain these assets.


39.    Financial Sustainability: The major factors affecting financial sustainability in
the project are the following:

    ·  The Internal Corpus consists of: (a) member savings; (b) community investment fund
       (CIF)--i.e., project funds; (c) funds/grants from various government sponsored
       programs; and (d) the Village Fund (Apna Kosh), which is formed from contributions by
       CIGs as ten percent of their sanctioned project grants. This amount, deposited in a bank
       account, will be used for the maintenance of the assets created and other development
       activities.

    · External Funds include loans from commercial banks that have been leveraged using the
       internal corpus at the CIG and VDC levels. The total credit flow from commercial banks
       to these groups since 2,000 has grown to Rs. 46.61 crores, through 25,906 Kisan credit
       cards and Rs. 10.62 crore through direct linkages by 8124 CIGs.




                                              11

40.     Economic Sustainability: The various tiers of institutions have developed
business and management skills, making them viable economic institutions with public,
private and cooperative partners. The line departments/government agencies have come
to recognize CIGs and their federations as representatives of the poor and have
established very productive partnerships to facilitate delivery of economic and social
services. Similarly, commercial organizations acknowledge the low cost and efficient
distribution and service delivery channels offered by the Community Based
Organizations (CBOs).

41.     Government Policies

a. Integrated Livelihood Program. GOMP has adopted an Integrated Livelihood Program, under
    which all the livelihood schemes, which were approved by the Gram Sabhas, will be
    integrated and implemented under the Panchayat and Rural Development (P&RD). Later on,
    other departments may join willingly this delivery system.

b. SHG Development Policy. Under this policy, activity-based self-help groups (SHGs) are
    federated as activity-based organizations similar to Producer Companies or cooperatives.
    The 50% cost incurred during the formation of an SHG federation will be reimbursed by the
    government, limited to the maximum of US$2,500. The federation will hire the services of
    specialist organizations for handholding support (initial three years) for the operation,
    development of business plan, development of linkages etc.
c. Activity-based federations registered as Producers' Companies and/or MP Autonomous Co-
    operative Societies will be recognized and benefit as a co-operative society registered under
    MP Cooperative Act. These would be members of the state level federation of co-operative
    institutions--like marketing federations and milk federations.

d. Employment-oriented training policy. According to the existing demand of market, industries,
    tourism, hotel, construction etc., unemployed youth will be trained and placed in various
    service sectors. Educated and uneducated, skilled and unskilled members will be registered
    at the village level through the GP. The resulting database will track youth according to the
    educational qualification, skill, age, experience, etc.
(b) Follow-on projects

42.     The GOI has approved the Concept Note by the GoMP for a follow-on project.
Negotiations for this project is expected to be held in early 2009 and effectiveness is
expected by summer 2009. The project directly supports the GoMP's Eleventh Five Year
Plan in reducing poverty through effective implementation of various government
schemes and externally assisted projects. The GOMP aims at reducing the poverty rate to
25% by the end of 2012. The proposed project is well aligned with the current Country
Strategy (CS) that seeks to scale-up improvement of rural livelihoods using a community
empowerment approach. It is also in line with the strategy adopted under the CS that
seeks to enhance the involvement of the Bank in those states of India where the incidence
of poverty, both in terms of absolute number of people and percentage of population, is
high. The project will also support the MDGs in the following specific areas: (i)
improving incomes of the poorest - reducing the proportion of the people living on less
than $1 per day (Goal 1, Target 1); (ii) promoting gender equality and empowering
women (Goal 3, Target 4); and (iii) development and implementation of strategies for
decent and productive work for youth (Goal 8, Target 45).

                                               12

(c) Future impact evaluation

43.     The recommendation is that a panel of experts from various fields conducts an
independent external evaluation in 2011 to evaluate the project.

3. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOMES

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation


44.     The objective of MPDPIP is in consonance with MP's social and economic
development agenda. The current poverty reduction strategy of the GOMP is built
around empowerment of women CIGs and increased resources have been allocated in the
State Budget to provide financial support to the approach. In addition, many government
programs envisage an important for the organizations of the poor in delivery of services
and managing social welfare programs. In many respects, the project design and
implementation have become more relevant in the current policy environment. It is still
relevant and appropriate to the needs of the State. The project is also consistent with the
Bank's CS4 (September 15, 2004) for India. According to the CS, one of the key pillars is
investing in people and empowering communities. The CS also promotes scaling up
support to improved rural livelihoods through state level interactions and investment
operations using a community-driven development approach. Since the project was
initiated, six new operations using similar approaches have been initiated in India and
four others are in the pipeline.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives


45.     Satisfactory. The project was successful in achieving its objectives. The following
achievements demonstrate that there is a direct linkage between the project's outputs and
outcomes:

    ·   The project's interventions have enabled the poor and poorest households to acquire
        assets (especially livestock) and shift from wage employment to self employment.
    ·   The poor and the poorest households have brought their fallow land under cultivation.
        There is a reduction in distress and contract migration, especially for women and children
    ·   There is also a reduction in debt burden and dependence on moneylenders.
    ·   CIGs have become a major credit supply institution with increased access to finance from
        commercial banks. The poor households are now perceived as clients by commercial
        banks.


Thriving organizations of the poor, social mobilization and institution building

46.     The project's core investment was to support the formation CIGs of the poor and
to help them become self-managed, self-reliant, and sustainable institutions. This
institutional arrangement has enabled the poor to access a range of services, resources
and expertise from both public and private sector.


4Document number: 29374-IN

                                               13

47.     By the end of June 2008, the project had reached more than 325,724 households
(108% of completion target) in 2,817 villages (115% of completion target). A total of
47197 CIGs have been organized (467% of completion target). By the end of June 2008,
2650 VDCs have been registered and received Village funds (apna kosh) totaling almost
US$8.3 million from CIGs to sustain activities after the project. Communities
contributed US$6.2 million equivalent in cash towards sub-project costs.

48.     Keeping in line with the gender empowerment strategy and tribal development
strategy, the project has been able to organize 16,093 (29%) sub-projects for women and
14,357 (26%) sub-projects for Scheduled Tribes.

49.     A total of 3882 village infrastructure projects were set-up, which meant that the
project met its target to set-up on average at least one such investment in every village
covered by the project. Participation of tribal groups significantly exceeded the stated
completion target of 6%.



Livelihood Diversification, Assets, Income and Consumption Expenditure


50.     Linkages. In terms of increase in irrigated land, and concomitantly, increase in
value of agricultural productivity (Rs. per acre). The CIG households have reaped the
maximum benefit as a consequence of project interventions. Although the differential of
the increase in value of agricultural productivity over increase in irrigated land is roughly
50 percent across all households, the actual increase in productivity (149%) is much
higher for CIG households because of the high order of increase in irrigated land (27%)
as compared to non-CIG and non-project households.

51.     Changes in occupation pattern. As a result of project activities in the state, there
has been a significant all-round increase in the proportion of people engaged in
agriculture as their main occupation. As a result of excellent performance of CIG
households in agriculture, primarily due to the facilities provided by the project, the order
of increase has been highest for CIG households (from 26% to 60%), which in actual
numbers become even steeper (about 64%) in terms of actual numbers, given the 30
percent increase in the number of households in the category in the impact survey period.

52.     Ability to earn. The real incomes of project beneficiaries (CIG households) have
increased by 53% over the project implementation period as compared to non
beneficiaries in project villages whose incomes increased by 24%; the real income
growth of households in non-project villages was only 15%.

53.     Ability to spend. On average, CIG households have seen an 18 percent increase
in average expenditure levels. Non-CIG households have registered a drop of one
percent while non-project households curtailed their expenditures by up to nine percent.
Since there has been a uniform increase in mean incomes across income quintiles in the
case of CIG households, it is logical that the expenditure levels have increased at a higher
rate for lower income quintiles (15 to 28%), while for the highest quintiles, there has


                                            14

actually been a decline in average expenditure levels of the order of three percent.
Similar trends are to be observed in the expenditure patterns of non-CIG and non-project
households across quintiles, with the exception that average expenditure has actually
declined in the top quintiles of these two categories of households.

54.     As far as the expenditure trends are concerned, CIG households, with an average
65 percent increase in incomes and 18 per cent in expenditure, are spending 56 per cent
more on education, followed by food (30%) and house maintenance (27%).

55.     Savings. The effect of project initiatives in the state is evident in the savings
behavior of households. Even as households have realized savings across the board, the
trend in savings is the most consistent for project, and especially for CIG households. In
CIG households, the increase in amount of savings realized by the lower income quintiles
is much higher than those in the other categories, especially in comparison to non-project
households.

56.     Assets. Trends in household asset formation reveal an increased trend towards
ownership of cycles and radios, mainly in the case of project households--both CIG and
non-CIG. The number of households owning assets has gone down in the non-project
household category.

57.     Asset formation patterns clearly demonstrate the influence of project
interventions. Even as the level of ownership of household assets in the state increases
across the board from baseline to the impact survey period, the order of increase is
appreciably higher for CIG households as compared to the others, with non-CIG
households following.

58.     Livestock holdings have come down across all households in the state. CIG
households are the only category to have increased their livestock holdings (by 3%).
Non-CIG households' livestock holdings have declined by 12 percent, while those of
non-project households are down by 18 per cent.

59.     Vulnerability and Coping. As in the case of savings, the pattern of borrowings
also demonstrates the extent of facilitation accomplished by project initiatives in the case
of CIG households, especially in the lower income quintiles, directly affecting the level
of vulnerability and the ability to cope with crises on the part of project households in the
lower income quintiles, while non-CIG and non-project households' borrowings have
been largely unaffected in the impact survey period, in case of CIG households,
borrowings by the lower quintiles too show a drop of 6 to 10 percent.

60.     Project initiatives have facilitated the highest level of decrease in vulnerability for
CIG households ­ both for normal as well as shock period borrowings.

61.     Distress Migration. Improved food security through the project interventions and
other livelihood impacts has significantly reduced distress migration which was a
common feature in drought prone areas. In CIG households, distress migration was
reduced from 30 percent to 14 percent.


                                             15

62.     Market Access. The project made excellent progress in developing the Producer
Company model for establishing market linkages for CIG investments, which converts
such investments into a sustainable livelihood stream for the beneficiaries. All CIG
members participating in these producer companies, were made shareholders of these
companies and provided first call in getting the services provided by these companies.
This made the initial investment made through the CIF both more productive and
sustainable. The producer companies are also benefiting the CIG members through
timely and quality input supply, like seeds, at a lower than market rate, and providing an
assured market for their produce. Hence the social benefits of these producer companies
are much higher than what their own profitability shows. The project promoted 16 such
Producer Companies in the different districts covered by the project. While a majority of
these producer companies are involved in agricultural commodities, a selected few have
also been formed in the non-farm sector, such as for poultry and milk marketing.

63.     Jobs. The project supported rural youth belonging to CIG member households
with skills development, training, market scan and placement support in partnership with
many private sector organizations and employers. About 1,350 youths have been
selected for placement in various spinning mills, and 850 members have been trained and
placed as security guards.

3.3 Efficiency


64.     Given the diversity and demand-driven nature of the sub-project, no ex ante
economic analysis was conducted in the PAD. By the completion of the project, 53,078
income generation sub-projects under the Community Investment Component had been
implemented in 2906 villages of 53 blocks in 14 districts of Madhya Pradesh with the
support of 122 PFTs. An ex post economic analysis of MP-DPIP sub-projects was carried
out by the National Centre for Human Settlements and Environment (NCHSE) in early
2008. The study selected a sample of 323 sub-projects represented by 2169 beneficiaries
in all the 14 districts and estimated the overall project economic rate of return (ERR) at
42%.

65. The ex post financial analysis was also conducted by NCHSE to the selected 323
    livelihood activities. The analysis is based on physical verification and interaction
    with 2169 sample beneficiaries. The analysis reveals that more than 80% of the
    selected 323 livelihood activities sub projects are functional and have by category
    reported high financial rate of return (FRR). For further details, see Annex 3

66.     The project as a whole is economically viable and robust, and financially
profitable to the beneficiaries.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating


Rating: Satisfactory




                                            16

67.     The project has exceeded the performance targets envisaged at appraisal and
MTR under most indicators. It has also covered a significantly larger geographical area
and higher number of households, and has been efficient in delivering outcomes. For
details see Sections 3.2, 3.3, and 4.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts


(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development


68.     Poverty impact has been described in Section 3.2.

69.     Gender and Social Development Aspects: Economic Empowerment

    ·   Out of all CIGs, 30 percent were exclusively women based. This has given them access
        to economic empowerment that both, the activity and group actions bring.

    ·   The access to resources through the project has enabled a large portion of women to
        pursue independent economic activities right from agriculture and dairy to glass beads,
        shops, trading etc. Women have chosen various self-employment opportunities and are
        now in a position to make significant contribution to family income. They are also
        playing a major role in family decision making matters.

    ·   Women of these groups have learned to manage different aspects of the economic
        activity that has exposed them to market and traders and developed their understanding of
        the rural market and improved their knowledge, negotiation and bargaining skills.

    ·   Women's activity-based CIGs have also federated and registered under cooperatives for
        scaling up and linkages.

    ·   Microfinance/credits through VDCs are supporting women members in meeting out their
        small credit and emergency needs, thus making them less vulnerable to crisis and
        financially backed for small working capital needs.

    ·   VDCs have majority of women in their executive working committees which manage the
        village fund in microfinance. This has resulted in a two way gains: firstly, women decide
        the use of the funds and secondly, by doing so they are learning financial planning in
        personal lives too.



70.     Gender and Social Development Aspects: Social Empowerment

     Project resources were thoughtfully allocated to support actions such as exchange
        visits between women's groups during the capacity building process. Federating
        women's group (VDC) has given them higher platform for expression and assisted
        them to develop their understanding of the link between their behaviors, everyday
        activities and strategic rights.

     Activities of immediate interest to women such as better access to drinking water,
        fuel etc were the key focus area in the village infrastructure work done under 'Z'


                                             17

       category and activities like savings and credit, group health etc were the primary
       activities taken up by VDCs. This has also eliminated moneylenders from the
       credit chain to a great extent.

     Women are managing the day-to-day business of the VDC in every project
       village, giving them an authority to manage the 'Apna kosh'village fund in
       microfinance. This has led to an increase in respect for women by the community
       members and women themselves. They are also taking up leadership roles and
       demonstrating management skills. For example, women are chairperson in about
       95% of VDCs and 80% of VDCs have all women in their executive committees.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

71.    The project resulted in a substantial institutional development impact at the
community level as demonstrated by the following:

     Development of CIGs, VDCs, Activity-based Federations, and Producer
       Companies is described in Section 3.2.

     Development of skills and capacity at the community level. Local resource persons
       at the village level have taken over many responsibilities with respect to social
       mobilization, group building, and strengthening processes. The project's efforts
       have resulted in availability of a cadre of functionaries trained in social
       mobilization, value addition, business and enterprise development, logistics
       management at the village level. The project has created social and human capital
       on a large scale.

     Development of grass root level social accountability mechanisms. These
       mechanisms have been a key factor in ensuring a high loan repayment rate and
       greater convertibility of loan into assets. The federations and their functionaries
       are operating as franchises for public and private sector institutions due to high
       level of trust built between banks and the local functionaries.

     Government Policy and Programs are discussed in Section 3.2.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

72. Positive

    ·  While the Village Fund (Apna kosh) was originally envisioned only for the
       maintenance of the community infrastructure created within the project, gradually
       its focus has shifted to microfinance, and this development has contributed in
       eliminating money lenders to a great extent.

    ·  Because of the social awareness created by the project, villagers have started
       taking active part in local elections, Janpath, block panchayats, and many have
       been elected to these institutions.

                                           18

   ·   Many government departments have started using CIGs to deliver services to
       villagers in areas such as health, education, and sanitation.

   ·   Project has created better opportunities and better options to villagers than
       originally envisioned. For example, because of the availability of tubewells and
       electric pumps, the number of crops per year has increased to two or even three.
       This has resulted in increased income to villagers. Likewise, the project has also
       facilitated villagers to change occupations from farming to business, trading, and
       other professions in the secondary and tertiary sectors. Unemployed youth in
       villages are now trying to shift to service sector as drivers, security guards, hotel
       management, and construction workers.

   ·   The willingness and openness of the banks to finance CIGs has grown
       exponentially. This kind of enthusiastic response of the banking system to help
       CIGs and the high level of credit flows to the poor was not originally expected.

   ·   The project's engagement with the private sector has produced remarkable
       outputs. The project was able to tap the resources of private sector companies
       such as Hindustan Lever and ITC.

73.    Negative
   ·   The project has created social tension between project and non-project
       communities. For example, targeting system has created divisions within villages,
       because in an economy like MP, there is a thin line between poor and not poor. So
       when community chooses one as poor and others as not poor, it creates tension
       among them.

74.    3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder
Workshops

Provided in Annex 5.

4. ASSESSMENT OF RISK TO DEVELOPMENT OUTCOME

Rating: Moderate

75.    The project has significantly surpassed all expectations in terms of its outcomes,
as demonstrated by the results presented in Section 3.2. In addition, following trends
point to high likelihood of achieving development outcomes:

   ·   Federations and public- private partnership in the project. NGOs have taken
       long-term partnership agreements with federations of producer companies. The
       business plans of the producer companies envisage lowering of input cost for the
       producers and maximizing the output cost by having direct linkages with the big
       buyers and procurement agencies.



                                           19

    ·  Financial Linkages. Following the agreement reached with National Bank for
       Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) that CIGs are officially accepted
       as a type of SHG that is eligible for group loaning, the project is reporting a sharp
       increase in the number of CIGs that are accessing banks, which stood at 4,165 in
       September 2006.

    ·  Village funds (Apna kosh). Communities contributed US$5.2 million equivalents
       in cash towards sub-project costs and have deposited about US$6.5 million
       equivalent in apna kosh that will sustain activities after the project life.

    On the other hand:
    ·  The wider network of insurance may not be available to villagers after project
       closing, so it may be difficult for them to get insurance on their assets.

    ·  There is no good coverage on crop insurance, and as a result, the poor will have
       only a low capacity of risk mitigation, and it will be difficult for them to cope
       with natural calamities and remain productive.

5. ASSESSMENT OF BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE

5.1 Bank Performance


76.    (a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory
     The Bank's performance in the identification, preparation, and appraisal of the
       project was satisfactory. The project's objective was consistent with the
       government's development priorities and the Bank's CS. During preparation and
       appraisal, the Bank took into account all major relevant aspects. The project
       design reflected lessons learned from several on-going and completed Bank-
       financed rural development projects in India. In addition, major risk factors were
       considered and appropriate mitigating measures were incorporated into the project
       design.

     The project was amongst the first DPIPs in India, and at the time of preparation
       there was comparatively less experience in designing the community driven
       procurement. The procurement procedures for the project were designed on the
       basis of experience of similar projects in countries such as Brazil, internal
       discussions within the team and with the Borrower.

77.    (b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

    ·  The Bank's performance during the implementation of the project was
       satisfactory. The Bank provided technical assistance on a variety of activities ­
       institution building, development of financial products, facilitating market


                                            20

       linkages, monitoring and evaluation. It played the role of a catalytic investor in
       partnership with the GOMP in experimenting and learning from various
       livelihood interventions.

    ·  Adequate resources in terms of budget and staff were allocated. The task team
       carried out intensive supervision through a multi-sectoral team. The ratings in the
       Implementation Status Reports (ISRs) on the performance of the project both in
       terms of achievement of development objectives and project implementation were
       realistic. Selection of consultants was reviewed by the Bank in accordance with
       the provisions stipulated in the Credit Agreement and the Bank's Guidelines for
       Selection and Employment of Consultants. The task team carried out the MTR in
       February 2004. The Review assessed progress to date on all project components,
       the implementation issues and the actions to be taken to ensure the successful
       completion of the project. The Bank also organized thematic supervision
       workshops to facilitate cross-learning among the livelihoods projects in India.

    ·  Procurement under the project mainly consisted of demand-driven community
       development sub projects. The review of procurement of goods was also in
       accordance with the provisions stipulated in the Credit Agreement and the Bank's
       Guidelines for Procurement. As part of the MTR process, the Bank conducted an
       independent review of the financial management and procurement arrangements
       of the CIF subcomponent. The objective of the assignment was to provide key
       inputs to the Bank to consider the MP DPIP need for restructuring, enhancements
       or improvements to the processes in the post-MTR implementation arrangements.

78.    (c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

    ·  Based on the Bank performance during lending phase and supervision as
       discussed above, the overall performance is rated as Satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

     The government's commitment to the project was initially demonstrated by its
       persistent request for Bank assistance for a project focused on poverty reduction
       and by including all necessary budgetary resources in its plans and budgets.
       During 1995, following agreement with the Bank, GOMP identified 10 project
       districts on the basis of poverty indicators. Four additional districts were added in
       1999. The state had conducted extensive Social Assessments and detailed District
       Capacity Assessments (Institutional Assessments) in the selected districts with the
       help of field Non-Government Organizations (NGOs). It had prepared a State
       Project Implementation Plan (PIP) and Operations Manual. The government had


                                           21

        initiated pilot activities in five districts with financing from an Australian Trust
        Fund supporting the project. These activities were carried out jointly by
        government officials, NGOs, other private institutions and local people, including
        potential beneficiaries of the project.

     The government established a DPIP Project Management Unit well ahead of time
        and had maintained it despite the delay in project preparation. It established
        project units in five districts where the project was expected to start and it had
        staffed some positions in the SPU. It had already identified NGOs in the state and
        districts to undertake start-up activities for the project, such as community
        mobilization, group formation, and training. It had established a state Society
        which would play an important role in project implementation.

     During implementation, the government was committed to ensure that the project
        succeeded, and this was reflected by an excellent project team, full budgetary
        resources and strict adherence to project rules. The government appointed top
        officials to the project, was committed to keeping staff turnover limited, and was
        willing to relax some of its administrative rules to improve conditions for project
        success, including following a very strict and challenging process for recruitment
        and training of project staff. The project's counterpart team was quite responsive
        in addressing the concerns raised by the Bank's task team during supervision
        missions.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Satisfactory


79. The performance of the DPIP-PMU was satisfactory, as demonstrated by the
    following:

    ·   DPIP-PMU designed and implemented various strategies for enhancing the
        managerial capacities of these institutions like capacity building through regular
        facilitation, developing linkages with commercial banks, developing market
        linkages, convergence with line departments and establishment of both internal
        and external rating systems. The organization's autonomous status enabled it to
        select highly committed professionals on fixed-term appointments to implement
        the project. It was very effective in carrying out all aspects of project
        management, such as financial management, procurement arrangements, reporting
        activities, and disbursements.

    ·   The overall financial management arrangement was satisfactory. The manual
        accounting and reporting arrangements at the State, District and PFT level were
        adequate and provided regular and timely information on the financial progress.
        Withdrawal claims were submitted on a timely basis. Procurement of all works,
        goods and technical services under the project followed the Procurement
        Guidelines "Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits". The procurement
        aspects of the project in relation to CIF sub-projects were managed in a


                                               22

        satisfactory manner by the PMU. The systems and procedures concerning the
        procurement function in CIF projects, including compliance with cost benchmarks
        and recording of purchases in the minutes were adequate to provide a reasonable
        degree of fiduciary assurance regarding use of funds. The PMU submitted all
        required quarterly and annual reports in a timely manner. These reports were
        informative, and provided valuable feedback on the project's progress.

    ·   The PMU staff showed a high level of commitment, competence and enthusiasm.
        They were willing to experiment, innovate, go the extra mile and take the needed
        risks because they were confident that they had the backing of their superiors.
        Equally importantly, they conducted themselves in a manner that inspired
        confidence and trust in the people, especially the poor.

    ·   Follow-up on agreed actions concerning environmental management was
        somewhat disappointing. To some degree this was due to the fact that project
        management did not have direct control over the operational aspects of
        environmental management (in line with the original project design) as it was
        outsourced to Environmental Planning & Coordination (EPCO), an external
        agency.


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

    ·   In light of the government and implementing agencies' performance as discussed
        above, the overall performance of the Borrower was satisfactory.

6. LESSONS LEARNED

83.     This section describes the factors that have been important to the success of the
project.

     Strong political commitment and continuity of project leadership are essential for
        the success of a project. In addition, flexibility built into the project design would
        enable the project to use new information and learning to adapt the
        implementation to make them more effective in addressing problems faced by the
        poor, women, tribal and the marginal communities.
    ·

    ·   To achieve better results and outcomes, a better alternative would be to enhance
        the focus on market linkages that provide income opportunities for beneficiaries.
        With this focus, the following steps should be pursued: (i) identify the partners
        and the products they need to buy; (ii) develop agreements with the partners; (iii)
        identify the skill gaps and give training to beneficiaries to fill up these gaps, and
        give them the right kind of materials; and (iv) go for the production process with
        the help of partners, and sell the produces to the partners.


                                             23

    ·  Instead of operating stand-alone projects, it is better to make them as part and
       parcel of mainstream schemes so that the government can avail of all available
       resources.

    ·  High standards in service--such as, administrative sanctions by Gram Sabha and
       technical sanction by PFT or districts, quick turn around of subproject approvals,
       and quick release of funds to community bank accounts helped establish the
       credibility of the government and DPIP.

84. Project Design

     A poverty reduction project should focus more on building the capacity of rural
       communities rather than the capacity of the government. This could be done, for
       example, by designing the project in terms of giving more responsibility to
       community members and community organizations from the very beginning.
   
    For a state like MP which has a limited capacity in natural resources, a project
       such as DPIP should be designed with a focus more on people and on creating
       opportunities for them to develop skills and professions, than on natural resources
       and agriculture.

    The role of private sector in playing an active role as a partner in Bank projects on
       livelihood and poverty alleviation needs to be looked into for future projects.

    Lack of access to different kinds of markets is a major reason for the poor to
       continue remaining in poverty. To overcome this constraint, several layers of
       group formation from the neighborhood level common interest groups to higher
       level aggregation, such as producer companies, are necessary if the full benefits of
       the productive assets with the poor are to be realized in a sustainable manner
       through linkage with input and output markets. This vertical integration of
       community models is also essential to achieve scale and realize opportunities
       lying in the modern market economy.

    The wealth ranking process--i.e., allowing villagers in a Gram Sabha to decide
       who are the poorest among them--worked very well and did not lead to conflict
       or controversy. The project also consistently targeted districts, blocks, and
       villages in line with its poverty objectives.

8.5    Implementation
·  It is not realistic to expect a poverty reduction project such as MPDPIP to achieve its
   objectives within a five year time frame. Such projects should rather be implemented
   over a long-term horizon, say 10-15 years, so that the government can adopt a
   programmatic approach towards planning such programs.

·  Enhancing the capacity and skills of project coordinators to manage projects through
   relevant training and exchange programs is important for effective project

                                            24

    implementation. It will be important to provide them opportunities for platform for
    sharing and cross-learning from the experience of other projects in the country.

·   All manual and guidelines should be prepared at the beginning of the project itself
    and not after the project has started.

·   A well written community operational manual which also describes the procurement
    rules and safeguards helps in ensuring smooth and efficient implementation and at the
    same time provides comfort level on fiduciary aspects.

·   Capacity building should be given very high priority. Implementation of sub projects
    should start only after sufficient capacity building is achieved. Any attempt to fast
    track without proper foundation can result in manipulation and diluting project
    objectives.

It is important to fill up vacant positions without too much delay, so that implementation
will not be affected due to shortage of staff.
7. COMMENTS ON ISSUES RAISED BY BORROWER/IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES/PARTNERS

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
See Annex 7

(b) Co-financiers
N/A

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
N/A




                                            25


ANNEX 1. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                                            Actual/Latest
                                      Appraisal Estimate   Estimate (USD          Percentage of
              Components               (USD millions)         millions)             Appraisal
(1) Community Investments:
  (A) Sub-Projects For Infrastructure,
  Livelihood Security And Skills and        107.50                91.65
  Organization;
  (B) Village Funds;
(2) Institutional and Human Capacity
Building:
  (A) Project Administration;
                                             25.20                25.70
  (B) Human Resource
  Development; and
  (C) Communications
                   Total Baseline Cost      132.70               117.35
Physical Contingencies                         0.30                0.00
Price Contingencies                            1.70                0.00
                  Total Project Costs       134.70               117.35
Front-end fee PPF                              0.00                0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                             0.00                0.00
           Total Financing Required         134.70               117.35

(b) Financing

                                                         Appraisal     Actual/Latest
                                         Type of Co-     Estimate       Estimate    Percentage of
              Source of Funds             financing    (USD millions) (USD millions)  Appraisal
Borrower                                                    9.30           8.76
Local Communities                                          15.30           4.71
International Development Association
                                                          110.10          103.88
(IDA)




                                               27

ANNEX 2. OUTPUTS BY COMPONENT


Original Components and Activities Undertaken

The project had two components:

1. Community Investments - US$109.00 million or 80.9% of the base costs at PAD,
(INR 4429.565 million or 80% of the actual costs). The types of funds available to the
beneficiaries are as follows:

Sub-Projects and innovation funds (US$98.7 million disbursed and US$5 million of
community contributions by category of sub-Projects at PAD, 92.340 million US$ or
78.7% of actual costs at closure) through support to (a) group based demand-driven
income generating investment proposals, small infrastructure and livelihood security
proposed by CIGs; and (b) small demonstration/innovative projects Under this
component, the project supported the following activities:

·   Group based income generating investment activities for land improvement,
    development of irrigation source, procurement of progressive agriculture instrument,
    crop-cultivation, horticulture, household dairy, sheep/goat raring, poultry, small
    manufacturing industries, small business, petty trade, and other micro-enterprises.

·   Provision of infrastructure likes approaching road, internal road, water harvesting
    structures, drinking water supply, sanitation, community buildings, collection centers,
    electrification etc. to support and sustain the livelihood activities.

·   Provision of support for adoption of new skills and activities through trainings and
    capacity building, leading to wage-employment, self-employment and salaried jobs.

·   Promotion of collective activities, which bring additional benefits and/or value
    addition to the poor, such as collective procurement and marketing of commodities.

·   Demonstrations of innovative ideas to enhance the livelihood opportunities like
    introduction of new crop practices, introduction of new seed variety, progressive
    farming of wheat, soybean and vegetable cropping, effective and efficient irrigation
    practices, supportive activities like providing support to poultry growers ,women
    society by means of providing seed money and a cage fitted vehicle for the marketing
    of the poultries.



Village Funds (US$10.30 million as per PAD, US$7.45 million actual at closure)
established through community cash contributions and would last beyond the life of the
project. Under this component:

·   An account in the name of "Apna Kosh village.......... (Name of village)" was
    opened in each village. CIGs deposited money (10% of the cost of sub project) in this
    separately opened Apna Kosh in the village. Money received from CIG is to be


                                            28

    immediately put in a 3-year fixed deposit scheme. All such FDRs created by the CIGs
    in villages matured on a same date. FDR instrument will be kept in the office of the
    District Unit and its record will be kept by the PFT.

·   For the effective management of "Apna Kosh" Village Development Committees
    (VDCs) have been formed in each project village. It is a community organization of
    all Groups of Common Interest at village level. The aim of which is to increase the
    participation in implementation of the project and to provide permanence for
    eradicating poverty even after the expiry of the project. VDC is also responsible to
    provide consumer loans on demand from revolving fund of the 'Apna Kosh'and
    arrangement of small loans from the banks by linkage system.

·   After proper training and capacity building of VDCs and appointing the trained
    village resource person (VRP), total deposited amount kept as FDRs in DPSUs have
    been transferred to VDCs.

Institution and Human Capacity Building (US$25.70 million) or 19.10 % of the base
costs at PAD; (US$20.82 million or 21.90 % of actual costs at closure) the focus of this
component was to develop self-reliant and self-managed community based organizations.
Accordingly, the majority of funds available under this component proposed to be
utilized in capacity building of various institutions in the project districts. The focus was
on (a) project administration; (b) human resource development; (c) communications; (d)
formation and strengthening of organization; and (e) monitoring and learning. The
following key activities were undertaken under the component during the project period:

Project Administration The implementation arrangements made for the project mark a
watershed in the management of rural development projects in India. An autonomous
Society for Poverty Alleviation Initiative (SPAI) has been created with the Chief Minister
as the President. The organizational structure (MPSPAI), Executive Committee, SPMU,
DPMU, PFT etc. provided for necessary flexibility, innovation and effective
management. The SPMU headed by the Project Coordinator and the 14 DPMUs
supported by 121 multi-functional project facilitation teams (PFTs) facilitated
implementation of the project with common interest group (CIGs) of the poor playing a
key role in planning, implementation and monitoring. Established NGOs having
experience and presence in-group based activities collaborated with the Project as PFTs.
MSOs have been selected from the local NGOs and appointed to organize women and
people from other weaker sections of the village and cluster level.

Human Resource Development Project adopted an innovative recruitment and selection
procedure for selecting project staff. The 2-days selection procedure assesses candidates
on parameters like ­ temperament, social maturity, ability to work in a team, and attitude.
This selection procedure has ensured that the Project staffs have the right commitment
and are comfortable in the role of facilitators, working with communities and had
internalized the core values of the Project. A major emphasis since, the project beginning,
has been given on the capacity building of project personnel through Basic Trainings
(Orientation, Start-up, Group formation, Exposures, Cross Learning etc.). Other areas of
Capacity Building for project staff were Sectoral (Lift Irrigation, Animal Husbandry,


                                            29

Environment etc.) & OD (Team Building, Communication, Moderation, Vision, Peer
Review, Best Practices etc). Community training on different sectoral issues (dairy,
goatary, brick making, centering, poultry, piggery etc were organized for communities.

Communications and Information An internal Newsletter "EKMAT" is being
published bi-monthly to spread the internal learning's of the DPIP to all the project staff
and other stakeholders. The initial issues dealt with success stories, new innovations and
rules of the game. The newsletter is disseminating information regarding gender,
environmental, sustainability and experiences of the CIGs. The newsletter focuses on
various themes. Members from the media are being sent to meet CIGs to get a first hand
experience above the implementation of the project. Their experiences published as an
assessment report AAKALAN (Assessment) apart from the articles which were
published in the leading dailies like national level weekly "Outlook". Project is also being
highlighted in the media so that a larger audience would be able to know about the
project. Assessment of the project through media is a regular feature of DPIP.

Formation and Strengthening of Organizations Small NGOs having local presence
have been short listed and selected to mobilize the community. The workers of these
NGOs known as Mobilization Support Organization (MSO) have been given extensive
training and are now working for sanitation, health and mobilizing the women. Services
of professionally trained women worker have also been taken.

Monitoring and Learning An excel spread sheet is being used by the State Project Unit
(SPU) for the Management Information System in which a sizable data for all project
districts and measurable out put indicators of the project by component are being
collected and documented. At the district level, PFTs are responsible for the collection
and reporting of M&L data. They are using formats developed for this purpose by the
SPU. Data have been entered manually for each CIGs activity and submitted to the DPU
for data entry. The DPU submits electronic project implantation progress (EPIP) reports
monthly to the SPU. Once all data is compiled, computation for any component or
element of the project is done with relative ease. Outcomes of the M&L analysis are
regularly used for informed decision making processes at all levels. For the purpose of
Internal learning and proper information flow among the districts about the functioning of
the project meetings of District Monitoring and Learning Coordinators are held regularly
and cross learning Workshops of District Officials and PFTs are also organized. In these
workshops and through exchange visits, the learning of the Project Processes e.g. what
works and what does not, success and failures of particular activities- how and why
things are happening are discussed and shared. A single register has been developed for
CIGs to maintain their physical and financial transactions. This register records the
minutes of the internal meetings of CIGs. The register also helps PFTs in follow up and
monitoring of CIGs activities. Each group (CIG, PFT, DPU) is reviewed regularly by
their peer. Peer Review approach was based on the community scorecard system where
community evaluated the performance of the project. In addition, Base Line Survey,
review and Follow up Studies have been conducted.




                                           30

ANNEX 3. ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS

Economic Analysis: The project addresses improvements in rural livelihoods in MP in a
holistic way with an integrated set of interventions under individual components and
activities being mutually re-enforcing. The main project benefits will be derived from (1)
increased agricultural productivity; (2) diversification and increase of income sources of
households engaged in livelihoods activities; (3) improved market integration; (4)
sustainable business institutions owned by the rural poor; and (5) viable new linkages for
job and self employment. However, apart from those generated under Community
Investment Component (CIC), the benefits are mainly related to social, institutional,
capacity building and human resource development, which are mostly long term and not
easily quantifiable. Even for the sub-projects under CIC, given the diversity and demand
driven nature of the productive activities, no ex ante economic analysis was conducted in
the PAD. By the completion of the project, 53,078 income generation sub-projects under
the Community Investment Component had been implemented in 2906 villages of 53
blocks in 14 districts of Madhya Pradesh with the support of 122 PFTs. An ex post
economic analysis of MP-DPIP I sub-projects was carried out by National Centre for
Human Settlements and Environment (NCHSE) in early2008. The study selected a
sample of 323 sub-projects represented by 2169 beneficiaries in all the 14 districts. Based
on the aggregated costs (including apportioned training and project management costs)
and benefits flows of the selected subprojects, the overall project economic rate of return
(ERR) was estimated at 42%.5

Financial analysis: Based on the results of the ex post financial analysis for DPIP-I
prepared by National Center for Human Settlement and Environment (NCHSR). The
analysis reveals that more than 80% of the selected 323 livelihood activities sub projects
are functional and have by category reported high financial international rate of return
(IRR). The summary of analysis results is listed below with detailed calculations in the
project file. WOW!

Table1: IRRs of Selected MP-DPIP Sub-projects
                                             Number of          IRR range across Average
         Category of sub- project            sub-projects       districts (%)    IRR (%)
 1.      Irrigation                          50                 14.67 ­ 373.83   98.60
 2.      Check dam (stop dam,                20                 13.42 ­ 287.18   63.01
         pond)
 3.      Dairy                               25                 20.32 - 204.03   80.17
 4.      Hand pump                           9                  26.41 ­ 176.73   67.50
 5.      Road (CC road, WBM                  15                 7.40 ­ 41.75     23.16
         road)
 6.      Fish farming                        12                 19.26 ­ 483.88   188.96
 7.      Progressive farming                 24                 19.34 ­ 565.83   199.13
 8.      Livestock                           19                 39.64 ­ 188.77   52.25
 9.      Trading                             37                 13.45- 256.90    94.48



5Detailed assumptions and calculations are contained in the project file.

                                                 31

                                        Number of        IRR range across    Average
         Category of sub- project       sub-projects     districts (%)       IRR (%)
 10.     Rental services                27               5.24 ­ 156.65       58.34
 11.     Utility services               31               16.34 ­ 215.65      84.48
 12.     Processing & value             36               18.26 ­ 309.62      96.56
         addition
 13.     Miscellaneous                  18               9.44 ­ 181.74       69.14

It should be noted that as financial indicators are based on complete costs and benefits of
the investment, the actually net benefit for the beneficiaries would be even higher since
major part of the investments would be provided as grant to the beneficiaries.
Fiscal Impact: The government has provided sufficient financial contribution to cover
the incremental operating costs (mainly project staff and seconded government staff
salaries). The project has generated the positive fiscal impact from expanded corporate
tax bases in commercial farming and increased personal income tax returns from youth
employment and other job opportunities generated by the project. No increases in
recurrent expenditures of state government are expected after the post-project period. All
the recurrent expenditures of sub-projects would be met by community contributions.




                                            32

ANNEX 4. BANK LENDING AND IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT/SUPERVISION PROCESSES

a) Task Team members
                                                                    Responsibility/
Names                     Title                               Unit  Specialty
Lending
Luis Constantino          Sector Manager                      MNSSD TTL
Geeta Sethi               Lead Economist                      SASDU Economist
Arpana Agarwal            Micro Finance
Zoubida Allaoua           Sector Manager                      MNSED Economist
Ruth Alsop                Social Scientist
D. J. Baxi                Procurement Specialist                    Procurement
Meera Chatterjee          Sr. Social Development Specialist   DELWB Social Scientist
Luis Coirolo              Consultant                          SASDA Community
                                                                    Development
Sara Gonzalez Flavell     Sr. Counsel                         LEGEM Lawyer
Mauricio Guadagni         Sr. Rural Development Specialist    ECSSD Agriculturist (peer
                                                                    reviewer)
David Marsden             Social Scientist                          Social Scientist
Paul Jonathan Martin      Sr. Environmental Specialist        FIHWB Economist
Yoshiko Masuyama          Program Assistant                   SASDO Project Assistant
Jaques Toureille Micro    Finance (peer reviewer)                   Financial
                                                                    Management
P.C. Mohan                Chair, Staff Association            WBGSA Communication
                                                                    specialist
Rajat Narula              Sr. Financial Management Specialist EAPCO Financial
                                                                    Management
Beatrice Renzi            Communication Specialist                  Communication
                                                                    Specialist
Parmesh Shah              Lead Rural Development Specialist   SASDA Community
                                                                    Development
                                                                    (peer reviewer)
Jayashree Shahria         Program Assistant                   SASDA Project Assistant


Supervision/ICR

Luis F. Constantino       Sector Manager                      MNSSD TTL
Martien Van Nieuwkoop     Program Coordinator                 AFTAR TTL
                          Sr. Rural Development
Nathan Belete                                                 SASDA TTL
                          Economist
                                                                    Financial
Papia Bhatachaarji        Sr Financial Management Specia SARFM
                                                                    Management
Mam Chand                 Consultant                          SASFP Procurement
Deepal Fernando           Senior Procurement Specialist       SARPS Procurement
                          Natural Resources Mgmt.
Reena Gupta                                                   SASDA
                          Specialist
                          Senior Rural Development
Natasha Hayward                                               SASDA Livelihood
                          Specialist
Vijayasekar Kalavakonda Senior Insurance Specialist           GCMNBMicro Finance


                                          33

                                                                 Responsibility/
Names                    Title                          Unit     Specialty
A. K. Kalesh Kumar       Sr. Procurement Specialist     SARPS Procurement
                                                                 Environmental
Priti Kumar              Sr Environmental Specialist    SASDI
                                                                 Specialist
                                                                 Monitoring &
Assaye Legesse           Senior Agriculture Economist   AFTAR
                                                                 Evaluation
                                                                 Social
Shankar Narayanan        Senior Social Development Spec SASDI
                                                                 Development
                                                                 Rural
Ranjan Samantaray        Sr Natural Resources Mgmt. Spe SASDA
                                                                 Development
Salimah Haiderali Samji  Consultant                     SASDI
Biswajit Sen             Senior Rural Development Speci SASDA Livelihood
Geeta Sethi              Lead Economist                 SASDU Economist

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                              Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                  USD Thousands (including
                              No. of staff weeks
                                                        travel and consultant costs)
Lending
FY99                                                                23.05
FY00                                       84                      399.33
FY01                                       28                       93.30
FY02                                                                 0.00
FY03                                                                 0.00
FY04                                                                 0.00
FY05                                                                 0.00
FY06                                                                 0.00
FY07                                                                 0.00
FY08                                                                 0.00
Total:                                    112                      515.68
Supervision/ICR
FY99                                                                 0.00
FY00                                                                 0.00
FY01                                       14                       94.86
FY02                                       21                      116.54
FY03                                       14                       86.25
FY04                                       25                      135.84
FY05                                       22                       83.42
FY06                                       36                      122.78
FY07                                       27                       93.12
FY08                                       36                      148.62
FY09                                       13                        0.00
Total:                                    208                      881.43

                                       34

ANNEX 5. BENEFICIARY SURVEY RESULTS

Key Findings
· CIG incomes at constant prices [53%] have recorded a higher percentage change than
  Non-CIG [24%] and Non-Project households [15%] going from Baseline period to the
  Impact Survey.
· CIG households have recorded a 52 percent increase in incomes from agriculture
  production compared to Non-CIG households (10%) and Non-Project (-10%). Income
  from Animal Husbandry has recorded a substantial increase across all three household
  categories.
· As incomes have increased for CIG households, they also seem to be in a better
  position to spend [at constant prices]; CIG households [Table 14] register a 9 percent
  change when compared to a decrease of -9 and -16 percent for Non-CIG and Non-
  Project households respectively.
· Calculated at constant prices CIG Households have been able to preserve their lifestyle,
  as reflected by the positive percentage change in expenditure at constant prices;
  whereas, Non-CIG Households and Non-Project Households have suffered erosion in
  their quality of life.
· Between the baseline and the impact survey periods, there has been a 15 percent
  increase in total irrigated land in the state, which has resulted in a 93 percent increase in
  value of agricultural production in terms of Rs per acre. Of this, the lion's share is
  attributable to project households. The efficacy of project initiatives is evident from the
  149 percent increase in value of agricultural production for CIG households with a 27
  percent increase in irrigated land.
· In the baseline period, about 42 percent of CIG households and more than 41 percent of
  non-CIG households had access to wholesale markets for their produce. This proportion
  has increased to about 288 more CIG households and to more 326 households for non-
  CIG households by the impact survey period as a consequence of the facilities provided
  by the project. The numbers in case of non-project households remain insignificant.
· Asset formation ­ whether agricultural (tube wells etc) or household (cycle, radio, etc)
  is the highest in magnitude for CIG households. Non-CIG households also show
  improvement in their household asset holdings. However, the asset holding status of
  non-project households has actually declined between the baseline and impact survey
  periods.
· Livestock holdings have come down across all households in the state. CIG households
  are the only category to have increased their livestock holdings (by 3%). Non-CIG
  households' livestock holdings have declined by 12 percent, while those of non-project
  households are down by 18 percent.
· Calculated at constant prices, in terms of savings as well, CIG Households have done
  much better with a percentage change of 183 percent, compared to a mere 33 percent
  change that Non-CIG Households saw. The Project Households have done far better
  than the Non-Project Households who registered a -22 percent change in terms of
  average savings in rupees. At the same time, it noted that Non-Project households had a
  higher base at the time of the baseline.
· Among CIG households, at constant prices when it comes to average amounts
  borrowed, there is a slight decline among CIG & Non-CIG households and a marked


                                             35

  decline among Non-Project households. Quintile wise analysis [Table 12] does not
  seem to reflect any definite pattern.
· Distress migration has come down from 30 per cent to 14 percent for CIG households.
  In actual numbers, 194 CIG households were resorting to distress migration at baseline
  time as against 36 at impact survey period. The percentage decrease for non-CIG is 23
  to 10 percent and for non-project households-26-19 percent.
· Project Funds helped to initiate specific activities for CIG households. Of all the
  activities, irrigation emerges as the most lucrative with an 82 percent increase in
  income and a 54 percent increase in savings [calculated at constant prices]. Followed
  by infrastructure activities and dairying where both incomes and savings have
  increased.




                                            36

ANNEX 6. STAKEHOLDER WORKSHOP REPORT AND RESULTS

Empowerment and related issues: Vignettes
While the project has been providing direct inputs and assisting the CIG households, the
intention is also to promote access to information, transparency, better participation in
local governance, and enhance women's capacity in decision making, etc.
Households in the sample were asked direct and subjective questions on these aspects and
also exposed to situations or stories using vignettes. These were based on six themes. An
analysis of the outcomes where there were significant differences between responses to
the direct question and those to the vignettes are provided below:

Vignette 1: Access to information. Thirty-eight percent respondents felt that they do not
have access to information about the development activities and programs in their areas.
39 percent felt that they have `some' information, while 23 percent said that they have
adequate information about the issue. The proportion of CIG, non-CIG and non-project
households in the three categories of responses are almost equal, with CIG households
scoring slightly higher [68%] when a little and a lot of information is taken together.

Vignette 2: Confidence. This question was to ascertain whether the people of the state
feel more confident about articulating their needs and problems in Gram Sabhas and
other public fora.

                                          Increased Confidence


                 100




                  80



      sdlohesuoH  60




                % 40




                  20




                  0
                        Yes, on their own          Yes with support    Not at all

      All HHs                 28                         37              35

[N: CIG=1558, Non-CIG=2912, Non-Project=417]
Around 28 percent respondents in the entire state expressed increased confidence about
articulating their needs and problems at public fora. 37 percent qualified their affirmative
with a `with support' and about 35 percent denied any increased confidence. In the case
of increased confidence, the number of affirmatives was greater and the negatives from
CIG households were slightly less than those from non-CIG and non-project households.

Vignette 3: Access to assets. This question was posed only to project households [CIG
and Non-CIG] as it referred to group assets or community level assets as a result of
project intervention. The outcome was nearly unanimous, with almost all households
(94%) declaring that project interventions have definitely enables universal access to
group and community level assets for all Of the household categories, 94 CIG households


                                                   37

are agreed upon the fact that they have all use/access to assets, while 85 percent non-CIG
households assert that all have use/access.

Vignette 4: Household decision-making. Whether the project has empowered women to
participate more effectively in decision making at home was the next issue tackled. Here
too, the response was near unanimous across all categories. Eight-two respondents
attested that women's participation in household decision-making has increased to a great
extent. Only about 12 per cent in all categories feel that women's participation in
household decision-making is quite limited.

Vignette 5: Participation in Gram Sabha. In order to further assess empowerment, the
question asked was whether men and women feel that their voices are heard in the village
sabha and whether they feel that action is taken on issues/demands raised. Participation
was low (18%), in terms of those who attend regularly. There was a large percentage over
three-fourths across all three categories who never participated in a Gram Sabha, because
they felt that they would not be listened to. The lowest percentage was however among
CIG households.

Vignette 6: Transparency. This question and vignette specifically referred to DPIP
activities [and therefore not asked of non-project households] and whether signboards
related to activities were put up and the respondents were aware of all the activities being
carried out under the project in their village. Nearly 69 percent households had
knowledge of project activities ­ 32 percent through signboards and 36 percent through
word of mouth. From among the household categories, for CIG household's 42 percent
people were aware through word of mouth and 44 percent through signboards, while for
non-CIG households 42 percent people were not aware of the project activities as against
14 among non-CIG.




                                            38

ANNEX 7. SUMMARY OF BORROWER'S ICR AND/OR COMMENTS ON DRAFT ICR

The GoMP has identified lack of responsiveness and accountability of institutions as a
key deterrent to poverty alleviation and rural development. Therefore there was a specific
need to develop well-targeted programs to assist the poor by promoting decentralization
and beneficiary participation in development. The proposed project initially targeted
2,000 poorest villages spread over 14 districts in northern and northwestern MP. The
GOMP launched the MPDPIP to improve the livelihoods of the rural poor of 2000
villages in 47 poorest blocks of Chhatarpur, Damoh, Guna, Narsingpur, Panna, Raisen,
Rajgarh, Rewa, Sagar, Shajapur, Sidhi, Shivpuri, Tikamgarh and Vidisha districts in
March 2001. The project was progressively scaled-up to cover 2900 villages of 53 rural
blocks in the existing 14 project districts. The learning's of this project could then be used
to expand and draw in other poverty alleviation programs.

The financial pattern of the project cost as per PAD was IDA Credit US$110.10 million
and GOMP share of US$9.30 million and the community contribution equivalent to
US$15.30 million. The total revised cost of the project in rupees terms now stands at 5.21
billion including the share of GOMP and the US$5.00 million of beneficiary contribution
by category of sub project. The component-wise allocation of the revised cost is:
institutional and human capacity building-20.00%, CIF-80.00%. The project period was
extended by two years and it actually closed on June. 31, 2006. The project was managed
by Madhya Pradesh Society for Poverty Alleviation Initiative (MPSPAI), an autonomous
society specially created for this purpose by the GOMP. The SPMU headed by the
Project Coordinator and the 14 DPMUs supported by 121 multi-functional project
facilitation teams (PFTs) facilitated implementation of the project with common interest
group (CIGs) of the poor playing a key role in planning, implementation and monitoring.

The project's development objective is to improve opportunities for the poor and
vulnerable, especially women, to meet their own social and economic development
needs. The project investment components include: (i) Institutional and Human Capacity
Building; and (ii) CIF.

The PDO was relevant to the project area, which were among the poorest in the state, was
in consonance with the development priorities of the GOMP's Ninth and Tenth Five Year
Plans (1997-2008). The project adopted a realistic system of targeting CIGs and had
made appropriate institutional arrangements for continuation and sustainability. The
project components were organically linked to the PDO. The PDO and the components
were not revised at MTR, although several innovative strategic mid-course corrections
were made. The quality at entry was very high. The project area was fully prepared for
implementing community centered participatory strategy.
The project reached out to about 85% of the poor and Poorest of Poor rural households in
the fourteen districts (70% of total rural households) and supported mobilization of 3.26
lakh rural poor into 56,089 CIGs and 2,650 Village Development Committees (VDCs) at
the village level.

The project interventions individually attained their specific outcomes and thus, helped in
the overall achievement of the PDO. The impact assessment study (2006) clearly


                                             39

indicates that the PDO is fully achieved. In about six years, the livelihoods of the poor in
the 14 districts had undergone a transition in terms of employment, asset base, income,
household consumption expenditure and investment behavior.

         Income: -CIG incomes at constant prices [53%] have recorded a higher
percentage change than Non-CIG [24%] and Non-Project households [15%] going from
Baseline period to the Impact Survey. CIG households have recorded a 52 percent
increase in incomes from agriculture production compared to Non-CIG households (10%)
and Non-Project (-10%). Income from Animal Husbandry has recorded a substantial
increase across all three household categories.

         Household consumption expenditure: -As incomes have increased for CIG
households, they also seem to be in a better position to spend [at constant prices]; CIG
households register a 9 percent change when compared to a decrease of -9 and -16
percent for Non-CIG and Non-Project households respectively. Calculated at constant
prices CIG Households have been able to preserve their life style, as reflected by the
positive percentage change in expenditure at constant prices; whereas, Non-CIG
Households and Non-Project Households have suffered erosion in their quality of life.

         Agriculture development: - Between the baseline and the impact survey periods,
there has been a 15 percent increase in total irrigated land in the state, which has resulted
in a 93 percent increase in value of agricultural production in terms of Rs per acre. Of
this, the lion's share is attributable to project households. The efficacy of project
initiatives is evident from the 149 percent increase in value of agricultural production for
CIG households with a 27 percent increase in irrigated land.

         Market Access: - In the baseline period, about 42 percent of CIG households and
more than 41 per cent of non-CIG households had access to wholesale markets for their
produce. This proportion has increased to about 288 more CIG households and to more
326 households for non-CIG households by the impact survey period as a consequence of
the facilities provided by the project. The numbers in case of non-project households
remain insignificant.

         Asset formation: - whether agricultural (tube wells etc) or household (cycle, radio,
etc) is the highest in magnitude for CIG households. Non-CIG households also show
improvement in their household asset holdings. However, the asset holding status of non-
project households has actually declined between the baseline and impact survey periods.

         Livestock: - Livestock holdings have come down across all households in the
state. CIG households are the only category to have increased their livestock holdings (by
3%). Non-CIG households'livestock holdings have declined by 12 percent, while those
of non-project households are down by 18 percent.

         Household Saving: - At constant prices, in terms of savings as well, CIG
Households have done much better with a percentage change of 183 percent, compared to
a mere 33 percent change that Non-CIG Households saw. The Project Households have
done far better than the Non-Project Households who registered a -22 percent change in


                                              40

terms of average savings in rupees. At the same time, it noted that Non-Project
households had a higher base at the time of the baseline.

        Borrowing during shock period: - Among CIG households, at constant prices
when it comes to average amounts borrowed, there is a slight decline among CIG & Non-
CIG households and a marked decline among Non-Project households.

        Migration: - Distress migration has come down from 30 percent to 14 percent for
CIG households. In actual numbers, 194 CIG households were resorting to distress
migration at baseline time as against 36 at impact survey period. The percentage decrease
for non-CIG is 23 to 10 percent and for non-project households-26-19 percent.

        Infrastructure development: - Project Funds helped to initiate specific activities
for CIG households. Of all the activities, irrigation emerges as the most lucrative with an
82 percent increase in income and a 54 percent increase in savings. Followed by
infrastructure activities and dairying where both incomes and savings have increased.

        Women Empowerment: - 37% of the project member beneficiaries of women. A
Major share of the project outlay has gone to these 37% women beneficiaries and offered
a wide range of economic opportunities to them. Women have opted for different self-
employment and are contributing a substantial share in the family income and gaining
participation in household decision making too. The impact survey revealed that eighty-
two respondents attested that women's participation in household decision-making has
increased to a great extent. Only about 12 percent in all categories feel that women's
participation in household decision-making is quite limited. Women under the project
have shown their leadership ability and management skills. In more than 94% VDCs
where women are leading as chairperson and 80% VDCs have all women member in
executive committee.

        Self -reliant and self-managed Community Based Organization: - The project
has been able to mobilize 3.26 lakh poor and poorest of the poor beneficiaries into 56,089
CIGs, 2,650 VDCs in 53 Blocks in the 14 project districts. The CIGs are also functioning
as production units and their members are federated as primary producers of 17 producer
companies and 28 cooperatives. These Producer companies/cooperatives have active
membership base of 62,000 shareholders with share capital base of approximately Rs 6.2
millions. These companies are supplying quality inputs to the members and linking them
with market for better prices. The Project has been very inclusive in terms of mobilizing
CIGs members from vulnerable communities STs, SCs, and disabled persons. With the
formation of these CBOs, the project has been able to mobilize external resources in the
form of Bank Loans to the CIGs and to the CBOs. A Total of Rs. 57.23 Crore was
mobilized as bank loans during the last six years.

        Power Relations in Larger Perspective: A vast majority of VDC transcended to
taking various activities like social agenda, working with PRIs, and working with line
departments, etc. Village Development Committees are planning to take up multiple roles
in collective marketing, food security, insurance, employment guarantee schemes,
helping the banks in recovery of loans, and effective use of community resource persons,


                                           41

etc. All these activities had a favorable impact on power relations and the poor. Most of
the members from the target families participated in the last Gram Panchayat Election
held on 2004, in which 918 Panch, 126 Sarpanch, 23 Janpad member and 2 Janpad
President have been elected. This increased the interface of the PRIs with the CIGs.

        Project Management, Monitoring and Learning: The project has successfully
managed 14 district project support units (DPSU), 121 project facilitation teams (PFTs)
in addition to extending a helping hand to Village Development Committees, Common
Interest Groups and CIG members. A comprehensive Monitoring and Evaluation system
is established in the form of (a) Input and Output Monitoring System, (b) Process
Monitoring and (c) Impact Evaluation and Review Systems. A simple MIS system is
introduced in the Project Districts wherein information on key indicators of the project
was collected from the districts. Data have been entered manually for each CIGs activity
and submitted to the DPSU for data entry. The DPSU submits electronic project
implementation progress (EPIP) reports monthly to the SPU. Once all data is compiled,
computation for any component or element of the project is done with relative ease.
Outcomes of the M&L analysis are regularly used for informed decision making
processes at all levels. The development of MIS also included Financial Management
System, which is fully developed and is in operation in the Project Districts. Process
Monitoring has been undertaken regularly. For the purpose of Internal learning and
proper information flow among the districts about the functioning of the project meetings
of District Monitoring and Learning Coordinators are held regularly and cross learning
Workshops of District Officials and PFTs are also organized. In these workshops and
through exchange visits, the learning of the Project Processes e.g. what works and what
does not, success and failures of particular activities- how and why things are happening
are discussed and shared. The register maintained by the CIGs also helps PFTs in follow
up and monitoring of CIGs activities. Peer reviews combine cross group learning with
evaluation. Each group (CIG, PFT, DPU) is reviewed regularly by their peer. Peer
Review approach was based on the community scorecard system where community
evaluated the performance of the project. In addition, Base Line Survey, review and
Follow up Studies have been conducted.

Factors Facilitating the Implementation of MPDPIP


Continued Support of GOMP to the Project: The creation of MPSPAI as a fairly
autonomous organization has facilitated smooth management of the project. The project
enjoyed continued support of the GOMP, despite the change of the government in 2003.
The GOMP's support to introduce decentralized planning, management and funds flow
arrangement in the project is excellent. Important policy initiatives of the government
have ensured continued support to the CBOs even beyond the project period. In addition,
the GOMP's support to the top management of the project facilitated the smooth
implementation of the project.

Support from Line Departments: The line departments not only recognized the
CIGs/CBOs as representative collectives of the poor, but also used them to deliver certain
services and activities.



                                           42

Costs and Financing: Project costs at appraisal were US$134.70 million. In Rupee terms
it was equal to 6061.500 million due to deduction for relief assistance for TSUNAMI
victims there were changes in the budget in terms of SDRs. An amount of 13,264,000
SDR has been deducted for this purpose. Because of deduction in the budget and change
of exchange rate between SDR and US$ on one hand and US$ and INR on the other
hand, the revised IDA share were estimated at INR 4616.296 million instead of the
original budget of INR 4954.500 millions. Accordingly the revised share of GOMP
estimated at INR 389.600 millions instead of the original budget of 418.500 millions and
beneficiaries' contribution by category of sub projects estimated at INR 209.600 millions
instead of the original budget of 225.00 millions. Therefore the total revised cost of the
project now stands at INR 5215.496 millions instead of the original cost of 5598.000
millions. This cost exclude the village fund (10.30 million US$) proposed to create by
the communities.

Factors Adversely Affecting Implementation and Outcomes


Elections: The conduct of elections to the Union Parliament, the State Assembly and later
to the PRIs resulted in temporary suspension of certain key project activities including
funding of income generating activities.

Lack of Adequate Viable Livelihood Opportunities Outside Agriculture and Livestock:
The other factor that had the effect of limiting the livelihood outcomes of the project was
the relative lack of livelihood opportunities outside agriculture and livestock development
in the rural areas.

Seasonal migration: The opportunity migration of the project beneficiaries' affects the
formation of CIGs and timely implementation of activities.

Contribution: Due to inability of depositing the requisite contribution by the ultra poor
beneficiaries, the delay in coverage was unavoidable.

Institutional Sustainability
Self reliant and Self-Managed CBOs: The project has been able to mobilize 3.26 lakh
poor and poorest of the poor beneficiaries into 56,089 CIGs, 2650 VDCs in 53 Blocks in
the 14 project districts, which, in course of project implementation, have acquired self-
management and self-governing skills, required of grassroots democratic institutions.
These institutions have also emerged as fairly efficient micro-finance institutions and
fund managers with reasonable degree of book keeping skills. The CIGs are also
functioning as production units and federated as primary producers of 17 district based
producer companies and 28 cooperatives. These Producer companies/cooperatives have
active membership base of 62,000 shareholders with share capital base of approximately
Rs 6.2 millions. These companies are supplying quality inputs to the members and
linking them with market for better prices. They have acquired the business management
skills, having implemented collective economic, food security and marketing activities
very efficiently. More importantly, most of the CBOs, having participated in livelihood
assessment and micro-planning exercises, acquired generic skills of planning, demand



                                            43

representation and monitoring. The substantial amount of CIF provided to the CIGs is an
important factor contributing to their sustainability.

Corpus of CBOs: The total corpus amounting to Rs. 33.29 Crores has been generated by
the CIGs by contributing the 10% of the subproject cost as an Apna Kosh that is village
level fund. The expanding corpus of the CIGs facilitated by regular savings, internal
lending through VDCs, and the transparent financial management and accountability
systems promoted through regular book-keeping, identification and training of book-
keepers/Village Resource Person and collective financial decision-making is yet another
factor that contributes to the sustainability of the CIGs.

Community Recognizing CBOs as Socially and Economically Useful Institutions:
Because of their role in the delivery of certain line department services and identification
of beneficiaries, the CIGs and their federations are viewed as very useful, pro-poor and
women-friendly institutions.

Expanding Knowledge, Skills and Competencies of the CBO Functionaries for Self-
Management, Business Management, Dispute Resolution and Intermediation: The
sustained capacity building efforts of the project through training, exposure/cross-
learning, nurturing support of the frontline staff and resource persons and activists on the
one hand and the democratic and financial systems instituted on the other have
contributed to the knowledge, skills and capabilities of the leaders. A large number of
leaders have successfully handled micro finance management, dispute resolution and
intermediation, procurement and marketing management and book-keeping. It is the vast
reservoir of the trained leaders and activists and community resource persons that are
most likely to sustain the institutions.

Bank Performance


The Bank: The Bank provided valuable inputs in developing the community demand
driven strategy, which is central to the project. The Bank provides a productive support
for project implementation and development of CBOs.

The Supervision Missions: The Bank Supervision Missions worked closely and
intensively with MPSPAI to implement the project. The successive Supervision Missions
provided very useful technical inputs and international best practices on social
mobilization, institution building, and development of financial services and
establishment of CIF. The Missions spent lot of time with all the stakeholders in the
project and provided useful inputs in each mission.
The Missions facilitated several private sector partnerships and forays into new areas of
collective marketing. The workshop organized around MTR and emerging issues
provided a very useful forum for cross learning and reevaluation of the strategies.

The Borrower: The GOMP has consistently provided strong support for the project. The
Department of Rural Development provided the necessary coordination and support for
the project. The GOMP encouraged other line departments to adopt institutions and
practices promoted by the project for delivering their services.


                                            44

MPSPAI: The MPSPAI has been extremely dedicated and innovative in the
implementation of the project. A remarkable aspect of the implementation is the extent
which the project top management internalized the values, approach and methods of
community demand-driven development. The attitudes and behavior of the project staff
at all levels was a key factor in the success of the project, especially in promoting
institution development and community participation in planning and implementation of
the project activities. The top project management provided very effective over sight,
guidance and sustained support to the District project units. The DPSUs enjoyed
excellent working relationships with the front line staff, PFTs, resource persons and
activists. The Project Coordinator and DPMs provided close support supervision to the
project functionaries and CBOs.

Lessons Learned from MPDPIP
The six-year long project affords a number of lessons for development projects in general
and poverty alleviation initiatives in particular. Some of the key lessons emerging from
the project are briefly summarized in the following:

         Autonomous Project Management: The implementation arrangements made for
the project mark a watershed in the management of rural development projects in India.
An autonomous Society for Poverty Alleviation Initiative (SPAI) has been created with
the Chief Minister as the President. The organizational structure (MPSPAI), Executive
Committee, SPMU, DPMU, PFT etc.,) provided for necessary flexibility, innovation and
effective management. The CBOs were effectively involved in planning, implementation
and monitoring of the project.

         Unique recruitment and selection process: MP-DPIP adopted an innovative
recruitment and selection procedure for selecting Government functionaries on
deputation into the project. The 2-day selection procedure assesses candidates on
parameters like ­ temperament, social maturity, ability to work in a team, and attitude.
This selection procedure has ensured that the Project staffs have the right commitment
and are comfortable in the role of facilitators, working with communities and had
internalized the core values of the Project.

         Multi sectoral project facilitation team: Professional with background of rural
management, engineering, veterinary and agriculture has been recruited as PFTs in
tackling multi-sectoral activities that communities demand. At initial stage, the PFTs felt
a slight hitch in rapport building with women. To rectify this situation MP-DPIP has
introduced the concept of Mobilization Support Organization (MSO). This is a novel
experiment where a team comprising of Government functionaries works in close
coordination with a NGO.

         Importance of Early Social Mobilization and Capacity Building: The project
experience shows that social mobilization and capacity building is process oriented, and
therefore, takes time to start-up but produce good results when matured. It implies that
project planning should emphasize social mobilization as early in the project cycle as
possible.


                                            45

        Wealth Ranking tool for Identification of beneficiaries: "Wealth Ranking" is
used as a tool to identify the poorest and the most vulnerable in the village. The families
so identified are then listed and the approval is done in the Gram Sabha. Communities
has accepted wealth ranking as a true indicator of judging the poverty of an individual
through their own perspective.

        Demand driven approach: The activities were selected by the group members.
The group members were selected on the principle of self-selection. PFT did not decide
about the activities or about the composition of the groups, but in turn guided the groups.
This approach provides more space to beneficiaries and thus leads the empowerment.

        Activity based CIGs: The CIG identifies the activity, which they would like to
implement, and then start saving to get their contribution together. Implementation of the
activity increased the capacity of the communities to negotiate the best deal in purchase
and procure the assets or materials. There are numerous examples where community
negotiated not only for the best price and quality of the material, but also for the periodic
maintenance and training to run the equipments. The assets have been created by groups
at rates, which are some times only three-fourth the costs with better quality norms.

        Fund Flow mechanism: The sub-project submitted by the CIGs was funded in a
very transparent and time bound manner. Drafts are given to CIGs in front of villagers at
a common meeting place. A provision is made in the project that 95% amount of the
total cost of the Sub-project will be deposited in the account of the CIG in single tranche.
This procedure has established credibility of the Project on the one hand and has ensured
that the groups are able to implement their sub projects in time.

        Importance of Facilitation and Capacity Building: Facilitation and capacity
building support to the CBOs is a critical input that helps community sustain ably address
their livelihood concerns.

        Importance of Social Capital: A significant output of the MPDPIP is the creation
of a vast resource of Animators, service providers and Resource Persons drawn from the
poor and POP households. The valuable resource stock could be used for enhancing
implementation efficiency of development programs of the line departments. The
MPDPIP has successfully demonstrated that the well-trained and experienced community
resource persons perform the project activities as efficiently as the project staff at
economical rates.

        Activity based federation: The CIGs are functioning as production units and
federated as primary producers of 17 district based producer companies. These Producer
companies have active membership base of 62,000 shareholders with share capital base
of approximately Rs 6.2 millions. Their business plans have been approved by
commercial banks as viable project. These companies are supplying quality inputs to the
members and linking them with market for better prices. These producers'companies are
now defining concept of aggregated production and contract marketing by handling huge
production volumes. This intervention has shown positive impact on life of beneficiaries.


                                            46

A large part of investment in land and agriculture related activity has not only
strengthened basic production infrastructure but also propelled incremental income of
households.

        Collective Marketing Activities: The CBOs have successfully demonstrated their
ability to undertake collective procurement of agricultural inputs, agri-output and market
them for the benefit of the small and marginal farmers. These operations are very
favorable impact on the overall market prices.

        Multiplier Effect of Skill Development Intervention: The training of youth from
poor households and placing them in decent salary employment demonstrated the
importance of the private partnerships fostered by the project.
        Convergence with Line Departments: Despite the progress in the convergence
efforts of the project, there is great scope for promoting coordination with the PRIs and
other line departments such as health, education, forest and revenue at the GP, Janpad
and district level.

Tasks Ahead and Future Plans
        Strengthening of CBOs (CIG/VDC/Producer Company/Cooperatives)
        Second Line Leadership Development
        Strengthening the linkages with financial institutions
        Strengthening the market and knowledge linkages




                                             47

ANNEX 8. ADDITIONAL LESSONS



Community Participation, Social mobilization and Institution Building
    It is important to develop good linkage with permanent institutions such as banks,
       academic institutions, public and private companies, local traders, and all the
       market forces, from the beginning of a project, and make them partners in project
       implementation.

    Hand-holding support is important for the poorest of the poor even after the
       project closes.

    Targeting the poor within a village, based on wealth ranking and villages based on
       poverty cluster is essential for poverty reduction in an unequal village society. At
       the same time, the line between the `poor' and `not poor' is very thin, so it is
       important to take adequate measures to ensure that no social tension is created
       between project and non-project communities.

    Capacity building of the PFTs and Community is a major requirement under any
       CDD project.

    The high level of community contributions will ensure a high degree of ownership
       in a grant-based program.

Livelihoods and Service Delivery

·  A demand-driven project should expose villagers to emerging opportunities, for
   example, in job markets, thereby creating awareness, so that they can demand them.

·  For sustainable livelihood, DPIP kind of projects should give human resource-centric.
   Such projects should create opportunities to villagers to select the best livelihood
   options. After they have chosen their options, they should be given the facilities to
   make the best use of these options and raise their incomes. It is also important to
   analyze the available resources, and determine how many people could be utilized in
   the primary, secondary, and tertiary sectors, create appropriate opportunities in each
   sector, and develop the employability of villagers.

·  Asset creation at the household level, through a mix of grants and own contribution,
   directly transferred to the group of poor at the community level, is essential for
   livelihood creation as the project is dealing with very resource poor households.

Focusing on agricultural productivity increase in different forms is necessary as a
majority of the poor in MP are marginal land holding agriculturalists.




                                           48

ANNEX 9. LIST OF SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS

   ·   Project Implementation Plan

   ·   Project Appraisal Document for India: Madhya Pradesh District Poverty Initiative Project
       (MPDPIP) dated October 5, 2000 (Report No: 21020-IN)

   ·   Aide Memoirs, Back-to-Office Reports, and Implementation Status Reports.

   ·   Project Progress Reports.

   ·   Borrower's Evaluation Report dated November 2007
   ·   Ex-post economic and financial analysis
   ·   Impact assessment




*including electronic files




                                          49

                 74°                                                                          76°                                                       78°                                        80°                                      82°



                                                                                                                                                                                                                       INDIA
                                                                                                                                                                                         DISTRICT POVERTY INITIATIVES PROJECT
                                                                                                                                                         Morena          Bhind

                                                         RIVERS                                                                           Chambal                                                                MADHYA PRADESH
                                                                                                                                                                        BHIND
                                                         DISTRICT CAPITALS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 GUNA PROJECT DISTRICTS
                                                         STATE CAPITAL                                                                                         Gwalior
              26°                                                                                                                       MORENA
                                                         DISTRICT BOUNDARIES                                                                             GWALIOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              26°
                                                         STATE BOUNDARIES                                                                                         DATIA
                                                                                                                                                                    Datia


                                                                                                                                                  Shivpuri

                                                                                                                                                 SHIVPURI                                                                   Yamuna
                                                                                                                     Parbati



                                                                                                                                                                          TIKAMGARH
                                                                                                                                                                                           Chhatarpur
                                                                                                 hdniS                                                                        Tikamgarh
                                                                                                                                        Guna                                           CHHATARPUR       Panna                        REWA
                                                                                                      ilaK       Par                        GUNA                                                                     Satna        Rewa
                                                                                                                    wan
                                                                 MANDSAUR                                                                                                                             PANNA          SATNA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Sidhi

                                                                     Mandsaur                                                                                                                                                                  SIDHI
              24°                                                                                                                                                                                                         Son
                                                                                                                            Rajgarh                                                                                                                              24°
                                                                                                                                                                     SAGAR             DAMOH
                                                                                                                RAJGARH                        VIDISHA
                                                                                                                                                                            Sagar         Damoh

                                                                                           SHAJAPUR
                                                 RATLAM                                                                                 BHOPAL      Vidisha                                            JABALPUR
                Mahi                                                                                       Shajapur                                                                                                       SHAHDOL
                                                                                 RAJGARH                                                                                                                                          Shahdol
                                                      Ratlam                                                                           BHOPAL
                                                                                  Ujjain                                                            Raisen                                           Jabalpur
                                                                                                                                 Sehore                  RAISEN
                                                                                               Dewas                          SEHORE
                                      Jhabua                                                                                                                               Narsimhapur

                                                                                        Indore                                                                           NARSIMHAPUR
                                                                Dhar                                                                               Hoshangabad                                                    MANDLA
                       JHABUA                                                          INDORE
                                                                                                             DEWAS
                                                         DHAR                                                                               HOSHANGABAD                                                       Mandla


                                                                                                                                                                                          SEONI

             22°                                   Narmada                                                                                                           CHHINDWARA

                                                                                                                                                       Betul              Chhindwara       Seoni                                                              22°
                                                                                  Khargon                  Khandwa                                                                                      BALAGHAT
                                                                                                                                                  BETUL                                                  Balaghat
                                                                 WEST NIMAR                                EAST
                                                                                                           NIMAR

DECEMBER                                                                                                                                                                                                                0         50       100 Kilometers           IBRD

                 This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                                                                                                                                                        30986R
                 The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                 shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
        2008     Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any                                                                                                                                       0                50               100 Miles
                 endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                          76°                                                         78°                                            80°                                         82°

