Document of
The World Bank
FOt OFFICIAL USE ONLY
RIwt N.. 7308
.
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
RWANDA
CINCHONA PROJECT
(CREDIT 656-RW)
June 16, 1988
I
Africa Regional Office
thdu fid  dad.. lb muteab may ad elerwim be dadmed whutWould Dank authdmtimdn.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    Rwandese Franc (RwF)
US$1.00        =  RwF 92.84 (constant throughout proj.ct)
RwF 1.00       =  US$
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
CCCE       Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (France)
ERR        Economic Rate of Return
FRR        Financial Rate of Return
IDA        International Development Association
ISAR       Institut de Recherches Agronomiques du Rwanda
OCIR       Office des Cultures Industrielles du Rwanda
OCIR-Cafe Coffee Department of OCIR
OCIR-The   Tea Department of OCIR
OED        Operations Evaluation Department
OPROVIA    Office National Pour le Developpement et la
Commercialisation des Produits Vivriers et des Productions
Animales
PCR        Project Completion Report
PPAM       Project Performance Audit Memorandum
PPAR       Project Performance Audit Report
qAA        Quinine Alkaloid Anhydrous (Quinine Sulphate)
RMEA       World Bank Resident Mission in East Africa
Rwakina    Cinchona processing plant, not yet operational
SAR        Staff Appraisal Report
UNDP       United Nations Development Programme
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
Government of Rwanda : January 1 to December 31



FOR OMCIUL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, DC 20433
US.A
Offe o DvecCeflefaI
June 16, 1988
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Rwanda
Cinchona Proiect (Credit 656-RW)
Attached, for information, is a copy of the report entitled
"Project Completion Report : Rwanda Cinchona Project (Credit 656-RW)"
prepared by the Africa Regional Office. No further evaluation of this
project by the Operations Evaluation Department has been made.
Ram K. Chopra
for Yves Rovani
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and mnay be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



rOR Or. t.. AiU, B 4UNLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
RWANDA
C,NCHONA PROJECT
(Credit 656-RW)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface .............................................             i
Basic Data Sheet .... 000*0** ............................. ......  ..   ii
Evaluation Summary ..... . ....... ........................   iv
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I.   Introduction .............**........                     1
II.   The Export Crops and Cinchona Sector ...............     2
III.   Project Formulation and Description ................    6
IV.   Project Implementation ...........................  11
V.   OCIR-Cafe (Umbrella Organization) ..................  15
VI.   Borrower and Bank Performance ...* ................-   17
VII.   Financial and Economic Results  .....................  18
VIII.   Summary and Conclusions         ...........................    20
Annex 1: Total Project Cost
Annex 2: Pro4ect Cost: Actual Project Expenditures by FY
Annex 3: Financial Rate of Return
Annex 4: Economic Rate of Return
Charts: OCIR-Cafe
Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
Maps:    IBRD No.  11745R1
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the petformance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
RWANDA
CINCHONA PROJECT
(Credit 656-RW)
PRFFACE
This is a Project Completion Report (PCR) on the Cinchona Project
in Rwanda, for which Credit 656-RW in the amount of US$1.8 million was
approved in July 1976.    It  became  effective  on March 2, 1977, and was
closed in March 1983 fully disbursed; this was nine months later than the
original Closing Date. The last disbursement was made on March 17, 1983.
The PCR was prepared by the staff of the Eastern Africa Regional
Office, now part of the Africa Regional Office, on the basis of a full
report prepared by the Office for Industrial Crops Rwanda (OCIR-Cafe). The
Staff Appraisal Report (SAR No. 1047a-RW, dated June 30, 1976), the
President's Report (No. P-1887-RW also of June 30, 1976), and the Credit
Agreement of August  20,  1976,  were  reviewed.    In addition, a thorough
review of project files was undertaken and Bank staff associated with the
project were interviewed.
The report was not subjected to an audit by OED, but was sent to
Government for comments on April 14, 1988; however, no comments were
received.
The valuable assistance provided during the preparation of this
report by the Borrower representatives is gratefully acknowledged.



- ii -
WANDA
CINCIIONA PROJECT - CR. 656-aV
PROJECT COMPLETION REPLORT
SA ICATA SHEET
IIEY PROJECT DATA
Appratial                 Actu4l of                  Actual o  2 of
Estimate               Carrenc EsttitO             Apraisal Estiate
Total Project Costs (US$ million)                      2.1                       2.12                         101
Credit Acount (US$ millton)                            1.8                       1.80                         100
Data of Physical Components Completed                06/82                     03/83                         113 1/ 21
Proportion then Completed (2)                         1002                        722                        722
Economdc Rate of Return (2)                            15                           7                         47
financil Rate of Rstiarm (U)                           92                          40                         43
Institutional Perforatice                                                       Good
Techntcal Performance                                  -                         Good
N4uuber of Direct Beneficiaries                     3.600                      4.300                         120
STAfP INPUT (staff vwke)
1Y75     7Y76      Ty??       FY76     tY79     n180    7l         182    m13    714                 TOTAL
Identification/Preparation p.                                                  __                         - 
Appraisal 7/                  23.6                                                                                                   23:6
Follov-up Appraisal 8/          2.0                                                                                                   2.0
Follo.-up discuassons!                  1.6                                                                                           1.6
Supervision                                       4.1         23.0     5.7      12.0    10.9    8.5      5.1       0.3               69.6
T 7                            23.0                 5  12   5 0   15 6; v  - T 126,6
CUMULATIVE ESTIIAnTD        ACTUAL DISBURSEMEIIS
7Y77     n178       7Y79     n0o        m81    rEel      7Y83
Appraisal Estimate (USS million)        0.12     0.42       0.714     1.10     1.50      1.80
Actual Disbursement (USS mdllton)       -         0.23      0.35      0.67      1.20     1.55      1.80
Actual as t ot Estimate (2)             -         55        47        61       80        37       0OO
Date of final Dtsburseent               March 17. 1983
PROJECT DATES
Oriuinal Plan                 Ravisions                 Actual
Date Snard Approval                                                                           07/15/76
Dnto of Credit Agrent                    -                             -                      08/20/76
Dats of Effectieoness                 11/18/76                       01/17/77                 03/02/77
02/15/77
04/15/77
Closing Date                          06/30/82                       03/31/83                 03/31/83
MISSION DATA
Date           No. of                                          Pertormance                               Types ot
Mission                   ( ho./Yr.)         Persons          Sp cialisation  a/ Ratin    I                          Tren4 5i          Problems J
£dentifticalon             July 19fl           4              b,d.,.t
Preparctlon             Aug/Spt. 1974                        bb,4..f.g
sora l 7/              Oet/Nov. 1974           t              b,4,o.t,
Follow-up Apprilal C,    Ny 1975              2              b,d
FollowUp ODiscusions !/Sept/Dec. 1975          2              h,t
SuporvistoU I              Oct. 1976            1             a                                   n.e.                  n.n               n.o
Supervision 2         April/lNy 1977            1             a                                    2                    2                 t
Supervition 3          Nov./Dsc.1977            1             a                                    I                    I                 T
Supervision -              July 1976            1             a                                    L                    1                 T
Superviston S               JIn.1979           1              a                                   1                     2                T
Supervision 6              July 1979           2              b.c                                 1                     2                Y  nC
Suporvision 7              Feb. 1980           2              b.c                                 I                     I                !
Supervition 8             Sept. 1980           I              b                                    1                    I                N
Supervislon 9              Fob. 1961           2              b,c                                 I                     I                none
Supervision 10            Sept. 1981           2              b.c                                 I           I                           none
Supervislon 11             Feb. 1982           2              b.c                                 2 1T/                2 11/             non
Supervlslon 12             Dec. 1982           2              b.c                                 2 TI                 2 IT              noe



- iii -
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Borrower             : Government of Rwanda
Executing Agency    : Office des Cultures Industrielles du Rwanda
(OCIR-Cafe)
Fiscal Year of OCIR : January 1 to December 31
Name of Currency    : Rwandese Franc (RwF)
CurrencY Exchange Rates lo/
Appraisal Year Average         US$1 - RwF 92.84
Intervening Years Average      US$1 - RwF 92.84
Completion Year Average        USM1 - RwF 92.84
1) Percentage calculated from date Board approval.
2) Percentage calculated from date Board approval. Closing date extended.
3) a) Forester; b) Agriculture; c).inancial Analyst; d) Economist;
e) Agro-economist; f) Livestock Specialist; g) Transport Economist;
h) Assistant Director; i) Loan Officer.
4) 1 - problem free or minor problems; 2 = moderate problems.
5) 1 - improving; 2 - stationary.
6) F - financial; M - managerial; T - technical; P - political.
7) Appraisal mission was for the Indukial Crop Project and had four
sub-projects.
8) Follow-up appraisal was for modification to the Project.
9) Follow-up discussions in September and November were for getting final
agreement for the Cinchona Project.
10) Information obtained from International Financial Statistics published
by the International Monetary Fund.
11) This reflects the depressed market for cinchona prices and low rate of
return.
12) Pre-effectiveness mission. No ratings.



- iv -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
RWANDA
CINCHONA PROJECT
(Credit 656-RW)
EVALUATION SUMWARY
Introduction
The Cinchona Project was IDA's second agricultural operation in
Rwanda. The project was originally to have been a broad-based operation
supporting the major commercial crops, especially coffee and tea.  Cinchona
was a relatively minor  component.    However,  IDA policies precluded tea
financing and, at a late stage, the Government had doubts about coffee.
Project scope and objectives were therefore substantially reduced, and only
cinchona was left. IDA agreed nonetheless to proceed with this very small
project, primarily to enhance country relations and the operations program
more broadly.
Obiectives
The project was initially prepared and appraised as a component of
a larger commercial crops project, which was identified and prepared with
substantial IDA assistance.    The  Credit  was  approved  in July 1976 and
signed in August 1976.   The  project  was designed to expand and reinforce
the Cinchona Division of OCIR-Cafe, the implementing agency, to accelerate
the cinchona smallholder planting  program  in the prefectures of Cyangugu,
Gikongoro  and  Kibuye,  through  (i)  increasing  the  supply  of planting
material; (ii) strengthening the extension services to smallholders; and
(iii) improving  both  internal  and  external  marketing  arrangements for
cinchona bark. The objective was to plant 900 ha of cinchona trees. The
economic rate of return was estimated at appraisal at about 15% and the
financial rate of return (FRR) on one hectare of cinchona plantation was
calculated at 34X, while the FRR for a typical farmer with 0.25 ha was
calculated at 92%. No major risks were envisaged, although world market
prices were seen as uncertain.
Implementation Experience
The  project  was  implemented   smoothly,  but  its  success  was
seriously undermined by sharp decreases in world cinchona prices over the
implementation period. An ounce of Quinine Sulphate was seliing at US$6.50
during project preparation but, by 1977 the price had fallen to US$4.50 per
ounce and kept falling thereafter to US$2.30 per ounce. The price paid to
smallholders for cinchona bark had to be reduced from RwF 1801kg to RwF
150/kg and RwF 105/kg and purchases of cinchona bark were suspended on
various occasions. The stoppage of bark purchases caused dismsy among the
farmers and demand for seedlings fell during the last two years of project



implemertation. Also, during the first year of the project implementation,
there was an outbreak of "damping off" (a fungal disease), which was
serious in some nurseries. This retarded seedbed establishment and delayed
the planting program somewhat.    Project  management took drastic steps to
ward off the spread of the disease and slowly the situation improved.
The project was. in general, well administered despite the
Government's failure to recruit a full-time expatriate Cinchona Development
Officer, as envisaged in the Credit  Agreement.   IDA kept pressing for his
recruitment, but accepted ultimately the Government's proposal to recruit a
part-time consultant instead.    Unfortunately,  the  consultant worked out
poorly. This experience reflects a certain difficulty in Rwanda r, making
effective use of technical &ssistance.   Although Government recognizes the
need for technical assistance, it often has reservations about its costs,
especially if it is to be financed with borrowed funds. The project has
helped to make  OCIR-Cafe  a  stronger  organization.   Among other things,
short-term technical assistance provided under the project has assisted
OCIR-Cafe in updating its accoants, which were not properly maintained from
1975. Relationships between OCIR and IDA were smooth and effective.
Results
The financial rate of return to farmers and t:-e project's economic
rate of return at completion are estimated at 40% and 7% respectively,
compared to 92% and  15%  at  appraisal.    The decline of quinine sulphate
prices has had a major impact on the rates of return and there are major
risks of further deterioration in world prices of quinine sulphate, which,
again, might disrupt the purchase of cinchona bark. Farmers may also be
unwilling to plant cinchona seedlings again once they have uprooted their
trees and harvested their crop.
In sum, although physical implementation went well, the decline of
quinine sulphate prices on the world market played havoc with cinchona
production, since Rwanda exports  all  production.   Largely because of the
expected increased output from the project, a processing factory, Rwakina,
has been constructed under separate financing and became operational in
1983. However, for various reasons, including technical ones, Rwakina has
never processed any bark.    The  Government  is  discussing with the other
partners involved in this joint venture an investigation of the present
difficulties in order to make the processing plant operative.
Sustainabilitv
The project sustainability is uncertain. There are major risks of
further deterioration in the world prices of quinine sulphate which might
disrupt the purchase of cinchona  bark.    Farmers may also be unwilling to
plant cinchona seedlings again once they have uprooted their trees and
harvested their crop.



- vi -
Findings and Lessons
The following lessors emerge from the project experiences
(i)  The  project   came   into   existence   after   long,  protracted
negotiations.   It was  first  a  sub-project  within  a proposed
commercial crops project.    When  Government  was unwilling to go
ahead with the project as a whole, IDA agreed to reduce the scope
of the commercial crops project and proceed with the residual
cinchona project, principally as a vehicle for continuing dialogue
with the country.  IDA's flexibility has proved to be a good long-
term tactical approach, in that it contributed to developing a
climate of trust ar.d confidence between the Government and IDA;
today in the agricultural sector IDA has five on-going projects
and two follow-on projects, and a constructive policy dialogue
u-th the Government of Rwanda.
(ii) It was a risky project for IDA to finance. Rwanda did not ha4e a
processing plant to process cinchona bark, and air freight costs
amounted to about 20X of the CIF price in Europe. Also, prices of
rinchona derivates are not freely quoted in the commodity market
and price fluctuations  cannot  be  forecasted.   These risks were
probably underestimated at appraisal.   Insufficient attention was
given to a relatively low economic rate of return associated with
relatively high prices.
(iii) Technical assistance proved to be a sensitive issue from the
beginniug.    The  Government   r-jected  all  proposed  technical
assistance except for a cinchona development officer for three
years (as opposed to five years). Government recognizes the need
for expatriate technical assistance, but the costs are generally
perceived to be too high.    Short-term consultancies proved to be
more acceptable; if long-term expertise is required, bilateral
assistance on a grant basis would be a preferred solution.
(iv)  IDA's  supervision missions  played   a key  role  by  providing
considerable technical assistancr and guidance; this was only
possible because  of  the  positive  approach  of the implementing
agency in accepting Bank's advice.
(v) There was confusion at fixot ov'-r arrangements for accounting and
auditing requirements. Project accounts were mixed up with those
of  the  implementing  agency.    Financial  statementp were  not
prepared and audits of the project were seriously delayed.
External assistance was provided in 1980 and since then project
management has made concerted efforts and succeeded in having
accounts and audits completed in a timely manner.



RWANDA
CINCHONA PROJECT CR. 656 RW
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I. Introduaction
1.01    The Cinchona Project was IDA's second agricultural operation 1/ in
Rwanda. Financed by Credit 656-RW (US $1.8 million), the project was
designed to provide cinchona nu.series, extension services, farm inputs and
markLting services to enable smallholder producers to plant and maintain
900 ha of cinchona in the Cyangugu, Gikot.goro and Kibuye prefectures. The
project was carried out by a parastatal institution, Office des Cultures
Industrielles du Rwanda (OCIR) established in 1964 as a wholly Government
owned autonomous organization, with overall responsibility for the
production, processing and marketing of Rwanda's cash crops (that is
coffee, tea, and cinchona, primarily), later reorganized as OCIR - Cafg
(see para. 5.01),
1.02      The project was identified and prepared in 1974, by the
Government with the assistance of the World Bank Regional Mission in East
Africa (RMEA) as part of a larger project originally called the
"Commercial Crops Project". In addition to cinchona, this project
Lomprised general agricultural and coffee development, and improvement of
lake landing points. Appraisal was carried out in October 1974 and a
follow-up mission was undertaken in 1975. The upshot was that project
scope was drastically curtailed and covered only cinchona, originally a
very minor component. The main reasons for the drastic redesign of the
project were both technical and financial (see paras. 3.01 to 3Q04). The
credit was approved in July 1976 and became effective in March 1977. The
closing date was extended once to March 31, 1983. The last disbursement
was ma'e on March 17, 1983 and the credit was closed thereafter with all
funds disbursed.
1/ The first Mutara Agricultural Development Project was IDA's first
agricultural operation in Rwanda. Since then seven agricultural
projects for approximately US$88.0 million have been approved by the
Bank.



-2-
II. Export Crops and Cinchona Sub-Sector
2.01      The agriculture sector is the most important contributor to
Rwanda's economy. From 1977 to 1980, agricultural products contributed on
average about 75% of total export earnings and in 1981 and 1982 these
represented about 80% and 83% respectively. Agriculture's share of GDP at
current prices has averaged about 46% over the last five years, while
subsistence agriculture represented an estimated 80% of this. Foodcrop
productior appears to have kept pace with population growth (about 3.7% per
annum) roughly maintaining food self-sufficiency. However, some food
products are imported and unofficial trade with neighboring countries is
quite considerable.
2.02      Exports crops constitute the major source of foreign exchange
earnings for the country. The Office for Industrial Crops of Rwanda-OCIR
(para. 5.01) was created as a parastatal body under the Ministry of
Agriculture and Livestock to look after the export crops. The four
principal export crops-coffee, tea, pyrethrum and cinchona-accounted for an
average value of 96% of total agricultural exports and 75% of total value
of exports in 1977 to 1980. In 1981 and 1982 these export crops
represented 90% of agricultural exports and 81% of total value of recorded
exports. Coffee continues to dominate the scene in exports: 83% of total
agricultural exports in 1982, while tea represented 12% and pyrethrum and
cinchona about 1%.
2.03      Coffee is by far the most widely cultivated export crop, and is
grown almost entirely by smallholders. An estimated 400,000 farm families
(or about half of all smallholders) grow coffee. The Five-Year Plan for
1982-86 projects that hectares devoted to coffee plantations will be 41,470
ha by 1986 or 83 million coffee plants, an increase of 43% over 1979.
Howvver, yields appears to be declining; this trend is attributed to a
num3er of factors, including: declining soil fertility in the major coffee
growing areas, the critical shortage of mulching material and the
increasing undercropping of food crops with coffee. Continuously rising
demand and prices for foodcrops will enhance incentives for farmers to
switch from coffee to foodcrop production. The IDA-financed Lake Kivu
Coffee Improvement and Foodcrop project (Cr. 1126-RW), now in the fifth
year of implementation, addresses issues of growlng competition between
foodcrops and coffee a.: the farm level through integrated farm services.



- 3 -
2.04      Tea is the second most important export crop.  Tea has been
promoted by Government since 1964 with the creation of OCIR - The, a
parastatal in charge of organizing tea extension services, importation and
distribution of inputs, management of state-owned plantations, and
marketing of tea. The area under cultivation has increased steadily from
approximately 8,000 ha in 1981 to an estimated 11,000 ha by 1986;
production is expected to reach 9,300 tons by end 1986. Most of Rwanda's
tea is farmed mainly in small parcels rather than large production units.
About 78% of the present tea hectarage is part of "village tea" schemes or
operated by cooperatives, mostly the former. Under the "village tea"
scheme, each family has its own plot of a quarter of an hectare. The
"Cooperative Scheme" is operated like plantations, paying a piece rate or
wage to member workers with a yearly distribution of surpluses. Only 13%
of the plantings are state-owned plantations and 9% are privately-owned
large plantations. The Rwandan tea industry, although programmed in the
Five-year Plan for steady expansion, has been facing serious constraints:
(i) production inefficiencies in the domestic industry; and (ii) falling
real international prices (at least until the past two years). The tea
industry has suffered from management and financial weaknesses of OCIR -
The. The problems evidenced today stem f,om high administrative costs and
inefficiency of extension and marketing services. To maintain the
viability of the tea industry actions must be taken to: (i) re-structure
the industry to bring processing capacity more i.,to line with green tea
production potential; (ii) improve the general efficiency of OCIR - The
management, from its field operations in extension and leaf collection
systems to factory processing and marketing; and (iii) increase the
productivity of existing plantations through improved husbandry and quality
control.
2.05      Pyrethrum.  The future of pyrethrum plant cultivation in Rwanda
is highly uncertain, due to the development of cheaper synthetic subsitutes
(pyrethroids), a basic ingredient in insecticides. There is a guarded
optimism on the long-term prospects of pyrethrum over synthetic pyrethroids.
For the medium-term, the major constraints facing natural pyrethrum
products are their non-competitive price and the related growing supply
problems.
2.06      Cinchona was first introduced in Rwanda in the late 1930's and by
around the sixties about 20 small cinchona plantations (less than 100 ha)
were well established, mostly in the Cyangugu Prefecture. Subsequently
some of these were taken over and expanded by two foreign chemical
companies. The Government also managed two experimental plantations in the
Gikongoro and Kibuye Prefectures. In the 1970's, with world market prices
rising, smallholders were encouraged to plant cinchona and by 1974 there
were about 875 ha under plantations, of which 600 ha belonged to foreign
chemical companies. The foreign estates had the highest yields per ha,
produced about 80% of Rwanda's output, and exported directly to their own
processing plants in Europe. The remaining production was exported by OCIR
to Belgium, France and the United Kingdom.
2.07      The cinchona tree is a native of the Andes Cordillera in South
America and belongs to the family Rubiaceae. It has been planted in many
tropical highlands of Asia and Africa. Commercial cinchona is extracted



-4-
from the dried bark of roots, stems and branches of a few species and
varieties of the genus cinchona, of which C. Ledgeriana is the most
important.  Cinchona bark is chiefly used for the extraction of its
alkaloids, of which ouinine is the most important. The alkaloid content of
the bark norwally varies between 3% and 14%, according to the genetic
characteristics of the tree, its age, and the part from which the bark
comes, the highest being from the base of the tree and the lowest from the
branch and root extremities. Traditionally, quinine has been used as an
anti-malarial drug, but after World War II it started to lose ground to
synthetic substitutes. However, the use of quinine alkaloids has since
been growing steadily for other medical purposes, while the use of some
cinchona derivates in beverages has also increased in recent years.
2.08      Cinchona Ledgeriana requires an abundant and well-distributed
rainfall (1,400 mm and above), is not very exacting as to soil requirements
and grows on slopes as well as drained swamps between altitudes of 1400 mm
and 2000 mm. It will normally grow in areas supporting tea. In Rwanda's
south-west, and in Cyangugu Prefecture in particular, conditions of soil,
rainfall and climate are favorable and cinchona production is concentrated
there. Cinchona is suitable for smallholder production where land is
available; it can be grown in blocks, but it can also be planted as a
hedgerow or windbreak or around the homestead without affecting foodcrop
production. When planted in single lines thinning i3 eased and with
increasing sunlight the bark quinine content is most likely to increase.
Foodcrops can also be easily interplanted during the first two years.
2.09      The world market situation for cinchona is difficult and
uncertain: this has had a profound impact on the project. World
production of cinchona bark is roughly as follows:
Country              Annual Production (1982)
(in tons)
Zaire                       2,750
Indonesia                   2,500
Guatemala                     700
Rwanda                        600
Others 1,                   1,850
Total                 8,400
1/ Including India, Kenya, Tanzania, Bolivia, Costa Rica, Colombia and
Ecuador.
The cinchona market is limited. A few European companies engaged in the
extration of quinine products dominate the world market through their
ownership or interest in cinchona plantations. These companies control
their sources of supply and only supplement their needs from other
sources. Up to now, Rwanda's production, exported as bulked bark, has been
negligible in comparison to the world supply; equivalent to less than 5% of
the supply of quinine.



-5-
2.10      Production and exports of cinchona over the project period have
been as follows:
1978    1979    1980    1981    1982
( in tons)
Production     695      544     565     546      601
Exports        695      325     818     546      303
Cinchona bark exports has thus been a small and erratic business, with
exports fluctuating significantly from year to year.
2.11      World market prices of quinine derivates fell from about US
$4.95/oz of quinine sulfate in December 1977 to a low of US $1.95 in
September 1981. Prices steadily climbed again in January 1982 to US
$2.30. Price forecasts are not currently available from the World Bank
Commodities Division and there is particular difficulty in obtaining
reliable estimates of future prices since more than 70% of world production
of quinine sulphate (QAA) is controlled by a few European manufacturers.
Producer prices of cinchona bark were reduced from a high of FRw 220/kg in
1975 to FRw 180 in 1976-77, and to FRw 150 in 1979 and FRw 105 in 1981. To
prevent a further decline of producer prices, OCIR's levy and Government
export taxes on cinchona were dropped in 1979. With the continued decline
in the world market prices of quinine derivates, Rwandex, the marketing
agent, had to suspend the cinchona bark purchase altogether in 1981 and
throughout most of 1982.
2.12      The construction of a cinchona processing plant in Rwanda was
under consideration since 1974. At the time of appraisal, UNIDO was
providing technical assistance to the Government, in the evaluation of a
proposed project by a Dutch firm, and in the negotiations with the
commercial firm concerned. The project never materialized, for reasons
which still remain obscure. However, a new company, Pwakina was set up in
1979, with a capital participation of 40% from a French pharmaceutical
firm, and contributions of 20% each from the Government of Rwanda,
OCIR-Cafe and CCCE. Construction contracts and orders for equipment were
signed in 1981. The President of the Republic laid the foundation stone in
January 1982, and this ceremony was accompanied by much publicity to
impress on the farmers that there would be a market for cinchona bark in
the future. The processing plant, built at Kirambo, has a capacity (one
shift) of about 1,000 t of bark per year with an output of 50 t of QAA.
Based on this assumption, the project planting program was revised in late
1981 to ensure the future supplies of cinchona bark to the processing
plant. Rwandex, the marketing company, reduced its exports in 1982 to
build up the stock of cinchona bark, in anticipation of the needs of
Rwakina. However, even though the processing plant became operational in
1983, Rwakina never processed any bark for various reasons, including
technical ones, and also some disagreements among the various parties on
the financial arrangements necessary to get it operating (related to the
uncertainties on the marketing side). The Government is discussing with
the other partners the present difficulties in order to get the processing
plant operative.



-6-
III. Project Formulation and Description
Identification, Preparation and Appraisal
3.01      IDA consideration of the project originated with a special effort
to identify agricultural project opportunities for the bank Group in
Rwanda. An IDA agricultural project identification mission in July 1974
defined two projects: (a) development and improvement of high altitude
crops (coffee, cinchona and wheat) and the construction of a tea factory;
and (b) a settlement/mixed farming project in the South-East. The Highland
Crops Development and Improvement Project was to have four components: (a)
coffee improvement, primarily aimed at improving the growing and processing
of coffee in the three western provinces bordering on Lake Kivu; (b) a tea
factory at Mata (Gikongoro Province) to process green leaf from FED
financed plantations (800 ha) and the strengthening of the office of
industrial crops of Rwanda (OCIR) and the provision of expatriate technical
assistance for the departments of processing and marketing; (c) the
Gikongoro region was found to be suitable for the growing of cinchona and
existing smallholder plantings produced 300 tons of bark per annum. With
apparent interest for this product, it was felt that expansion of cinchona
would be justified and the project was to provide for the establishment of
up to 3,000 ha (over a period of 10 years) by smallholders.  This was to
provide extra income to more than 10,000 farm families and improve the
balance of payments of Rwanda; and (d) wheat growing in the southwest; the
project was to finance lime application to the acid soils and the
establishment of a grain mill. The Settlement/Mixed-Farming Project was to
provide for the orderly settlement of about 4,000 families in a tse-tse
infested area in Kibungo Province, and of 1,000 families in the Bugesera
area of the Kigali Province. This project was approved in 1976, and the
PCR (Bugesera Gisaka-Migongo Mixed Farming and Rural Development Project -
Cr. 668-RW) was recently completed.
3.02      The Highlands crops project was principally prepared in
August/September 1974 by an IDA team. There was from the outset much
debate on project definition and objectives. Rwandese government officials
pointed out that practically all crops in Rwanda are "highland" crops, and
may be grouped into industrial and fooderops, while crops in either group
may function as cashcrops. As the emphasis in this project was on coffee,
tea and cinchona, it was proposed that the project be referred as
"industrial" crops. The main changes proposed for the industrial crops
project at the preparation stage were as follows: (a) the number of new
cofte. washtag stations was to be increased from ten to twelve, (b) the
cinchona sub-project was scaled down from 3,000 ha to 600 ha; and (c)



-7-
the wheat sub-project was to be limited to 500 ha because of the small
capacity of the grain mill. The preparation report was presented as an
official Government request for Bank financing. During the preparation
process, tea was excluded because of Bank policy rulings on tea financing.
The Government did not take kindly to this decision but eventually obtained
alternative financing.
3.03      The appraisal mission for the Industrial Crops Project, composed
of six Bank staff and one consultant, visited Rwanda in October/November
1974. The project proposal following the appraisal mission reflected some
design changes, namely exclusion of the Mata tea factory and an increase in
cinchona acreage. Ihe Government's original intention was to plant 1,500
ha of cinchona over a five-year period, but the preparation mission had
recommended that this be reduced to 600 ha. The appraisal mission
reconsidered the issue, upon Government request, and recommended a planting
program covering 900 ha cver five years. Major issues identified at
appraisal were: (i) the viability of coffee washing stations; there was
insufficient evidence that the coffee washing stations would be
economically viable, either in absolute terms or by comparison with other
methods of improving coffee quality; and (ii) organization of OCIR's Coffee
Department. OCIR, a parastatal organization handled about one half of all
Rwandan exports. Although it was intended to be autonomous in its
day-to-day operations and financially self-supporting, in practice it had
little more independence than any government department; OCIR needed to
have its commercial operations strengthened. The mission recommended that
the Government onlend the proceeds of IDA credit to OCIR at 8% for 25 years
but reduce the taxes and levies on coffee which it collected from OCIR by
the amount of the debt service.
3.04      There was a protracted post appraisal process including a
follow-up appraisal mission composed of two Bank staff which visited Rwanda
in May 1975 to discuss with the Government the proposed modification to the
project. The exclusion of the washing stations was considered a sensitive
issue, since IDA hae agreed to finance washing stations in neighboring
Burundi. However, in spite of IDA's refusal to finance the tea factory and
the twelve coffee washing stations, the atmosphere of the discussions was
good. Total project costs (including contingencies) were estimated to be
US $7.6 million at this stage. However, 4izring the 1975 Bank Annual
Meetings, the Rwandese delegation raised some fundamental issues on the
project (now designated commercial crops project). The delegation
explained that the Government had no objections to the foodcrop and
cinchona subprojects, but was not interested in the coffee subproject,
primarily because of the unfavorable world coffee market. Furthermore, the
improvement and construction of the lake landing points envisaged in the
project seemed superfluous as Japan had already granted financing for that
purpose. The delegation felt that the project, as envisaged, did not
provide for rural deve'opment, which was a main objective of the



-8-
government's development planning. The Bank indicated then that it was
prepared to reduce its scope by deleting the coffee component and lake
landing points. In September and November 1975, discussions were held with
Government officials in Kigali and in December, Bank mission members
informed manegement that Government of Rwanda had agreed to the Cinchona
sub-project only. Despite the small project size, the decision was made to
proceed. It is noteworthy that the coffee program was later reproposed for
IDA financing several years later and is now under implementation (Lake
Kivu Coffee Project - Credit 1126 RW). A major issue at the final stages
of processing was provision for technical assistance. !DA has proposed a
variety of arrangemernts for technical support, including full time
assistance and visiting agents, but the Government rejected all proposed
technical assistance except an expatriate cinchona development officer, for
three (as opposed to five) years.
3.05      The Cinchona Project had been appraised as a component of the
larger commercial crops project with a limited focus on cinchona per se.
Some additional analysis was carried out, but essentially as a desk
appraisal.  The project represented a compromise, and there was explicit
recognition that an objective in proceeding was to maintain an operational
communication line with Government in a key sector, agriculture. Although
no major issues were anticipated, particular concerns were lack of
technical background because of the highly specialized nature of cinchona
cultivation; and prices and subsidies. The project proposal included a new
4% levy on cinchona exports, (in addition to an existing 9% operational
levy and a 23% export tax), as a result of which Government was to recover
143% of total project costs, excluding the cost of extension staff and 85%
of the latter costs was included.
3.06      The IDA credit for the project was negotiated in Washington in
May 1976. Negotiations generally went smoothly with discussions focussed
on project scope and financial issues, including funds to on-lend for
cinchona development to OCIR; it was decided that OCIR would not have to
pay any interest charges. Agreement was reached on the thorny technical
assistance issue, with provisions for a five-year assignment for a Cinchona
Development Officer.
3.07      The credit was approved by the Executive 'tXrectors on July 15,
1976 under special procedure, with no discussion, and was signed on August
20, 1976.
Project Description
3.08      The project was to provide over a five-year period extension
services, inputs, marketing, and other services to enable smallholder
producers to plant and maintain 900 ha of cincliona in the Cyangugu,
Gikongoro, and Kibuye prefectures. Project nurseries were to produce up to
4 million plants annually from seed produced at Mulungu research station in
Zaire. Seeds were also to be imported from Indonesia, India and other
cinchona producing countries, if required. Project costs included
operating and maintenance costs of nurseries including technical
assistance, over the project period. Farmers were to be charged only
nominal prices for seedlings and fertilizers; costs were to be recovered



- 9 -
through crop levies. The project also provided for training of Rwandese
staff in Rwanda and in neighboring countries.
3.09      Project Costs and Financing.  Total project costs were estimated
at about Rwf 197.0 million (US $2.1 million), with a foreign exchange
component of Rwf 113.0 million (US 61.2 million) or 57%. About 32% of the
total base costs were for capital investments, including purchase of
vehicles and equipment and building and infrastructure construction.
Operating costs accounted for about 68% of base costs and were relatively
high primarily because they included the operating costs of the nurseries
and technical assistance over the five-year investment period. A physical
contingency of 10% was applied to all project costs, except consultancy
services. Price contingencies, amounting to 34% of baseline costs, were
calculated on the basis of annual price increases, in accordance with World
Bank guidelines on the projected international inflation pattern,
supplemented by the mission's projected escalation of Rwanda's salary
levels.
3.10      The financing plan at appraisal is summarized in annex 1 table 3.
The IDA Credit of US $1.8 million was to finance all foreign exchange costs
and 78% of local costs, or 90% of total costs net of taxes and duties.
Government was to pass on the proceeds of the IDA Credit and its own
contribution for cinchona development to OCIR, which, as Government's
implementing agency, was to be reimbursed for 100% of the Project
expenditures. Farmers were to pay a nominal charge for inputs, while
Government was to recover the costs through levies on exports.
..
3.11      Organization and Management.  At appraisal, it was agreed that
OCIR would implement the project under the general supervision of the
Ministry of Agriculture and Animal Husbandry. The chief of OCIR's cinchona
division was to serve as Project Director ind the project headquarters were
to be located in Kibuye. All consultants other than those for cinchona
development were to work under the direction of the Ministry of
Agriculture. OCIR's purchasing and marketing division would be responsible
for cinchona marketing and would also procure fertilizers, other inputs and
equipment. The Project Director was responsible for the formulation of
annual work programs and was to be assisted in this task by the Cinchona
Development Officer and, if required, by consultants to be financed under
the project.
3.12      Production Targets, Technical Objectives and Projected Benefits.
Planting of cinchona was to be phased; 100 ha was to be planted in year 2,
200 ha in year 3 and 300 ha in both years 4 and 5. About 10,000 cinchona
trees were to be planted per ha and of these 2,500 to be thinned out
annually in years 4, 5 and 6 and 625 uprooted annually in year 7 through
year 10 when a new planting cycle starts. The project was expected to
generate an annual incremental production of 450 tons of cinchona bark at
full development in 1987, thus increasing Rwanda's total production to just
over 1,000 tons: this represented 2.6 times the estimated 1975 total
output of Rwanda's cinchona bark. The primary direct benefits of the
project were increased production of cinchona bark for export, leading to



-10 -
increased incomes to about 3,600 farm families living at near subsistence
levels and increased foreign exchange earnings for Rwanda. The financial
rate of return (FRR) to one hectare was calculated at 34% and the FRR for a
typical farmer was calculated at 92% (para. 7.01). The economic rate of
return (ERR) was estimated at 15% (para. 7.03). No major risks were
envisaged; however concerns were expressed as to the lack of information on
technical background because of the highly specialized nature of cinchona
cultivation.
3.13       Management.  The project was to expand and reinforce the
Cinchona Division of OCIR - Caf6 in order to accelerate the cinchona
smallholder planting program in the prefectures of Cyangugu, Gikongoro and
Kibuye, through (a) increasing the supply of planting material; (b)
strengthening the extension services to smallholders; and (c) improving
both internal and external marketing arrangements for cinchona bark. The
head of OCIR's Cinchona Division was to serve as Project Director and an
internationally recruited cinchona development officer, acting as Deputy
Director, was to be in charge of the operational program.
3.14      The project included provision for consultancy services over a
5-year period to Government and OCIR, as required, on problems related to
the project, including OCIR's accounting procedures. Consultancy services
could also be used to initiate studies and programs to create a sounder
basis for future investment activities, development projects and sector
policies. The funds were to be administered by the Ministry of
Agriculture. The consultants required and their terms of reference and
conditions of employment were to be determined during project
implementation in agreement with IDA.



- 11 -
IV. Project Implementation
4.01      The Government's strong and consistent support during
implementation of this project bears emphasis and illustrates Rwanda's
substantial agricultural development efforts during the project period.
Although Government's financial ability to contribute to agricultural
development was very limited, the project received adequate budgetary
allocations at all stages, although at times with some delays.  However,
despite this support, price factors were critical and ultimately very
negative for the project.  The world market price of cinchona was variable
and prices to producers were reduced over the project period and purchases
of bark postponed on occasions.  Incentives to farmers thus declined and
demand for seedlings clearly fell. The Government sought to address this
problem by developing a processing capability in Rwanda; such capability
was expected to reduce the Government's dependency on the fluctuations of
the world price of the raw material (cinchona bark), through more directly
controllable marketing of a processed product (Quinine Sulphate). In
addition, processing was expected to result in much lower unit
transportat'on costs (para. 4.04).  A cinchona bark processing factory was
erected at Kirambo by Rwakina (a private company) and was to be operational
in 1983. However, the factory is not operational yet (para. 2.12), and
present prospects for cinchona are very uncertain.
Project Start Up
4.02      Project start-up went quite smoothly.  The credit was signed on
August 20, 1976 and became effective on March 2, 1977. The deadline was
postponed three times; the principal difficulty and not uncommon one in
Rwanda was lateness in receiving the documents relating to the ratification
of the legal opinion. The Project Director and key personnel were
appointed on time. By December 1977, implementation had started in earnest
and the project management was concentrating most efforts on the creation
of new nurseries, the improvement of nursery techniques, and the training
of supervision staff.
Technical Issues
4.03      The main problem which occurred during the first year of project
implementation was "damping off' (a fungal disease) which was serious in
some nurseries, especially in the Kibuye Prefecture.  This retarded
seedbed establishment and consequently the planting program was somewhat
delayed. Project management took drastic steps to ward off the spread of
the disease and slowly the situation improved. Overall the management of
the seedbeds and nurseries was good and continued to improve over the
project implementation period. By 1981 the germination rate in the
seedbeds was 85% and the seedling losses in the nurseries 3% (a very good
result).



- 12 -
Price Issue
4.04      The variable world price of cinchona affected implementation
throughout. The price of cinchona derivates was at a peak at the end of
1975; during project preparation, the ounce of quinine sulphate (QAA) was
selling at US $6.50. By 1977 when implementation started, the overall
price had fallen to US $4.50 and kept falling steadily throughout project
implementation to reach an average low of US $2.30 per ounce. Consequently
the price paid for cinchona bark by Rwandex had to be gradually reduced
from FRw 180/kg to FRw 150/kg and FRw 105/kg. Purchase of cinchona bark
was suspended altogether from May to November 1979, and from December 1979
on, Rwanda reduced the price paid to farmers from FRw 180/kg to FRw 150/kg
or 20%. One factor that kept bark from Rwanda at a disadvantage compared
to other suppliers was air freight costs, which amounted to about 20% of
the CIF price in Europe. Then, in 1981 the average price of QAA fell below
US $3.00 per ounce and once again Rwandex had to suspend the buying of
bark; it resumed buying it. 1982 at FRw 105/kg.
Technical Assistance
4.05      It was evident from the beginning that engaging a well qualified
expatriate cinchona development officer would be problematic, for a start
because of Government reluctance to engage technical assistance with
borrowed funds. Efforts were made nonetheless as this was a condition
specified in the Credit agreement. Initially the Government indicated its
intentions to engage the specialist through bilateral assistance but this
never worked out. The Bank continued to press for action as staff remained
convinced that a specialist was needed but the Government hesitated,
charging that no good candidate was available. Instead, the Government
proposed short term consultancies with ISAR to provide the scientific and
technical supervision. It appears in retrospect that the Government never
intended to employ a full-time expatriate cinchona development officer;
indeed, in December 1976, the Secretary General of the Ministry of
Agriculture wrote to one candidate who applied for the position stating
that the Government intended to use Rwandese officials to implement the
project. This determination became clear to IDA about one year into
implementation and the emphasis shifted to designing appropriate
counselling arrangements. A cinchona development consultant was engaged in
February 1978 for a four-year period to visit the project twice yearly for
an eight-week duration each time. The assignment did not work out,
however, as the Government was dissatisfied with his performance. No other
candidate was ever identified. In retrospect it appears that a full-time
technical assistance may not have contributed to much better results of the
project, since (a) project's economic result was very much affected by
world price of cinchona and (b) project implementation was reasonably
efficient.



- 13 -
Financial Management Problems
4.06      The project accounts for the first two years of project
implementation were not kept properly and were totally mixed up with OCIR
accounts. Audits of the project were seriously delayed. From 1980 serious
efforts were made to improve the situation, there was a change of
accountant and an expatriate financial advisor was engaged on a part-time
basis to help sort out the situation. It took about a year to get all the
past pro-forma accounts completed and financial statements for the years
1977 to 1980 were finally audited in early 1982. Project management has
since made concerted efforts and succeeded in having the accounts and
audits completed in a timely manner.
4.07      Government budgetary allocations posed few problems, and OCIR
provided short-term finance whenever there were delays of release of funds
from the Government budget. Project management, at times, failed to make a
budgetary request but Government provided the funds in the next fiscal
year; this situation arose in 1981, when there was a change in Project
Manager and Project Accountant.
Extension of Closing Date
4.08      In early May 1982 the Credit closing date was extended for nine
months from June 30, 1982 to March 31, 1983. This decision was taken
because of delays in implementation and subsequent rephasirg of the
planting progress.
The Situation at Project Completion
4.09      At the pro4ect completion date (March 31, 1983) OCIR continued to
have implementation responsibility for the project while overall
responsibility for project execution rested with the Ministry of
Agriculture, as envisaged at appraisal. An expatriate financial advisor
was engaged on a part-time basis in order to help the Project Accountant
prepare and finalize past due project accounts. From a technical
standpoint the Project was well managed, with performance on seedbed and
nursery management particularly efficient. There were six seedbed sites
(two in each of the three Prefectures) and twenty decentralized nurseries
for the distribution of seedlings to the farmers. The project had a
potential to distribute four million of seedlings from 1982 onwards. The
yield assumptions made at project appraisal were based on the traditional
practice of exploiting cinchona (see para. 3.12). This was not done. The
common practice in the project area is to allow all the trees to reach the
age of six years and then uproot them and harvest both stem and root bark
together. OCIR has adapted to this exploitation method by establishing a
single price for stem and root bark which has been in force since 1979.
Under this harvesting practice and based on project experience the yield is
4,200 kg/ha compared to appraisal estimates of 300 kg/ha in year 4, 400 kg
in year 5 and 500 kg in years 6 through 10 or 3,200 kg/ha.



- 14 -
4.10      Achievement of physical targets fell somewhat short of appraisal
projections. The antual area planted was 650 ha or 28% below appraisal
target. Details were as follows:
Appraisal Estimates                         Actual
Area planted  Exports of dried       Area planted  Exports of dried
(in ha)      bark (in tons)          (in ha)       bark (in tons)
1977       -               520                 214 1/             616
1978      100               560                 44                695
1979      200              560                  59                325
1980      300              560                 108                818
1'81      300              560                  93                546
1982      300 2/            590                131                303
1/ For area planted in 1977; seedlings were obtained from OCIR nurseries.
'/ Nurseries have the capacity to provide for 300 ha seedlings.
Exports of dried bark are mainly to Belgium, West Germany and Holland.



- l5 -
V. OCIR - Cafe
5.01      The Office for Industrial Crops of Rwanda (the Office des
Cultures Industrielles du Rwanda, OCIR) was created following independence
as a parastatal company under the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock to
look after operations of coffee and other industrial crops. OCIR-Cafe was
reorganized in 1978 and split into two groups, one for tea, OCIR-Thg, and a
second for coffee, OCIR-Cafe. OCIR-Cafg is governed by a Board of
Directors consisting of five members named by the President of the Republic
on the recommendation of the Minister of Agriculture. The Director of
OCIR-Cafg is designated by the President. He is responsible to OCIR's
board which delegates responsibility for day-to-day management to him.
5.02      The objectives of OCIR in relation to industrial crops are
defined as: (a) control of quality and grading; (b) development of
external and internal market outlets; (c) organization and improvement of:
production, processing and grading; establishment and enforcement of
quality standards; storage and handling; marketing procedures; agricultural
cooperatives; (d) aiding and representing the Government in international
commodity negotiations and agreements; and (e) management of funds
specifically intended for the promotion of the production and sale of
industrial crops.
5.03      In 1982 OCIR employed about 50 professionals, six of whom were
senior level staff, plus about 160 support staff; OCIR paid the salaries of
approximately 250 coffee extension agents. Responsibility for OCIR-Cafe's
operations is divided between the office of the Director and three
operating services: the Administration and Financial Service, the
Production Service and the Commercial Service.
5.04      Coffee has been the main crop controlled by OCIR.  Product prices
of coffee and traders' margins are fixed each year on the recommendation of
OCIR. This recommendation is based on crop forecasts; change in marketing,
processing and export costs; world market prospects and the level of OCIR's
price stabilization fund (Fonds d'Egalisation) which is supported by a levy
on coffee exports. The stabilization fund is used to maintain guaranteed
minimum coffee prices to producers, and excess funds are invested in
short-term Treasury bonds. Coffee extension was also under the
responsibility of OCIR for a brief period in 1974/75 but is now again
entrusted to the Ministry's Department of Agriculture. OCIR, however,
distributes inputs, such as pruning knives and saws, and organizes pest
control campaigns for which it supplies the dusting equipment and
pesticides. The grower contributes his labor. Finally OCIR maintains hand
pulping facilities for farmers' use in the preparation of semi-washed
coffee.



- 16 -
5.05      OCIR exported pyrethrum until the processing plant at Ruhengeri
came into operation. This plant is owned and operated by Usinex, a
parastatal organization on the Board of which OCIR is officially
represented. OCIR also assumed responsibility for the development of
smallholder production of cinchona by providing smallholders with seedlings
from its own nurseries, other inputs, extension services and the purchase
of cinchona bark.
5.06      OCIR-Cafe's accounts were not properly maintained from 1975,
although the system of classification of receipts and vouchers was up to
date. Technical assistance provided under this project assisted OCIR-Caf6
in updating these accounts and a partial audit of the accounts for the
years 1976-1978 and a full audit for 1979 were a condition of the Lake Kivu
Coffee Project Credit Effectiveness (Cr. 1126-RW). The financial
statements of OCIR-Cafg have since been kept up-to-date and audited on
time.
5.07      Project implementation was the responsibility of OCIR-Caf6.  The
project's aims were to reinforce the Cinchona Division of OCIR-Cafe in
order to accelerate the cinchona smallholder planting program in the
prefectures of Cyangugu, Gikongoro and Kibuye. The project was to increase
OCIR's existing nursery capacity in order to produce from year 4 onwards
nearly 4 million plants per year, i.e. sufficient for the establishment of
300 ha at a density of 10,000 trees/ha (allowing 30% for culling, losses
and failures). A total of 900 ha was to be planted: 100 ha in year 2, 200
ha in year 3 and 300 ha each in year 4 and 5. Seedlings were distributed
to smallholders planting not more than 0.25 ha under cinchona. Some of the
planting was in blocks, wherever Government-owned land unsuitable for
cultivation and grazing (e.g. slopes) was available. However, all
harvesting, even in blocks, was done individually.
5.08      The head of OCIR's Cinchona Division was to serve as project
Director. The Cinchona Division had, besides its chief, only one
agronomist and one "vulgarisateur" and was augmented under the project by
two additional agronomists, three "vulgarisateurs" and twelve "moniteurs",
who worked from two existing and four new centers, where nurseries and
stores were established. An internationally-recruited Cinchona Development
Officer, acting as Deputy Project Director, was to be in charge of the
operational program but no one was recruited for this position (see para.
4.05). OCIR's Purchasing and Marketing Division was to handle the overseas
sales of cinchona bark.
5.09      The project was in general well administered.  There were
practically no major organizational changes during project implementation,
although the project director was changed twice. Maintenance of project
accounts was a problem which was eventually sorted out (para. 4.06). While
the physical target was not met (appraisal estimates 900 ha, actual 650
ha), OCIR management cannot be blamed for this situation, since world
average prices for quinine sulphate fell steadily during project
implementation (para. 4.05) and purchases of cinchona bark had to be
stopped on several occasions and prices paid to farmers were actually
reduced. Consequently demand for seedlings from farmers fell and the
planting target was not met.



- 17 -
VI. Borrower and Bank Performance
6.01      The Government provided consistent and effective support for
project implementation. The Government provided all the funds needed for
project implementation, sometimes with some delays but project
implementation never suffered since the implementing agency, OCIR-Cafe,
provided the bridging funds. Dialogue between the parties was frank.
Covenants were generally respected, except for the recruitment of a
full-time expatriate Cinchona Development Officer (para. 4.06). This
situation can be explained essentially by the broad policy environment on
technical assistance. Although Government recognizes the need for
technical assistance, it generally considers its cost to be too high and
prefers that these be financed on a grant basis. The Government seems
willing to recruit short-term consultants, whenever the need arises but
Rwandese officials did not have the necessary experience and expertise in
the selection process of consultants, which led to long delays to identify
good candidates. The implementing agency, OCIR-Cafe, did quite a good job
of administering the project (para. 5.14). Relationship with Bank staff
was excellent and Bank's advice was well received and generally
implemented.
6.02      IDA's performance during project imV.ementation can be considered
satisfactory. It mounted twelve supervision missions and provided a
considerable amount of technical assistance and guidance. Both IDA and
Government staff were aware throughout that world market prospects for
cinchona undermined the effort but decided to persist nonetheless as
cinchona still held interest for farmers in the area. Plantations targets
were, however, scaled back which, in retrospect plainly made sense.
Although the project was supervised from headquarters, disbursements were
handled from Nairobi. There was at the beginning some confusion on the
part of the Borrower, for example a couple of disbursement applications
were sent to headquarters and filed, and are still in the Bank folders in
Washington, while the Borrower was asking for payment from Nairobi. The
delays were not significant but the confusion was there. An issue is
whether the strategy of proceeding with this small operation made sense.
We conclude that the decision to go ahead, essentially on grounds of
country relations, made good sense and the experience with the project did
ultimately contribute to provide a vehicle for continuing dialogue with the
country.



- 18 -
VII. Financial and Economic Results
Financial Rate of Return
7.01      At appraisal, the financial rate of return (FRR) on one hectare
of cinchona plantation was calculated at 34%, including the nominal fee for
planting material and fertilizer and also income from other cash crops from
interplanting during the first two years The FRR for a typical farmer
with 0.25 ha of which 0.10 ha was already under cinchona plantation and on
joining the Project would put 0.15 ha under cinchona was calculated at
92%. The FRR for a farmer is now estimated at 40%. The following
assumptions were made in calculating the FRR:
(i)      The farmer will continue to allow all the trees to reach
the age of six years and then uproot them and harvest
both stem and bark together.
(ii)     The current cinchona bark prices would prevail in real
terms.
(iii)    Farmers would continue to grow cinchona despite the
competition for land for foodcrops production.
7.02      There are major risks of further deterioration in world average
prices of quinine sulphate, which might disrupt the purchase of cinchona
bark. Also if the Rwakina factory does not start its operation soon,
farmers may be unwilling to plant cinchona seedlings again when they have
uprooted their trees.
Economic Analysis
7.03      The economic rate of return (ERR) on investments under the
Project is now estimated at 7%. This compares to appraisal estimates of
15%. The difference between ERR at appraisal and at project completion is
mainly due to the fact that appraisal target of 900 ha was not reached, and
only 650 ha was planted. Also, the export prices of dried cinchona bark
dropped constantly during project implementation and have only recently
stabilized. The following assumptions were made in calculating the ERR:
(i)      foreign exchange was shadow priced on the assumption of
a premium of 25%;
(ii)     unskilled labor was shadow priced at 25% of wages paid
to reflect better the real cost to the economy, as there
are no alternative employment opportunities for this
type of labor in the region;
(iii)    no allowance was made for OCIR overhead costs related to
cinchona development since such costs are already
incurred without the Project and would virtually not
change as a result of the Project;



- 19 -
(iv)     all taxes and duties have been eliminated for the
purposes of the economic analysis;
(v)      the entire value of cinchona represents foreign exchange
and has been shadow priced;
(vi)     the entire Project production of cinchona bark has been
assumed to be exported in dnprocessed form and output
valued at export prices f.o.b. Kigali.
7.04      The same risk factors mentioned under financial analysis
(para. 7.02) apply equally here.  The ERR could easily turn out to be
negative if any one of these risks materialized.
7.05      The relatively large differences between the FRR and the ERR both
at appraisal and at completion are explained by the fact that farmers paid
only a 'nominal" fee for their seedlings and other inputs. That is to say
the on-farm costs (the farmers true costs) represented only a fraction of
the real economic costs. Government originally was to recover fully the
project's costs through crop levies. It was agreed at negotiations that
Government was to review periodically the level of crop levies and make
adjustments asappropriate, to recover all capital and recurrent
expenditures incurred by Government and OCIR, including subsidies of
farmers' inputs. However, because of the serious drop in the world price
of Cinchona (para. 4.05) Government had to first reduce the crop levies for
6X to 3% in 1979, and then cancelled altogether. Thus, Government was not
able to fully recover its costs.
7.06      The rate of return at completion was tested for its sensitivity
to changes in costs and benefit levels and lagging demand. This analysis
shows that the rate of return turns out to be negative if costs go up by
20% and benefits decrease by 20%. Also by increasing costs by 20% and
lagging benefits by 2 years the EoR drops to 2%.



- 20 -
VIII. Summary and Conclusions
8.01      The Cinchona Project was IDA's second agricultural operation in
Rwanda. The preparation and appraisal stages were difficult, as they saw a
sharp reduction in project scope and objectives. The project was
originally to have been a broad-based operation supporting the major
commercial crops, especially coffee and tea. Cinchona was a relatively
minor component. However, IDA policies precluded tea financing and, at a
very late stage, the Government had doubts about coffee, so only cinchona
was left. IDA agreed to proceed with this very small project, primarily to
enhance country relations and the operational program more broadly.
8.02      The project was initially prepared and appraised as a component
of a larger commercial crops project, which was identified and prepared by
IDA. The Credit was approved in July 1976 and signed in August 1976. The
project was designed to expand and reinforce the Cinchona Division of
OCIR-Cafe, the implementing agency, to accelerate the cinchona smallholder
planting program in the prefectures of Cyangugu, Gikongoro and Kibuye,
through (i) increasing the supply of planting material; (ii) strengthening
the extension services to smallholders; and (iii) improving both internal
and external marketing arrangements for cinchona bark. The objective was
to plant 900 ha of cinchona trees. The economic rate of return was
estimated at appraisal at about 15% and the financial rate of return (FRR)
on one hectare of cinchona plantation was calculated at 34%, whilst the FRR
for a typical farmer with 0.25 ha was calculated at 92%. No major risks
were envisaged, althought world market prices were seen as uncertain.
8.02      The project was implemented quite smoothly but its success was
seriously undermined by sharp decreases in world cinchona prices over the
period. The price of an ounce of Quinine Sulphate was selling at US $6.50
during project preparation but, by 1977 the price had fallen to US $4.50
per ounce and kept falling thereafter to US $2.30 per ounce. Price paid to
smallholders for cinchona bark had to be reduced from RwF 180/kg to RwF
150/kg and RwF 105/kg and purchases of cinchona bark were suspended on
various occasions. The stoppage of bark purchases caused dismay among the
farmers and demand for seedlings fell during the last two years of project
implementation. Also during the first year of project implementation,
there was an outbreak of "damping off" (a fungal disease), which was
serious in some nurseries. This retarded seedbed establishment and delayed
the planting program somewhat. Project management took drastic steps to
ward off the spread of the disease and slowly the situation improved.
8.03      The project was in general well administered, despite the
Government failure to recruit a full-time expatriate Cinchona Development
Officer, as envisaged in the Credit Agreement. IDA kept pressing for his
recruitment but accepted ultimately the Government's proposal to recruit a
part-time consultant instead. Unfortunately the consultant worked out
poorly. This experience reflects the general difficulties in Rwanda in
making effective use of technical assistance, a problem exacerbated by the
Government's reluctance to engage technical assistance with borrowed funds.



- 21 -
Although Government recognizes the need for technical assistance, it
generally considers its costs to be too high and usually prefers that these
be financed on a grant basis. The project has helped to make OCIR-Caf6 a
stronger organization. In particular technical assistance provided under
the project has assisted OCIR-Cafe in updating Its accounts, which were not
properly maintained from 1975. Relationships between OCIR and IDA were
smooth and effective.
8.04      The financial rate of return to farmers and the project's
economic rate of return at completion are estimated at 402 and 7X
respectively, compared to 92% and 15% at appraisal. The decline of quinine
sulphate prices have had a major impact on the rates of return and there
are major risks of further deterioration in world prices of quinine
sulphate, which, again, might disrupt the purchase of cinchona bark.
Farmers may, also, be unwilling to plant cinchona seedlings again once they
have uprooted their trees and harvested their crop.
8.05      In sum, although physical implementation went well, the decline
of quinine sulphate prices on the world market played havoc with cinchona
production, since Rwanda exports all production. Under the impulse of the
project a processing factory, Rwakina, has been constructed and became
operational in 1983. However, for various reasons, including technical
ones, Rwakina never processed any bark. The Government is discussing with
the other partners involved in this joint venture an investigation of the
present difficulties in order to make the processing plant operative. In
sum, prospects for cinchona were very uncertain at project completion.
8.06      The following lessons emerge from Project experience:
(i)       The project came into existence after long protracted
negotiations. It was first a sub-project within a proposed commercial
crops project. When the Government was unwilling to go ahead with the
project as a whole, IDA agreed to reduce the scope of the commercial
crops project and proceed with the residual cinchona project,
prinicipally as a vehicle for continuing dialogue with the country.
IDA's flexibility has proven to be a good long-term tactical approach,
in that it contributed to developing a climate of trust and confidence
between the Government and IDA; today in the agricultural sector IDA
has five on-going projects and two follow-on projects and a
constructive policy d&logue with the Government of Rwanda.
(ii)      It was a risky project for IDA to finance.  Rwanda did not
have a processing plant to process cinchona bark, and air freight
costs amounted to about 20 X of the CIF price in Europe. Also prices
of cinchona derivates are not freely quoted In the commodity market
and price fluctuations cannot be forecasted. These risks were
probably underestimated at appraisal. Insufficient attention was
given to a relatively low economic rate of return associated to
relatively high prices.
(iii)      Technical assistance proved to be a sensitive issue from
the beginning. The Government rejected all propoged technical
assistance except for a cinchona development officer for three years
(as opposed to five years). Government recognizes the need for
expatriate technical assistance, but the costs are generally perceived
to be too high. Short-term consultancies proved to be more
acceptable; if long-term expertise is required, bilateral assistance
on a grant basis would be preferred solution.



- 22 -
(iv)      IDA's supervision missions played a key role by providing
considerable technical assistance and guidance; this was possible because
of the positive approach of the implementing agency in accepting Bank's
advice.
(v)       There was confusion at first over arrangements for accounting and
auditing requirements. Project accounts were mixed up with those of the
implementing agency. Financial statements were not prepared and audits of
the project were seriously deleyed. External assistance was provided in
1980 and since then projtc management made concerted efforts and succeeded
in having accounts and audite completed in a timely manner.



Annex ll
Tahle iIITabteau I
CINCRONA PROJECT CR. 656-T/ PROJET QUINQUINA CR. 656-RW
Project Cost and Financing                                       CoOt. et Flnancement du Projet
(US $'00O)  '/                                                    (en E.U. S'000)  It
Appraisal Eqtimate/         Total ArtuRl Costl        Actnal 2 of Appralsal/
coIpoNKWS                  Eu,ttatton de lElvaluation    CoOt Total Effectif        2 rfrerttf dEvalmation             COVMPOSNTIMS
*                 ~~~~~Foreign/
Local    Devises    Total
A. Investment Costs                                                                               2                   Coflt d'!nventiseuent
uildi tg  2                     74        69        143              86                        fn                  RAtiments
Vetiuleim I Equtpoent          118        l71       289          )  216 It                     3q                  Vfhlct,len b Iatlrtel
Agric. Equtp. & Inputs          24       243        267          )  __t4rtel Agric. & Intrants
Subtotal               216        483       699             302                        43                       Snug-total
B. Operating Costs                                                                                                    Cofts dte Fonettonneeent
Personnel & TraIntng           592       473      1,065               44                        b                  Formatinn du Perqnnnet
Operation & Naintenance         75        ISO       255            1,773                      695                  Entretlen & Adinslatratton
Consultancy Services            Z2        86        108              -                         -                   Serviceg de C(nsultants       s
Subtotal               689        739    13428             1,817                       127                      Sons-total
Total                  905      1,222     2,127            2,119                        99.6                    Total
...     .....      .....            .....                       ....
FINANCInC                                                                                                          FINANCEHFNT
a) IDA                                       1.800                    1,800                       IOn                  a)  IDA
b) Government/Sales                            327                      319                       98                 Gh)  Gaoverent/
of seedlings                                                                                                           Vente des Plantutes
2.127                    2,119
Sources: Appraisal Iteport and OCIR Report / Rapport d'Evaluation et Rapport OCIR
If  tebune rate used at apprainal- 1  92.34/138 $1.00 and yearly average for actuat coats "
Tom d'echange utili.r  pendant pfrtode d'evalationz  RIF 92.84/US $1.00 et pour len ci ts effectifs au coors de l'annEe.
2/ Include distribution of price contingencies to all project costs except coniltanncy services/
* coupris provisions pour t(p#Lus pour lee coOta de projet sauf pour lee service de consultants.
lle breasdown of the two cost cosponeta/
1a  dex Composastes ne aont pas divis6es.



-24-
hmmk 
Table^7iu 2
Cinda Project Cr. 656 Rw/Pro1ect Qinuuiu  Cr. 656 Rw
Project Cost/Cdics de Fi1anemet
Table
Foegn
local  Foreign  Tota       ol Forelgn Total   Exch.
R  F'00-   US$'000 -                      x
A. Invmint
&dldir4p                   4,640    4,360  9,000        50      47    97    48
Vekdclw & Equip.           7,365   10,725 18,090        80     116   196    59
Agr. Equi. & Inputs        1,543   15,249 16,792        16     165   181    91
Subtotal         13,548   30,334 43,882       146      328   474    69
B.   O pcosts
Personnal & Training      37,178   30,150 67,328      402      325   727    46
Oper. &Maintemnoe         4,868   11,272  16,140       52      122   174    70
Cbn8ultany Services       2,000    8,000  10,000       22       86   108    80
Subtotal         44,046   49,422 93,468       476     533 1,009    52
C. _
Physical                   5,559    7,175  12,734      61       77   138    56
Price                     20,630   26,256 46,886      222      284   506    56
Subtotal         26,189   33,431 59,620       283     361   644    56
ICrAL                     83,783  113,187 196,970     905   1,222 2,127    57
-                            m            _-



-25-
Annexl
Table T3ableau 3
Rwanda
Cinchona Project Cr. 656 Rw/Project Quinguina Cr. 656-Rw
Financing Plan/Plan de Financement
RwF            US S
(Million)      (Million)
IDA                     167             1.8           90
Government               17             0.2           10
Project costs net
of taxes & duties       184            2.0           100
Taxes & Duties           13            0.1
Total Project costs    197              2.1
asas.      ,XBm.in



Annpu 2
Table i/Ta1hl,s, I
UWANDA
CthCRONA PRoJrcr CR. 656-RWt/7PROJET QUINQIPiWA CR. 656-311
Actual Project *g" ditures by Financtal Year                   IDpenaes Fffecttvea do Protet par Afnne Flnanclre
(IwF '000)                                                       (enRvF 'nn)
1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    Total
A.  t,wetiment Costs                                                                                         Coate d'lnveatleaeuent
hatlditm                         14    7,714      212     -        -       -        -     7,940          U tleentn
Wehiculeg 6  qulpuent    )                                                                           (  V&htceta 4 Hatuf'lel
AgrtC. Kq dp. 6 Inputn   )  3.26t    3.U49   2.269   5.526  1.467   3,141          561   20,076       ( MatIrtel Aric. I Intraut
Subtotal              3,275   11,563   2,481   5.526  1,467   3,141        563   28 016              Soun-total
3.  0gerattmA CostO                                                                                          Coots de Fonctionneaent
tuciWd  hn^geent,                                                                                        I coepri. gfranee, .dainlstratton 6
Adeintstrattve 6                                                                                         tntretten
Ntantenenee                  12,152   16,049  24,441  30,395 32,608 42,00   6,406  164.611
C.  stot-tee Ceeltaut &
TraIeitt                        -             -      3.560       6     524      -      4.n90
1,5427   27,612  26,922  39,9R3 34,081  45,725    6,969 196,71t
Sueree? OCt% Copletton Report



-27-
RWANDA                          Annex 3
CINClAONPRrOJECT
Financial Rate of Return for Average Farmer
(in RwF)
Year    Year    Year    Year    Year    Year       Year
1       2       3        4       5       6       7-10
Incremental Costs ±            1,000   2,000   2,000   2,000   2,000   2,000    2,000
Incremental Benefits  .        -       -        -       -        -       -        16,800
Net Incremental Benefits      (1,000) (2,000) (2,000) (2,000) (2,000) (2,000)  14,800
Financial Rate of Return -  40X
I/ Include costs of seedlings.
; Farmer uproots trees as from year 7. Actually planted by farmers on average each
year i50 plants.  70X of trees, on average, survives up to harvesting season.
Yield per tree 0.6 kg of dry stems and rootbark.



RWAD                                                              Annex 4
CINCRONA PROJECT
Economie Analysis
Calculation of ~Proje~ctCosts and Benef its
Year    Year    Year    Year    Year    Year    Year    Tear    Year    Year    Year    Year    Tear
1       2        3        4        5        6       7        8        9       10       11       12     13-25
tton -of drled bark)-
BENEFITS
Hal
Yr. 1          214                     -        -       -         -       -        -        630
Yr. 2           44                                                                                   130
Yr. 3            59                                                                                           :72
Yr. 4           108                                                                                                   319
Yr. 5           93                                                                                                             273
Yr. 6           131                                                                                                                     386
Yr.7-25        lSO                                                                                                                               441
Project output                           -        -        -         -      -        -        630      130      172      3I9     273      386      U?
(in RwF '000)
Value of project production 2t           -        -        -         -      -        -        95130   19630   25972   48169   41223   58286   66591
at MIF 151/kg
LESS
Total net value of alternattve
production 3/                      -        856      1365      2200   5540    5870    8450    8450    8450    8450    8450    8450    8450
Increased benefits                               (856)   (1365)   (2200) (5540)  (5870) o     66     T11180  17522   39719   32775    1gi83-   58I41
COSTS
Cinchona development 21               17227   30814   30045    38034  52029   28550   28550   28550   28550   28550   28550    28550   28550
Plus family labour costs 4/            -         375      425      460    540       575      425      450     450      450      450       450      450
less taxes and duties                  1733    2199    1626        833   1030    1449    2408    2433    2A33    2433    2433            2433    2433
Total incremental costs             (15494) (28990) (2U4i4)  (3766i) T51539) (27676)  (2667) (65677)  (26567) (26567) (26567)  (26567) (26567)
SET INCREEMNTAL BENEFITS               (15494) (2984') (30209)  (39861)(57079) (33546)  60!13  (15387) ( 9045)  13152   6206              23269   31574
Economic Rate of Return -  7
I/Actually planted. 701 of trees survive up to harvesting time.
Nunber of trees surviving 6 years - 7000
Yield per tree at year 7 (dry stem A root bark) 0.6 kg
2/Foreign excbange cotst and benefits have been shadow priced at 252.
3/(k average VP? 13000/ha.
4/Fam family labour at RwF 50 per man-day (252 of smrket wage rate).



ItWAWOA                   Chart I
OfrlcU 13S CULTnUPS IJUMIStltlUS t mtnmID" (O.C.1.0)
Ormantuatio. Chart
lt.t.try of Irtcultute
and Livestock
board of Di rectors
oclGtCm                                               Axtcticltuee
j                             ~~~~~~~~~Project
Kihaye
Dl reetor Geeralt
In rector      1        rtector Production  I  Dietor P1 ancI        Director-Cot'ne         Cinichon
Camercal6  Services            Service       |        Adunttrtt.e            I Food Crop          Prolect
(^etolmtlttIC IP.W....  I               t9nIF % ;-
Secttoo Seetlo        otf tee                     l c
|  cenlt tg    I  |Astricultaral |    utentoan
Ad.lnstrttom      I  Service    I
_ L  _



-30-
I-~~~~~~~~~W
,    ]1~~~~~~~1
C 
|0                 to _ __,_a _
_; _LV   r-54
l~~~~          a:EE'!1



NOTES
I
I
l



I
HAP SECTION
I



> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0I                                                                            }           1batrere  Kempte
RWANDA
CINCHONA  PROJECT                                                                   j            J G A N D A
PROJECT AREA
| OVER 2,000 METERS ELEVATION                             Ruhhuru
MUTARA PROJECT AREA                                                                                                                                      TANZANIA
*      EXISTING tAKE LANDING POINTS
RIVERS AND LAKES
- AIJN ROADS
PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
A t FR  v.\  s    ,   QGI C AN
4.\ *_*>%              \    EutarerS                            B U R U N D I                           ,.UN
rn                                  4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
/Re < S / 5~~~~~~ I                                   R A  M  A                         ,                         ,1,
C  Y--  AW\ 1`         B                                                                                                                      T  AN"Z AR U  N  D    A MILE2030  40  BJ
c                                                                          e0                                                                                   10   rsn                 0  R le  so  405
3.  -;.i  BURUNDI                                                                                      VAILES
.( ~~~~~~~~~~. ~~~~~~~~W  Th ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  WA~~~~~~~~~~t                                                                                                            N~~~~30



