FILE COPY
Report No. 1047a-RW
Rwanda: Appraisal of
the Cinchona Project
June 30, 1976
General Agriculture Division
Eastern Africa Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1.00 = RwF 92.84
RwF 100   =  US$ 1.08
ABBREVIATION
OCIR - Office des Cultures Industrielles du Rwanda
ISAR - Institut des Sciences AMronomiaues du RwandA
UNIDO - United Nations Industrial Development Organization
TITLES
Agronome      =  Agronomist
Vulgarisateur = Extension Supervisor
Moniteur      =  Extension Worker
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 square kilometer (km2)  =  100 ha
1 hectare  (ha)  =  100 ar - 10,000 m2
1 metric ton (t)  =  1,000 kg
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICLA USE ONLY
RWANDA
CINCHONA PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ... ...... ....... ...... . . .  .  i - ii
I.   INTRODUCTION .........................***.***........         1
II.   BACKGROUND  2...............* , .............                 2
A.   General                  2......      .......            2
B.   The Agricultural Sector         ......................   2
C.   Agricultural Services         ........................   3
D.  Project Area .....       ............. ....*..            5
Ill. THE PROJECT. ........    6
A.   General Description   .......... ...  ..... ... . ..     6
Bo   Detailed Features                      .........         6
C.   Project Costs                               so*          7
D,   Financing 000. ...                 .......       .      ..  9
E. Procurement                .         ...                   9
F.   Disbursement ..... *- .. ^t .-.*..........              10
G.   Accounts and Audit   ..............  ............       11
H.   Ecological and External Effects .............           11.
IV.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT  ...................             11
V.   PRODUCTION, MARKETING, BUDGETARY EFFECTS AND
FARMER BENEFITS ......................... ,....w..           12
VI.   ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ..............           15
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ............          16
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Rwanda in October 1974. The mission, which also appraised several components
not included in this Project, was composed of Messrs. E. Zimmer-Vorhaus,
G. R. Henderson, P. Peperzak, F. Stubenitsky, Mrs. P. Soltani (IDA), and
R. Crofts and A. Elcock (Consultants).  A follow-up mission was undertaken in
May, 1975, consisting of Messrs. E. Zimmer-Vorhaus and H. van Voorthuizen.
Mr. G. Ablasser prepared this report.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
ANNEXES
1.   Production and Marketing of Cinchona
2.   Consultancy Services
3.   Office des Cultures Industrielles du Rwanda (OCIR)
4.   Project Costs
5.   Government Budget.
6.   Foreign Exchange Inflows and Outflows
7.   Farmer Benefits
8.   Economic Analysis
9.   Schedule of Estimated Disbursements of IDA Funds
CHART
World Bank - 16198 OCIR Cafe - Organizational Chart
MAP
IBRD 111745    Cinchona Project



SUMI'IARY AND CONCLIJSIONS
i.        Rwanda is one of the poorest countries in Africa.  This situation
is largely the result of its high population density and a steadily declining
land/farm family ratio, which have in turn led to deteriorating soil fertility
in many areas and an associated decline in crop yields. Farm incomes are low
and stagnant. The country's terms of trade have been deteriorating, thus
affecting adversely its balance of payments situation. The proposed Project
would generate export earnings and enhance the income of participating farmers.
ii.       The Project, over a 5-year period, would provide inputs, and exten-
sion, marketing and other services to smallholders to assist in the expansion
of cinchona production for export. It would be administered by the Office des
Cultures Industrielles du Rwanda (OCIR) which, with additional staff, would
provide all the necessary setvices and operate tree nurseries to produce
seedlings for distribution to farmers. Plantings of cinchona would be about
900 ha, or approximately as much again as the existing cinchona area, in three
locations in Kibuye, Gikongoro, and Cyangugu prefectures. Consultancy services
would be provided to augment Government's limited capabilities in the agricul-
tural sector.   The Ministry of Agriculture atid Animal Husbandry would have
overall Project responsibility.
iii.      An IDA credit of US$1.8 million is proposed which would cover the
foreign exchange costs (US$1.2 million) and 78% of local costs over the five-
year Project period. This would represent 90% of the total Project costs of
US$2.0 million, net of taxes and duties. Project costs inclusive of taxes and
duties would total IJS$2.1 million. Farm inputs (USS260,000) in orders exceeding
USS30,00O would be procured under international competitive bidding in
accordance with IDA guidelines. Vehicles and equipment (US$270,000) would be
procured following advertising in the local press and in adjacent countries.
Civil works for staff houses, stores and an office (IJS$120,000) would be
carried out by local contractors followin, local competitive bidding or by the
Ministry of Public Works by force account.  Consultants would be recruited
internationally in agreement with IDA.
iv.       The Project's incremental production of cinchona bark woul_. increase
from 30 tons in Year 6 to 450 tons in Year 11. At full production, the in-
cremental export value in constant 1976 prices would be about US$1 million per
year. After debarking, cinchona trees would be used as firewood which is in
short supply in many areas.
v.        The internal economic rate of return of the Project would be 15%.
Inputs and services would be provided to farmers for a nominal fee and Project
costs recovered through levies and taxes on cinchona exports. With the assump-
tions underlying the Project's analysis, individtual farmers would receive about
US$118 in additional net cash revenues per year during the years of full produc-
tion, i.e. Years 6-10; the annual average increase throughout the production
cycle (12 years) would be IJS$57, or 25% above present levels. Some 3,600 farm
families and 150 persons employed by OCIR would directly benefit from the
Project.



- ii -
vi.       This would be the Bank Group's second lending for agricultural
development in Rwanda. The first credit for the Agricultural Development
Project (CR 439-RW) concentrated on livestock development in the Mutara area
of northeastern Rwanda, and provided for settlement, the establishment of
group ranches, and other related agricultural services. The project became
effective in September 1974 after delays in forming the project authority
and in selecting consultants. Progress to date has not been satisfactory
and the project is being revised.
vii.      The Project is suitable for an IDA Credit of TJSS1.8 million on
standard terms to the Government of Rwanda.



I. INTRODIJCTION
1.01      Rwanda is one of the poorest countries in the world, and a root cause
of its poverty is the high population density in the rural areas and a steadily
declining land/farm family ratio as population increases and as few suitable
areas available for settlement remain available. This in turn has led to de-
teriorating soil fertility in many areas and an associated decline in crop
yields. In the past, the country has concentrated its efforts on increasing
production of cash crops, mainly coffee, with increasing emphasis on diversi-
fication to provide export earnings. Recently, however, more attention has
been given to food crop production in an endeavor to reduce dependence on im-
ports which have become a significant and serious factor in the last few years.
1.02      The basic need in Rwanda is thus to increase farm production.  In
addition to increasing its output of food crops, Rwanda also needs to expand
its production of exportable Products in order to improve its balance of pay-
ments. As elsewhere in Africa, this task presents problems requiring proven
technical innovations and a soundly based system of farmers' services for
inputs, extension and marketing. In Rwanda, the situation is made particu-
larly difficult because of its weak extension and distribultive systems which
in themselves are a reflection of the country's poverty. The proposed Project
would assist in the expansion of cinchona plantings for export, and provide
technical assistance to Government.
1.03      This would be the Bank Group's second lending for agricultural
development in Rwanda. The first is concentrating on livestock development
in the Muttara area of northeastern Rwanda and provides for settlement, the
establishment of group ranches, and related services. It became effective
in September 1974 after delays in forming the project authority and in select-
ing consultants. Spontaneous and unorganized settlement in the area and manage-
ment difficulties have made a revision of the project necessary which is being
discuissed withl Government.
1.04      This Project was prepared by Government with assistance fsm the
World Bank Regional Mission in East Africa (RMFA) as part of a larger project
entitled "Commercial Crops Project" which, in addition to cinchona, comprised
general agriculttural and coffee development, and improvement of lake landing
points. Government, after reviewing the project, expressed reservations
about the justification and high cost of these components and requested that
the Project he confined to cinchona development. An appraisal mission which
visited Rwanda in October 1974 comprised Messrs. E. Zimmer-Vorhaus, G.R.
Henderson, P. Peperzak, F. Stubenitsky, Mrs. P. Soltani (IDA), and R. Crofts
and A. Elcock (Consultants). A follow-up) mission was tmdertaken in May, 1975,
consisting of Messrs. E. Zimmer-Vorhaus and H1. van Voortlhuizen.  Mr. Gottfried
Ahlasser, assisted by Mr. Noel Brouard, prepared this report.



-2-
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      Rwanda, 1,600 km inland from the Indian Ocean, is one of the smallest
(26,400 km2) as well as one of the most densely populated (160 persons/km2)
countries in Africa. The total population was estimated at 4.2 million in
1975, and is growing at a rate of about 2.7% per annum; less than 4% of the
total population is urban. Rwanda is also one of the poorest countries in
the world: total GDP was estimated at US$309 million in 1974, with a per
capita income of US$74, as compared with about US$55 in rural areas. GDP is
now growing at a rate of around 4% annually. Agriculture accounted for 65%
of GDP in 1974, and about 5% of GDP represented cash crops. Coffee is the
main cash crop, accounting for well over 50% of all exports, and generating
about 20% of all Government revenues. Other significant export crops include
tea and pyrethrum; cinchona accounted for 1.2% of total exports. During the
period 1967-1974, merchandise imports consistently exceeded exports, with the
trade deficit averaging RwF 896 million (US$9.7 million) per year and reaching
RwF 1.9 billion (US$20.8 million) in 1974.
B. The Agricultural Sector
2.02      About one half of the country's land area is suitable for agricul-
ture; of this about 37% is actually cropped and the remainder represents
natural pastures. The population density on these cultivated areas is
extremely high--about 300 persons/km2--and the average holding is about 1 ha.
As a result, about 90% of the cultivated land is used for the production of
subsistence food crops such as bananas, beans, sorghum, maize and sweet
potatoes. Approximately one half of these farms grow some cash crops, usually
coffee. Most arable land is on slopes, and consequently all cultivation and
harvesting is done by hand. Due to population pressure marginal forest soils
have increasingly been brought under cultivation; this, combined with in-
sufficient fertilization, has contributed to a deterioration of fertility
in these soils.
2.03      Most agricultural land is farmed on a usufruct basis, and Government
claims all unused land. Nevertheless, nearly all farmers have secure tenure
and there are no landlord/tenant problems. Total food crop production still
-falls short of the country's basic requirements, and Rwanda now spends about
30% of its agricultural export revenues (18% of all export revenues) on imports
of foodstuffs.  In an effort to stimulate agricultural production Government
has undertaken a settlement program in different parts of the country uri-er
which farmers are allocated 1-1.8 ha plots and are provided with basic irnfra-
structure and some extension services. By 1974 Government had located abuut
41,000 families in these settlements ("paysannats"), and had made land available
for the planting of cash crops such as tea, coffee and pyrethrum; prospects
for further settlement are limited, however.



- 3 -
2.04      Coffee.  There are approximately 46 million coffee trees in Rwanda.
These are cultivated by some 400,000 farmers (about 50% of the total), with
an average of about 115 trees per farmer. Total production stagnated between
1959 and 1967, but has since shown an upward trend, rising from 11,000 tons
in 1967 to around 18,000 tons in 1975. Yield levels have declined, however,
and the production increases have come entirely from new plantings.  Coffee
is almost all of the Arabica type and, with the exception of minimal amounts
consumed locally, is entirely exported. Over the last decade Rwanda's share
of the world coffee market has remained at about 0.4%.
2.05      Cinchona.  The cinchona tree is valued commercially for the alkaloids
(principally quinine), which can be extracted from its dried bark; these are
used in the production of anti-malarial and other drugs, as well as in the soft
drink industry.  Cinchona is grown mostly on plantations, but it is also well
suited for smallholder production. Expatriate companies now maintain about
600 ha of plantations, and state-owned plantations account for an additional
68 ha. The Office des Cultures Industrielle du Rwanda (OCIR) is responsible
for the promotion of smallholder production and marketing (para. 2.08); small-
holder production now totals some 200 ha. Total production from all sources
increased by about 50% between 1968 and 1974 and totaled about 315 tons in
1974; yields vary from 230 kg/ha on state-owned plantations to over 750 kg/ha
on commercial estates. Rwanda's share of world exports was about 5.3% in
1975. The dried bark is exported mainly to seven European pharmaceutical
companies which dominate the world market. Government, advised bv UNIDO, is
now negotiating with an expatriate firm for the establishment of a cinchona
processing plant within Rwanda.
C. Agricultural Services
2.06      The Ministry of Agricttlture and Animal Husbandry has overall respon-
sibility for the provision of various aoricultural services in Rwanda.  The
Agricultural Department is responsible for extension services, seed production,
soil conservation and settlement (paysannats).  The Department's resp-nsibil-
ities now again include extension services for coffee grovers which for a brief
period in 1974/75 were entrusted to OCIR. The extension service now employs
about 1,100 officers of all grades; it is however under-staffed and suffers
from a lack of technical expertise. Training of agronomists (grade A2) is
being carried otut by the School of Agricultuire and Animal Husbandry (Ecole
d'Agriculture) in Buitare, which onerates four-vear courses, and that of exten-
sion supervisors (A3) by the Ecole des Vulgarisateurs in Kibuye in two year
courses. In addition to local training, 75 students are now undertaking
graduate agricultural and veterinary training abroad. The extension service
is supported by the Selected Seed Service which is in charge of production
and distribution of seedlings and seed of coffee, tea, fruit trees and food
crops (grains, legumes and root crops). The service operates six seed
multiplication farms, and manages tea nuirseries and demonstration fields.
During the two crop seasons of 1972 and 1973 the service sold 30 tons of grain
and legumes and 26 tons of potatoes at subsidized prices. Government intends
to expand its activities in the future to include countrywide demonstrations



- 4 -
of improved production methods and soil conservation practices.   Agricultural
research in Rwanda is carried out by the Institut des Sciences Agronomiques
du Rwanda (ISAR), which is well staffed under financing provided mainly by
Belgian aid. ISAR is carrying out extensive research into the agronomy,
processing and economics of Rwanda's main crops. In addition to its coffee
research, ISAR also operates an experimental coffee washing station. No
research is currently being done on cinchona, but the country cooperates in
this field with a nearby research station in Mulungu, Zaire.
2.07      The Ministry of Agriculture and Animal Husbandry also provides a
number of animal health and other livestock support services through its Animal
Health and Animal Production Divisions within the Department of Animal Hus-
bandry. The animal health service is under-staffed, and there are on average
less than 2 veterinarians per prefecture. The animal production staff have
had considerable success with the establishment of bull centers, as the use
of crossbred bulls was readily accepted by the farmers. Stall feeding for
collection of manure and the planting of fodder crops has also been introduced
in a few areas (mainly in settlements).
Office des Cultures Industrielle du Rwanda (OCIR) (Annex 3)
2.08      OCIR was established in 1964 as a parastatal organization with overall
responsibility for the production, processing and marketing of Rwanda's cash
crops. In 1974 the organization was divided into two separate departments:
OCIR CafA with responsibility for coffee and cinchona, and OCIR ThA with
responsibility for tea. Each department has its own specialized staff and its
own accounts; however, both are under the same Board of Directors which com-
prises mainly Government officials. Thus OCIR resembles more a Government
department with limited financial autonomy rather than a producer's organiza-
tion.
2.09      OCIR Cafe has six divisions:  Administration and Personnel, Account-
ing, Coffee, Cinchona, Purchasing and Marketing, and Licensing and Grading.
These carry out OCIR's extensive crop-related activities including quality
control, pricing, marketing and export services. It also maintains about 500
hand coffee pulping facilities, and through its subsidiary, Rwandex, controls
the country's two main coffee hulling factories in Kigali and Gisenyi. At the
present time, only one agronomist and one vulgarisateur advise smallholders on
cinchona husbandry and harvesting. OCIR Cafe also produces cinchona planting
material in its own nurseries which it distributes to smallholders at nominal
rates.
2.10      Extension, Marketing and Pricing of Cinchona.  The Cinchona Division
has been set up recently within OCIR Cafe with authority over: (a)
cinchona nurseries, (b) a specialized extension service, and (c) two buying
and storage centers. Seed for the nurseries is imported from the Muluagu



-5-
Research Station in Zaire which has been a reliable source of quality seed
for a nurmber of years. OCIR controls the marketing of cinchona and advises
Government on pricing policy. In 1974 OCIR introduced a producer pricing
system based on grading of cinchona bark according to estimates of the quinine
anhydrous alkaloids (QAA) content. OCIR is now the sole marketing agent for
smallholder production while private estate production continues to be
exported under licenses granted by OCIR.
2.11      OCIR's Financial Position.  OCIR main sources of funds are export
levies on commercial crops. In 1975 three different levies were collected
on coffee exports: (a) a fixed operational levy (RwF 5.00/kg green coffee)
to cover OCIR Cafe's operating costs including input supply services; (b) a
variable levy (depending on the actual export price) for the price stabiliza-
tion fund, administered by OCIR to guarantee suitable growers' prices; (c) a
small fixed levy (RwF 0.30/kg green coffee) for the coffee propaganda fund,
also administered by OCIR to promote coffee sales. OCIR also collects a
fixed operational levy on cinchona exports (RwF 18/kg dried bark). The finan-
cial position of OCIR Cafe as well as that of the coffee price stabilization
and propaganda funds is sound but an improved accounting system reflecting
more accurately OCIR's various operations is needed to enable OCIR to evaluate
its efficiency more adequately. Currently OCIR is receiving technical assist-
ance for this purpose from bilateral sources.
D. Project Area
2.12      The Project would be implemented in Kibuye, Gikongoro and Cyangugu
prefectures, in Southwestern Rwanda (Map IBRD 11745). These areas are located
at altitudes of between 1,400 and 3,000 m and have a rainfall of 1,100 to
1,500 mm per annum; there is a three month (June-August) dry season. The
topography is rugged, with numerous hills and swampy valleys, and most of the
cultivable areas are located on fairly steep slopes. The soils, when ade-
quately protected against erosion and poor husbandry, are generally fertile.
However, in the deforested highlands with significant erosion and leaching,
the residual soils Are very acldic, depleted of clay minerals and of little
agricultural value unless rehabilitated by farm manure or lime and mineral
fertilizers. To prevent erosion on steep slopes, cinchona trees are planted
in hedge rows.
2.13      About 1 million people, or 25% of the country's total population,
live in the three prefectures in which the Project activities would be con-
centrated; the average population density is 165 persons/km2, as compared with
a national average of 160/km2. In the three prefectures very little employ-
ment outside the agricultural sector exists. All of the country's cinchona
bark is presently produced in Cyangugu prefecture. Land travel and communica-
tions are hindered by mountainous terrain, and much of the region's commerce
is transported over Lake Kivu.



- 6 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
3.01      The Project wotuld, over a five-year period (1976/77 to 1980/81)
provide extension, inputs, marketing and other services to assist smallholder
production of cinchona. Specifically, the Project would provide:
(a) farm inputs, and extension and marketing services to
facilitate smallholder cinchona production;
(b) additional staff for OCIR and staff training; and
(c) consultancy services to reinforce Government's limited
capability in the agricultural sector.
Overall responsibility for the Project would be vested in the Ministry of
Agriculture and Animal Husbandry, and for physical implementation in OCIR.
B. Detailed Features
Farm Inputs, Extension and Marketing (Annex 1)
3.02      The Project would provide the nurseries, farm inputs and extension
services required to enable smallholder producers to plant and maintain 900 ha
of cinchona in the Cyangugu, Gikongoro and Kibuye prefectures. The Project
nurseries would produce up to 4 million plants annually from seed produced
at Mulungu Research Station in Zaire. Seed would also be available from
Indonesia, India and other cinchona producing countries if required. The
extension service would operate the nurseries and distribuite the seedlings
to farmers, along with fertilizers and other inputs; it would also advise
farmers on the maintenance of their plantings and organize pest control.
Farmers would be charged only nominal prices for seedlings and fertilizers
and costs would be recovered through crop levies (para. 5.05). In order to
encourage as many farmers as possible to take up cultivation the area planted
under the Project would be restricted to 0.25 ha per farmer.  Assurances to
this effect were obtained during negotiations. Thus, with total Project
plantings of 900 ha, at least 3,600 farmers would be able to produce cinchona.
Farmers would plant part of their cinchona either on slopes not under cultiva-
tion or in boundary rows, and avoid, wlherever possible, planting in the area
devoted to other crops. Government would also make available some land on
wlhich farmers could grow cinchona in blocks while retaining ownership of the
trees. OCIR would establish and operate four cinchona collecting centers as
the exclusive buyers in the cinchona producing communes, in addition to the
two existing centers. Each center iwould be staffed withl a clerk and a store-
man.



-7-
Additional  Staff, Staff Training and Project Evaluation
3.03      OCIR's technical staff would be strengthened through one inter-
nationally recruited Cinchona Development Officer and two locally recruited
cinchona agronomists (para. 4.02). The cinchona extension staff would be
supplemented by three extension supervisors (vulgarisateurs) and 12 extension
workers (moniteurs). Offices, stores, transport and staff housing would also
be included. Training would be provided in Rwanda and in neighboring countries.
Project monitoring and evaluation would be among the responsibilities of the
Cinchona Development Officer. The principal monitoring indices during the
first five years would be the number of participating farmers, the area of
cinchona planted on new and previously cultivated land, and the survival rate
of planted seedlings; yields and production would be added to these indices
after harvesting commences in Year 6.
Consultancy Services (Annex 2)
3.04      Agricultural development in Rwanda is hampered by the lack of tech-
nical knowledge, and technical support is needed to redluce this bottleneck.
The Project would provide consultancy services over a 5-year period to advise
Government and OCIR, as required, on immediate problems related to the Project,
including OCIR's accounting procedures. The services could also be used more
widely as required to advise on future pre-investment activities, development
projects and sector policies. The type of consultants required and their
terms of reference and conditions of employment would be determined during
Project implementation in agreement with IDA. Such assurances were obtained
during negotiations.
C. Project Costs (Annex 4)
3.05      Total Project cost, based on March, 1976 prices, is estimated at
RwF 197 million (US$2.1 million), of which about RwF 113 million (US01.20 mil-
lion) would represent foreign exchange expenditures. Total Project costs are
detailed below:



-8-
Foreign
Local  Foreign   Total   Local   Forei_n   Total    Exchange
-----RwF '000 … …(US$'000)----- 
Agricultural
Inputs          1,543   15,249   16,792    16          165      181        91
Vehicles and
Equipment    7,365   10,725   18,090    80          116       196        59
Buildings       4,640    4,360    9,000    50           47       97        48
Personnel and
Training    37,178   30,150   67,328   402           325      727        46
Operation and
MTaintenance  4,868   11,272   16,140    52          122      174        70
Constl tancy
Services      2,000    8,000   10,000    22          86       108        80
Subtotal      57,594  79,756  137,350   622         861    1,483         58
Physical
Contingen-
cies          5,559   7,175   12,734    61          77       138        56
Price Contin-
gencies       20,630  26,256   46,886   222         284       506        56
Total Project
Cost          83,783 113,187  196,970   905       1,222    2,127         57
A physical contingency of 10% has been applied to all Project costs, except
consultancy services. Price contingencies, amounting to 34% of baseline
costs, have been calculated on the basis of assumptions as detailed in
the Appendix to Annex 4. Taxes and duties on Project items are estimated at
RwF 13 million (US$140,000).



- 9 -
D. Financing
3.06      The financing of Project costs would be shared in the following
amounts and proportions:
RwF            US$
Million        Million            %
IDA                            167             1.8             90
Government                       17            0.2             10
Project Costs net
of Taxes and Duties          184             2.0            100
Taxes and Duties                13             0.1
Total Project Costs            197             2.1
The proposed IDA Credit would be on standard terms to Government; this would
finance all foreign exchange costs and 78% of local costs, or 90% of total
Project costs net of taxes and duties. Government would pass on the proceeds
of the IDA credit and its own contribution for cinchona development to OCIR,
whlich, as Government's implementing agency, would be reimbursed for 100% of its
Project expenditures. Farmers would pay only a nominal charge for inputs,
while Government would recover their costs through levies on exports (para.
5.04 and 5.05). Funds for consultancy services would be administered through
the Ministry of Agriculture and Animal Husbandry.
E. Procurement
3.07      Farm inputs (US$260,000) in contracts exceeding US$30,000 would be
procured by international competitive bidding in accordance with IDA guidelines.
Vehicles and equipment (US$270,000) would be procured followring advertising in
the local press and in adjacent countries, or through comparative shopping, as
the small orders of a number of different items, spread over five years, would
make procurement by international competitive bidding unsuitable; orders would
be grouped whenever possible. International firms are well represented by
local agents both in Rwanda and neighboring countries and prices are competi-
tive. Contracts for goods and services costing less than US$30,000 would follow
Government procurement procedures, which are satisfactory. In view of their
small size, civil works for staff housing, stores and the office (US$120,000)
would be carried out by local contractors following local competitive bidding
or by the Ministry of Public Works by force account. Appointments of consultants
(US$0.5 million) would be made in agreement with IDA. Assurances as to the above



- 10 -
procedures were obtained at negotiations together with assurances that draft
tender documents for all contracts exceeding US$50,000 would be submitted to
IDA for approval before bid invitation, as would bid evaluation with recommen-
dations before award of contracts.
F. Disbursement (Annex 9)
3.08      Funds from the IDA credit account would be disbursed over five years
on the following basis:
US$ million
(a) 100% of foreign expenditures or 90% of total
costs of equipment, vehicles, bicycles, and
production inputs including fertilizer, lime,
pesticides and implements                               0.4
(b) 90% of total costs of civil works for housing,
office and stores                                       0.1
(c) 90% of salaries of local staff, and operating
and maintenance costs of units employed under
the Project                                             0.6
(d) 100% of foreign expenditures or 90% of total
costs of consultants, including the Cinchona
Development Officer, and of staff training              0.4
(e) An unallocated amount representing contingen-
cies on the above categories and transferable
to them as appropriate                                  0.3
Total IDA Credit                              1.8
Disbursements against (a), (b) and (d) would be made against import documents
and appropriate records of expenditure certified by the Director General of
OCIR and the Project Director, or by the Ministry of Public Works' officer
responsible for civil works construction. Disbursements against (c) would
be made against certificates of expenditure; relevant documentation would not
be submitted to IDA for review but would be retained by the borrower and made
available for inspection by IDA during the course of Project supervision
missions. Any funds remaining in the Credit account at the end of the Project
would be reallocated with the .pproval of the Association.



- 1 1 -
G. Accounts and Audit
3.09      OCIR's present accounting system does not accurately reflect its
various operations, nor does it allow effective cost control (para 2.11).
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that OCIR would review its accounting
procedures, as necessary assisted by consultants (para. 3.04), and take steps
toward effective cost accounting. OCIR would keep separate Project accounts
for cinchona. Further assurances were obtained at negotiations that the OCIR
accotnts as well as all Project accounts would be audited annually by Govern-
ment auditors until such time when independent auditors acceptable to IDA would
start operating in the country. The audited accounts would be submitted to
IDA no later than six months after the close of the respective financial year.
H. Ecological and External Effects
3.10      With standard soil conservation measures to be followed, there would
be no adverse ecological effects in the Project area as a result of Project
activities. Once the cinchona trees are established, the cover would help
to reduce soil erosion and maintain soil fertility, thus producing long-term
benefits.
IV, ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
4.01      Overall responsibility for Project execution would rest with the
Ministry of Agriculture and Animal Husbandry. Under the supervision of the
Ministry, OCIR would implement the Project. All consultants other than those
for cinchona development would work under the direction of the Ministry of
Agriculture. The Chief of OCIR's Cinchona Division would serve as Project
Director and the Project office would be established at Kibuye. The Cinchona
Division would establish and operate the cinchona nurseries, distribute
seedlings and fertilizer to farmers, and advise farmers on the planting, main-
tenance and harvesting of cinchona. OCIR's Purchasing and Marketing Division
would be responsible for cinchona marketing and would also procure fertilizers,
other inputs and equipment. The formulation of annual work programs and
evaluation of programs under the Project would be the responsibility of the
Project Director; he would be assisted in this task by the Cinchona Development
Officer and, in case of need, by consultants provided under the Project.
Project Staff
4.02      The Cinchona Development Officer would be recruited internationally.
He would be an agronomist located in OCIR's Cinchona Division and serve as
Deputy Project Director (terms of reference are included as Appendix 1 to
Annex 1). The Project's requirements for local staff are in line with the
output of existing training facilities supplemented by in-service training under



12 -
the Project.  The total number of extension staff to be employed is indicated
below5
Extension Staff Requireiients
Agronomist      Extension Supervisor   Extension Worker
Staff Title          (Agronome)      (Vulgarisateur)          (Moniteur)
Staff Grade              A2                    A3                    A4
a!  b/  c/         a/   b/   c/          a/   b/   c/
Cinchona             1   2   3          1    3      4               12   12
a! In position; b/ To be recruited; c/ Total.
The agronomes would be recruited from among the graduates of the four-year
course of the Ecole d'Agriculture at Butare. The vulgarisateurs would be
diplomates of the two-year course at the Ecole des Vulgarisateurs at Kibuye
(which turns out 25 diplomates per year). The moniteurs would be recruited
from among secondary school leavers who would receive in-service training
tnder the Project.  Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the
appointment of the Cinchona Development Officer would be made in agreement
with IDA before January 1, 1977.
V. PRODUCTION, MARKETING, BUDGETARY EFFECTS AND
FARMER BENEFITS
Production
5.01      Planting of cinchona would be phased, with the planting of 100 ha
in year 2, 200 ha in year 3, and 300 ha in bc2; years 4 and 5.  About 10,000
cinchona trees would be planted per ha; of these, 2,500 would be thinned
out annually in years 4, 5, and 6, and 625 would be uprooted annually in years
7 through 10 when a new planting cycle would start. Based on present Rwanda
experience with smallholder production, yielcls of cinchona bark are estimated
at 300 kg/ha in year 4, 400 kg/ha in year 5, and 500 kg/ha in years 6 through
10, as compared with 750 kg/ha from commercial estates. A farmer with 0.25 ha
under cinchona 1/ would, therefore, produce 125 kg/year of cinchona bark at
full development.  Total annual Project production would reach 450 tons in 1987,
thus increasing Rwanda's total production to just over 1,000 tons, or 2.6 times
the estimated 1975 total output of 382 tons (Annex 1, Table 5).
1/   For purposes of the financial and economic analyses, it has been assumed
that 0.10 ha would be planted on land previously producing other crops
and 0.15 ha on previously unproductive land.



- 13 -
Markets and Prices
5.02      OCIR is the sole buyer of smallholder cinchona bark, and licenses
direct exports by commercial estates. Four new buying centers would be
established to handle Project production. Presently OCIR sells most of its
bark for processing in Belgium, the Federal Republic of Germany and the
Netherlands. If a processing plant were to be established in Rwanda (para
2.05), OCIR's marketing arrangements would change accordingly. Total world
production of cinchona was estimated at 7,000 tons in 1974; with a projected
increase of 3% per annurm, this total should rise to about 10,000 tons in 1987
and is expected to be in line with the expected demand at that time. With
the incremental Project output, Rwanda's share of the world market is expected
to increase from about 5% in 1974 to about 10% in 1987.
5.03      As a result of growing world demand, average cinchona bark prices
f.o.b. Kigali have increased sharply from about RwF 55 per kg in 1968-197(
to RwF 190 per kg in 1974 and to about RwlF 300 per kg in late 1975. Govern-
ment increased the producer prices accordiingly and OCIR pays now RwF 220 per
kg for bark from the trunks and roots and RwF 180 per kg for bark from the
branches which has a lower quinine anhydrous alkaloid (QAA) content. Future
declines to pre-1975 levels are unlikely in view of the rising non-pharmaceutical
demand, the incomplete substitutability of synthetic drugs for quinine, and
the projected continuing high raw material cost of synthetic drugs. The fi-
nancial and economic analysis of the Project has been based on a constant
export price, in real terms, f.o.b. Kigali of RwF 227 per kg bark with a con-
tent of 4.5% QAA throughout the Project's life. It has been further assumed
that the present Government export tax and OCIR operational levy (respectively
RwF 45 and RwF 18 per kg, or 28% of the projected export price) would be in-
increased by a further Project cost recovery levy of RwF 40 per kg, bringing
the total of all levies to RwF 103 per kg (45% of projected f.o.b. Kigali price).
Allowing for the cost of handling and transport this would leave the producers
with an average price of RwF 109 per kg. This price is lower than the present
producer prices, but is justified since the farmers would receive the plants and
other inputs free of charge (except for a nominal fee). Project farmers would
still increase their incomes by approximately 25%.
Budgetary Effects (Annex 5)
5.04      As a Government agency OCIR would be fully reimbursed for its
Project expenditures from the proceeds of the IDA Credit and Government's
own contribution. No separate cash flow has therefore been calculated for
OCIR and the cash flow presented in Annex 5, shows the aggregate position for
both the Government and OCIR. With the present OCIR operational levy on
cinchona exports (RwF 18 per kg) and the present Government export tax (RwF 45
per kg), but without an additional cost recovery levy on cinchona exports, the
c).mulative Government cash flow arising out of the Project would be negative
at all times except in Year 13 when there would be a small surplus. Assuming
that the opportunity cost of capital equals 8% per year Government would at
the present level of export levies and duties recover only 53% of the Project



- 14 -
cost, including recurrent expenditures, over a period of 24 years (two
cinchona planting cycles). An increase in the level of export taxes and
levies on the Project's cinchona production (which will only start after
the Project's completion) is therefore necessary to recover the Project's
costs.
5.05      On the basis of present cost estimates an additional levy of RwF 40
per kg (in constant 1976 terms) would allow Government to recover fully, over
a period of 24 years, the Project's cost, including interest at 8%, except
for the cost of the internationally recruited cinchona expert in excess of
the local salary level. If the full cost of the expert were to be included,
87% of the costs, including interest, would be recovered. With the additional
levy the annual Government cash position would become positive in Year 8 and
the cumulative surplus would reach RwF 200 million in Year 20. To maintain
sufficient farmer incentives the additional levy should not exceed RwF 40 per
kg. During negotiations it was agreed that Government would periodically
review the level of OCIR's operational levy and its export tax on cinchona
and make adjustments or establish a new levy, as appropriate, to recover at a
reasonable interest rate all capital and recurrent expenditures incurred by
the Government and OCIR, including subsidies on farmers' inputs, while main-
taining sufficient incentives to farmers for cinchona cultivation.
5.06      The Project would have a very favorable impact on Rwanda's balance
of payments. Despite recurring foreign exchange expenditures resulting from
Project activities and debt service on the proposed IDA Credit, there would
be a net inflow of foreign exchange of RwF 51 million (US$550,000) during the
first five years of the Project, and of RwF 375 million (US$4.0 million)
during the first decade (Annex 6).
Farmer Benefits (Annex 7)
5.07      The analysis indicates that, while the long-term effect of the
Project on farm incomes would be very favorablZ, there would be a potential
for reduced incomes in the initial years after planting. For example, if a
farmer planted all of his 0.25 ha in one year, then for the first three years
after planting, assuming intercropping in the first two years and the planting
of 0.1 ha on land previously cultivated, the net cash revenues of a farm of
1 ha would, on average, be reduced by about 17% per annum. However, as the
drop in income would be reduced by staggering planting over several years,
it would not deter smallholders from planting cinchona. Acceptability of
cinchona to smallholders has already been demonstrated in the field and is
justified on account of increased farm incomes in subsequent years. Under
the Project, smallholders' net cash revenues from the sale of cinchona bark
would rise to about RwF 11,000 per annum from years 4 to 10. Additional
benefits would result from the use of debarked trees as firewood, whicl is in
short supply. The provision or planting material and fertilizers at a nominal
fee by OCIR and the productive use of some previously uncultivated land would



- 15 -
reduce farmers' financial risk and make Project returns particularly attrac-
tive.  Estimated average annual family incomes of Project farmers would be
increased by RwF5,250 (US$57), and annual per capita incomes by RwF 1,170
(USS13), or about 25% above present levels. Average annual rural income levels
in Rwanda of about RwF 5,100 (US$55) per capita are approximately 26% below
the national average; the country's absolute poverty level in 1970 was esti-
mated at RwF 3,700 (US$40) per year which would be eqxuivalent to about
RwF 4,600 (US$50) at 1974 prices.
VI. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION (Annex 8)
6.01      The primary direct benefits of the Project would be increased
production of cinchona bark for export, leading to increased incomes to about
3,600 farm families now living at near-subsistence levels, and increased
foreign exchange earnings for Rwanda. At full development, incremental
production would be 450 tons per year.
6.02      The Project's internal economic rate of return would be 15% over a
24-year period. Project output of cinchona has been valued at prices f.o.b.
Kigali less the cost of internal transport and handling; prices have been
assumed to remain constant at 1976 levels. The net market value of about
360 ha of crops replaced by the Project has been deducted from the value of
cinchona output to arrive at net incremental Project benefits. Project
ccsts include all components, except consultancy services. Skilled labor
and hired store and nursery labor has been fully costed at market rates.
Farm family labor has been shadow-priced at 25% of market wage rates. There
would be no on-farm employment of hired labor. Farm inputs, supplied to
farmers at a nominal fee, have been fully costed. Taxes and duties generated
by the Project have been deducted from Project costs. Foreign exchange costs
and benefits have been valued at RwF 111.00 = US$1.00 to reflect the opportu-
nity cost of foreign exchange to Rwanda; if foreign exchange were valued at
the prevailing exchange rate of RwF 92.84 = US$1.00, the economic rate of
return would be 13%.
6.03      The risks most likely to affect the Project's economic rate of
return would be reduced prices due to lagging demand in a market situation
of relatively few large buyers. But even with a price of 20% below expecta-
tions, the rate of return would still be 11%. The perennial nature and long
production cycle of cinchona which might involve a negative farm cash flow
in the initial years after planting would pose another risk in a smallholder
environment. The Project would seek to alleviate this risk by promoting the
planting of more than one-half of the new crop on previously uncultivated land,
thus minimizing losses from the production of existing crops, by staggering
planting on individual farms over several years, and by providing an attrac-
tive financial return to farmers. Scattered smallholder production also
makes quality control more difficult, but the resulting risk would be little



- 16 -
more than marginal in view of the relatively small size of the Project, the
fact that planting would be restricted to three relatively contiguous areas,
and the adequate level of staffing in the Project's extension service. Sensi-
tivity analysis indicates that, should outptit be 10% less and costs 10% higher
than anticipated, the economic rate of return would be 11%.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      At negotiations agreements were reached on the following principal
points:
(a) the area planted to cinchona by participating farmers would
not exceed 0.25 ha per farmer (para 3.02);
(b) consultants, whose qualifications and experience would be
satisfactory to IDA, would be employed, as and when needed, and
their terms of reference and conditions of employment would be
determined by agreement between the Government and IDA (para 3.04);
(c) the appointment of the internationally recruited Cinchona
Development Officer would be made in agreement with IDA
before January 1, 1977 (para 4.02);
(d)  Government would periodically review the level of OCIR's
operational levy and its export tax on cinchona and make
adjustments or establish a new levy as appropriate to
recover at a reasonable interest rate all subsidies to the
farmers as well as all other capital and recurrent expendi-
tures incurred by the Government and OCIR, while maintain-
ing sufficient production incentives for farmers (para
5.05).
7.02      The Project is suitable for an IDA Credit of USS1.8 million on
standard terms to the Government of Rwanda.



ANNEX 1
Page 1
RWANDA
GINCHONA PROJECT
PRODUCTION AND MARKETING OF CINCHONA
I. Present Situation
General
1.        The cinchona tree is a native of the Andes cordillera in South
America and belongs to the family Rubiaceae. It has been planted in many
tropical highlands of Asia and Africa. Commercial cinchona is extracted from
the dried bark of roots, stems and branches of a few species and varieties
of the genus Cinchona, o which C. ledgerlana is the most important.
2.        Cinchona bark is chiefly used for the extraction of its alkaloids,
of which quinine is the most important. The alkaloid content of the bark
normally varies between 3% and 14%, according to the genetic characteristics
of the tree, its age and the part from which the bark comes, the highest being
from the base of the tree and the lowest from branch and root extremities.
3.        Traditionally quinine was used as an anti-malarial drug, but during
and after World War II it lost ground to synthetics. However, the use of
quinine alkaloids has been growing steadily for other medical purposes, par-
ticularly in cardiac depressants, while the use of some cinchona derivatives
in beverages has increased rapidly in recent years, particularly quinine
hydra-chloride which is used as a flavoring agent in soft drinks.
4.        In Rwanda, harvesting of the bark normally starts in the fourth
year after planting, the bark being stripped off pruned branches and t: 'es
removed by uprooting in regular thinnings. The final crop is spread over
4 years from the seventh to the tenth year, when 25% of the remaining trees
are removed annually. The bark is then normally air-dried in the open to
reduce the moisture content to around 11%, after which operation the weight of
the bark is reduced by about two-thirds. Air-drying is supplemented by
artificial drying for 24 hours on private estates. The dried bark in pieces
and chips is packed in jute bags containing 50-60 kg. Properly stored it can
be kept for up to a year without losing its alkaloid content.
Production in Rwanda
5.        During the sixties about 20 small cinchona plantations of less than
100 ha were established, mostly in Cyangugu prefecture. Subsequently some of
these were taken over and extended by two foreign chemical companies (Pharmakina
and ACF Chemiefarma NV); others were neglected or abandoned as world market



ANNEX 1
Page 2
prices remained depressed. The Government also managed two experimental
plantations, one at Mata in Gikongoro Prefecture and the other in Kibuye
Prefecture. With world market prices rising since 1970, smallholders planted
cinchona and the area and production position as of 1973 is as follows:
PLANTINGS AND PRODUCTION OF CINCHONA IN 1973
Areas (ha)              Total             Average Yield
In        Production            (kg per ha)
Prefecture    Planted       Production        (ton)    (for areas in production only)
Gikongoro
State-Owned        5O"          12              2.8                   236
Cyangugu
Smallholders      219          134             72.2                   540
Foreign Estates  600           324            237.8                   733
Kibuye
State-Owned        18                         _____
Total        887          470            312.8                   666
/1   Includes 13 ha of Cinchona succeruba no longer harvested because of low
quinine alkaloid content.
Source: Ministry of Agriculture, Annual Report 1973.
As in previous years, foreign estates had the highest yields per ha, produced
about 80% of Rwanda's output and exported it under licenses from OCIR directly
to their processing plants in the Netherlands and the Federal Republic of
Germany. Rwanda exported the rest of its production to Belgium, France and
the United Kingdom.
Marketing and Prices
6.        There are no generally accepted grading standards for cinchona bark,
and importers' price offers take the form of a price range based on the percen-
tage content of quinine anhiydrous alkaloids (QAA). For example, bark wich 10%
QAA content can be priced at five times the price for bark with 3% QAA (Table 1).



ANNEX 1
Page 3
Countries without laboratories to determine this percentage can sell either
on results of prior overseas tests on samples or direct without testing and
without an estimate of the QAA content. World market prices of quinine pro-
ducts increased sharply in 1973-74, and increased further in 1975 (Table 2).
7.        Between 1968 and 1974, Rwanda's average selling prices (f.o.b.
Kigali) and export tonnages more than doubled (Table 3). Under these boom
conditions, there has been much stealing from plantations, indiscriminate and
premature harvesting of bark, and considerable deficiencies in the marketing
arrangements for the smallholders' production. To remedy matters, the Govern-
ment has entrusted the development of smallholders' cinchona to OCIR. A new
division to handle cinchona has been set up which operates: (a) nurseries,
(b) a specialized extension service and (c) two buying and storage centers.
OCIR is now the sole marketing agency for smallholder cinchona production,
while estate production continues to be exported under licenses granted by
OCIR.
8.        In early 1976, OCIR's price to smallholders was increased to
RwF 220/kg of bark from roots and stems and RwF 180/kg for bark from branches,
irrespective of QAA content. The basic export value c.i.f. Antwerp of cinchona
bark was 270 RwF per kilo bark with 5.43% SQ2 content. The actual c.i.f.
market prices in January 1976 varied from RwF 195,000 (US$2,100) per ton for
low grade bark with an SQ2 content of 3.62% to RwF 975,000 (US$10,530) per ton
of bark with a SQ2 content over 10.86% (1% QAA = 0.83% SQ2). Prices used in
Project analysis are shown in Table 4.
II. Future Prospects
Agronomic Considerations
9.        Cinchona ledgeriana requires an abundant and well distributed
rainfall (1,400 mm and above), is not very exacting as to soil requirements
and grows on slopes as well as drained swamps between altitudes of 1,400 m
and 2,000 m. It will grow in most areas supporting tea. In Rwanda's south-
west, and in Cyangugu prefecture in particular, conditions of soil, rainfall
and climate are most favorable and cinchona production is concentrated there.
10.       OCIR's nurseries obtain selected seeds from the INERA research
station at Mulungu (Zaire) which has been breeding and selecting cinchona
for the past 30 years. Seeds are tiny and 1 kg is sufficient to plant 100 ha.
After 9 months in nursery, plants are ready for planting out. Previously, less
than 1,000 trees/ha were planted and trees were cut back for bark harvest from
years 4 to 12, followed by two coppice cycles of 8 years. A more flexible
system is now widely used under which 10,000 trees/ha are planted, thinned
out by removing 25% of them annually in years 4, 5, and 6, and 6.25% annually
over the following four years, when all the stumps are uprooted and the plan-
tation is replanted. Coppicing annually from years 7 to 10 has been aban-
doned, as regrowth has a relatively low quinine content.



ANNEX I
Page 4
11.       Some damage has been caused, particularly in younger plantations
through a leaf-sucking insect, Helopeltis orophila, which attacks growing tips
and causes reduced growth and yields. Attacks are erratic and controllable
through the application of suitable insecticides. Occasionally the larvae of
a moth may cause damage by defoliation, but this does not usually constitute a
serious danger. Root rot (Armillaria mellea) is sometimes encountered,
especially in poorly-drained soils; in general, however, as in the case of tea
in the same region, its incidence is limited, probably because the original
forest has long disappeared.
12.       Estimates of yields are difficult to make because of the variability
in harvesting methods and quinine content of the different kinds of bark.
Actual figures obtained from the records of one estate, carefully recorded
over a period, showed an average annual yield from year 4 onwards of 1 ton/ha
of dried bark of all kinds. For the hitherto unknown smallholder production
the yields are likely to be considerably lower and for Project purposes a
yield of 500 kg per ha/year has been assumed at full development (years 6 to
10).
13.       Cinchona is suited for smallholder production.  Where land is
available, it can be grown in blocks, but it can also be planted as a hedge-
row or windbreak or around the homestead without affecting food crop produc-
tion. When planted in single lines thinning is eased, and with increasing
sunlight the bark quinine content is likely to increase. Food crops can
easily be interplanted during the first two years. Although labor intensive,
the harvesting is simple: the bark is stripped off and then air-dried for
5 to 10 days. Harvesting delays do not affect bark quality, nor yields,
and smallholders can adjust their harvesting calendar according to market
prices. The wood from harvested trees is useful for fuel, and this is an
additional benefit to growers.
World Market Prospects
14.       A few European pharmaceutical companies engaged in the extraction
of quinine products dominate the world market. Through their ownership of or
interest in cinchona plantations, sometimes including processing plants in
producing countries, these companies control their sources of supply and only
supplement their needs from other sources. Because of this monopolistic
situation and the secrecy surrounding new technical developments, market
information is scanty and forecasting difficult.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
15.       The world production of cinchona bark is roughly as follows:
Country                        Annual Production (1973)
(tons)
Zaire                                  4,500
Indonesia                               1,000
Guatemala                                 500
Rwanda                                    350 (510 in 1974)
Others /1                                 650
Total                              7,000
/1   Including Tanzania, Kenya, India, Sri Lanka, Bolivia,
Colombia, Costa Rica and Ecuador.
The recent nationalization of plantations in Zaire has not disrupted supplies
appreciably and production elsewhere, particularly in Indonesia, is expected
to increase during the next few years in response to recent price increases.
16.       The extent to which this recent price increase has been caused by
an increase in demand for quinine products is difficult to determine. The
consumption of quinine sulphate in anti-malarial preparations is said to be
declining because of synthetic substitutes, while demand for quinine sul-
phate (used in cardiac depressants) and for quinine hydrochloride, obtained
from quinine sulphate and used in the soft drinks industry, is growing.
By the end of 1973 the prices of all three products were nearly twice as
high as two years before. Although there is always a danger that national
stockpiles (particularly in the USA) may be released on the world market,
thus causing some disruptions, growth forecasts for world quinine require-
ments of 2% to 5% per annum do not seem to be unduly unreasonable.
Processing Possibilities in Rwanda
17.       The Government wishes to promote the establishment of a cinchona
processing plant in the country and is already negotiating with a commer-
cial firm to that effect. UNIDO is providing technical assistance to the
Government in the evaluation of this project and in any negotiations with
private interests that may arise.
III. Project Considerations
18.       The Project would expand and reinforce the Cinchona Division of OCIR
Cafe in order to accelerate the cinchona smallholder planting program in the
prefectures of Cyangugu, Gikongoro and Kibuye, through:



ANNEX 1
Page 6
(a) increasing the supply of planting material;
(b) strengthening the extension services to smallholders; and
(c) improving both internal and external marketing arrangements
for cinchona bark.
19.       The Project would increase OCIR's existing nursery capacity in order
to produce from year 4 onwards nearly 4 million plants per year, i.e. suffi-
cient for the establishment of 300 ha at a density of 10,000 trees/ha (allow-
ing 30% for culling, losses and failures). A total of 900 ha would be
planted: 100 ha in year 2, 200 ha in year 3 and 300 ha each in year 4 and 5.
Seedlings would only be distributed to smallholders planting not more than
0.25 ha under cinchona. Some of the planting would be in blocks, wherever
Government-owned land unsuitable for cultivation and grazing (e.g. slopes) is
available. However, all harvesting, even in blocks, would be done indivi-
dually.
20.       Seedlings would be planted in pits, with an addition of farmyard
manure and fertilizer (NPK - 20:10:10). Liming would also be necessary.
Farmers would pay a nominal charge for seedlings, fertilizer and lime made
available under the Project; the bulk of these input costs would be reco-
vered by a levy on exports.
21.       Of the 887 ha under cinchona in 1974, 470 ha were in production.
Project plantings of 900 ha would bring Rwanda's cinchona area to 1,800 ha
by 1981. An expansion by more than 900 ha would be risky in the light of
limited world market demand. By 1978 existing plantations should be pro-
ducing 560 tons annually, and by 1987 the Project plantations should be
producing an additional 450 tons annually. The total production would thus
increase from 312 tons in 1974 to 1,010 tons in 1987, thereby increasing
Rwanda's share of the world market from 4.5% to 10% on the assumption that
world consumption would increase by 3% per year (Table 5).
22.       The head of OCIR's Cinchona Division would serve as Project Director.
The Cinchona Division has at present, besides it's chief, only one agronomist
and one "vulgarisateur" and would be augmented under the Project by two
additional agronomists, three "vulgarisateurs" and twelve "moniteurs," who
would work from two existing and four new centers, where nurseries and stores
would be established. In addition, an internationally-recruited Cinchona
Development Officer, acting as Deputy Project Director, would be in charge of
the operational program. Draft terms of reference for the Cinchona Development
Officer are in Appendix 1. The Project would provide an office and staff hous-
ing at Kibuye together with means of transport for all personnel. Besi es
organizing the planting program and the distribution of seedlings and fertil-
izers, extension staff would advise farmers on harvesting, the extraction and
drying of bark and its separation according to its origin (root, trunk or
branch).



ANNEX I
Page 7
23.       The four new centers would operate as additional purchasing stations
for smallholder production. The Cinchona Development Officer would supervise
this system and would assist OCIR Headquarters staff in administrative and
accounting matters related to the Project. Project accounts would be kept
separately in OCIR's accounts and on a commercial basis, showing costs of
purchases, operational costs, levies to recover the costs of inputs and ex-
port duties as deductions from sales proceeds.
24.       OCIR's Purchasing and Marketing Division would handle the overseas
sales of cinchona bark. As production grows, it will need to widen its
overseas contacts, unless a local processing factory is established (para.
17), in which case special pricing arrangements would need to be negotiated.
Duplicates of bark samples dispatched to potential overseas buyers would be
sent to ISAR for analysis for QAA content as a check on offers received.
25.       Because there is a relatively long lead time between plant-
ing and harvesting, and the possibility exists that some existing crops would
be displaced by cinchona, farmers would only have to pay a nominal fee of RwF
1,000 for inputs and services. The attractive returns at full development
should be sufficient incentive to farmers to participate in the Project (Annex
7). Input subsidies and other Project costs would be recovered through levies
and taxes on cinchona exports.
26.       Cinchona exports accounted for about one percent by value of total
exports in 1973-74 (Table 6). Export earnings from cinchona, including
production outside the Project, would more than quadruple in real terms over
the next decade. While this would still represent a small share of total
exports, it would help alleviate Rwanda's trade deficit which was RwF 1.9
billion (US$20.8 million) in 1974.
June 8, 1976



ANNEX 1
Appendix 1
Page 1
RWANDA
CINCHONA PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference for the Post
of Cinchona Development Officer
1.        The Cinchona Development Officer would:
(a) be responsible to the Project Director;
(b) assist in the planning and implementation of the plantation
program, in the carrying out of all cultural operations from
the nursery to the cropping, and ensuring that adequate soil
conservation measures are followed;
(c) assist in planning the best phasing of planting and cropping
operations by individual smallholders to ensure as regular
and as high a financial return as possible to them, consistent
with the cultural cycle of cinchona;
(d) assist in providing technical advice and effective control
on the extraction, drying, stacking, storage and marketing
of cinchona bark;
(e) assist in the setting up of suitable crop records, of sample
plot measurements, and of quality control of the cinchona
crop;
(f)  assist in all management, administr'tive, budgetary, economic
and financial matters;
(g)  assist in the selection of technical staff;
(h) be responsible for on-the-job training of technical personnel;
(i) be responsible for the monitoring, evaluation and cost benefit
analysis of the program; and
(j) act as liaison with any consultant appointed within the frame-
work of the Project.



ANNEX 1
Appendix 1
Page 2
2.        Qualifications required:
(a) have a university degree or equivalent in agronomy,
agricultural sciences or forestry;
(b) have no less than 10 years experience in tropical
agriculture or forestry, with some experience in
cinchona growing and cropping;
(c) have some experience in economics, more particularly
agricultural or forestry economics; and
(d) have experience in the management of a tropical agri-
cultural or forestry project or operation, preferably
involving cinchona.
June 8, 1976



ANNEX/ANNEXE 1
Table/Tableau 1
RWANDA
CINCHONA PROJECT
Price Quotations for Cinchona Bark
(CIF Antwerp) in January 1976
% of SQ2-              Price of Bark              Equivalent Price of SQ2
(Quinine       RwF/tonne           US$/tonne       RwF/tonne    US$/tonne
Sulphate)        (000)                               (106)        (106)
3.620-4.826       195-260        2,100-2,800            5.4         0.58
4.827-6.033       290-361        3,130-3,900            6           0.65
6.034-8.446       542-632        5,850-6,820            7.5         0.80
8.447-10.860      759-975        8,200-10,520           9.0         1.02
1/  SQ2 = Quinine sulphate with two water molecules attached (4.827% SQ2 =
4.0% QAA).
February 15, 1976



RWANDA
CINCHONA PROJECT
Prices of Selected Quinine Products_ 1971 - 1975 1/
(US$ per Ounce)
1971           1972           1973           1974           1975
Quinine Sulphate, USP XVIII       1.61-1.75      2.04-2.05      2.97-3.33       4.51-6.21      5.44-6.95
QuinLie Hydrochloride, NF         1.60-1.61      1.93-1.99      2.85-3.25       4.45-6.20      5.40-6.90
Quinidine Sulphate, USP           2.39-2.45      2.73-3.00      4.08-4.62       6.82-7.71      7.68-8.74
1/   December list prices for lots of 2,000 ounces or more.
Note: List prices do not always reflect prevailing market prices.
Sources:  Chemical Marketing Reporter, New York.
M t
Januar- 13, 1976
r3Y



RWANDA
CINCHONA PROJECT
Cinchona Export Quantities, Values and Prices 1968 - 1974
Unit            1968     1969      1970      1971      1972      1973     1974
1. Quantity                        Ton               221       265       269       180      246       311       510
2. Value:  Customs-                RwF million          9.5     11.6      12.5      12.6     17.2      23.3      42.6
3. Export Duty                     RwF million         1.5       1.0       1.9       1.9      2.6       3.5      n.a.
4. Value: Foreign Exchange
Receipts             RwF million        12.3      12.7      17.1      15.6     25.2      30.2      98.0
5. Average Selling Price
FOB Kigali                    RwF/kg             56        48        64       87       100        97       192
1/ Valuation for customs purpose based on artificial unit price ("prix forfaitaire").
Sources: Ministry of Planning and Natural Resources, National Bank of Rwanda, OCIR.
January 30, 1976
F-3
P) 2
a >



ANNEX/ANNEXE 1
Table/Tableau 4
RWANDA
CINCHONA PROJECT
Breakdown of Expected Cinchona Prices
Percentage
RwF/ton     of FOB Price
Price CIF Antwerp
On basis of 4.5% QAA (5.43% SQ2) 1/                 270,000
Less
Freight Kigali/Antwerp                               37,800
Wharfage, Insurance & other Costs                     5,400
Price FOB Kigali (rounded)                             227,000            100%
Less
OCIR Operational Charges                             18,000              8%
Customs Duty and Export Tax                          45,000             20%
OCIR Levy to recover Project Costs                   40,000             18%
Transport Cyangugu/Kigali                            10,000              4%
Analysis                                              3,000              1%
Packaging, etc.                                       2,000              1%
Price to Producer                                      109,000 2/          48%
Price used in Economic Calculation                     212,000 3/
1/ QAA: Quinine anhydrous alkaloid. SQ2: Quinine sulphate with two water
molecules attached.
2/ Producer price used in farmer's cash flow calculations - RwF 104,000/ton.
3/ Price FOB Kigali less local transport, analysis and packaging.
June 2, 1976



RWANDA
CINCHONA PROJECT
Estimate of Development of Cinchona Production
(tonnes of dried bark)
Area       Year        Year        Year        Year        Year       Year        Year        Year        Year         Year        Year         Year        Year       Year
ha        1974        1975        1976         1977       1978       1979        19dO        1981        1982         1983        1994         1985        1986       198,
1977     Total a.-  planted-                         887
of wh .h:
a) is, production                        470        312         312         350          350        350        350         350         350          350         350          350         350         350         350
b) .ut yet producing                     417         -           70         125          170        zl        210         210         210          210         210          210         210         210         210
312         382         475         520        560         560         560         560         560          560         560          560         560        560
1978     Project plantings                           100         -           -           -            -          -          -           -           -            30          40           50          50          50         5W
79      Project plantingo                          200         -            -           -           -          -          -           -            -           -            60          80         100          100        100
!980     Project plantings                           300         -                                    - -        -          -           -           -                  -                  90         120         150        150
1981     Project plantings                           300         -           -            -           _          _       _-        -                             -           -_           -           90         120         150
Rwanda Total                                          312         382         475          520        560        560         560          560         590         660          780         920         960       1,010
Total world production-/                            7,000       7,210       7,430        7,650      7,880      8,110       8,360       8,610       8,870        9,130       9,410        9,690       9,980     10,280
Rwanda production in 7 of
world production                                    4.5         5.3         6.4          6.8        7.1        6.4         6.7         6.5          6.7         7.2         8.3          9.5         9.8        9.8
Total area under Ci-chona by 1981,
existing in 1974          887 ha
P-j-ect plentings         900 ha
Total              1,787 ha
/ Includes estates, of which average yields of 750 kg/ha are expected. Subsequent plantings are assumed to be by smallholders
with yields of 300 kg/ha in year 4, 400 kgIsa in year 5 and 500 kg/ha in year 6 and thereafter.
2,  world production estimated to increase by 3W/year.
.OTE:  It is assumed that areas and yields from estates ressais constant.
June 8, 1976



RWANDA
CINCHONA PROJECT
Value of Exports and Imports, 1967-1974
(RwF Million)
1967      1968       1969       1970       1971       1972      1973       1974
EXPORTS
1.  Animal Products             26         13        26         40         41         61        105        134
2. Vegetable Products
a)  Cinchona                4         10         12         14         13         17         23         43
b)  Other                  838       934        767      1,541      1,30-5    1,065      2,010      2,507
3.  Mineral Products           529       508        601        859        854        645        591        541
4.  Industrial Products         -           1         5          1          1         -           2          2
5.  Re-exports                   7        20         14         26         20         17         56        232
Total Exports           1,404      1,487      1,424      2,481      2,233     1,795      2,787      3,459
Total Imports           2,022      2,246      2,362      2,910      3,305     3,182      2,819      5,394
Balance               -618       -759       -938       -429    -1,072    -1,387         -32    -1,935
Source:  Ministere du Plan et des Ressources Naturelles,                                                      >
Bulletin de Statistique, Kigali, January 1975.
January 30, 1976.



!WANDA
CINCHOINA PROJEC.T
impe-ntation Chart
Year                 1976                 1977                            1978                             1979                             1980                             1981
Production of 'qeedlings                           1.3 million                      2.6 milion                      4 million                       4 million
Planting                                                                      100 ha                    200  ha                        300   ha                         300  ba
Rjecruitment -~f_New Staff
Cinchova Officer I/
AgronomeI
Vulgarisateur                     2
Moniteur66
I1 Interniationally recruited.
June L0, 1976



ANNEX 2
RWANDA
CINCHONA PROJECT
Consultancy Services
1.        With a high rural population density and limited scope for the
expansion of its cultivated areas, Rwanda needs to give high priority to
the increase of its farm production. Because of population pressures, farm
sizes have become smaller, soil fertility has been reduced through the lack
of sound husbandry and, as a result, crop yields have in many instances
declined. If recent trends continue, Rwanda would be faced with a serious
situation in which it may be difficult to sustain export earnings. Although
the broad directional needs can be clearly defined, the means of meeting them
are far from certain and present many technological, organizational and
economic as well as social problems. Past research efforts have generally
not been directed at producing workable systems which can effectively and
economically be applied to a large number of small farmers. At the farm level
extension services are weak and poorly managed and input, credit and market-
ing services inadequately provided.
2.        A broad range of on-farm development opportunities to meet future
production needs exists in Rwanda, but the lack of sufficient technical
knowledge prevents the realization of these opportunities. The country needs
technical support, directed particularly at total on-farm needs, to expand
the body of knowledge necessary for accelerated development. Although the
precise nature of such support has to be determined according to priority
requirements and aligned with Government's development strategy, it should
include elements of applied research, extension, farm services, and economic
analysis of alternative systems. Consultations on specific problems and
assistance in the preparation of projects are also needed.
3.        The Project would provide RwF 10 million (US$108,000) over
a 5-year period for consultancy services which are intended to fill the
most urgent needs for technical support and to initiate studies and
programs to create a sounder basis for future pre-investment activities,
development projects and sector policies. The funds would be administered
by the Ministry of Agriculture and disbursed according to precise terms of
reference to be agreed upon between Government and IDA during Project
implementation.
June 8, 1976



ANNEX 3
Page 1
RWANDA
CINCHONA PROJECT
Office des Cultures Industrielles du Rwanda (OCIR)
A. Origins and Present Conditions
1.        During the period when Ruanda-Urundi was administered as one unit
and as a UN Trust Territory, an office for native coffees of Ruanda-Urundi
(Office des Cafes Indigenes du Ruanda-Urundi - OCIRU) was established to
exercise control over coffee marketing in the interests of the small coffee
producers.
2.        The Office for the Industrial Crops of Rwanda (Office des Cultures
Industrielles du Rwanda - OCIR) was set up by a law in 1964 to take over
within Rwanda OCIRU's operations for coffee and other industrial crops. Under
this law, the objectives of OCIR in relation to industrial crops are defined
as:
(a) control of quality and grading;
(b) development of external and internal market outlets;
(c) organization and improvement of:
production, processing and grading;
establishment and enforcement of quality standards;
storage and handling;
marketing procedures;
agricultural cooperatives;
(d) aiding and representing the Government in international commodity
negotiations and agreements; and
(e) management of funds specifically intended for the promotion
of the production and sale of industrial crops.
3.        OCIR is governed by a Board of Directors consisting of:
Minister of Agriculture and Animal Husbandry (Chairman)
Minister of Economic Affairs (Vice Chairman)



ANNEX 3
Page 2
Minister in charge of cooperative affairs (currently
the Minister of Public Health and Social Affairs)
Director of Foreign Trade
Director - Agricultural Research Institute of
Rwanda (ISAR)
Director - General, OCIR - Coffee Department
Director - General, OCIR - Tea Department
In addition to these ex-officio members, up to 15 members may be appointed
by the President on the recommendation of the Minister of Agriculture. The
few such coopted members that have been appointed were mainly representatives
of semi-official bodies, thus underlining the fact that OCIR is essentially
a semi-autonomous parastatal agency rather than a producer's organization.
In 1974 OCIR was split into OCIR Cafe, which is also responsible for cinchona,
and OCIR The. Both organizations share the same Board of Directors. The
organization of OCIR Cafe is shown in Chart World Bank - 16198.
4.        For its main sources of funds, OCIR Cafe relies on:
(a) taxes and levies on industrial crops as fixed by the Board;
(b) profits resulting from its operations; and
(c)  subsidies and loans granted or approved by the Government.
OCIR's accounts are audited by two financial controllers nominated by the
Minister of Finance and appointed by presidential decree.
B. OCIR Cafe Activities
Coffee
5.         Coffee has been the main crop controlled by OCIR.  Product prices
of coffee and traders' margins are fixed each year on the recommendation
of OCIR.  This recommendation is based on crop forecasts; change in market-
ing, processing and export costs; world market prospects and the level of
OCIR's price stabilization fund (Fonds d'Egalisation) which is supported
by a levy on coffee exports. The stabilization fund is used to maintain
guaranteed minimum coffee prices to producers, and excess funds are invested
in short-term Treasury bonds, thus financing a substantial share (25% in 1973)
of Government's Development Budget expenditures.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
6.        Another of OCIR's major functions is coffee marketing and export
conLrol. Since, under the marketing system in operation in Rwanda, the
producer is paid a fixed price and coffee is sold in a fluctuating world
market, it is necessary to control the remuneration received by all agencies
handling coffee and to ensure that any resulting margin accrues to OCIR and
the Government. This is sought to be achieved by the preparation each year
of a schedule ("bareme") setting out the remunerations applicable within
a range of possible selling prices. At no point does coffee become the prop-
erty of OCIR, but over the years its direct interventions in the marketing
process have increased. OCIR also assists in the financing of coffee market-
ing by borrowing from commercial banks and supervises overseas selling opera-
tions through its Price Commission. Quality control is based on Ministerial
decree No. 1/65 of 1965 which defines exportable grades of coffee, and is
carried out by OCIR's Licensing and Grading Division through sampling and
testing.
7.        Coffee extension was also under the responsibility of OCIR for a
brief period in 1974/75 but is now again entrusted to the Ministry's Depart-
ment of Agriculture. OCIR, however, distributes inputs, such as pruning
knives and saws, and organizes pest control campaigns for which it supplies
the dusting equipment and pesticides and the grower contributes his labor.
Finally OCIR maintains hand pulping facilities for farmers' use in the prep-
aration of semi-washed coffee.
Other Development Activities
8.        OCIR exported pyrethrum until the processing plant at Ruhengeri
came into operation which is owned and operated by Usinex, a parastatal
organization on the Board of which OCIR is officially represented. More
recently OCIR has assumed responsibility for the development of smallholder
production of cinchona (Annex 1). In addition, OCIR has endeavored to reha-
bilitate the coffee washing stations established oy cooperatives during the
1950's at Nkora and Impara to produce fully washed coffee.
Achievements and Prospects
9.        During the ten years of its existence, OCIR has played a major role
in the adoption and execution of a prudent agricultural price policy that has
given the growers of export crops a sense of long-term security and a reason-
able share (nearly 60% on average) of the realized f.o.b. Mombasa selling
price. This must be counted as a major achievement in view of the con-
siderable fluctuations in world market prices during the period. Margins on
coffee allowed to other agencies, middlemen, hullers and exporters, expressed
in values per kg appear to be reasonable; variations in quantities handled,
however, could affect greatly thie return to agencies with high fixed costs,
such as hulling mills.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
10.       The coverage of OCIR's operating expenses for which in 1974 a
levy ("taxe remuneratoire") of RwF 5.00/kg green coffee was charged depends
on the tonnage exported and differences are in fact made up by transfers from
OCIR's other funds--the price stabilization fund and propaganda fund ("fonds
de propagande"). The revenue of the propaganda fund comes from a small fixed
levy (RwF 0.30/kg green coffee in 1974) and was meant to finance diversifica-
tion out of coffee but was partly used to rehabilitate the old coffee washing
stations at Impara and Nkora. Thanks to the recruitment of better staff
through higher salaries and to better management and supervision, OCIR's
coffee extension service is now on a sound footing, but still under-staffed
and under-equibped.  The efficiency of the pest control service has improved
and the fact that nearly all the 500 hand pulpers are operating represents a
considerable achievement.
11.       On the financial side, OCIR Coffee Department accounts are kept up-
to-date and, as required by the law, the accounts for the calendar year are
presented to the Board of Directors for approval at their meeting held in
March of the following year. These annual accounts are prepared separately for
(a) its operating fund; (b) the price stabilization fund and (c) the propaganda
fund. But since expenses are somewhat arbitrarily allocated between these
funds and inter-fund transfers are frequent (para 10) the individual balance
sheets and profit and loss statements do not accurately reflect the various
operations of OCIR. Its operating fund covers not only its marketing control
activities, but also the cost of inputs (tools, pesticides, etc). OCIR Cafe's
balance sheets and income statements are shown in Tables 1 and 2.
June 8, 1976



RWANDA
CINCHONA PROJECT
OCIR Cafe:  Balance Sheets as in December 31. 1972.  1973 and 1974
(RwF '000)
1972          1973         1974                                                                       1972                1973              1974
Assets
Investments                                                                                    Liabilities
(a)  Government bonds                              224,550       278,500    248,500               Capital
(b)  Rwandex 1/                                       __           10,000      33,478                Operational Fund                                       59,066             59,066           59,066
(c)  Other                                                        25,000       25,623                Propaganda Fund                                        18,997             23,140           23,140
Stabilization Fund                                   276,796            333,673          335,075
Land and buildings (after depreciation)             43,128         46,190      59,196                                                                      354,859            415,879          417,281
Vehicle, and equipment (after depreiation)              665         2,593      17,448             Reserve Funds 3/                                            -                 17,959          67,937
Sundry creditors                         4/              25,103              10,640           31,516
Stock of materials                                  18,486         21,912      80,333             Loan from Banque Nationale Rwandaise -                      -                15,000              --
Surpluses
Sundry debtors 2/                                  121,232        145,932    217,439                       Operational Fund                                  6,154             46,642           67,571
Cash and bank balances                              39,124         38,221      22,664                      Propaganda Fund                                   4,143               5,710           3,103
Stabilization Fund                              56,876              55,728         117,273
___Adjustment account                                    67,173             108,080          187,947
Totals;   447,135        568,348    704,681                                                                       447,135             568,348          704,681
1/   Representing OCIR - Cafe's participation in Rwandex equity capital.
2/   Moetly outstanding balances of loass for vehicles granted to OCIR staff.
3/   Consisting of Diversification, 5tabilization, and OCIR Operatin-al  m,nds.
4/   Loan for working capital needs.
5/   Representing net balance of inter-Fund transactions.
J 3-
June 3, 1976



RWANDA
CINCHONA PROJECT
OCIR Cafe:  Profit and Loss Accounts for Years Ending December 31, 1972, 1973 and 1974
1972        1973          1974                                                              1972              1973               1974
Expenditure                                        2877         2,611396/__
Materials used -                              28,747       24,364      113,986              Income
Interest received
Staff                                     20,431       20,410        30,652                       (a)   Government bonds                7,420             8,385              9,41
Other operasional costs                    14,790      12,242        41,634                       (b)   Other investments                 912               911              1,178
Special cofiee transport allowance           --         8,185           758                                                             8,332             9,296             10,5f
Propaganda expenses                        1,480        2,457          --                                                              8                   ,               10_
Levies on exports
Surpluses
Coffee - stabilization                       49,456            55,686             21,930
(a)  operational fund                      6,154       46,642 3/    20,928                      - propaganda                           5,131              4,686 3/          2,424
(b)  Propaganda fund                       4,143        5,710        (2,608)                     - operational                        41,045             93,732            97,175
(c)  Stabilization fund                   56,876       55,728        61,728                                                           95,632            154,104           121,529
67,173     108,080        79,868
Pyrethrum                                       730               --                  20
Cinchona                                        346                418              --
Sale of goods 2/                             26,179               --             144,940
Operational surplus                            --               6,154               --
Miscellaneous                                 1,402              5,766           (10,181)
TOTALS               132,621      175,738       266,898                                                          132,621            175,738           266,898
1/ Includes materials used in both marketing operations (bags etc.) and in
a, Žnsion operations (tools, pesticides etc.) supplied free to farmers.
9/ M . ly goods sold to tea plantations.
H>
C// Cc fee operational levy receipts abnormally high in 1973 and 1974 because this
le-Ty also collected on exports of coffee of Ugandan origin.
4, 1976



RWANDA
CINCHONA PROJECT
Total Project Cost
(RwF'000)
Table                                                                             Foreign Exchange    Percent Distribution
Reference     Year 1      Year 2      Year 3      Year 4     Year 5       Total        %      Amount       of Baseline Costs
A. BASELINE COSTS
1.  CINCHONA
Inputs                                  2             330       1,693      3,503       4,283       6,983       16,792        91     15,249                12
Vehicles and Equipment                  2           6,908       2,748       1,378      5,608       1,448       18,090        59      10,725               13
Buildings                               2           7,000       2,000        --         --          --          9,000        48       4,360                6
Personnel and Training                  2           9,798      12,770      14,060     15,350      15,350       67,328        46     30,150                49
Operation and Maintenance               2           2,696       3,361       3,361      3,361       3,361       16,140        70      11,272               12
Subtotal                                       26.732      22.572     22,302      28,602      27,142     127,359        56      71,756                93
2.  CONSULTANCY SERVICES                                2,000       2,000       2,000      2,000       2,000       10,000        80       8,000                7
Subtotal 1 + 2                                 28,732     24,572      24,302      30,602      29.142     137,350         58     79,756               100
B. CONTINGENCIES
Physical 1/                                         2,673       2,257       2,230      2,860       2,714       12,734        56       7,175                9
Price    2/                                         3,510       5,303       7,822     13,597      16,654       46,886        56     26,256                34
Subtotal                                        6,183      7,560      10,052      16,457      19,368      59,620        56      33,431               43
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                            34,915      32,132     34,354      47,059      48,510      196,970       57    113,187                143
1/   Ten percent of project costs of Cinchona component; no allowance was made for
consulting services.
2/   See Appendix 1.
June 4, 1976   -



ANNEX/ANNEXE 4
Table/Tableau 2
RWANDA
CINCHONA PROJECT
Project Costs
(RwF'000)
Unit                                                                              Foreign Exchange        Year 6
Cost     Year 1      Year 2      Year 3      Year 4      Year 5      Total           %     Amount        Onwards
Personnel
Cinchona Development Officer  1/                     6,700      6,700       6.700       6,700       6,700       6,700       33,500        90     30,150           --
Agronomist  2/                                         280        560         560         560         560         560        2,800        --        --             560
Vulgarisateurs                                         144        288         432         432         432         432        2,016        --        --             432
Moniteurs                                                90       540       1,080       1,080       1,080       1,080        4,860        --        --           1,080
Clerks                                                 105        210         420         420         420         420        1,890        --                       420
Storemen                                                78        156         312         312         312         312        1,404        --       --              312
Driver                                                  90        270         450         450         450         450        2,070        --        --             450
Store Laborers                                          38        380         912         912         912         912        4,028        --       --              912
Nursery Laborers                                                  480       1,690       2.980       4,270       4.270       13,690        --        --           2,670
Subtotal                                                   9,584     12,556      13,846      15,136      15,136       66,258        46      30,150         6,836
Training  3/                                                      214         214         214         214         214        1,070                  --
Buildings
Stores                                               1,000      2,000       2,000        --          --          --          4,000        48      1,920           --
Housing                                              3,000      3,000        --          --          --          --          3,000        48       1,440          --
Office                                               2,000      2,000        --          --          --          --          2,000        50      1,000           --
Subtotal                                                 7,000       2,000        --          --          --          9,000        48      4,360           --
Vehicles and Equipmeet
4-Wheel Drive                                        1,180      1,180        --          --         1,180        --          2,360        45      1,062            392
Pick Up                                                590      1,180       1,180        --         1,180       1,180       4,720        81       3,823           587
Motorcycles                                             85        190         190        --190l                   190          760        71        540             85
Bicycles                                                13         78          78          78          78          78          390       60         234            40
Truck (2 tons)                                       1,490      2,980        --          --         2,980        --          5.960       85       5,066           598
Nursery Equipment                                               1,300       1,300       1,300        --          --          3,900        --       --            --
Subtotal                                                 6,908       2,748       1,378       5,608       1,448       18,090        59      10,725         1,702
Inputs for Nurseries
(Fertilizer, Pesticides, Seeds, etc.)                             330         660         990         990         990       3,960        93       3,682           800
Inputs for Farmers
(Fertilizer, Lice, Pesticides, Sprayers)                         --         1,033      2,513       3,293       5,993  .   12,832         90      11,567         4,500
Operation and Maintenance
Housing (54)                                                      150         150         150         150         150          750        47        353            150
Office Building (5%)                                              100         100         100         100         100          500        48         240           100
Stores (57.)                                                      100         200         200         200         200          900        48        432           200
Vehicles  4/                                                    1,065       1,630       1,630       1,630       1,630        7,585        74      5,613         1,630
Truck  4/                                                       1,200       1,200       1,200       1,200       1,200        6,000        74      4,440          1,200
Office                                                             81          81          81          81          81          405        48         194            81
Subtotal                                                 2,696       3,361       3,361       3,361       3,361       16,140        70      11,272         3,361
TOTAL                                                   26,732      22,572      22,302      28,602      27,142      127,350        56      71,756        17,199
Physical Contingencies, 10',                                    2,673       2,257       2,230       2,860       2,714       12,734        56      7,175         1,719
Subtotal Project Costs                                  29,405      24,829      24,532      31,462      29,856      140,084        5'      78,931        18,918
Price Contingencies _/
Buildings                                                       1,232         638        --          --          --          1,870        49         916
Personnel and Training                                          1,077       2,949       5,103       7,767     10,299        27,195        46     12,509
Vehicles/Equipment, Inputs,
Operation/Naintenance                                         1,201       1,716       2,719       5,830      6,355       17,821        72      12,831
Subtotal Price Contingencies                             3,510       5,303       7,822      13,597      16,654       46,886        56      26,256
TOTAL, INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                          32,915      30,132      32,354      45,059      46,510      186,970        56    105,187
1/    Internationally recruited.  Includes overhead of consulting firm acting as
visiting agent.
2/    In addition to one agronomist who is already in existing position.
3/    Includes training in Rwanda and in neighboring countries, and visiting,lectrrers.
4/    Unit crots for 4-wheel drive RwF 5OO,00O/year, for pick up RwF 250,000/year, for motorcycle RwF 30,000/year,
for bicycle RwF 1,000/year, for truck RwF 600,000/year.
5/    See Appendix 1.
May 27, 1976.



ANNEX 4
Appendix 1
Page 1
RWANDA
CINCHONA PROJECT
CONTINGENCIES
The Project Time Frame
1.        The calculations and phasing in the appraisal report are based
on calendar years; the Project period is 1977-81. All baseline costs are
up-to-date as of March 1, 1976.
Physical Contingencies
2.        A 10% contingency has been allowed for all Project costs related
to cinchona development. No contingency has been allowed for consultancy
services.
Price Contingencies
3.        Price contingency allowances have been applied to cinchona Project
costs only and not to consultancy services (para. 2). The allowances are in
accordance with World Bank guidelines on the projected international infla-
tion pattern, supplemented by the Missions' projected escalation of Rwanda's
salary levels. The projected annual price increases are as follows:
Vehicles        Local
Civil Works       and Equipment    Salaries
1976              14%                   10%           10%
1977              12%                    8%           10%
1978              12%                    8%           10%
1979              12%                    8%           10%
1980              10%                    7%           10%
1981              10%                    7%           10%



ANNEX 4
Appendix I
Page 2
4.        Based on these annual projections, the compounded contingencies,
which have been added to baseline costs, have been calculated as follows:
Price Contingencies
Vehicles       Local
Civil Works       and Equipment    Salaries
1976             9%                   7%            0%
1977            16%                  11%           10%
1978            29%                  20%           21%
1979            45%                  30%           33%
1980            61%                  40%           46%
1981            77%                  49%           61%
The percentages shown for 1976 account for increases during the period
March-December, 1976.  No further salary increases are expected for
1976, and subsequent increases have been assumed to take effect early
in the year. Contingencies for salaries have thus been compounded as of
January 1 of each year, while all other contingencies have been compounded
as of mid-year.
5.        Contingencies actually used were those for the Project period
1977-81. The civil works contingencies have been applied to building
costs; local salary contingencies to personnel and training costs; and
vehicle and equipment contingencies to the costs of vehicles, equipment,
production inputs and operation and maintenance.
June 8, 1976



RWANDA
CINCHONA PROJECT
Governmet Cash Flea (i-cluding CICR)I/
(R.FOPO00)
Ye-  1      Year 2       Year 3      Year 4      Year 5        Year 6       Year 7      Year 8       Year 9       Yeer 10    Year 11    Year 12    Year 13    Year 14    Y.ar 15    Yea  16    Year 17    Yea  18   Year 19                     Ye-r 20
CASH INFLCW
Governeent and OCIR Levies-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                17
on Ci-ce-  Export. 27                       --           -     -           --           --               2,952        9.828      21,618       35,379      41,274       44,226       44.226      39,312       29,484       14.742        2,952       9.828       21.618    35,379         4,7
IDA DL,bucaee,et                          29,340      26,859      28,840       40,167      41,461            --          --           --          --           --           ---                      --          --                        --           --           -           ---
PayetbycrnsSI-                                            40          80         1,0         120             --           -.          -            --          --           --          620        1,240       1,860        1.860          -             --                      --
Re_ial Benefit 4/                            --           -            -           -            -31                      331          331          331         331          331         331          331          331         331          331          331         331         331           331
Project Te-e  and  epert Duttes            1,919       2,281        1,843       3,718        3,188        2,560        2,560        2,560       2,560        2,360       2.560        2,360        2,560       2,560        2,560        2,560       2.560        2,560       2,560        2,560
Total Inflew wtha-t
Coat Receery Levy               31,?59      29.540       31,483      45,085       45,849        5,843       12.719      24,509       38,270      44.165       47,117       47,737       43,443      34,235       19.493        5,843      12,719       24 5109    38,270        44,165
Cyst R ...very Levy  /                        -           -           -             -          -          1,872        6,240      13,728       22,464       26,208      28,0830      28,080      24,960       18,720        9.360        1,872       6.240       13.728      22,464       '6,208
Total I.flle vOth Cast
R--lvery Levy                    31,259       29,540      31,483       45.085      45,849         7,715       18,959      38.237       60,734       70.373      75,197       75,817      68,403       S2,955       28,853       7,715       18,959       38,237    60,734         70,373
CASH OUTFPWJ
Pr-Ject SEPenditrare  2/                  34,915      32,132       34,354      47,039       48,510       29,091       29,091      29,091       29,091       29,091      29,091       29,091.      29 091      29,091       29,081       29,091      29,091       29,091     29,091        29,091
IDA Soevie- Charme 8/                        220         421          637          938       1,249        1,249        1,249        1.249       1,249        1,249       1,249        1,237        1,225       1,212        1,200        1,187       1,175        1.102       1,150        1,13:'
IDA Repayne.ut  /                             -           -           --.                      --                                     --                                 1,666        1,666        1,666       1,666        1,666        1,666       1,666        1,666       1,666        1,946
Tytng 0u,flow                    35.135      32,553       34,991      47.997       49,759       30,340       30,540       30,340      30,340       30.340      32,006       31,994       31,982      31,969       31.957       31,944      31,032       31.919    31,907         31,094
Ann,igl SarpI../ (D.fieit)
Witth.at Cast Recove-ry Levy              (3,876)      (3.013)     (3,506)      (2,912)      (3,910)     (24,497)   (17,621)       (5,831)       7,930      13,825       15,111      15,743       11,461        2,266     (12,464)   (26,101.)   (19,2115)        (7,410)     6,343        12,271
With Cast Rec..very Levy                  (3,876)      (3,013)     (3,308)      (2,912)     (3,910)      (22,625)   (11,381)        7.897      58,594       40,033       43,191      43,823       36,421       20,986       (3,104)    (24,229)    (12,973)        6,318     28,027        30,479
Cue,altlve Scrplue/ (Deficlt)
WLthout Cant ReCovery 3,ey                (3.876)      (6,889)    (10,397)   (13,3093    (17,219)        (41,716)    (39,327)    (65.168)    (57,238)   (43,413)   (28,302)   (12,539)            (1,098)       1,168     (11.2963    (37,397)   (56,610)    (64,0203   (57,6573          (41,386)
With tear Recovry Levy                    (3.076)      (6,889)    (10,397)   (13,309)    (17,219)        (39,844)   (51,225)   (43,526)    (13,954)    27,099            70,290    114,113       120,534    171,520       168,416      144,187    131,214       t37.332    166,359       204,838
I/O  v-rect pelcen for Years 1-5; thereafter ie Year 5 ...netact prices (Year I prices . 1.58).
2/  Par Proiser's cicehana pradutlee.; See Annex B, Table 1.  The actual 1976 levies, i.e. RntP 45,000 per ton fee Goaer-eet and
R.P 10, 000 per ton far OCIR,  ere - ed Se a hess (see Ans.. 1, Table 4).  These levies have here adjusted te Year 5  oanetant
Prteca an basic of the World Rank's projected index of lcctrnatlonal inflation, ascaning thee prices af cinchana hark will
fal1ew the general ieflatioaary trend, (i.e. 1076 priesa . 1.56).
/Fee ef Rn.F 1.000 per participatlag farme  is the first yea  of planting.  SaeBe amout, c-rereted far inflation, d.ring first
year af planting is neced planting cycle.
4/Fron hoo.. for interna tio-ally recruited Cinchen  D-Invetop t Off finer to be vacated by Project Staff by the end of Year 5.
5/Includes incom   t.eas  end  oerial secu rity payments (15% of lIa  sal1..aries), fuel re.ese (12% of vehfcle operating aepa.....
and inp-rt duties on v-hicles (on avrage 18% of o.i.f. nest).
6/  Calcaleted en the bani. of RwF 40,000 per tee, correted for inflation  aa seplei.ed ic footnote 2.
7/ See Acnne6. 4,Table 1.
01  0.757. en aetatandiag amout.
f/tO. pnr-ae  of Credit amout for Years 11-20.
Joc- 8, 1976



CINCHIONA PRIOJECT
Poreiaa E-henoe Oaf loe  and Outflows I/
(RWP' 000)
Year 1       Year 2        Year 3        Year 4       Year 5        Year 6        Year 7       Year 8        Year 9        Year 10       Year 11      Year 12       Year 13       Year 14       Year 13       Year 16       Year 17       Yea  18
INFLOW
IDA Dioborocat 2/29,340                                26,859        28.840        40,167       41,461                        ---                         ----                                      ----                                                                  .-
Import of Ciochoro Bark 3/  --       --            --           --          10,620       33,400       ~~~~~~~      ~~~77,880  127.440  148,680  159,300      159,300       141,600       106,200        53,100        10,20         35,40         7,8
Total loflow                   29,340       26,859        28.840        40,167       41,461        10,620        35,400        77,880      127,440       148,680       159,300       159,300       141,600      106,200        53,100        10,620        35,400        77,&O
Fo-elo Emolixge Co,eP-,ot
off Projeot Costs V/                  19,900       18,313        19,592        26,823       27,651          --            --            --           -              --                          --                                        --                         --
Fo-ign E.cheoge Cooponemr
of Reen-e,t  Coats  -/-                                            --                                     13,965        13,965       13,965        13,965        13,963        13,965        13,963        13,965        13.965        13,965       13,965        13,963        13,965
IDA Debt Service                             220           421           637          938         1.249        1,249         1,349         1,249         1,249         1,349        2,915         2,903         2,891         2.878         2,866         2.853         2.841         2,828
Total lOtflo.                  20,121       18.736        20.219         27,761      20,900        15,214        13,214        13,314       15,214        15,214        16,980        16,868        2,891          2,878         2,866         2.853         2.041        2,828
Net bifl. (OC~tflow)                       9,219         8,123          8,621      12,406         12,361       (4,394)      20,186        62,666      112,226       133,466       142,420       142,432       124,744        89,357        36,239        (6,193)       18,394       61,007
Cusoo Ive flo.         ~            9.219        17,348       25,965        38,375        30,936       46,342        66,328       129,194      241,420       374,886       517,306       659,738       784,482       875,839       910,098       993.915       922,509      903,596
In current termss for YeaS 1-5; thereafter, debt service in acual a,scatst  payable, sad eperta and
cr ..rtant -ot. a  Year 3 conetact terase (aee Anne. 5, footoote 2).
/From Aaae. 5.
3/At price. adjoated to Yea  5. i.e. R.P 354/kg.
4/Fco. Anne   4 ,Table  I   at 571 foreIgn echange, tontat.
/From Anoe   4 *Table  2 ,at 487, fo...igo echange  -enate.
Joor 4; 1976



ANNEX 7
RWANDA
CINCHONA PROJECT
Farmer Benefits
The gross value to farmers of annual incremental production, at
full Project development, in 1976 prices, would vary between RwF 3.12
million (US$34,000) and RwF 46.8 million (US$504,000) over the production
cycla. The value of annual production foregone on plots previously planted
with other crops is estimated to average about RwF 10.4 million (US$112,000).
The net value to farmers of annual incremental production would vary from a
negative amount of RwF 7.1 million (US$76,000) to a positive RwF 36.0 million
(US$388,000); if each farmer planted all his cinchona trees (0.25 ha) in one
year, there would be two loss years out of ten for the aggregate of all
farmers. Virtually the only cash cost to farmers would be a nominal fee
of RwF 1,000 per farmer per production cycle. With a total Project area
of 900 ha planted with cinchona trees and an average area per farmer of 0.25
ha, there would be 3,600 beneficiary families. The average annual increase in
farm family income would be RwF 5,250 (US$57), or RwF 1,170 (US$13) per
capita. This compares with present average rural income levels of about RwF
5,100 (US$55) per capita per year, and with RwF 6,870 (US$74) of GDP per
capita for Rwanda as a whole. The country's absolute poverty level in 1970
was estimated at RwF 3,700 (US$40) per capita; this would be equivalent to RwF
4,600 (US$50) at 1974 price levels. Annual fluctuations in farm income could
be reduced, and the negative cash flow projected for irntermittent years
avoided, to the extent that harvesting and replanting on individual farms
could be staggered over several years. Table 1 shows the cash flow for a
typical farmer.
June 10, 1976



RWANDA
CINCHONA PROJECT
Cinchona Farmers: Cash Flow
Year       Year        Year        Year        Year        Year       Years
0          1           2           3           4           5          6-10
A. Cash Flow for One Hectare Cinchona
Output              1/                          kg/ha            _          _           _           _          300         400        500
Value @ RwF 104/kg -                             RwF/ha          -          -           _           _       31,000     42,000      52,000
Nominal fee for planting material
for fertilizer 2/                                                      1,000
Other Cash Crops-/
Net value                                       RwF/ha       22,500    17,000        7,000          -           -           -           -
Net Value of Total Production                      RwF/ha       22,500    16,000       7,000          -       31,000     42,000      52,000
Incremental Surplus (deficit)                                    -      (6,500)   (15,000)   (22,500)       8,500      19,500      29,500
from cinchona
Financial Rate of Return: 34%
B. Cash Flow for Average Farmer
Area Under Cinchona                                0.25 ha
of that on cultivable land                       0.10 ha
on land not cultivated by him before             0     -15 ha4/
Incremental Benefits From
0.10 ha cultivable land (see A)                  RwF/farm                 (650)    (1,500)    (2,250)          850       1,950      2,950
0.15 ha not previously cultivated                RwF/farm                 (150)         -           -        4.650       6.300      7.800
Total                                        RwF/farm                  (800)    (1,500)      (2,250)     5.500       8,250      10.750
Financial Rate of Return: 92%
(D X
1/  See Annex 1, Table 4.                                                                                                                                   x
2/  Cost of 10,000 seedlings and 200 kg NP  fertilizer about RwF 28,000; rest recovered by OCIR levy on cinchona exports.
3/  Potatoes, sweet potatoes, grains, beans.  Interplanting during first two years.                                                                       9 
4/  Land made available by government or slopes on farmer's own land.
January 30, 1976



ANNEX 8
Page 1
RWANDA
CINCHONA PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
1.        Project incremental costs and benefits, expressed in constant
value Lerms (base = 1976 prices), are presented in Table 1.
2.        In the calculation of economic Project costs and benefits foreign
exchange has been shadow-priced at a rate of US$1.00 = RwF 111.00 to re-
flect the opportunity cost of foreign exchange to Rwanda. Project costs
include all costs associated with cinchona development. The cost of con-
sultancy services has been excluded since the resulting benefits are largely
unrelated to cinchona development and not quantifiable.  All paid labor
employed by OCIR has been fully costed at market wage rates. Farm family
labor has been shadow priced at 25% of market rates to account for the fact
that farm family members generally are not fully employed and have only very
limited alternative employment opportunities. There would be no hiring of
labor by Project farmers.
3.        No allowance has been made for OCIR overhead costs related to
cinchona development since such costs are already incurred without the Project
and would remain virtually unchanged as a result of the Project. The exten-
sion services provided under the Project have been fully costed, however,
even though existing cinchona production would also benefit from them and
such benefits have been ignored in the analysis. Production inputs which
would be provided to farmers at subsidy rates upwards of 80% have been fully
costed. Since OCIR would be subject to normal rates of taxation, Project cost
estimates include taxes and duties which amount to approximately 15% of local
salaries for income taxes and social security payments; 12% of vehicle operat-
ing expenses for taxes on fuel and spare parts; and 18% duty on vehicle
imporLs, although duties vary greatly by type of vehicle. All taxes and
duties have been eliminated for purposes of the economic analysis.
4.        The entire Project production of cinchona bark has been assumed
to be exported in unprocessed form. Project output has thus been valued
at export prices f.o.b. Kigali, less the economic cost of handling and trans-
port incurred between the Project area and Kigali. The economic price of
cinctiona has been assumed to remain constant throughout the Project period.
Since the Project would probably displace some existing production of crops,
the output foregone for 0.1 ha per farm has been valued at market prices and
deducted from the value of cinchona production to arrive at incremental
ProjecL benefits. Since the displaced crops are largely for subsistence
purposes and not traded internationally, shadow-pricing of foreign exchange
does not apply. But the entire value of cinchona represents foreign exchange
and has been shadow-priced. Rental value has been added to Project benefits



ANNEX 8
Page 2
for one staff house built for the Cinchona Development Officer from Year 6
onwards, as this house would be vacated after Year 5 and subsequent occupants
would pay rent; the rental value has not been shadow-priced.
5.        The economic rate of return  of the Project would be 15%.  At the
official exchange rate, the rate of return would be 13%. Sensitivity analysis
was undertaken to examine the effect of changes in the output and cost assump-
tions and revealed that the Project would be viable even under substantially
adverse circumstances. If output remained unchanged and costs increased by
20% the rate of return would be 12%. If costs remained unchanged and yields
or the cinchona price remained 20% below expectation, the rate of return would
be 11%. A simultaneous reduction of 10% in output and increase of 10% in
costs would yield an 11% rate of return.
June 10, 1976



Y-o  ISoar  2   0.3              33-  I      y..,  .o                 Y-  7  0.o   - 7,,  OT.   09.- Io          I-.  1   1 1.12    7e-r13    0.3024 .8315                 0216        Y.- 17    9.-r 03            II   I..e0no        9.21       3., 22         21rO   Tear24
Y.-.I          _ P0     I-oP8665    8300-                           -         -            -           -           30           40         50         SO          70         50           0       -           -         -             30           40          50                    S. 3       53          30       -             -
43)4                                             --          -O--                    -           --        --          --           90m10                  40         150           30      10W03.--                          -            --            0        12
3m                                                                                                                                                                  9O    I2.   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iso    13   130  193
O             300                 --   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-- - - -- - - - - ---- - - - - - - - -- ---  -- ---  . . . . .    .. . --_ 90   ..  120 .. . .  150 ..     450          ----     50-50---                                                  90         42         150          250       48           ,
3(06.) P305313 063043  --  --      -            90         000        000         06042040)                          450       400        000        031           30         100         000        043        410        430          450        443         300~----------------------- ---------------------------- ----------.....
(O 24gQA 4,54) o/                  -                      -           -           -         430        21,200    44,40        303        89,040      95,400       95,400   040800     43.30     3200          4,4        21,,200     44,4640    76,320     80,04      91,.40       45,40      -4.30       43,300
Y-.o  2                                                 --          400        300        10.00      1,300      1,300       1,300       1,300       I,30       1.000       1.00        400         000      1,300      0,30         1,300       I.300       2,300      1530        ,300      1.300          20080                1,300
4                      --         -.         --          1200       2,400       3900       3,100       3900       3,300       590         3,000     3.30        0,300      '.00       0,190        0,10        1.900       3.93 3390003.94.3,3W0g3,9003,330W                                    0,20
S                                                        ..oo..       ~~~~~~~~~~~~           ~~~~~~      ~~~~~~ ~~~~~1M 20   0400  3.900  3,93/    ,9399  3,00 390 3305900    0,90090  _M    1.20    0.40         3,900        3.0      3,300       3.900      3.300       3 W0         3,3        3,30
003.032003  P002)1010  --  406     1300         4.100       ,900      10,20      11,000      1300        11.00 ....00           11.701    10.300       9.400       0.000     3,500       00,30        16.000     0000I 1,700            027w 1.7f0    11.700   10,000      3,43         6,00
Valo. of Oooo.35.0 7402033403  --         3~~~4041   (1,800)   3410003    37,5003    33,840)      9,500      34,940      04,42      373,40      03,7300    94,400     75,400      05,3000    24,300      33,4403       9,300      U4.4      34,620      70,344    83,700       96,80      75,400       53,00
3~3.2  7.Oo. 37  0.373 .43  --  .. ..          -.         ..           187         00         437         137         187         07        167        680         187        37       .1Jj            187         68        287         137     ~          .7  7  .1.7 L7   1.7 7!L1.7.....1.i
-ota  00.-.32.  3,.8208,              =- 4003   iA)                    1.00        750        33.451      I 433    .31J3            30       333        3333          67      0  3          .9439    04,433      39.633        3,4        5,3        4,300      70,320    33,000        - .lA78   09~,93       so-
06301031 03331003313           ~~~~~28,732  22,572    122.30      23,302      23,140     33,239      07,699      17,499     07,139      17,133      67,199    03,069      17,19      17,139     17,19        13,199      27,130      07,433    00,099       10,139    17.18        10,1-      00,033       173498
3917.186 Coo0,~ooo.. 313)            2,473       2 1,5     2,230        2,31        0,141,710 2              1         ,1          ,1          ,309I,714             ,733        _31 909743            _7 4j)     1.72        1.332        I 1      ,,,2         1.719      0,1 00     .LZ        .1.713      .1.21
Soobtoosl 53               03~~~~~I,405  .14829    24,530     31,440      23,356     18.918     10,943      48,910      43,049      8,4        1,1        10.91      10.940      40,910    43,943       13,93        46,910     43'903    49,913       4.900    10.18         18,923    1383 2931
006  .o  P8Iy Labor Cos                    -          613      1,323       7,00        2394         8933        33        4             915        783          3         9         ,3        0,73       1,73          53            90       4.050        945        TM0        3399.                   33       +         
I--  71                            I.013     1,39____   ___                                             04"           31 LN       -        131         -o(          -       __          I__31      _L_6L_        1.631      I__31      1.431       1,631      13631       1391      0,631        1.631
27~~672  23,549  30,%I  18,18  _18M        15.33       18,232      18,06-                                                 -,,...-      3(,.IMS53 33.16733 192321300,13960                                    682332______            29.0I
0.  0.3 00008..003)610.300.       33~~(7,4723   323.9403  (26,0513    (33,0453  (33,9043    212,83333    20.5933    14,734      40,575      59,452     45,97    4.00          06,17      1,4,029    3,327      10,33         (1,933     13,730    046,790      59,432    4597         0,-0    50,307          30,400
Eo..o36   f                                               12. Srlo8.I.8.83083-304)0.6%
Ooor.o.o4.1 43,48               4~~~~~~0,003    26,329  27,204    34,487      33,747     49,004      20,101      20,053     20,040      19,330      69, 73    2011         043       102,483    34.930       15,954      60,606      23,153    30,668      09.83    19.7s3         90,001    13,466       29,8S
Ioreeo .6  33 .                         .         (00)    (1,303)       14,100)    (7,5007    (2.3313    1337         4043         0,071     33,333    002,347    030,307      42,547     33,147    30,347        (2,3813     13,327      40,455    93.017       33,335   132,967      233.3       93,30       3426
9.3 Iuorasnt.1 35o.flts  (30,33)  326,329)   123,601)  (38.187    341,2473   322,3773    (6,1343    24300  44,023   352444     33.230    33,66        52,061     47,259      9,371     322,37)       38.274)    24,311    40,003       79,447     83.204893,764    72,001             6  115
(loP 227/k41I..3 13,     --334 -00 1o  of ooo.oo  . h .1d1.1g (.1.  15/kg).
33  -o  603 of        M .0 3,   33,900Th,., I334050322,300/0t   0 h   688  0   3,3/,
S/  Pro. 08  5.
~0]    ppotooly 3,0  t N'3375 -Or ..)  (25% of marke osgo 310).1
~    0r3p  eo.oe  3.,Is  44305   97  030,11o3p003   0  4044.0    144.0
3133 3, 4930                     hX



ANNEX/ANNEXE 9
RWANDA
CINCHONA PROJECT
Schedule of Estimated Disbursement of IDA Funds
(US$'000)
IDA Fiscal Year                 Disbursement                   Cummulative Disbursement
and Quarter End                  in Quarter                      at End of Quarter
1976
September
December
March
June
1977
September I/
December   2/                        --
March                                50                                     50
June                                 70                                   120
1978
September                           70                                    190
December                             70                                   260
March                                80                                   340
June                                80                                    420
1979
September                           80                                    500
December                            80                                    580
March                               80                                    660
June                                80                                    740
1980
September                           90                                    830
December                             90                                   920
March                                90                                 1,010
June                                90                                  1,100
1981
September                          100                                  1,200
December                           100                                  1,300
March                               100                                 1,400
June                                                                    1,500
1982
September                           80                                  1,580
December 3/                          80                                 1,640
March                                70                                 1,720
June                                 70                                 1,800
1/ Estimated quarter of signing of Credit Agreement.
2/ Estimated quarter of Credit effectiveness.
3/ Estimated quarter of Project completion.
May 27, 1976






RWANDA
CINCHONA PROJECT
OCIR CAFE - ORGANIZATION CHART
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
I
FINANCE COMMITTEE
DIRECTOR GENERAL
ADMINIS     N 1    1      L ,   |                 \                         LICENSING         PURCHASING
ACCOUNTING         CINCHONA           COFFEE              AND                AND
PERSONNEL                                                                 GRADING           MARKETING
June 5, 1976                                                                                    World Bank-16198






|                                                                              30'               Mborora 8 Krmpala
RWANDA
CINCHONA  PROJECT                                                               I                                                                      KGANDA /a/Ar
im        PROJECT AREA
;  OVER 2,000 METERS ELEVATION                           Rushuru
MUTARA PROJECT AREA
lZ    EXISTING LAKE LANDING POINTS               REPUBLI                                                                           N  
.-'2 RIVERS AND LAKESZAR
MAIN ROADS
PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES
INTERNATfONAL ROUNDARIES
$  o t.  i                                                                                                                 B,,    -A\surrtB         
/\   '''         S           /  :) j                 g              O       fo   2~~~~~~~~~~~~~0  0  50  40  50O    60  70    SO
ZAUBIRE       OF                       5\                                                                                          oi0                               30         40          55 
`7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
|  \   \        ||<o                \          30°                                             hmylY '"d2°nrd¢'irs Frb res      o Pr.)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~inpy nd,,r,f,t,, ~cewne y ~    A



