CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 656 Rw
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
(Cinchona Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated August 20, 1976


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 20, 1976, between the REPUBLIC OF
RWANDA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOP-
MENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) The Project will be carried out in part by the Office
des Cultures Industrielles du Rwanda with the Borrower's assistance
and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available
to the Office a portion of the proceeds of the Credit as herein-
after provided; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General Con-
ditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise require , the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "OCIR" means the Office des Cultures Industrielles du
Rwanda (Coffee, Pyrethrum and Cinchona Department) established by
law of July 30, 1964 as modified by the decree-law and the Arr8te
Presidentiel dated January 20, 1974 and entrusted with the promo-
tion of production of such crops by the Borrower; and
(b) "Project Area" means the prefectures of Cyangugu, Kibuye
and Gikongoro of the Borrower.


﻿3
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to one million eight hundred thousand dollars ($1,800,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services re-
quired for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the goods and works for the Project to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured. in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1982 or such
later date as the Borrower and the Association shall agree.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.


﻿- 4 -                                  I
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each June 15
and December 15 commencing December 15, 1986, and ending June 15,
2026, each installment to and including the installment payable
on June 15, 1996 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be
one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.


﻿I                           -5
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropri-
ate agricultural, administrative, financial and engineering prac-
tices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) The Borrower shall charge OCIR with carrying out Parts
A and B of the Project and for the purpose shall make available
to OCIR the portion of the proceeds of the Credit allocated to
Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4), as set forth in Schedule 1 to
this Agreement.
(c) In order to carry out Parts A and B of the Project, the
Borrower shall cause OCIR to employ qualified and experienced
supplemental personnel, including two additional agronomists,
about three additional extension supervisors (vulgarisateurs),
and about twelve extension workers (moniteurs).
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall employ not later than
December 31, 1976, or such other date as shall be agreed between
the Borrower and the Association an agricultural consultant whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association to serve as cinchona
development officer for OCIR.


﻿-6-
(b) In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part C
of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose quali-
fications and experience shall be satisfactory to the Association,
and whose terms and conditions of employment shall be determined
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards inci-
dent to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to
the place of use or installntion, and for such insurance any in-
demnity shall be payable i% a currency freely usable by the Bor-
rower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project,
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
contract documents and construction and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably re-
quest.
(b) The Borrower: i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof in the Proj-


﻿-7-
ect; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representa-
tives to visit the facilities and construction sites included in
the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
shall furnish to the Association all such information as the Asso-
ciation shall reasonably request concerning the Project. the ex-
penditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.05. In the carrying out of Part A of the Project,
the Borrower shall take such steps as shall be necessary to en-
sure that the area planted to cinchona by farmers under the Proj-
ect shall not exceed 0.25 ha per farmer.


﻿ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained appropriate accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the de-
partments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out
the Project or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall cause OCIR to maintain records ade-
quate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound
accounting practices the operations and financial condition of
OCIR.
(c) The Borrower shall cause OCIR to: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) fur-
nish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not
later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certi-
fied copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited
and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably re-
quested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other informa-
tion concerning the accounts and financial statements of OCIR and
the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time rea-
sonably request.


﻿9
(d) Pursuant to paragranh (b) of this Section, the Borrower
shall cause OCIR to maintain seDarate accounts in respect of its
cinchona operations and to undertake a general review of its ac-
counting procedures with a view to their improvement.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause OCIR to take out and
maintain with responsible insurers, or to make other provision
satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate prac-
tice.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall periodically review the
level of cinchona prices and the levies, duties and taxes on cin-
chona and shall make such periodic adjustments to such prices,
levies, duties and taxes (including, if necessary, the introduc-
tion of additional such levies, duties or taxes) as shall be neces-
sary progressively to recover, through such levies, duties and
taxes and at a reasonable rate all subsidies to farmers for cin-
chona cultivation as well as other capital and recurrent expendi-
tures incur-:d by the Borrower and OCIR for the purpose of cin-
chona cultivation. The Borrower shall carry out its obligations
pursuant to this Section in such a way as to allow for adequate
incentives to farmers for cinchona cultivation.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall cause OCIP to be managed at
all times according to appropriate administrative, financial and
commercial practices under qualified and experienced management
supported by adequate staff.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date November 18, 1976 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.02. The obligations of the Borrower under Article
IV of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date twenty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall
be the earlier.


﻿9 - 11 -
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for
Agriculture is designated as representative of the Borrover for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrover:
Ministry of Agriculture
P.O. Box 621
Kigali, Rwanda
Cable address:
MINAGRI
Kigali
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿- 12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
By Is/ Tharcisse Gatwa
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is! Stanley Please
Acting Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿-13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of ex-
penditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)'   to be Financed
(1) Civil works:                  100,000         90%
Housing, office
and storage fa-
cilities
(2) Vehicles, equip-              400,000         100% of foreign
ment, tools, chem-                           expenditures or
icals and other                              90%
agricultural in-
puts
(3) Operating and                 600,000         90%
maintenance ex-
penses of OCIR re-
lated to the Proj-
ect including sala-
ries of incremental
local staff
(4) Consultant's ser-             300,000         100% of foreign
vices and OCIR's                             expenditures or
staff training                               90%
under Parts A and
B of the Project


﻿Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent     to be Financed
(5) Consultants' ser-             100,000         100% of foreign
vices under Part C                           expenditures or
of the Project                               90%
(6) Unallocated                   300,000
TOTAL       1,800,000


﻿- 15 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the ter-
ritory of any country other than the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in res-
pect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the Bor-
rower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then ap-
plicable to such item as required to be consistent with the afore-
mentioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in resrect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be insuf-
ficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in
that Category, the Association may, in agreement with the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then al-
located to another Category and which in the oninion of the Asso-


﻿- i6 -I
ciation are not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if
such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce
the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures
in order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under
the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, can-
cel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
the Credit.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project comprises a five-year program to increase the
production and marketing of cinchona in the Project Area by an
increase in smallholder plantings of about 900 ha as well as
strengthened extension services, marketing and training. The Proj-
ect includes the following specific Parts:
Part A:   The establishment of nurseries to produce up to 4 million
cinchona seedlings annually; the furnishing of such
seedlings to farmers in the Project Area together with
chemicals, fertilizers and tools; the provision to such
farmers of extension services; the establishment of four
collecting centers in the Project Area, and operation
thereof.
Part B:   Strengthening of OCIR's management and operations in
respect of cinchona development, including training of
OCIR staff, and the construction of an office, cinchona
storage facilities and staff housing for OCIR.
Part C:   Technical support services for cinchona development
and agricultural development in general, including par-
ticularly advisory services for OCIR and the Borrower's
Ministry of Agriculture, the carrying out of studies
and the preparation of agricultural development projects.
*              * P  
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1981.


﻿-18 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the pur-
chase of goods or for civil works shall be procured in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in Part A of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called the
Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding.
2.   Identical or similar items shall be grouped where practicable
to form economical packages for the purpose of inviting bids.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Vehicles and equipment may be procured (a) on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally and in neighboring countries,
and in accordance with the Borrower's applicable procurement pro-
cedures, or (b) on the basis of price quotations to be solicited
from not less than three suppliers. To the extent feasible, iden-
tical or similar vehicles or equipment items shall be grouped
together for purposes of bidding or price quotations so as to per-
mit bulk procurement in accordance with appropriate technical
and procurement practices.
2.   Contracts for goods estimated not to exceed the equivalent
of $30,000 may be let in accordance with the applicable procurement
procedures of the Borrower.


﻿- 19 -
3.   Civil works may be carried out (a) on the basis of contracts
to be let in accordance with the arnlicable procurement procedures
of the Borrower or (b) by the Borrower's Ministry responsible for
nublic works by force account.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts.
With respect to all contracts for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents. together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably re-
quest. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall re-
quire the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in suf-
ficient time for its review, a detailed report, on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, and such other information


﻿- 20 -
as the Association shall. reasonably request. The Association shall,
if it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Association of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and
such other information as the Association shall reasonably request.
The Association shall, if it determines that the award of the con-
tract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such deter-
mination.


