Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7331-BR 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Environmental Sustainability Agenda Technical Assistance Project) 
 
between 
 
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated December 28, 2005
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7331-BR 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated December 28, 2005, between the FEDERATIVE 
REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL (the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter, dated July 7, 2004 (the 
Development Policy Letter), from the Borrower describing a program of actions, 
objectives, and policies designed to strengthen the Borrower’s system of environmental 
sustainability management (the Program) and declaring the Borrower’s commitment to 
the execution of the Program in accordance with such policy; 
(B) 
the Borrower has contracted from the Bank a loan in an amount of five 
hundred two million five hundred twenty thousand Dollars ($502,520,000) (the 
Programmatic Reform Loan for Environmental Sustainability-EnvPRL) in support of the 
Program during the execution thereof; 
(C) 
the Borrower intends to receive from Deutsche Gesellschaft für 
Technische Zusammenarbeit (GTZ) technical assistance to assist in the implementation 
of Parts A and F of the Project, on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement to 
be entered into between the Borrower and GTZ; and 
(D) 
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
extend the loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) upon the terms 
and conditions set forth in this Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (as amended 
Page  3
-
2
-
through May 1, 2004), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
 
(a) 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions is amended to read as follows: 
“Section 5.08. 
Treatment of Taxes
 
Except as otherwise provided in the Loan Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
may be withdrawn to pay for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower or the 
Guarantor on the goods or services to be financed under the Loan, or on their 
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply. Financing of such taxes is subject to 
the Bank’s policy of requiring economy and efficiency in the use of the proceeds of its 
loans. To that end, if the Bank shall at any time determine that the amount of any taxes 
levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is 
excessive or otherwise unreasonable, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the 
percentage for withdrawal set forth or referred to in respect of such item in the Loan 
Agreement as required to be consistent with such policy of the Bank.” 
(b) 
Section 6.03 (c) of the General Conditions is amended by replacing the 
words “corrupt or fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive”. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)  
“ANA”  means 
Agência Nacional de Águas, 
the Borrower’s National 
Water Agency, established pursuant to Law No. 9984 of July 18, 2000;  
(b)  
“
Cerrado 
Biome” means a major ecological community located within 
the Borrower’s savanna region;  
(c) “DPRF” 
means 
Departamento de Polícia Rodoviária Federal
,
the 
Borrower’s Department of Federal Highway Police; 
(d) 
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (3) set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement in respect of the Project; 
(e) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
Page  4
-
3
-
of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Part B of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(f) 
“EPE” means 
Empresa de Pesquisa Energética
,
Energy Research 
Company; 
(g)  
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(h)  
“IBAMA” means 
Instituto Brasileiro do Meio Ambiente e dos Recursos 
Naturais Renováveis, 
the
 
Brazilian Institute for Environment and Renewable Natural 
Resources; 
(i) 
“Management Committee” means the committee referred to in Section 
3.05 (a) of this Agreement; 
(j) “MDA” 
means 
Ministério do Desenvolvimento Agrário
,
the Borrower’s 
Ministry of Agrarian Development; 
(k) “MF” 
means 
Ministério da Fazenda
,
the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Finance; 
(l) “MMA” 
means 
Ministério do Meio Ambiente
,
the Borrower’s Ministry 
of the Environment; 
(m)  
“MME” means 
Ministério do Minas e Energia
,
the Borrower’s Ministry 
of Mining and Energy; 
(n) “MP” 
means 
Ministério do Planejamento, Orçamento e Gestão
,
the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Planning, Budget and Management; 
(o)  
“MTE”  means 
Ministério do Trabalho e Emprego
,
the Borrower’s 
Ministry of Labor and Employment; 
(p) “MTur” 
means 
Ministério do Turismo,
 the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Tourism; 
(q)  
“NEMS” means National Environmental Management System, the 
system that was designed in the Borrower’s Law No. 6938 of August 31, 1981 and which 
contains the Borrower’s National Environmental Policy; 
Page  5
-
4
-
(r) 
“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section 3.03 of 
this Agreement; 
(s) 
“Participating Ministries” means the Borrower’s MMA, Ministry of 
Cities, MDA, MF, Ministry of National Integration, MME, MTur, and MP; 
(t) “PAS” 
means 
Plano Amazônia Sustentável, 
the Sustainable Amazon 
Plan being developed by a working group composed of several of the Borrower’s 
Ministries led by the Ministry of National Integration;  
(u) 
“PCU” means Project Coordination Unit, the unit referred to in Section 
3.04 of this Agreement; 
(v)  
“Performance Indicators” means the set of indicators contained in the 
Operational Manual to be used for purposes of monitoring the progress of the Project;   
(w) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, dated June 
28, 2005, covering the initial 18 month period (or longer) of Project implementation, as 
the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of Section 
3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding 18 month periods (or longer) of Project 
implementation; 
(x) “PRODES” 
means 
Programa de Despoluição de Bacias Hidrográficas, 
the Borrower’s Water Basins Restoration Program developed and implemented by ANA; 
(y) 
“Report-based Disbursements” means the Borrower’s option for 
withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account referred to in Part A.4 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;  
(z) “SECEX” 
means 
Secretaria Executiva
,
the Executive Secretariat of the 
Borrower’s Ministry of the Environment;  
(aa) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; and 
(bb) 
“Technical Committee” means the committee referred to in Section 
3.05(b) of this Agreement. 
Page  6
-
5
-
ARTICLE II 
 
The Loan 
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to seven million 
nine hundred forty thousand Dollars ($7,940,000), as such amount may be converted 
from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 2.09 of this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, as 
well as in respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement, and any 
premium in respect of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar payable by the 
Borrower in accordance with Section 4.04(c) of the General Conditions. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be April 30, 2009 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish, after having received a request from the Borrower, through its 
Minister of Finance, to extend the Closing Date. The Bank shall promptly notify the 
Borrower of such later date, which shall not be a date beyond the date requested by the 
Borrower.   
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan,
 
subject to any waiver of a portion of 
such fee as may be determined by the Bank from time to time.  On or promptly after the 
Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay to itself the amount of said fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (a) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to, but not including, the fourth anniversary of such date; and (b) 
seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
Page  7
-
6
-
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears 
on January 15 and July 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01 
(7) of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium be 
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
Section 2.10.  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of  Section 
2.09 of this Agreement and unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the Bank in 
accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate basis 
applicable to the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during each Interest 
Period shall be changed from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate for the full 
maturity of such amount  in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
Page  8
-
7
-
Section 2.11.  The Minister of the Environment and any person or persons whom 
he or she shall designate in writing is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of 
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions in respect of Part 
C
of the Project. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through MMA with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, environmental, financial 
and technical practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project. 
 
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement as said 
provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
(b) 
The Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank not later than 12 
months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the Bank’s approval. 
Section 3.03 Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of 
an operational manual, satisfactory to the Bank, said manual to include, 
inter alia
:
(a) the 
organizational structure of the Project; (b) the Project procurement and financial 
management requirements and procedures; (c) the indicators to be used for Project 
monitoring and evaluation; and (d) the criteria for the selection of the civil society 
representative for the Management Committee and the Technical Committee. The 
Operational Manual may be amended from time to time with the Bank’s prior approval.  
In case of any inconsistency between the terms of the Operational Manual and those of 
this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
Section 3.04. 
For the purposes of assisting MMA in the overall management of 
the Project, the Borrower shall maintain throughout the execution of the Project, within 
SECEX, a unit (the PCU) with functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank and 
staffed with a coordinator, technical experts and other personnel in number and with 
qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank, which shall include but not be 
Page  9
-
8
-
limited to, a coordinator, a deputy coordinator, a financial administration manager, a 
procurement manager and a technical manager. 
 
Section 3.05   The Borrower, through the MMA, shall: 
(a) 
establish and maintain, until completion of the Project, a management 
committee composed of: (i) the executive secretaries (or their corresponding substitutes) 
of the Participating Ministries; and (ii) a representative from civil society selected based 
on the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual.  The Management Committee shall be 
headed by the executive secretary of the MMA and will be responsible for general and 
macro-policy decisions related to the EnvPRL and the Project; and  
(b) 
establish and maintain, until completion of the Project, a technical 
committee composed of: (i) a representative from each Participating Ministry; (ii) a 
representative from each of the secretariats and agencies affiliated with the MMA 
(including, but not limited to, ANA and IBAMA); and (iii) a civil society representative 
selected based on the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual.  The Technical 
Committee shall be responsible for providing specialized technical support to the 
Management Committee and the PCU. 
 
Section 3.06.   The Borrower, through MMA, shall:  
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Performance Indicators, the carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objective thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, not later than six months after the Effective Date and biannually thereafter during 
the period of Project implementation, a report integrating the results of the evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in 
the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of such report and 
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project 
and the achievement of the objective thereof during the period following such date; and 
  (c) 
(i)  
review with the Bank, within no more than two months after each 
such report’s preparation, the reports referred to in paragraph (b) of 
this Section; and 
 
(ii) 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objective 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of said 
report and the Bank's views on the matter. 
Page  10
-
9
-
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall establish and maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall, through MMA: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Bank) audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank): (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of reports referred to in Part A.4 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (Report-based Disbursements) or on the basis of statements of expenditure, 
the Borrower shall, through MMA: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
Page  11
-
10
-
(iii) 
ensure that such reports and statements of expenditure are 
included in the audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed 
to by the Bank), referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section. 
 
Section 4.02.  (a) Wit
hout limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Section 3.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower, through MMA, shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 
days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter. 
 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions: 
 
(a) 
the Operational Manual has been approved by the Bank and adopted by 
the Borrower; 
 
(b) 
the PCU has been fully staffed in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 3.04 of this Agreement; and 
 
Page  12
-
11
-
(c) 
the Management Committee and the Technical Committee have been 
created and are fully operational. 
 
Section 5.02. 
The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion to 
be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Loan has been validly registered with the 
Central Bank of Brazil. 
Section 5.03. 
The date March 28, 2006 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministério da Fazenda 
 
Procuradoria Geral da Fazenda Nacional 
 
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco “P” - 8
°
andar 
 
70048-900 Brasília, D.F. 
 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (011-55-61) 3412-1740 
 
With copy to: 
 
Ministério do Meio Ambiente 
 
Secretário Executivo 
 
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco “B” – 6º andar 
 
70068-900 Brasília, DF 
 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (011-55-61) 4009-1205 
 
Page  13
-
12
-
Ministério do Planejamento, Orçamento e Gestão 
 
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais 
 
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco “K” – 5º andar 
 
70040-906 Brasília, DF 
 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile:  (011-55-61) 3225-4022) 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  14
-
13
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in 
Brasília, Brazil, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL 
 
By /s/ Maurício Cardoso Oliva 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Gregor Wolf 
 
Acting Director 
Latin American and the Caribbean Region
 
Page  15
-
14
-
SCHEDULE 1  
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
A. General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(1) 
Consultants’ Services 
4,815,000 
100% 
 
(2) Training 
2,065,000 
100% 
 
(3) 
Goods and non-consulting  
100,000 
100% 
 services 
 
(4) 
Premia for Interest Rate 
-0- 
Amount due under 
 
Caps and Collars 
 
Section 2.09 (c) of 
 
this Agreement 
 
(5) 
Front-end fee 
19,850 
Amount due 
 
pursuant to Section 
 
2.04
of
this 
 
Agreement 
 
(6) Unallocated 
940,150 
 
________
TOTAL 7,940,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule the term “Training” means reasonable 
expenditures (other than those for consultants’ services) for:  (a) training materials and 
rental of training facilities and equipment; (b) tuition fees, travel and per-diem of trainers 
and trainees; (c) travel, per diem cost for staff carrying out public consultations, as well as 
those costs associated with the dissemination of the materials developed after such 
consultation have taken place; and (d) any other expenses related to training (including 
study tours and workshops) to be carried out under the Project. 
Page  16
-
15
-
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $800,000 may be made 
on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after January 1, 2005, 
but not earlier than twelve months prior to the date of this Agreement.  
4. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, withdrawals from the Loan Account  
shall be made on the basis of reports to be submitted to the Bank in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank (Report-based Disbursements). 
 
B. Special 
Account
1. 
The Borrower may open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a 
commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. 
2. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
if the Borrower is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and  
 
(b) 
if the Borrower is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.  
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures. For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:  
(a) 
if the Bank, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to in Part 
A.4 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-based 
Disbursements;  
 
(b) 
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Loan Account; or 
Page  17
-
16
-
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: 
(A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based 
Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as the case may 
be.  
5. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Bank 
shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of 
the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of 
the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, in its sole 
discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may be made and what 
procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of 
its determination. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into 
the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit 
by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during 
the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.  
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement. 
Page  18
-
17
-
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not  
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means the 
amount of $800,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex. 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:  
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of 
each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested.  
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
3. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Page  19
-
18
-
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible 
Expenditures. 
Page  20
-
19
-
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each 
such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan 
Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.  
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of:  
(a) 
the amount so requested; and  
(b) 
the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the reports referred 
to in Part A.4 of this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application, is required to 
be deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period 
following the date of such reports. 
 
Page  21
-
20
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to provide technical assistance in the form of 
studies, training, workshops and seminars to facilitate the implementation of proposed 
policy reforms in the EnvPRL. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective: 
Part A
:
Strengthening of the NEMS
1. 
Provision of technical assistance to define the roles and responsibilities of 
agencies and bodies within the NEMS at the federal, state and local government levels, 
including, environmental licensing and authorization.  
2.  
Provision of capacity building training to staff in MMA and IBAMA to improve 
their professional qualifications and integrate them into the NEMS. 
3. 
Carrying out of studies to develop environmental indicators to be used by 
national statistics in furnishing quality data on the environment. 
 
Part B
:
Improvement of the Green Agenda (Biodiversity Conservation and
Sustainable Use)
Support for the development and enhancement of current conservation and 
sustainable management programs in the Borrower’s biomes, through: (a) the preparation 
of a proposal of regulations for the draft Atlantic forest law and the preparation of an 
Atlantic rain forest program; (b) the carrying out of studies to evaluate the legal 
framework for land use, conservation and economic activities regarding the 
Cerrado
 
Biome and proposing a draft 
Cerrado
 bill of law; (c) the carrying out of studies for the 
reformulation of the charging and collection mechanisms of the forest replacement fee; 
and (d) the development of a social communication strategy to promote debates around 
the draft public forest management bill of law. 
Page  22
-
21
-
Part C
:
Improvement of the Brown Agenda (Management of Environmental Risk due
to Hazardous Substances)
Support for the national policy on efficient management of risks associated with 
hazardous chemicals and on reducing the risk of contaminants affecting human health 
and the environment, through: (a) the preparation of a strategic implementation plan for 
the national registry of contaminant emissions and transfers, as well as a definition of a 
methodology to respond to accidents involving hazardous chemicals; (b) the preparation 
of an emergency action plan to respond to accidents involving hazardous chemicals; and 
(c) the development of a methodology for the identification of pollution sources and risk 
areas with special emphasis on contaminated areas.  
 
Part D
:
Improvement of the Blue Agenda (Water Resources Management)
Support for the preparation of a water resources national plan and the 
development of general guidelines for the implementation of a water rights licensing and 
charging process for the use of water, so as to ensure a balanced use of water and to 
achieve decentralized and participatory management of water resources. 
 
Part E
:
Mainstreaming Environmental Sustainability in Select Government Sectors
1. 
Support for the Borrower’s efforts in controlling the deforestation in the Amazon 
region, through: (a) the delimitation of the environmental economic zoning of the area 
around federal highway BR-163; (b) the preparation of an environmental management 
action plan in collaboration with the various agencies involved in the fight against 
deforestation; and (c) the provision of capacity building training to local agents and  
IBAMA, MTE, MDA and DPRF
 
personnel. 
 
2. 
Support for the preparation of the PAS through the provision of technical 
assistance and the carrying out of surveys and public consultations. 
 
3. 
Support for the increased access to basic sanitation services by: (a) the 
development of a social communication strategy to promote debates around the draft 
solid waste bill; (b) the development of a water quality certification methodology using 
the PRODES example; and (c) the development of a methodology for preparing 
municipal master plans;  
4. 
Support for the integration of environmental economic zoning within regional 
development planning, through: (a) the design of mechanisms for the integration of the 
environmental economic zoning with regional planning projects; and (b) the carrying out 
of studies aimed at the revitalization of the 
São Francisco
 river basin.  
 
5. 
Support for the inclusion of environmental sustainability criteria in financial 
instruments and in fiscal laws and regulations through the provision of technical 
assistance and specialized training. 
Page  23
-
22
-
6. 
Support for the improvement of environmental sustainability in the energy sector, 
through: (a) the development of a strategic environmental assessment for the hydropower 
sector; (b) the carrying out of a feasibility study on the refurbishing of old hydroelectric 
plants; (c) the designing of a strategic plan for the conservation and rational use of 
energy; (d) the development of procedures of environmental control of renewable 
resources; and (e) the carrying out of capacity building training for staff from EPE and 
MME.   
 
7. 
Support for the improvement of environmental sustainability in agrarian reform, 
through the development of simplified procedures for the environmental licensing of 
settlements, including the development of an environmental monitoring system for said 
settlements.  
 
8. 
Support for the improvement of environmental sustainability in the tourism 
sector through the preparation of a joint integrated action plan between MMA and MTur, 
and the development of a proposal of monitoring and evaluation indicators for the 
national tourism plan posted on the website of MTur and dated April 29, 2003. 
 
Part F
:
Project Management
1. 
Support for the establishment and operation of the PCU by providing technical 
advisory services to its staff, management and technical committees in the areas of 
project management, supervision and auditing. 
 
2. Support 
for 
th
e
effective design and implementation of EnvPRL and the Project’s 
communication plan and monitoring and evaluation system. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by October 30, 2008. 
 
Page  24
-
23
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Installment Share 
 Payment 
Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each January 15 and July 15 
 
Beginning January 15, 2011 
 
through January 15, 2022 
4.17% 
 
On July 15, 2022 
4.09% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
Page  25
-
24
-
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of withdrawal. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.  
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate.  
5.  
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
Page  26
-
25
-
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods and services (other than consult
ants’ services) shall be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with the 
provisions of this Schedule.  
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
Section II.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Services (other than 
Consultants’ Services)
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding.  The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, 
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.  
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding.
Goods estimated to cost less than $500,000 
equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
National Competitive Bidding.   
2. Shopping
.
Goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract, 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
Page  27
-
26
-
3. Direct 
Contracting
.
Goods which the Bank agrees meet the requirements for 
Direct Contracting may be procured in accordance with the provisions of said 
procurement method. 
Section III.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection. For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $500,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
B. Other 
Procedures
1. Quality-based 
Selection
.
Services for assignments which the Bank agrees meet 
the requirements set forth in paragraph 3.2 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality-based Selection in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. Least-cost 
Selection
.
Services for assignments which the Bank agrees meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of Least-cost Selection in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
4. 
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
.
Services for assignments which the Bank 
agrees meet the requirements of paragraph 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of a Fixed Budget in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
5. Individual 
Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the requirements set 
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the circumstances 
described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded 
to individual consultants on a sole-source basis. 
Page  28
-
27
-
Section IV
.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  If the Procurement Plan provides for prior review of contracts for 
the employment of individual consultants, the report on the qualifications and experience 
of all evaluated candidates, the terms of reference and the terms of employment of the 
consultants shall be subject to prior approval by the Bank.  All other contracts shall be 
subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
