Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATA SHEET 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AC1515 
 
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 04/19/2005 
 
I.  BASIC INFORMATION 
 
A.  Basic Project Data 
 
Country: Brazil 
Project ID: P090041 
Project Name: BR TAL FOR ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY 
Task Team Leader: Garo J. Batmanian 
Estimated Appraisal Date: May 2, 2005 
Estimated Board Date: May 25, 2005 
Managing Unit: LCSEN 
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance 
Loan 
Sector: General water, sanitation and flood protection sector (20%);Forestry 
(20%);General energy sector (20%);General finance sector (20%);General public 
administration sector (20%) 
Theme: Environmental policies and institutions (P) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
8.05 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 
BORROWER 0.00 
 
GERMANY: GERMAN TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CORPORATION (GTZ) 
0.65
0.65
 
B.  Project Objectives [from section 2 of PCN] 
The main objective of the proposed EnvTAL is to support the Government on advancing the 
pace of reforms on the sustainability agenda program defined in the Policy Letter presented by 
the government on July 7, 2004 (Bank Report n? 28650-BR), focusing on the targets set forth for 
the second EnvPRL operation . This will be achieved through the provision of technical 
assistance and financial resources for:  
 
?
development of priority studies, methodologies and procedures,  that would have a direct 
impact on the implementation of the agreed reform agenda;   
 
?
facilitating the development of institutional models  and capacity to improve 
environmental mainstream and collaboration of key sectorial ministries that have an impact on 
the sustainability agenda;   
 
?
improving the social communication mechanisms to ensure adequate transparency and 
public participation; and  
Page  2
?
improving monitoring and evaluation capacity of all beneficiary ministries, that will 
allow the GOB to assess the pace of progress and the impact of the implementation of the reform 
agenda agreed between the GOB and the Bank. 
 
The proposed EnvTAL will also support the establishment of  (i) a high-level committee, 
comprised of all seven vice-ministers direct beneficiaries of the loan and the vice-minister of 
Planning, Budgeting and Management, as well as, a representative of the organized civil society, 
to oversee the implementation of the EnvPRL and the EnvTAL; (ii) a Monitoring and Evaluation 
(M&E) system and technical committee for the supervision of the EnvPRL and the EnvTAL; and 
to ensure  the effectiveness and efficiency of the reform policies; (iii) a communication strategy 
for the EnvPRL and the EnvTAL and its implementation, to give the necessary public access to 
all information allowing public accountability. 
 
While the total amount of this project, US$ 8.7 million, may be considered relatively small to 
achieve these objectives,  the EnvTAL should be seen as part of much larger technical assistance 
envelop of the Bank towards environmental sustainability policy reforms. The Bank has several 
projects, in preparation or on-going, that support Technical Assistance to the GOB?s 
environmental sustainability agenda   for a total of US$ 104.47 million (see table at item 4). The 
EnvTAL serves as catalyst to ensure the synergy among these different projects as well as to fill 
in existing gaps for a comprehensive Technical assistance envelop more compatible with the size 
of scope of the challenges regarding environmental sustainable in Brazil.   
 
C.  Project Description [from section 3 of PCN] 
The TAL for Environmental Sustainability, a US$ 8.7 million for up to three-year period, has a 
set of targets that fully match the policy reforms agreed between the GOB and the Bank for the 
second EnvPRL operation. These targets of the TAL are expressed  in terms of the technical 
input necessary for high quality and feasible policy reforms. The actual implementation of the 
reforms are within the scope of the second EnvPRL operation.   
 
The project will support the implementation of activities to achieve the stated objectives. The 
activities are being selected in coordination with Bank staff  responsible for projects that include 
support for technical assistance or capacity building to those areas also covered by this loan. This  
ensures full complementarity between the Bank portfolio and allows for the most efficient and 
effective use of the resources of this loan towards its objectives. 
 
Project budget will be allocated to the five major components, summarized below,  allowing for 
the necessary flexibility to achieve the objectives of the EnvTAL. The funds will be used to 
provide technical support to the government in the preparation and implementation of the second 
EnvPRL operation. The project will support studies, technical assistance and capacity building, 
workshops, strategically selected to provide a solid technical and institutional  basis and input for 
the proposed policy reforms in coordination with other Bank-supported efforts. The activities 
agreed upon and identified initially are presented in Annex 4, which represents about 60% of the 
project?s total value.  The amount of resources allocated for each component derived from the 
amount needed for the implementation of the initial activities identified and projection of the 
further work needed.  
 
Page  3
To enable the GOB to carry out the technical work and provide the capacity building necessary 
to  achieve the agreed targets for the initiation of the second phase of the EnvPRL, the project 
will focus on key areas and objectives, such as: 
 
?
Environmental management system:  clear division of roles and responsibilities regarding 
environmental management (including licensing) among the three levels of government; 
definition of environmental indicators to be adopted by the National System of Statistics, 
strengthening the MMA's management capacity and definition of mechanisms for environmental 
licensing follow-up.; 
 
?
Green Agenda: definition of a proposal for the regulation of the Atlantic Rain Forest Law 
and Program; definition of the Cerrado Program and the preparation of the Cerrado Bill of Law; 
definition of a proposal for the improvement of the forest replacement fee; and promotion of 
clarification initiatives and debates on the Public Forest Management Bill of Law; 
 
?
Brown Agenda:   definition of strategies for implementing the National Register on 
Contaminant Emissions and Transfers; preparation of studies and public consultations aimed at 
providing subsidies for the implementation of the P2R2; development of mechanisms for the 
identification (inventory) of pollution sources and risk areas; 
 
?
Blue Agenda: preparation and launching of the National Plan on Water Resources and  
preparation of general guidelines for the implementation of a water rights licensing and charging 
process for the use of water.  
 
?
Mainstreaming of environmental sustainability involving seven ministries: Studies, 
technical assistance and public consultation processes for issues such as: (a) detailing of ZEE 
within the area of influence of BR-163 federal highway;  (b) subsidize the preparation of the 
final version of PAS (Sustainable Development Program for the Amazon); (c) improving the 
PRODES (Water Basins Restoration Program) certification process; (d) developing a 
methodology to prepare Municipal Master Plans considering environmental criteria; (e) S?o 
Francisco river basin revitalization program;  (f)  identifying financial and fiscal instruments for 
promoting environmental sustainability;  (g)  development and validation of an SEA 
methodology for the hydropower sector; (h) defining simplified procedures for the 
environmental licensing of agrarian settlements; and (i) designing a Monitoring and Evaluation 
(M&E) system for the National Tourism Plan, with emphasis on the environmental 
sustainability. The ministries involved are: Environment, Finance, Cities, Tourism, Agrarian 
Development, National Integration and Mining and Energy.  
 
The EnvPRL and the EnvTAL have raised strategic and important issues which has lead to 
other international organizations to look forward to join the IBRD in supporting the GOB?s 
sustainability agenda.  KfW has expressed its interest in co-financing the second operation of the 
EnvPRL.  GTZ will provide technical assistance of up to ? 500,000 for the EnvTAL.  In close 
coordination with Bank?s team during preparation, it was defined that GTZ support would be 
directed to:  (i)  capacity building of MMA and IBAMA; (ii)  support strategic activities 
regarding development of the Amazon with Environmental Sustainability;  Control of 
Page  4
deforestation and ZEE; and (iii) capacity building of the PCU team, including the design and 
implementation of the Monitoring and Evaluation Plan and the Communication Plan. 
 
Component 
IBRD (US$) 
GTZ(US$) 
Total Cost (US$) 
 
Strengthen the Environmental Management System 
   840,000 
200,000 
   
1.040,000 
 
Improve the Green Agenda     710,000 
 
   710,000 
 
Improve the Brown Agenda    910,000 
 
   910,000 
 
Improve the Blue Agenda 
   910,000 
 
   910,000 
 
Mainstream Environmental Sustainability in selected Government  Sectors 
3,230,000
 250,000 3,480,000 
 
Project Management (M&E and Communication included) 
   380,000 
200,000 
   
580,000 
 
Unallocated ( to be decided during project implementation) 
1,020,000 
 1,020,000 
 
Front-end fee      50,000 
 
     50,000 
 
Total 8,050,000 
650,000 
8,700,000 
 
*GTZ will fund a total amount of ? 500,000 (aprox. US$ 650,000) 
 
The project design allows for having additional objectives in support to new policy reforms that 
emerge during the project?s implementation, whether derived from the government?s policy 
letter or through new joint actions developed with other ministries. The main condition is that 
these eventual new activities would directly contribute to achieving a new important policy 
reform conducive to the Environmental Sustainability Agenda and be included in the following 
EnvPRL operations. Each proposed new objective, including the ensuing TA, will be considered 
case by case, as needed, during the project?s implementation and upon the Approval of the 
Management Committee composed by the Executive Secretaries (Vice-Ministers) of all seven 
ministries involved in the EnvPRL and in the EnvTAL, among others. 
 
The allocation of the remaining amount, which represents around 35% of the total loan amount, 
will be defined annually during implementation by the Management Committee, either for new 
activities to support reaching existent objectives or agreed new ones, and with input from the 
project monitoring and evaluation system.   
 
D.  Project location (if known) 
Brazil   
 
E.  Borrower’s Institutional Capacity for Safeguard Policies [from PCN] 
Not applicable   
 
Page  5
II.  SAFEGUARD POLICIES THAT MIGHT APPLY 
Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No TBD 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
 X  
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X  
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X  
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X  
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03) 
 X  
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20) 
 X  
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X  
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X  
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X  
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X  
Environmental Category:
 
C
-
Not Required 
 
III.  SAFEGUARD PREPARATION PLAN 
 
A.  Target date for the Quality Enhancement Review (QER), at which time the PAD-stage ISDS 
would be prepared:  03/10/2005 
 
B.  For simple projects that will not require a QER, the target date for preparing the PAD-stage 
ISDS:  N/A 
 
C.  Time frame for launching and completing the safeguard-related studies that may be needed.  
The specific studies and their timing
1
should be specified in the PAD-stage ISDS. 
Not Applicable.   
 
IV.  APPROVALS 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Garo J. Batmanian 
12/10/2004 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Jean-Roger Mercier 
 
Comments:   
Sector Manager: 
Mr Abel Mejia 
 
Comments:   
1
Reminder: The Bank's Disclosure Policy requires that safeguard-related documents be disclosed before appraisal (i) at the 
InfoShop and (ii) in-country, at publicly accessible locations and in a form and language that are accessible to potentially affected 
persons.
 
Page  6
