Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1239 
Project Name 
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN FOR ENVIRONMENTAL 
SUSTAINABILITY 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
General public administration sector (20%);General finance sector 
(20%);General energy sector (20%);Forestry (20%);General water, 
sanitation and flood protection sector (20%) 
Project ID 
P090041 
Borrower(s) 
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Environment 
Esplanada 
Bloco B 
DF 
Brazil 
70068-900 
Tel: 61-317-1205 
 
fabricio.barreto@mma.gov.br 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
]
B
[X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[
]
S
1
[
]
S
2
[X] S
3
[
]
S
F
[
]
TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
December 10, 2004 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
April 11, 2005 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
May 25, 2005 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Brazil has one third of all the tropical rain forest of the world, the largest reservoir of 
fresh water (11 percent), the second longest coastal line with over 8,500 km, and the savanna 
with the highest biodiversity in the world, among other important national environmental 
aspects.  These natural assets are especially important for the poor for whom they constitute a 
significant share of their wealth.  The Amazon's regional and global influence is legendary. 
Clouds formed in the Amazon are responsible for the precipitation on the central part of the 
continent, all the way to São Paulo.  Moreover, just the annual burning in the region currently 
contributes with about two percent of the world annual CO2 emissions.  It is for these local, 
national, regional and global considerations that an environmentally sustainable Brazil is of great 
concern.   
 
Brazil has historically based its economy on exploiting the immense wealth of its natural 
resources.  A significant part of its economy still relies on the use of natural resources, whether 
they are used as production inputs or as sinks for production waste. The forest sector alone is 
responsible for four percent of the GDP.  Despite the importance of its natural resource base, 
Brazil faces major challenges to reverse a trend of unsustainable use of its natural resources. 
Page  2
As detailed in the CAS and other recent
 Bank documents, Brazil’s government is 
effectively addressing the double challenge of macroeconomic vulnerability and fiscal 
constraints as well as social deficits.  Additionally, the Government of Brazil (GOB) is making a 
strong effort to balance economic growth with socio development and the maintenance and 
improvement of environmental quality. As a result, the Bank has recently approved the
 First 
Programmatic Reform Loan For Environmental Sustainability 
(EnvPRL)
 
to support the 
GOB’s environmental sustainability program and to mainstream environmental objectives more 
firmly in its broader development agenda.   
 
The program involves key policy reforms in seven different ministries, which formally 
subscribe the Policy Letter included in the EnvPRL (Bank report nº 28650-BR). The strategy for 
the first operation of the EnvPRL was to focus on the GOB’s short-term policies and programs 
that can lay the foundation for supporting the achievement of its long-term objectives for 
environmentally sustainable economic development and poverty reduction.  It is divided into two 
main components: 
(
a
)
the first focuses on issues under the more direct influence and control of 
the Ministry of Environment – institutional strengthening, better coordination of the National 
Environment Management System (SISNAMA), and flexible instruments and social control; and 
(
b
)
the second focuses on issues the resolution of which depends on a high degree of 
involvement and collaboration across different economic sectors, i.e., on mainstreaming. 
 
During the preparation of the EnvPRL it was identified that (a) technical assistance loan 
would be instrumental in reducing some of the implementation risks identified for the 
programmatic loan series, and (b) the need to support the GOB with the development of 
participatory monitoring and evaluation instruments that would allow the Government to assess 
the pace and progress of the reforming agenda agreed in the EnvPRL.  During the Board 
discussion of the EnvPRL, Executive Directors showed strong interest in the pace of preparation 
of the technical assistance loan, which was considered, by the Board, as an integral component of 
the programmatic loan series. Thus support of the Bank, in the form of technical assistance, is 
required to successfully implement the proposed reforms including the triggers for the 
subsequent loans of the EnvPRL.  
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The main objective of the proposed EnvTAL is to support the Government on advancing 
the pace of reforms on the sustainability agenda program defined in the Policy Letter presented 
by the government on July 7, 2004 (Bank Report nº 28650-BR), focusing on the targets set forth 
for the second EnvPRL operation
1
.
This will be achieved through the provision of technical 
assistance and financial resources for:  
·
development of priority studies, methodologies and procedures,  that would have a 
direct impact on the implementation of the agreed reform agenda;   
·
facilitating the development of institutional models  and capacity to improve 
environmental mainstream and collaboration of key sectorial ministries that have an 
impact on the sustainability agenda;   
1
A
second EnvTAL is expected to be designed in support of the third EnvPRL operation. 
Page  3
·
improving the social communication mechanisms to ensure adequate transparency 
and public participation; and  
·
improving monitoring and evaluation capacity of all beneficiary ministries, that will 
allow the GOB to assess the pace of progress and the impact of the implementation of 
the reform agenda agreed between the GOB and the Bank. 
 
The proposed EnvTAL will also support the establishment of  (i) a high-level committee, 
comprised of all seven vice-ministers direct beneficiaries of the loan and the vice-minister of 
Planning, Budgeting and Management, as well as, a representative of the organized civil society, 
to oversee the implementation of the EnvPRL and the EnvTAL; (ii) a Monitoring and Evaluation 
(M&E) system and technical committee for the supervision of the EnvPRL and the EnvTAL; and 
to ensure  the effectiveness and efficiency of the reform policies; (iii) a communication strategy 
for the EnvPRL and the EnvTAL and its implementation, to give the necessary public access to 
all information allowing public accountability. 
 
While the total amount of this project, US$ 8.7 million, may be considered relatively 
small to achieve these objectives,  the EnvTAL should be seen as part of much larger technical 
assistance envelop of the Bank towards environmental sustainability policy reforms. The Bank 
has several projects, in preparation or on-
going, that support Technical Assistance to the GOB’s 
environmental sustainability agenda   for a total of US$ 104.47 million (
see table at item 4)
.
The 
EnvTAL serves as catalyst to ensure the synergy among these different projects as well as to fill 
in existing gaps for a comprehensive Technical assistance envelop more compatible with the size 
of scope of the challenges regarding environmental sustainable in Brazil. 
 
3. Preliminary description 
 
The TAL for Environmental Sustainability, a US$ 8.7 million for up to three-year period, 
has a set of targets that fully match the policy reforms agreed between the GOB and the Bank for 
the second EnvPRL operation. These targets of the TAL are expressed  in terms of the technical 
input necessary for high quality and feasible policy reforms. The actual implementation of the 
reforms are within the scope of the second EnvPRL operation.   
 
The project will support the implementation of activities to achieve the stated objectives. 
The activities are being selected in coordination with Bank staff  responsible for projects that 
include support for technical assistance or capacity building to those areas also covered by this 
loan. This  ensures full complementarity between the Bank portfolio and allows for the most 
efficient and effective use of the resources of this loan towards its objectives. 
 
Project budget will be allocated to the five major components, summarized below,  
allowing for the necessary flexibility to achieve the objectives of the EnvTAL. The funds will be 
used to provide technical support to the government in the preparation and implementation of the 
second EnvPRL operation. The project will support studies, technical assistance and capacity 
building,  workshops, strategically selected to provide a solid technical and institutional  basis 
and input for the proposed policy reforms in coordination with other Bank-supported efforts. The 
activities agreed upon and identified initially are presented in Annex 4, which represents about 
Page  4
60% of the project’s total value.  The amount of resources allocated for each component derived 
from the amount needed for the implementation of the initial activities identified and projection 
of the further work needed.  
 
To enable the GOB to carry out the technical work and provide the capacity building 
necessary to  achieve the agreed targets for the initiation of the second phase of the EnvPRL, the 
project will focus on key areas and objectives, such as: 
 
·
Environmental management system
:
clear division of roles and responsibilities regarding 
environmental management (including licensing) among the three levels of government; 
definition of environmental indicators to be adopted by the National System of Statistics, 
strengthening the MMA's management capacity and definition of mechanisms for 
environmental licensing follow-up.; 
 
·
Green Agenda:
 definition of a proposal for the regulation of the Atlantic Rain Forest Law 
and Program; definition of the 
Cerrado
 Program and the preparation of the 
Cerrado
 Bill 
of Law; definition of a proposal for the improvement of the forest replacement fee; and 
promotion of clarification initiatives and debates on the Public Forest Management Bill 
of Law; 
 
·
Brown Agenda:  
 definition of strategies for implementing the National Register on 
Contaminant Emissions and Transfers; preparation of studies and public consultations 
aimed at providing subsidies for the implementation of the P2R2; development of 
mechanisms for the identification (inventory) of pollution sources and risk areas; 
 
·
Blue Agenda: 
preparation and launching of the National Plan on Water Resources and  
preparation of general guidelines for the implementation of a water rights licensing and 
charging process for the use of water.  
 
·
Mainstreaming of environmental sustainability involving seven ministries: 
Studies, 
technical assistance and public consultation processes for issues such as: 
(a)
 detailing of 
ZEE within the area of influence of BR-163 federal highway; 
 (b)
 subsidize the 
preparation of the final version of PAS
 
(Sustainable Development Program for the 
Amazon); 
(c)
 improving the PRODES (Water Basins Restoration Program) certification 
process; 
(d) 
developing a methodology to prepare Municipal Master Plans considering 
environmental criteria; 
(e)
 
São
Francisco
 river basin revitalization program;  
(f)
 
identifying financial and fiscal instruments for promoting environmental sustainability;  
(g)  
development and validation of an SEA methodology for the hydropower sector; 
(h)
 
defining simplified procedures for the environmental licensing of agrarian settlements; 
and 
(i)
 designing a Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) system for the National Tourism 
Plan, with emphasis on the environmental sustainability. The ministries involved are: 
Environment, Finance, Cities, Tourism, Agrarian Development, National Integration and 
Mining and Energy.  
 
Page  5
The EnvPRL and the EnvTAL have raised strategic and important issues which has lead 
to other international organizations to look forward to join the IBRD in supporting the GOB’s 
sustainability agenda.  KfW has expressed its interest in co-financing the second operation of the 
EnvPRL.  GTZ will provide technical assistance of up to 
 
500,000
for
the EnvTAL.  In close 
coordination with Bank’s team during preparation, it was defined that GTZ support would be 
directed to:  (i)  capacity building of MMA and IBAMA;  (ii)  support strategic activities 
regarding development of the Amazon with Environmental Sustainability;  Control of 
deforestation and ZEE; and (iii) capacity building of the PCU team, including the design and 
implementation of the Monitoring and Evaluation Plan and the Communication Plan. 
 
Component IBRD 
(US$) 
GTZ 
(US$) 
Total Cost 
(US$) 
Strengthen the Environmental Management System 
   840,000 
200,000 
   1.040,000 
Improve the Green Agenda 
   710,000 
 
   710,000 
Improve the Brown Agenda 
   910,000 
 
   910,000 
Improve the Blue Agenda 
   910,000 
 
   910,000 
Mainstream Environmental Sustainability in selected 
Government  Sectors 
3,230,000 250,000 
3,480,000 
Project Management (M&E and Communication included) 
   380,000 
200,000 
   580,000 
Unallocated ( to be decided during project implementation) 
1,020,000 
 
1,020,000 
Front-end fee 
     50,000 
 
     50,000 
Total 8,050,000 650,000 
8,700,000 
*GTZ will fund a total amount of 
 
500,000 (aprox. US$ 650,000)
 
The project design allows for having additional objectives in support to new policy 
reforms that emerge during the project’s implementation, whether derived from the 
government’s policy letter or through new joint actions developed with other ministries. The 
main condition is that these eventual new activities would directly contribute to achieving a new 
important policy reform conducive to the Environmental Sustainability Agenda and be included 
in the following EnvPRL operations. Each proposed new objective, including the ensuing TA, 
will be considered case by case, as needed, during the project’s implementation and upon the 
Approval of the Management Committee composed by the Executive Secretaries (Vice-
Ministers) of all seven ministries involved in the EnvPRL and in the EnvTAL, among others. 
 
The allocation of the remaining amount, which represents around 35% of the total loan 
amount, will be defined annually during implementation by the Management Committee, either 
for new activities to support reaching existent objectives or agreed new ones,  and with input 
from the project monitoring and evaluation system. 
 
4.  Safeguard policies that might apply 
 
Not Applicable. 
 
Page  6
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER 0 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
8,05 
GERMANY: GERMAN TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CORPORATION 
(GTZ) 
0,65 
 Total 
8,70 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Garo J. Batmanian 
Title:  Sr. Environmental Specialist 
Tel: +55-61-329-8603 
Fax: +55-61-329-1010 
Email:  gbatmanian@worldbank.org 
Location: Brasilia, Brazil (IBRD)
 
