Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1430 
Project Name 
BR TAL FOR ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector 
(20%);Forestry (20%);General energy sector (20%);General 
finance sector (20%);General public administration sector (20%) 
Project ID 
P090041 
Borrower(s) 
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL 
Implementing Agency 
 
Federative Republic of Brazil 
Brazil 
 
Ministry of Environment 
Esplanada 
Bloco B 
DF 
Brazil 
70068-900 
Tel: 61-4009-1205 
 
fabricio.barreto@mma.gov.br 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
]
B
[X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
March 3, 2005 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
April 11, 2005 
Date of Board Approval 
June 15, 2005 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
 
Brazil has one third of all the tropical rain forest of the world, the largest reservoir of 
fresh water (11 percent), the second longest coastal line with over 8,500 km, and the savanna 
with the highest biodiversity in the world, among other important national environmental 
aspects.  These natural assets are especially important for the poor for whom they constitute a 
significant share of their wealth.  The Amazon's regional and global influence is legendary. 
Clouds formed in the Amazon are responsible for the precipitation on the central part of the 
continent, all the way to São Paulo.  Moreover, just the annual burning in the region currently 
contributes with about two percent of the world annual CO2 emissions.  It is for these local, 
national, regional and global considerations that an environmentally sustainable Brazil is of great 
concern.   
 
Brazil has historically based its economy on exploiting the immense wealth of its natural 
resources.  A significant part of its economy still relies on the use of natural resources, whether 
they are used as production inputs or as sinks for production waste. The forest sector alone is 
Page  2
responsible for four percent of the GDP.  Despite the importance of its natural resource base, 
Brazil faces major challenges to reverse a trend of unsustainable use of its natural resources. 
 
As detailed in the CAS and other recent Bank documents, Brazil’s government is 
effectively addressing the double challenge of macroeconomic vulnerability and fiscal 
constraints as well as social deficits.  Additionally, the Government of Brazil (GOB) is making a 
strong effort to balance economic growth with socio development and the maintenance and 
improvement of environmental quality. As a result, the Bank has recently approved the
 First 
Programmatic Reform Loan For Environmental Sustainability 
(EnvPRL)
 
to support the 
GOB’s environmental sustainability program and to mainstream environmental objectives more 
firmly in its broader development agenda.   
 
The program involves key policy reforms in seven different ministries, which formally subscribe 
the Policy Letter included in the EnvPRL (Bank report nº 28650-BR). The strategy for the first 
operation of the EnvPRL was to focus on the GOB’s short-term policies and programs that can 
lay the foundation for supporting the achievement of its long-term objectives for environmentally 
sustainable economic development and poverty reduction.  It is divided into two main 
components: 
(
a
)
the first focuses on issues under the more direct influence and control of the 
Ministry of Environment – institutional strengthening, better coordination of the National 
Environment Management System (SISNAMA), and flexible instruments and social control; and 
(
b
)
the second focuses on issues the resolution of which depends on a high degree of 
involvement and collaboration across different economic sectors, i.e., on mainstreaming. 
 
2. Objectives 
 
The main objective of the proposed EnvTAL is to support the Government on advancing 
the pace of reforms on the sustainability agenda program defined in the Policy Letter presented 
by the government on July 7, 2004 (Bank Report nº 28650-BR), focusing on the targets set forth 
for the second EnvPRL operation
1
.
This will be achieved through the provision of technical 
assistance and financial resources for:  
·
development of priority studies, methodologies and procedures,  that would have a direct 
impact on the implementation of the agreed reform agenda;   
·
facilitating the development of institutional models  and capacity to improve 
environmental mainstream and collaboration of key sectorial ministries that have an 
impact on the sustainability agenda;   
·
improving the social communication mechanisms to ensure adequate transparency and 
public participation; and  
·
improving monitoring and evaluation capacity of all beneficiary ministries, that will 
allow the GOB to assess the pace of progress and the impact of the implementation of the 
reform agenda agreed between the GOB and the Bank. 
 
The proposed EnvTAL will also support the establishment of  (i) a high-level committee, 
comprised of all seven vice-ministers direct beneficiaries of the loan and the vice-minister of 
Planning, Budgeting and Management, as well as, a representative of the organized civil society, 
1
A
second EnvTAL is expected to be designed in support of the third EnvPRL operation. 
Page  3
to oversee the implementation of the EnvPRL and the EnvTAL; (ii) a Monitoring and Evaluation 
(M&E) system and technical committee for the supervision of the EnvPRL and the EnvTAL; and 
to ensure  the effectiveness and efficiency of the reform policies; (iii) a communication strategy 
for the EnvPRL and the EnvTAL and its implementation, to give the necessary public access to 
all information allowing public accountability. 
 
While the total amount of this project, US$ 8.7 million, may be considered relatively 
small to achieve these objectives,  the EnvTAL should be seen as part of much larger technical 
assistance envelop of the Bank towards environmental sustainability policy reforms. The Bank 
has several projects, in preparation or on-going, that support Technical Assi
stance to the GOB’s 
environmental sustainability agenda   for a total of US$ 104.47 million (
see table at item 4)
.
The 
EnvTAL serves as catalyst to ensure the synergy among these different projects as well as to fill 
in existing gaps for a comprehensive Technical assistance envelop more compatible with the size 
of scope of the challenges regarding environmental sustainable in Brazil. 
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The principal objective of the EnvPRL is to support Brazil’s goal of balancing economic 
growth with socio development and the maintenance and improvement of environmental quality. 
In line with the CAS, the program is going to contribute to the pillar of a more sustainable Brazil, 
to reduce poverty and achieve a higher quality of life for all Brazilians in both rural and urban 
areas.  A healthy natural and physical environment provides basic services in both urban and 
rural areas in a sustainable and efficient way (MDG 7).  It will build on the country’s 
comparative advantage in natural resources while also conserving them.  A sustainable Brazil 
will also be a source of competitiveness and provide wealth for the future generation. 
 
The choice for a programmatic policy-based operation follows the CAS, which indicates 
that development policy lending aims to galvanize and support policy reforms. The First 
Programmatic Reform Loan For Environmental Sustainability (EnvPRL) is the first operation on 
a
series of up to three loans.  
 
During the preparation of the EnvPRL it was identified that (a) technical assistance loan 
would be instrumental in reducing some of the implementation risks identified for the 
programmatic loan series, and (b) the need to support the GOB with the development of 
participatory monitoring and evaluation instruments that would allow the Government to assess 
the pace and progress of the reforming agenda agreed in the EnvPRL.  During the Board 
discussion of the EnvPRL, Executive Directors showed strong interest in the pace of preparation 
of the technical assistance loan, which was considered, by the Board, as an integral component of 
the programmatic loan series. Thus support of the Bank, in the form of technical assistance, is 
required to successfully implement the proposed reforms including the triggers for the 
subsequent loans of the EnvPRL. 
 
4. Description 
 
The TAL for Environmental Sustainability, a US$ 8.7 million for up to three-year period, 
has a set of targets that fully match the policy reforms agreed between the GOB and the Bank for 
Page  4
the second EnvPRL operation. These targets of the TAL are expressed  in terms of the technical 
input necessary for high quality and feasible policy reforms. The actual implementation of the 
reforms are within the scope of the second EnvPRL operation.   
 
The project will support the implementation of activities to achieve the stated objectives. 
The activities are being selected in coordination with Bank staff  responsible for projects that 
include support for technical assistance or capacity building to those areas also covered by this 
loan. This  ensures full complementarity between the Bank portfolio and allows for the most 
efficient and effective use of the resources of this loan towards its objectives. 
 
Project budget will be allocated to the five major components, summarized below,  
allowing for the necessary flexibility to achieve the objectives of the EnvTAL. The funds will be 
used to provide technical support to the government in the preparation and implementation of the 
second EnvPRL operation. The project will support studies, technical assistance and capacity 
building,  workshops, strategically selected to provide a solid technical and institutional  basis 
and input for the proposed policy reforms in coordination with other Bank-supported efforts. The 
activities agreed upon and identified initially are presented in Annex 4, which represents about 
60% of the project’s total value.  The amount of resources allocated for each component derived 
from the amount needed for the implementation of the initial activities identified and projection 
of the further work needed.  
 
To enable the GOB to carry out the technical work and provide the capacity building 
necessary to  achieve the agreed targets for the initiation of the second phase of the EnvPRL, the 
project will focus on key areas and objectives, such as: 
 
·
Environmental management system
:
clear division of roles and responsibilities regarding 
environmental management (including licensing) among the three levels of government; 
definition of environmental indicators to be adopted by the National System of Statistics, 
strengthening the MMA's management capacity and definition of mechanisms for 
environmental licensing follow-up.; 
 
·
Green Agenda:
 definition of a proposal for the regulation of the Atlantic Rain Forest Law 
and Program; definition of the 
Cerrado
 Program and the preparation of the 
Cerrado
 Bill 
of Law; definition of a proposal for the improvement of the forest replacement fee; and 
promotion of clarification initiatives and debates on the Public Forest Management Bill 
of Law; 
 
·
Brown Agenda:  
 definition of strategies for implementing the National Register on 
Contaminant Emissions and Transfers; preparation of studies and public consultations 
aimed at providing subsidies for the implementation of the P2R2; development of 
mechanisms for the identification (inventory) of pollution sources and risk areas; 
 
·
Blue Agenda: 
preparation and launching of the National Plan on Water Resources and  
preparation of general guidelines for the implementation of a water rights licensing and 
charging process for the use of water.  
 
Page  5
·
Mainstreaming of environmental sustainability involving seven ministries: 
Studies, 
technical assistance and public consultation processes for issues such as: 
(a)
 detailing of 
ZEE within the area of influence of BR-163 federal highway; 
 (b)
 subsidize the 
preparation of the final version of PAS
 
(Sustainable Development Program for the 
Amazon); 
(c)
 improving the PRODES (Water Basins Restoration Program) certification 
process; 
(d) 
developing a methodology to prepare Municipal Master Plans considering 
environmental criteria; 
(e)
 
São
Francisco
 river basin revitalization program;  
(f)
 
identifying financial and fiscal instruments for promoting environmental sustainability;  
(g)  
development and validation of an SEA methodology for the hydropower sector; 
(h)
 
defining simplified procedures for the environmental licensing of agrarian settlements; 
and 
(i)
 designing a Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) system for the National Tourism 
Plan, with emphasis on the environmental sustainability. The ministries involved are: 
Environment, Finance, Cities, Tourism, Agrarian Development, National Integration and 
Mining and Energy.  
 
The EnvPRL and the EnvTAL have raised strategic and important issues which has lead 
to other international organizations to look forward to 
join the IBRD in supporting the GOB’s 
sustainability agenda.  KfW has expressed its interest in co-financing the second operation of the 
EnvPRL.  GTZ will provide technical assistance of up to 
 
500,000
for
the EnvTAL.  In close 
coordination with Bank’s team during preparation, it was defined that GTZ support would be 
directed to:  (i)  capacity building of MMA and IBAMA;  (ii)  support strategic activities 
regarding development of the Amazon with Environmental Sustainability;  Control of 
deforestation and ZEE; and (iii) capacity building of the PCU team, including the design and 
implementation of the Monitoring and Evaluation Plan and the Communication Plan. 
 
Component IBRD 
(US$) 
GTZ 
(US$) 
Total Cost 
(US$) 
Strengthen the Environmental Management System 
   840,000 
200,000 
   1.040,000 
Improve the Green Agenda 
   710,000 
 
   710,000 
Improve the Brown Agenda 
   910,000 
 
   910,000 
Improve the Blue Agenda 
   910,000 
 
   910,000 
Mainstream Environmental Sustainability in selected 
Government  Sectors 
3,230,000 250,000 
3,480,000 
Project Management (M&E and Communication included) 
   380,000 
200,000 
   580,000 
Unallocated ( to be decided during project implementation) 
1,020,000 
 
1,020,000 
Front-end fee 
     50,000 
 
     50,000 
Total 8,050,000 650,000 
8,700,000 
*GTZ will fund a total amount of 
 
500,000 (aprox. US$ 650,000)
 
The project design allows for having additional objectives in support to new policy 
reforms that emerge during the project’s implementation, whether derived from the 
government’s policy letter or through new joint actions developed with other ministries. The 
main condition is that these eventual new activities would directly contribute to achieving a new 
important policy reform conducive to the Environmental Sustainability Agenda and be included 
in the following EnvPRL operations. Each proposed new objective, including the ensuing TA, 
will be considered case by case, as needed, during the project’s implementation and upon the 
Page  6
Approval of the Management Committee composed by the Executive Secretaries (Vice-
Ministers) of all seven ministries involved in the EnvPRL and in the EnvTAL, among others. 
 
The allocation of the remaining amount, which represents around 35% of the total loan 
amount, will be defined annually during implementation by the Management Committee, either 
for new activities to support reaching existent objectives or agreed new ones,  and with input 
from the project monitoring and evaluation system. 
 
5. Financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER 0 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
8.05 
GERMANY: GERMAN TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CORPORATION 
(GTZ) 
0.65 
 Total 
8.70 
 
6. Implementation 
 
The Borrower is the Federative Republic of Brazil.  The project will be under the general 
coordination of the Executive Secretariat (SECEX) of the Ministry of Environment.  SECEX will 
be responsible for:  (i) conducting the dialogue with the World Bank on the policies for 
implementation of the Reform Agenda for Environmental Sustainability, supported by the 
recently approved First Programmatic Reform Loan for Environmental Sustainability (Loan 
n.7256-
BR);  (ii) general evaluation and monitoring of the project’s implementation, including 
consolidation of the information on the progress of the project’s implementation, on a twice-
yearly and annual basis; and (iii) serve as the Coordinator in the Management Committee.   
 
The Management Committee will be responsible for general and macro-policy decisions 
related to the EnvPRL and to the EnvTAL. It will consist of the Executive Secretaries and/or 
respective substitutes of the following Ministries:  (i) Environment;  (ii) Cities;  (iii) Agrarian 
Development;  (iv) Finance;  (v) National Integration;  (vi) Mines and Energy;  (vii) Tourism;  
(viii) Planning, Budget and Management; as well as (ix) an organized civil society representative. 
The Executive Secretary of the Ministry of Environment will be the Coordinator of the 
Management Committee.  The Project Coordination Unit (PCU) will serve as the Executive 
Secretariat of the Management Committee.   
 
A
Technical Committee will also be created, composed of:  (i) a representative appointed 
by each beneficiary ministry in the program (focal points);  (ii) a representative of each one of the 
secretariats and bodies affiliated with the Ministry of Environment (Secretariat for Environmental 
Quality in Human Settlements - SQA;  Secretariat for Biodiversity and Forests - SBF; Secretariat 
for Water Resources - SRH;  Secretariat for Sustainable Development Policies - SDS;  Secretariat 
for Coordination of the Amazon - SCA; and National Water Agency – ANA and the Brazilian 
Institute of Environment and Renewable Natural Resources – IBAMA); and (iii) an organized 
civil society representative. The responsibilities of the Technical Committee are:  (i) to provide 
Page  7
specialized technical support to the Management Committee and/or the Project Coordination Unit 
(PCU);  (ii) to analyze terms of reference and technical specifications of services and goods, 
respectively;  (iii) to monitor ongoing technical assistance activities, in compliance with the 
Project Monitoring and Evaluation Plan; (iv) to submit Technical Opinion when requested by the 
Management Committee or the Coordinator of the PCU; and (v) to analyze and approve the 
outputs and results of the work developed with the corresponding Terms of Reference (TORs).   
 
SEC
EX/MMA will be the project’s Implementing Agency, with the technical support of 
the participating bodies or co-implementers. The project will be implemented through a PCU, 
under the Executive Secretariat of the Ministry of Environment, and established through an 
Administrative Order issued by the Ministry of Environment. The PCU will be responsible for the 
coordination and administrative aspects of the project’s implementation (planning, procurement 
and financial management, supervision, project monitoring and evaluation and communication 
and reporting).     
 
The PCU will be composed of five technical experts of MMA with experience in projects 
financed by the World Bank.  Two of these experts are staff of the Project Support Group (GAP) 
and will be allocated there. They are going to be responsible, respectively, for the Project’s 
financial and procurement aspects and will respond directly to the PCU Coordinator.  The 
rationale for using MMA permanent staff for the PCU are: (i) to avoid increasing the Ministry’s 
existing structure; (ii) to build capacity within MMA to coordinate and execute externally funded 
projects; (iii) and to facilitate mainstreaming the activities and results  of the project within 
MMA.  
 
Whenever required by the Coordinator of the PCU, specialists may be sought to address 
specific thematic issues, to provide inputs for the Technical Committee’s decisions, and to 
develop work related to the areas of specialization of the Committee’s members. The specialists 
may be appointed by the representative focal points in the Technical Committee.   
 
An initial list of activities to be financed with the loan’s resources was agreed upon with 
each beneficiary ministry and will be further detailed in the first procurement plan.  Additional 
activities will be defined during the project’s implementation, depending on the project’s 
monitoring and evaluation vis-à-vis the achievement of the targets agreed upon for the second 
phase of the EnvPRL, and the relevance of the activities proposed for the achievement of 
environmental sustainability in Brazil.. The project’s implementation, financial management and 
procurement arrangements are presented in detail in Annexes 6, 7 and 8 of this report, 
respectively. 
 
The procurement of goods and selections/contracts of consultancy services will be carried 
out by UNDP, with some procurement/selection processes conducted by two members of the PCU 
allocated at the Project Support Group (GAP) of SECEX/MMA directly responding to the PCU 
Coordinator.  The criteria for defining which processes that each body will execute will be 
established between the Borrower and UNDP upon review by the Bank.    
 
7. Sustainability 
Page  8
Sustainability of the project benefits is assured as the GOB has shown strong commitment 
to the reforms agreed in EnvPRL as evidenced by the Letter of Policy signed by all seven 
ministers involved in those reforms. This implies that the GOB has the political will to use this 
project outputs to promote the environmental sustainability policy reforms. Furthermore, the 
activities supported by this project will allow the triggering of negotiations for a follow-up 
programmatic loan envisioned in the EnvPRL. 
 
8.  Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
 
High-level buy-in
:
Experience indicates that in the case of technical assistance loans in 
support to programmatic reform loans,  such TALs can be implemented without reflecting 
directly in an advancement of the reforms. This happens because the results of the studies 
supported by the TAL may not reach the decision-makers in time and therefore are not included 
in the new policies. This project is designed to ensure the buy-in of high-level government 
decision-makers. The proposed management structure includes, as its highest body, a 
Management Committee composed by the Executive Secretaries (Vice-Ministers) of all seven 
ministries involved in the EnvPRL and in the EnvTAL, as well as the Executive Secretary of the 
Ministry of Planning, Budget and Management and a representative of the civil society. The 
Management Committee  (i) serves as the forum for the political analysis and negotiations 
necessary to advance the policy reforms agreed on the EnvPRL, (ii) monitors the implementation 
of the EnvPRL and EnvTAL  (iii) defines the series of specific actions that will be supported by 
the  EnvTAL in supports of the targets of ensuing EnvPRL operations. This Management 
Committee will also contribute to the coordination among the different projects of the overall 
Bank technical assistance envelop in support of the environmental sustainability agenda, as such 
envelop includes projects with the Ministries of Cites, Tourism and Mining & Energy, besides  
the Ministry of Environment. All these ministries are represented in the Management Committee.   
 
In addition, the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) is under direct supervision of the 
Executive Secretary of the Ministry of Environment. These features of the project should ensure 
that the results of technical assistance be translated into the policies under the responsibility of 
the different ministries.  
 
Flexibility of design
:
Considering the range and scope of the programmatic reform 
loans, it is extremely difficult to define at outset all studies, capacity building and other technical 
assistance necessary to advance the reform of the agreed policies. Thus, TALs associated to 
programmatic reform loans should have a flexible design which would enable to address the 
client’s needs as the project evolves.  In order to ensure flexibility without losing focus, the 
project establishes the overall envelop of resources to be made available and  clearly defines the 
end results that should be achieved in direct relation with the EnvPRL targets while defining 
criteria for the selection of activities. These  arrangements will ensure flexibility on the timing 
and definition of the specific actions, while keeping the focus on the expected results, which 
would directly contribute to the policy reform agenda. Therefore, the current activities detailed in 
Annex 4, represent about 60% of the total budget, allowing for the final allocation within and 
between components as the result of the implementation of the first set of activities. 
 
Page  9
Participatory process
:
Over the past 20 years, Brazil has seen the establishment of a 
number of different types of  Civil Society Organizations. These CSOs have improved 
tremendously and have become more organized and professional. Thus, the government has 
increasingly listened and interacted  with such organizations. Environmental sustainability policy 
reforms to become effective  must balance the views of the different stakeholders. The project 
design enables the participation of the CSOs  by providing a seat in the high-level Management 
Committee and in the Technical Committee, as well as, participation in the Monitoring and 
Evaluation of this loan and its associated EnvPRL.  Additionally, the loan supports the increase 
of public access to environmental information and the improvement of information systems 
which allow public accountability of the environmental processes. 
 
Simple financial management arrangements
:
The project will support about 3 to 6 
activities for each one of the six ministries, which will be involved in mainstreaming of the 
environmental policy, and about 20 to 30 activities to be executed by the Minister of  
Environment. The project design centralizes all financial and procurement management at the 
MMA.   The project’s financial and procurement management will rely on an existing Project 
Support Group (GAP)  within the MMA, which has proven capacity and positive track record 
with the implementation of Bank financed project. The GAP will report directly to the Project 
Coordinator of the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) at the Executive Secretariat of the MMA.  
 
In order to ensure a multi-sectorial approach of the proposed actions, each one of the 
ministries involved would appoint a “Focal Point” for this project, which will interact closely 
with the Project Coordinator. Each Focal Point would be responsible for providing the TORs of 
his/her respective area to the PCU, participate in the selection process and in review and 
approval of the product. This arrangement ensures the direct involvement of all ministers 
regarding technical issues while the MMA centralizes just the financial management and 
procurement aspects of the project. 
 
Complementarity with on-going projects
:
In order to maximize the impact of this 
project and ensure the synergy among the different Banks-supported projects,  this project was 
designed taking into consideration the support that other on-going projects are giving to the 
GOB’s environmental sustainability agenda, e.g. NEP II, PROÁGUA, and Energy Sector TAL. 
Both the GOB’s and the Bank’s teams involved in the implementation of those projects were 
consulted with and/or were part of the EnvTAL’s preparation team to ensure the 
complementarity of the proposed EnvTAL’s activities with those projects and that the agreed 
reforms for the environmental sustainability would be accomplished. 
 
9.  Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project
 
Yes
 
No
 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
/
GP
4.01) [ 
] 
[x] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
4.04)
 
[
]
[x] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[
]
[x] 
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
,
being revised as OP 4.11)
 
[
]
[x] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
4.12)
 
[
]
[x] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OD 4.20
,
being revised as OP 4.10)
 
[
]
[x] 
Page  10
Forests (
OP
/
BP
4.36)
 
[
]
[x] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37)
 
[
]
[x] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.60)
*
[
]
[x] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.50)
 
[
]
[x] 
10. List of Factual Technical Documents 
 
Capacity Assessment on Procurement, February, 2005 
Financial Management Assessment, February, 2005 
Program Document for a First Programmatic Reform Loan for Environmental Sustainability, 
World Bank, July 2004.  Report nº 28650-BR 
Brazil – Equitable, Competitive and Sustainable – Overview and Contributions for Debate, 
World Bank, November 2002. 
 
11. Contact point 
Contact: Garo J. Batmanian 
Title:  Senior Environmental specialist 
Tel: 5761-8603 
Fax: 5761-1010 
Email:  gbatmanian@worldbank.org 
Location: Brasilia, Brazil (IBRD) 
 
12. For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the 
disputed areas
 
Page  11
