Docmnent of
The World Bank
FORK OMCIAL USE ONLY
Dist No. 7526
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE ENGINEERING PROJECT
(LOAN 2352-EGT)
NOVEMBER 30, 1988
Infrastructure operations Division
Country Department III
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CUIRRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currencv Unit                         Egyptian Pound (LE)
Exchange Rates at Appraisal
Official Rate                 US$ 1 - LE  0. 7r                              a
LE 1 m U3$ 1.43
Commercial Rate               USS 1 = LE  0.84
Exchange Rate at Completion
Commercial Rate               US$ 1 = LE 1.37
LE 1 = US$ .73
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS ATD ACRONYMS
NOPWASD            National Organization for Potable Water
and Sanitary Drainage
MOP                Ministry of Planning
PIU                ?roject Implementation Unit



THE WORLD BANK
Wa,0hton. DC 20433
U.S A
01oe ni D..csw4GMw
November 30. 1988
H4HORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Pass-Through Audit Report on Arab Republic of Egypt
Water Supply and Sqverage Engineering Proiect (Loan 2352-EGT)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled aPass-
Through Audit Report on Arab Republic of Egypt - Water Supply and Sewerage
Engineering Project (Loan 2352-EGT)m prepared by the Europe, Middle East and
North Africa Regional Office. Full evaluation of this project has not been
made by the Operations Evaluation Dipartment.
Attachment
This docutnent ha a restricted distribution and may be utle by rocipint only in the Pe-fonmne
of their official duties. Its contents may not othrwi be discload without World Bank authorintion.



FOR OFCIAL USE ONLY
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE ENGINEERING PROJECT
(IN DAQAHLIYA, DAMIETTA AND BEHEIRA)
(LOAN 2352-EGT)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Page Nj*
Preface ...... . .                                .
Basic Data Sheet .ii
Highlights.                                                        v
I. INTRODUCTION .
II.  PROJECT PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL .
Preparation and Appraisal .
Project objectives.                                                2
Project Description.                                               2
Major Loan Covenants and Status of Implementation                   2
III.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND COST.                                     3
Loan Effectiveness and Project Start-Up ...............            3
Project Execution.                                                 3
Consultant Selection.                                               5
Project Costs.                                                     5
Disbursements.                                                     5
Reporting.                                                         6
Consultants Performance.                                           6
IV.  PROJECT JUSTIFICATION.                                                6
Project Achievements.                                              6
Bank Performance.                                                  7
The Borrower's Performance.                                        7
V.  CONCLUSION AND LESSONS LEARNED.                                       8
Annex 1
Project Cost .... ......                       .......... ...      9
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE ENGINLERING PROJECT
(IN DAQALHIYA. DAMIETTA AND BEHEIRA)
(LOAN 2352-EGT)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
1.      This report reviews the preparation, implementation and achievements
of the Water Supply and Sewerage Engineering Project (in Daqahliya, Damietta
and Beheira), Egypt for which a loan of US$ 4.0 was made to the Government.
The project was implemented by the National Organization for Potable Water and
Sanitary D.ainage (NOPWASD). The loan was signed on February 25, 1984, became
effective on August 1, 1984 and was closed on January 21, 1988.
2.      The Project Completion Report was prepared by the Europe, Middle East
and North Africa Regional Office on the basis of the review of the President's
Report, the Loan Agreement and other reports related to the project
implementation.
3.      In accordance with the revised procedures for project performance
audit reporting, this Project Completion Report was read by the Operations
Evaluation Department (OED), but the project was not audited by OED staff.
OED sent copies of the draft report to the Borrower for comments, however,
none were received.



-ii-
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE ENGINEERING
(IN DAQAHLIYA. DAMIETTA AND BEHEIRA)
(LOAN 2352-EGT)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BASIC DATA SHEET
KEY PROJECT DATA
item                                         Appraisal
__ _ _ ___ _  Estimate           Actual
'Lotal Project Cost    (US$ million)        5.27                      2.00
Cost Underrun           (Z)                                           53.1
Loan Amount             (US$ million)       4.00                      1.06
Disbursed          (USa ii.il;;va)     '.v^                      1.06
Cancelled          (US$ million)        -                        2.94
Repaid as of
June 30, 1988    (US$ million)          -
Date of Physical Completion                  August 1986              January 88 I'
Proportior. Completed by Target Date   1001                          45Z
Proportion of Time Overrun                   -                       60.
Cumulative Disbursements (US$million):
FY1984                                         .20
FY1985                                       2.70                     .01
FY1986                                       4.00                     .47
FY1987                                                                .89
FY1988                                                               1.06
l/ Engineering and Feasibility studies only.



-iii-
OTHER PROJECT DATA
item                                        Appraisal
Estimate               Actual
First Mention in Files                                              07/'22/82
First Considered by Bank Mission
as Engineering Loan                                               09/13/82
Negotiating Project in Cairo                                        08/31/83
Government Application                                              11/15/82
Board Approval                                                      10/25/83
Loan Agreement Signing                                              02/24/84
Effectiveness                               06/25/84                08/01/84
Closing Date                                izi3/i8b                UI/Z1/88
Executing Agency                   National Organization for Potable Water
and Sanitary Drainage (NOPWASD)



-iv-
MISSION DATA
Item                  Month/Year   No. of    No. of    Man-             Date o'
Days     Persons   days           Report
1. Ident4fication         09/82         12         2          24 &'        10/26/82
2. Preparation    I       11/82          7         1           7           12/28/82
3. Preparation   I1       01/83         12         2          24 &'        03/07/83
*4. Preappralsal          04/83          4         1           4           05/04/83
5. Appraisal              05/03         10         2          20           06/06/83
6. Negotiations           09/83          5         4          20           09/14/83
7. Supervision    I       02/84          8         1           8 &'        03/02/84
8. Supervision   II       08/84         10         2          20 &'        09/11/84
9. Supervision  III       12/84         12         2            24         12/18/84
10. Supervision   IV       07/85         14         1          14           08/13/85
11. Sup4rvision    V       10/85         24         1          24 A'        12!05/85
12. Supervision   VI       03/86         14         1          14 &'        04/08/86
13. Supervision  VII       08/86         21         1          21 "         08/05/86
14. Supervision VIII       03/87         16         2          32 "         03/16/87
15. Supervision   IX       11/87         15         1          15 ''        01/12/88
a/  Mission combined with supervisior. of other water supply projects.
b/  Mission combined with supervision and preparation of other water supply
projects.



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE ENGINEERING PROJECT
(IN DAQAHLIYA. DAMIE1TA AND BEHEIRA)
(LOAN 2352-EGT)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HIGHLIGHTS
1.      Loan 2352-EGT, originally approved in October 1983 for an amouint of
US$4.00 million, of which USS 2.96 million was cancelled in 1988 (para 3.08)
was made to the Government of Egypt to help finance a wa6ar supply and
sewerage engineering project in three governorates in provincial Egypt.
2.      In the early 1980's, water supply ane' sanitation services in the
governorates of Daqahliya, Damietta and Beheira were deteriorating rapidl.y. A
water supply improvement project was being implemented in Beheira with ID)A
financing (Credit 1156-EGC). The level and quality of services in the two
other governorates were suffering but no adequate project preparation stv.dies
to address the situation were available. The engineering project was
.onceived t^ prepare such stsi'ip  and to complement the Bank support to the
institutional reform initiated under earlier projects. New institutions to
take over the then scattered responsibilities in sector operations in the two
governorates were expected to be created during project implementation;
technical assistance to these institutions and to strengthen the institution
of the third governorate was included in the project (para 2.03).
3.      The project was only partly implemented and with serious delays.  The
implementing agency took about one year to complete the evaluation of
consultants' submissions. Consultants' contract was signed nine months after
decision of award; they mobilized more than 21 months after the appraisal
estimated date (Para 3.04).
4.      Investment projects for service improvements in the governorates were
prepared and agreed upon; but they were not included in the National
Investment Plan by the time the loan was closed. The Government decided to
postponae preparation of detailed design for these projects and to request
cancellation of the corresponding loan amount (para 3.08). Detailed design
would be prepared by the Government local consultants and financed by the
Government once the project is included in the Plan.
5.      Consultants proposals for institutional set-up which were suppported
by the Bank, did not receive Government endorsement until late in the process
and were still not implemented by the loan closing date. They are currently
considered in Government's plans for sector organization at the local
government level (Para 4.02).



-vi-
6.      Tire estimated for employment of consultants and review of studies
proved to be very tight; the complexitiea of Government decision making
procedures had been grossly underestimated (Para 3.05). The Bank should have
shown better understanding of the Governments views regarding the consultant's
proposals on the institutional set-up. A pragmatic approach aiming at gradual
changes along agreed objectives should have been undertaken (Para 4.05).



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE ENGINEERING PROJECT
([N DAQAHIIYA, DAMIETTA AND BEHEIRA)
(LOAN 2352-EGT)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01     This completion Report reviews the preparation and implementation of
a water supply engineering project in three governorates in provincial Egypt
for which loan 2352-EGT was approved in October 1983. The loan was for US
$4.0 million of which an amount of US$ 2,940,018.28 was cancelled in January
1988 at the Borrower's request.
1.02     Bank's group involvement in the water suipply and sewerage sector in
Egypt began in 1975 with the preparation of the Alexandria Water Supply
project (Loan 1369-EGT) which was completed in 1986. An Engineering and
Technical Assistance Credit (S-20) was approved in 1977. The studiss prepared
tinder this Credit led to the preparation in 1980 of two provincial water
supply projects, one of which (Beheira Water Supply Project) is tinanced Dy
IDA Credit 1156-EGT. Works under that Credit are under implementation and
expected to be completed by the end of 1991.
11. PROJECT PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
Preparation and Appraisal
2.01     The project was identified in July 1982 and appraised in May 1983.
Following a request from the Egyptian Government to the Bank to help finance
the construction of new sewerage collection and treatment facilities in nine
secondary towns, it was realized that the feasibility of the proposed works
was not studied and that relevant basic information was not available in order
to prepare a sewerage improvement project in the proposed towns. It was
therefore agteed witn the Governiment to commission studies to prepare possible
water supply and sewerage projects in the governorates where eight of the nine
towns are located. Although the Government was more inclined to use funds
available from bilateral financing under more favorable terms (interest rate)
to finance new works, the Government sought Bank assistance in preparing the
studies under an engineering loan. The understanding was that projects
prepared under this loan would be financed through a blend of bank financing
and other bilateral assistance. The project preparation was, in fact,
inspired by the successsful implementation of the earlier engineering Credit



-2-
S-20, from which one project was subsequently financed by the Kreditanstadlt
Fur Wiederaufbau (KFW) aud a second project by IDA (Credit 1156-EGT, Para 1.02
above). The loai. (2352-EGT) was negotiated in Augubt 1983, approved in
October 1983 and becam effective in August 1984.
Proe!    objectives
2.02     The project objectives were to identify and assist _.n the preparation
of suitable investment projects for the improvement of water supply and
sanitation services in three Governorates of provincial Egypt and to
strengthen the capacities of these governorates in the implementation and
opeiAtion of such projects.
Project DescrlDtion
2.03     The project included technical assistance for the preparation of
investment projects in the three governorates, and for the development of
institutional set up for the provision of these services. It also provided a
small amount of operational equipments (vehicles and office equipment). The
project had three interrelated components:
(i) preparation of engineering and feasibility studies for water
supply and sanitation projects in the governorates of Daqahliya
and Damietta ard for sanitation projcts in the Governorate of
Beheira:
(ii)  development of institutional framework of the sec.or in the
project area, and provision of technical assistance for the
institutions to be established during project execution for that
purpose; and
(iii) development of engineering design and contract documents for
priority projects identified under (i) above.
The loan was intended to finance 1OOZ of foreign expenditures and 802 of local
expenditures of consultants services and of purchase of equipmen.s.
Major Loan Covenants and Status of Implementation
2.04     The National Organization for Potable Water and Sanitary Drainage
(NOPWASD) was made responsible for the project execution through a Project
Implementation Unit (PIU). The following major covenants were set out in tne
Loan Agreement of February 24, 1984.
(i) NOPWASD had to maintain the PIU with all staff and facilities to
enable it to perform its responsibilities for the implementation
of the project. (Section 3.02 (a))
(ii) NOPWASD had to employ consultants acceptable to the Bank, under
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. (Section 3.02
(b)).



- 3 -
(iii)  NOPWASD had to furnish to the Bank quarterly progress reports to
be prepared by the consultants within six weeks from the end of
the period covered by it. (Section 3.03 (a)).
(iv)  NOPWASD had to exchange views with the Bank on the
recommendations of the final report to be prepared by the
consultants, before the implementation thereof (Section 3.03
(b)).
(v)  NOPWASD had to select in agreement with the Bank, the priority
works for which the engineering design and contract documents
were to be prepared under the project. (Section 3.03 (c)).
All the above covenants, except quarterly reporting (Para 3.12), were complied
with.
HI. PROJECT [MPLEMENTATION AND COST
Loan Effectiveness and Project Start-up
3.01     Only the Government's formal ratification of the Loan Agreement was
required for loan effectiveness. The original deadline of June 25, ;984 for
declaring loan effectiveness was extended to August 24, 1984 to provide the
Government with additional time to complete the ratification process.  The
loan was declared effective on August 1, i984.
3.02     Meanwhile, the Government invited (on June 5, 1983) consultants
wishing to be considered for carrying out the project studies to submit their
particulars to NOPWASD.  Terms of Reference for the studies were agreed duriig
loan negotiations in August 1983. A list of ten consultants firms and
consortia was proposed by NOPWASD to the Bank based on the evaluation of
Consultants' submissions on October 19, 1983 (shortly before Boa.d approval on
October 25, 1983); final agreement on a short list of 7 consultant consortia
was reached with NOPWASD in early November 1983. Subsequently, consultants
were invited to submit proposals by early January 1984. A Consortium of
foreign and local consultants was selected by the end of 1984. The contract
was signed on September 29, 1985. It covered tasks under the first and second
components of the project with the option of entering a subsequent contract
for the third component (Para 2.03) based on the contract schedule of prices
once the priority projects were agreed upon.
Project Execution
3.03     It was originally foreseen that the project execution would start in
March 1984. A period of about six weeks was allowed for completing the
consultants' evaluation by NOPWASD. Actually NOPWASD took a full year to
evaluate the proposals, and an additional nine months to obtain approval of
relevant ministries before signing a contract in September 1985.
Consequentiy, the consultants mobilized by the end of 1985 immediately after
receiving the advance payments (condition of contract effectiveness), almost
two years later than originally planned.



- 4 -
3.04     Delays in project start-up were mainly due to lengthy process of
evaluation of proposals and contract approval. The agreements on the short
list of consultants and their conditions of employment took place as
originally planned. Time originally alloc:ted to complete evaluation and
contract signing (four months) proved to be unrealistic. It underestimated
the requirements of the Egytian administrative procedures for contract award.
Although it is quite apparent that these tasks took exceptionally longer than
could be anticipated in normal conditions, contract negotiations were
completed six months before NOPWASD could sign a contract. NOPWASD obtained a
new special clearance for the contract from the Ministry of Planning (MOP)
according to instructions from the Prime Minister (Para 3.08 below).
3.06     Project execution ran into more serious problems after the
consultants started submitting their reports on the project's studies.
Original plans called for completing the engineering design of the selected
project within 16 months from consultants mobilizatic . Actually, by the time
the loan was closed, which occured 24 months after a tual mobilization, the
first two project components were less than fully completed. Delays in review
and agreement by NOPWASD on the consultants' proposed institutional set up and
on the priority investment projects precluded progress on subsequent phases.
(This was also exacerbated by delays in payments to the consultants). The
project execution was also adversely affected by changes of the ministerial
affiliation of NOPWASD and the high turnover at NOPWASD and PIU top
management. Government budgetary constraints and abundant availablity of
bilateral grants and concessionary loans to the Government created a more
difficult environment for decisions under the project.
3.06     Consultants recommended the creation of a single water supply and
sanitation company for each of the governorates. These recommendations did
not win endorsement from NOPWASD and at least one of the concerned
governorates until late in the process and after lengthy discussions. As a
result, the water and sanitation agencies which were expected to be
established under the project were not created; a significant aspect of the
project i.e. consultants' assistance in establishing these agencies was not
executed.
3.07     The consultants' proposals on investment projects were more sucessful
than the institutional ones. NOPWASD and the governorates agreed on the
priority projects but only after long delays. The investment projects,
including urgent works, were refined after discussions with NOPWASD and the
Bank and served as a basis for defining the governorates investments in the
sector through the year 2010.
3.08     Since project appraisal, new approval from various government
agencies to complete the follow on phase of the consultants contract had been
added. The Government and NOPWASD decided, upon completing the final
engineering report on the investment projects not to use the loan funds to
finance the development of detailed engineering design and tender documents.
The Bank approved the government request to canrel the unused funds (US$
2,940,,018.28) as of January 21, 1988. The Government reached that decision
in view of the fact that (i) the project was not included in the five year
investment plan (FY 87-92) and therefore it was thought premature to invest on
detailed design and tender documents; and (ii) the Prime Minister's
instructions issued in April 1985 required that the use of foreign consultants
be limited to areas for which there is no local expertise and that only



-5-
bilateral grants be used to finance such type of services. Since the
Government considered to have the the local expertise to carry out detailed
engineering stuaies, the chance to obtain a special clearance from the MOP to
extend the existing consultant contract was nil.
Consultants Selection
3.09     In selecting the consultants for the studies, NOPWASD followed the
Bank's guidelines for the use of consultants. The selection of the
foreign-led consultants consortium was approved by the Bank.
Proiect Costs
3.10     Actual and estimated project costs are given in Annex 1.  The actual
project cost (excluding components that were not carried out under the
project) amounted to about US$2.00 million compared to US$5.27 million
estimated at appraisal with an underrun of about 72X of original cost
estimates. However, and because of cancellation of the third component,
actual costs registered about 312 cost underruns when orignal cost is adjusted
to reflect the cancellation. This is shown in the table below.
US$ million
Total cost at Appraisal                 5.27
Less Component 3 (cancelled)           (2.36)
Net comorative cost                2.91
Actual Cost                        2.00
Underruns                          31%
Cost underruns were due to the fact that the prices of the consultants'
contract were less than estimated at appraisal.
Disbursements
3.11    Actual and appraisal estimates of cumulative disbursements in US$
million are compared below:
FY          Appraisal Estimate        Actual
1984             .20
1985            2.70                     .01
1986            4.00                     .47
1987                                     .88
1988                                    1.06
Total disbursements arounted to US$ 1,059,981.72 reflecting the cancelled
amount at closing date. Disbursements were estimated to be fully made by the
end of the project's third year. However, they started in the third year
(Disbursements in FY 1985 were for the front end fee). To provide sufficient
time for the completion of the first phase of the engineering studies and the
institutional studies following the late start of the project execution, the
closing date was extended by one year to December 31, 1987. It was closed on
January 21, 1988.



-6-
ReportLn
3.12     No quarterly progress reports were submitted to the Bank during
project execution; informal exchange of information with the consultants was
established. NOPWASD and the consultant reviewed with the Bank the findings
and conclusions of the studies. All the reports and documents related to the
project were submitted to the Bank.
Comultants Performance
3.13     The Consultants' performance was satisfactory.  They performed under
extremely difficult situation arising from a very slow review of the studies
and delays in decision making regarding institutional or engineering options
on the part of the Borrower. Although the consultants dialogue with the
Borrower was affected by this situation, the professional quality of the
consultants studies was maintained throughout the project execution. The
consultants recommendation on the institutional arrangements encountered
considerable opposition (Para 3.06); the consultants needed to explore
alternative approaches on the subject for discussion with the Borrower.
IV. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
Progjtt Achievements
4.01     The project was conceived mainly to (i) formulate a package of
investment projects in three governorates, (ii) initiate and strengthen
institutional reforms in the water supply and sanitation sectors in these
governorates and (iii) complete engineering design and contract documents for
the selected priority projects. The first component was achieved albeit with
very serious delays. NOPWASD's application to include the identified priority
projects in the National Investment Plan was not approved by the MOP because
of Government's budgetary restraints.
4.02     Success in achieving the second component of the project was
limited. The Government's d:cision to accept the proposed set-up of a single
water supply and sanitation institution for each governorate was taken late in
the process. No legislation to implement this decision was issued by the time
of loan closing and the envisaged consultants assistance to such institutions
was no longer possible. One Governorate (Damietta), however, enacted the
creation of a water company (along the same concept of the water company
introduced earlier in the Beheira Governorate) well in advance before the
consultants submitted their recommendations. This company did not benefit
from the consultants' assistance in its take over of the water supply
operations in the governorate as was originally planned. The situation in the
third governorate remained unchanged with the responsibility for water supply
and sanitation operations still scattered among various municipal
departments. However, the discussion of the consultants' reports stirred the
debate around how best to organize the sector, and the role of the National
Water Organization and the local authorities in planning and operating water
supply and sanitation services. The findings of the project studies are being
used in the current Government plans for sector reorganization. Additionally,
the fact that the project studies addressed institutional issues for sewerage
operations simultaneously with the water supply issues was in itself a
remarkable step in shedding the light on those subsector issues which we a
often neglected in the past.



- 7 -
4.03     The third project component was completely dropped when the
government decided not to use the loan proceeds for financing the preparation
of the projects final design and contract documents (para 3.08). The detailed
design and tender documents would be prepared by NOPWASD-selected local
consultants once the projects are approved for inclusion in the National
Investment Plan.
Bnk Performanee
4.04     At the time the project was appraised, sewerage and water supply
services it. the Governorates of Damietta and Daqahliya were deteriorating; the
sewerage services in Beheira where IDA is financing a large scale water supply
rehabilitetion and expansion program (credit 1156-EGT, Para 1.02) suffered as
well.  The preliminary information needed to formulate a project was lacking
and no effort had been made at that time to study the situation. Overall, no
plan was available to improve these services. In addition to the Bank,
several bilateral financing agencies were ready to provide financing far new
projects in the sector and the Government was in no way able to propose
projects, as its plans for improvements were vaguely formulated with no basic
d&ta available. On the institutional side, NOPWASD, a still young
organization (enacted in 1981) was in charge of the nationwide sector planning
and construction of new projects. Operational responsiuilities were delegated
to the local authorities in the governorates but without specifying any form
of institutional framework or central sector support for operation and
maintenance. The engineering loan was thuE conceived to address these issues,
and an accelerated time-table to carry out the studies was established. The
time allocated for employing consultants for the studies and for reviewing the
studies proved very short. Time overruns were very serious setbacks in the
project implementation. The time allocated in the project original plans to
enact and initiate the establishment of new agencies under the project was
also very short. It underestimated the complexities of the aeministrative
decision making in Egypt.
4.05     The project execution was supervised regularly.  From the project
start to completion, a total of nine supervision missions visited Egypt (often
in combination with supervision or preparation of other projects in the
sector). The missions maintained a good dialogue with both the National
Organization (NOPWASD) and the local authorities in the governorates which
were to be more directly benefiting from the project. The missions' advices
and follow-up letters contributed to improving the quality of the studies
particularly with regard to the selection of investment projects.  However,
the Bank insistance on supporting the consultants recommendations against the
Borrower on the institutional set-up as the only viable solution (para 3.06)
contributed to delays. A more realistic attitude and understanding of the
Borrower's views, on the part of the Bank might have given better results.
The Bank should have adopted a more pragmatic approach which recognizes that
gradual improvements can be achieved along agreed long term objectives.
The Borrower's Performance
4.06     N!OPWASD's performance was less satisfactory than expected at
appraisal. Its performance was seriously affected by high turnover at the
senior management level: The chairman's position was filled by six persons
over the period since the project was approved; changes at the top of the PIU
also aggravated the situation (Para 3.05). NOPWASD management encountered



-8-
difficulties with the concerned governorates in making decisions on
institutional options. However, NOPWASD staff were very actively involved in
the studies. They performed satisfactorily when addressing technical issues
but experienced more difficulties in understanding the institutional and
financial issues. This caused significant delays in processing the
institutional aspects of the project. The few special loan covenants (para
2.04) were all complied with except the submission of quarterly reports.
V. CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED
5.01     The project was implemented with serious delays; its achievements
were mixed. A major component of the project (detailed design) was fully
dropped out because government chose not to use the loan's funds to carry out
that component. This took place during a period marked with severe budgetary
constraints coupled with availability of bilateral grants and concessionary
loans: the Government was less interested in borrowing from the Bank for
project preparation. The priority works for which feasibility studies were
prepared under this proiect were not yet inscribed in the National Investment
Plan by the time the loan was closed. The institutional set up in the project
area improved modestly. Contemplated technical assistance to newly
established institutions was no longer possible because of long delays in
taking decisions on the proposed sector organization.
5.02     T-mre requkirement for project start-up and implementation were
underestimated during appraisal. Similarily, the project appraisal
underestimated the complexities of the Egyptian decision making process in
matters relating to contract award and decisions on engineering and
institutional options. NOPWASD and the concerned Governorates were very slow
in their review of the project studies and in making a decision regarding the
studies' proposed alternatives. The Bank siding with the consulants on their
recommendations on institutional set-up contributed to delays
5.03     Two lessions were learned:
(i) time estimates for project implementation, particulazly tasks
that involve decisions on complex institutional issues should be
guided by more thorough analysis of the mechanisms of decision
making; and
(ii) the Bank should adopt a more pragmatic approach to complex
institutional changes; gradual improvements could be achieved
within agreed objectives.



-9-
Amex 1
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE ENGINEERING PROJECT
(LOAN 2352-EGT)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PROJECT COST
ADpraisal             Actual
-----(U.S. $ Million) --
Consultants' Fees
Feasibility, Project Preparation,
organization and Management                  1.70                 1.53
Project Design                                 1.51
Adminstrative, other expenses
and Travel                                     0.66                 0.36
Miscellaneous Equipment (Vehicles
and office Equipment)                          0.19                 0.10
Base Cost                                         4.06                  1.99
Contigencies                                      1.20
Front End fee                                     0.01                 0.01
Total                         5.27                 2.00
Total (LE million equivalent)                     4.39                 2.74
Rate of Exchange (Commercial) LE/US$              1.20                 0.73



I
MAP SECTION
I



