Docuimi of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
LA). z35a-E(.7
Rlt N.. P-3653-BiGI
REPORT AND R    ENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTER}NATNIONL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTI    D DEVEDI
TO TE
EXECUTIV DIRECTORS
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$4 NL.LION
TO THE
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR A
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE ENGINEERING PROJECT
(IN DAQAHLIYA, DAMIETT AND BEHEIRA)
October 3, 1983
Idcume hns a gsiketd ikiem  o mu be min by redpipu emly In She peuf.rm_e l
t .cir  I idoli  Its cidumi, umy met elwbeuwa be diadmi wih~Wgd lek andherituM.I6



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
CDRR  J EQUIVVALETS
Calendar 1982       September 1983
Currency Unit      Egyptian Pound (LE)         LE
Official Foreign      US$ 1 -  LE  0.70         0.70
Ewxhange Rate       LE  1  - USt 1.43         1.43
Rate for Com.ercial  USt 1 -  LE  0.84          0.84
Bank Transactions   LE  1 -  US$ 1.20         1.20
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRLONMKS
BWC          -      Beheira Water Company
GOPW         -      General Organization for Potable Water
GOSSD        -      General Organization for Sewerage and Sanitary
Drainage
lcd          -      Liters per capita per day
MDKLR        -      Ministry of Development, Housing and Land Reclamation
NOPWASD      -      National Organization for Potable Water and Sanitary
Drainage
PIU          -      Project Implementation Unit
UNDP         -      United Nations Development Program



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE ENGINEERING PROJECT
(IN DAQAHLIYA, DAKIETTI AND BEHEIRA)
Loan and Project Su ary
Borrower:       Arab Republic of Egypt
Amount:         US$4.0 miLlion equivalent, including capitalized front-end fee.
Terms:          20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the standard variable
interest rate.
Project         The proposed pr^ject would consist of: (i} feasibility
Description:    studies and project preparation work for water supply
improvements in the governorates of Daqahliya and Damietta and
sewerage systems in these two governorates and the governorate
of Beheira; (ii) organizational, management and financial
studies for the provision of water supply and sewerage
services in the project area and assistance in implementing
the recorinended institutional proposals; and (iii) design and
engineering work for the projects to be prepared under (i)
above.  There are no special risks associated with the
project. Start-up delays may result from slow recruitment of
consultants. However, the urgent need to carry out water
sunply and sewerage works in the project area and the
Government's commitment to this should minimize this risk.
Estimated Project Costs; 1/              Local        Foreign     Total
05$ Nillion
Consultants' Fees
Project Manager                         -             0.16      0.16
Feasibility and Project Preparation    0.19           0.91      1.10
Organization and Management             0.05          0.39      0.44
Project Design                         0.36           1.15      1.51
Administrative, Other Expenses
and Travel                             0.26           0.40      0.66
Miscellaneous Equipment (Vehicles and
Office Equipment)                       0.03          0.16      0.19
Base Cost                        0.89           3.17      4.06
Contingencies:  Physical                  0.14           0.46      0.60
Price                     0.24           0.36      0.60
Total Project Cost               1.27           3.99      5.26
Front End Fee                              -             0.01      0.01
Total Financing Required                   1.27          4.00      5.27
1/ Includes about US$0.19 million in taxes and duties.
ITi document has a resticed distributin and may be used by recpients only in the performance of |
thei official dutics. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Financing Plan    a                       Local       Foreign     Total
USS million-
Bank                                     _            4.00       4.00
Government                              1.27                     1.27
TOTAL                              1.27          4.00       5.27
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY                                1984          1985       1986
USg Milllon-
Annual                                  0.2           2.5        1.3
Cuamulative                             0.2           2.7        4.0
Rate of Return:            Not Applicable.
Appraisal Report;          None.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
- ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR A WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE ENGINEERING PROJECT
(IN DAQABLIYA, DAMIETTA AND BEHEIRA)
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to tne Arab Republic of Egypt for the equivalent of USt4 million to help
finance a Water Supply and Sewerage Engineering Project for the governorates
of Daqahliya, Damietta and Beheira. The loan would have a term of 20 years,
including 5 years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       A report on "Current Economic Situation and Growth Prospects" will be
distributed to the Executive Directors in October 1983. This section is based
on that report; revised country data sheets and macroeconomic accounts are
presented in Annex I.
Background
3.       During the 1950s and 1960s, Egypt developed a virtual command economy
with a dominant public sector, fixed, administered prices and a pattern of
trade weighted heavily toward eastern bloc economies. Beginning in 1974, the
Government began to gradually introduce an "Open Door" policy with the aim of
accelerating development by liberalizing the economy and stimulating foreign
and domestic private investment.
4.       Supported by large external capital flows, the economy began to grow
faster in 1974 and 1975. This process was accentuated further during the
following five years by a rapid rise in foreign earnings which helped narrow
the current account deficit while allowing imports to increase at a rapid
pace. During this period, Egypt exported a growing volume of petroleum at
favorable prices; a swelling number of Egyptian workers abroad remitted their
earnings in increasing amounts; the Suez Canal reopened; and tourist receipts
continued to grow. Between 1974 and 1980, earnings from these sources grew in
US dollar terms by 40% per annum, accounting for over 70% of export earnings
by 1980. The resulting increase in income stimulated the economy, which grew
bv more than 9Z per annum during this period.
5.       The continuation of rapid inflation abroad and fixed prices at home
created growing distortions in the domestic economy. Controlled prices for
consumer goods, energy, transport, rents, publ.c sector wages and foreign
exchange lagged far behind international prices and domestic prices for many
o.' the same goods in the uncontrolled parts of the economy, resulting in a
severe duality in Egypt's economy. Although the fixed prices avoided
stressful adjustments in the living standards of those with access to



-2-
controlled goods and services, they have created major strains and
inefficiencies in domestic production. Increasing consumer subsidies have
been conducive to high consumption, growing imports, unremunerative prices to
farmers and growing government budget deficits. Low energy prices have
permitted a rapid growth of domestic consumption, affecting the exportable
surplus of petroleum. Low transport tariffs have led to strained capacity and
inadequate investment and maintenance. Fixed rents have resulted in a severe
housing shortage. High employment and low wages in the public sector have
contributed to an exodus of skilled manpower from the public sector to higher
paying jobs abroad and to the private sector. An overvalued exchange rate has
discouraged non-oil commodity exports, while stimulating imports.
6.       Although since 1974 private sector investment, production and
employment have grown faster than in the public sector, the public sector is
still dominant, with 40% of total employment, 54% of value added, 60% of total
expenditure and 70Z of total investment. The public sector finances have
generally been in the red; the overall deficit has recently been around 20% of
GDP. Although foreign resources and public control over various forms of
private saving have financed a considerable portion of this, between 30Z and
50% has been financed by borrowing from the banking system. Growth of
domestic credit accelerated through 1980/81, when it reached a rate of 34Z.
Inflation has been 15% to 20% per annum in the late 1970s and early 1980s.
7.       Given the external sources of income growth and the internal price
controls and policy _onstraints, the growth that accrued has been highly
biased. Fixed prices caused a shift in resources away from controlled (mainly
commodity producing) to free (principally trade and service) activities.
Within the commodity producing sectors, agriculture and industry, price
controls and subsidies distorted indicators of comparative advantage, causing
the largest profits in the production of the most land-extensive (e.g. red
meat) and most energy-intensive (e.g. aluminum) goods.
8.       At an estimated 43 million, Egypt's population is already large
relative to its quite limited arable land, with an average density higher than
that of Bangladesh or Indonesia. And this population is growing rapidly, by
2.5% per annum, or by over one million people every year. Almost half of this
growth is concentrated in the greater Cairo area. The family planning
programs have been weak. The rapid economic growth of recent years has been
stimulated by external circumstances and has had only deficient links to
agriculture, industry and services which in the end are the sectors where
productive gains can supply the resources for meeting needs and providing the
necessary jobs. For example, the Suez Canal and the petroleum sector account
for over 20X of GDP but only 1% of employment. While tourism and employment
abroad employ considerably more Egyptians, their levels of activity have been
determined by external factors.
9.       The fast growth of externai earnings which characterized the
1974-1980 period weakened sharply beginning in the summer of 1981, triggered
by a fall in oil prices. As a result, increases in the volume of production
and of exports meant only modest rises in oil export earnings rather than the
large increases anticipated earlier. Along with the falling price of oil,



workers' remittances and tourist receipts also fell. Suez Canal receipts grew
slowly, rather than rising sharply as expected. As a result, there was a
marked deterioration in the key macroeconomic balances during 1981/82 (July
1981 to June 1982). The current account deficit rose from US$2.3 billion in
1980/81 to US$3.5 billion in 1981182 and the overall bElance was a negative
US$615 million. The government budget deficit rose from 18Z of GDP in 1980/81
to 23% in 1981/82. The growth of the money sapply spurted to 44% in 1981/82.
Recent Developments
10.      The above situation was inherited b, the Government of President
Mubarak in October 1981. The new Government has had to contend with both the
short-term resource scarcity and the longer-term structural constraints. The
deteriorating short-term trend was contained during the fiscal year ending
June 1983 despite a further decline in oil prices. While this reflects some
favorable circumstances such as low import prices and special military
exports, as well as a more normal flow of remittances, the improvement is
attributable in part to the authorities' own efforts. These included;
(i) measures to curb imports, particularly of consumer goods; (ii) measures to
liberalize the terms on which banks can attract workers' remittances from
abroad; (iii) curbs in the growth of both current and capital public
expenditures; and (iv) a tightening of domestic credit. As a result of these
measures and the favorable factors mentioned above, the balance of payments
showed a substantial improvement, with the current account deficit narrowing
to an estimated US¢2.2 billion in 1982/83. The overall balance of payments
showed a surplus in 1982/83, allowing Egypt to reduce its short-term debt and
rebuild reserves. The fiscal situation also showed some amelioration,
although the overall public sector deficit still remained large (21Z of GDP).
Reflecting the credit controls, the pace of monetary expansion and domestic
credit growth recorded a marked deceleration, with money supply growing 28% in
the last fiscal year.
11.      In addition to the stabilization measures, the Government began to
deal with some of-the country's longer-term constraints. The most substantial
change took place in the foreign trade regime where the Government has allowed
exporters to receive the most favorable exchange rate (the free market rate)
and has simultaneously taken steps to reduce export controls and strengthen
export promotion. At the same time, the commercial bank exchange rate was
allowed to depreciate, attracting additional workers' remittances and leading
to higher and more uniform exchange rates for price-sensitive imports. It
also took significant steps to simplify and strengthen investment incentives
for foreign and domestic private investors. There were some limited price
adjustments--for electricity, wate- charges, several industrial products and
agricultural commodities.
12.      The Government has formulated a new Five-Year Development Plan
(1982/83 to 1986/87). In terms of coverage and detail, the plan represents a
very substantial effort. The growth and investment objectives of the plan,
while ambitious, would move the economy in the right direction. The plan
clearly recognizes the underlying structur^l problems facing the Egyptian
economy and the need for major policy reforms if the investment and growth



- 4 -
targets are to be met. The plan, however, contains few proposals for policy
action for reaching the stated goals. It is heartening that the plan's
objectives and basic thrust have been so prominently endorsed. It now remains
to translate these goals more effectively into a series of policy measures for
implementation.
13.      The Goverrment has completed the budget and annual plan for 1983/84.
The budget aims at a further improvement in the fiscal balance in the coming
year. Income tax rates are to be raised somewhat and exemptions from customs
duties are to be limited. A major budget proposal is to substantially reduce
the level of consumer subsidies, although the detailed steps for achieving
this have not been spelt out.
14.      Parliament passed a law (Law 97 published August 4, 1983) reforming
in certain ways the organization and management of public sector companies.
The major changes are: an attempt to introduce a greater degree of
decentralization by creating holding companies to oversee the operations of
public sector companies, and greater control over hiring by the management of
public sector companies.
Development Potential and Constraints
15.      Although the Government was able to improve the short-run
macroeconomic situation in the balance of payments, public finances and the
monetary system, the longer-run structural problems discussed above still
r-emain. Furthermore, the external resource position facing Egypt during the
1980s inevitably will be less favorable than in the 1970s. Nevertheless,
given appropriate policies, Egypt has the potential for sustained economic
growth and development. Its population constitutes a large domestic market.
Notwithstanding that the country's agricultural land is limited, the Nile
River provides ample and reliable irrigation to all of it; favorable
year-round growing conditions would allow considerably higher yields than
those achieved so far. Egypt has a key geographical location, a relatively
skilled labor force, somewhat varied raw materials and major reserves of
energy; these would allow a substantial degree of industrialization and trade
in manufactured goods. Finally, despite the recent slowdown in their growth,
Egypt will continue to have access to foreign resources that can be used to
supplement domestic savings for investment.
16.      The major constraints on developing this potential are the distorting
policies enunciated. What is required is substantial adjustment in these
policies to arrest the growing duality of the economy and move it towards a
more unified and simplified incentive structure. These policy adjustments,
along with an appropriate investment program, will lay the basis for higher
productivity and growth from Egypt's domestic commodity producing sectors.
17.      Perhaps the most important adjustment needed is to raise energy
prices and to rationalize energy consumption through conservation measures.
Curbing the growth of demand for energy and substituting natural gas for
petroleum fuels will make much wiser use of Egypt's energy resources and will
add to the exportable surplus of petroleum. The growth of consumer subsidies



-5-
needs to be contained by price increases and improved targetting to low income
groups. This will ease the burden on the government budget and consequent
inflationary pressure; and, along with increases in farming prices, will
reduce the growth of imports of basic consumption goods. Agricultural prices
need to be raised for crops with high economic returns; controls over area
planted and over inputs should be relaxed. There is considerable scope to
increase value added in agriculture by shifting to a more intensive and highly
valued pattern of crop production and by motivating farmers to raise yields.
The foreign exchange rate should be unified and maintained flexible,
reflecting the value of foreign exchange to the economy, both to stimulate
exports and ration funds for imports. Improvements in the structure and
operations of industrial production through export promotion, exchange rate
movements, more liberal pricing and production control policy, an enlightened
investment program and greater autonomy in the management of public sector
enterprises will have a substantial impact on industrial productivity,
employment and foreign exchange availability. In addition to improving the
efficiency with which resources are used in the economy, most of these changes
would have a favorable impact on the mobilization of public savings and
foreign resources to finance the required investments.
18.      The medium-term outlook will depend on the pace and magnitude of the
necessary policy reforms. Clearly it would be unrealistic to expect rapid
adjustments on all fronts, and in some cases it might even be
counterproductive to make sweeping changes. But adjustment with deliberate
speed across a broad spectrum is required to lay the baue for sustained growth
at rates close to those achievable, given the resources available to the
economy. Some progress in initiating the necessary policy reforms has been
made during the past year with World Bank assistance, and it is now important
to build on this momentum. The growth rates of the 1970s are unlikely to be
attainable in the 1980s. Nevertheless, assuming reasonable and effectual
polibies, Egypt could maintain growth in the vicinity of 62 to 7Z per annum in
the medium term. Although the public sector budget and current account
deficit will still remain high, they both should improve over the period; and
savings and investment can grow at rates that provide for longer-term growth
on a stable basis. Oil exports and Suez Canal revenues are not expected to
grow as rapidly as in the past; but non-oil exports have the capacity to
increase. The balance of payments will by no means be as comfortable as it
was up to 1980, but with sound domestic policies the needed imports can be
financed by growing export earnings and by continued success in attracting
private foreign investment and official aid transfers.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
19.      Egypt's non-military mediumr and long-term public and publicly
guaranteed debt outstanding and disbursed as of June 30, 1982 is estimated at
about USt5 billion (59% of GDP).  Bilateral loans comprised about 59% of 'the
debt outstanding while the shares of multilateral credit and suppliers' credit
were about 21% and 15%, respectively, with the remainder being held by
financial institutions. Major creditors were the USA and Gulf Organization
for the Development of Egypt, followed by Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, and the
Federal Republic of Germany. IBRD/IDA debt comprised about 7% of the total



disbursed debt. Despite the sharp increase in the level of external debt
during the last decade--from US$2.2 billion at end-1973 to the estimated US$15
billion at the end of 1981/82--the debt service ratio remained low, only
rising to 26% in 1981/82, reflecting the improvement in the external position
and the highly concessional terms on which a large part of Egypt's debt has
been acquired.
20.      External financing requirements are likely to remain sizeable in the
medium term given Egypt's immense development needs and the more moderate
growth of foreign exchange earnings projected. At the same time, in view of
the adverse global aid outlook, Egypt may have to rely more on conventional
finance than in the past and at significantly higher interest rates.
Nevertheless, the debt service ratio is projected to remain in the 25-28%
range in the next five years. Even without very rapid progress on the policy
reforms discussed above, Egypt would have the capacity to service its debt in
the medium term while maintaining essential imports and growing at socially
acceptable, if low, rates of growth. As stated, higher rates of economic
growth would depend 'heavily on substantial policy changes; with these changes,
Egypt's creditworthiness would also be enhanced. In the short run, Egypt must
carefully manage its macroeconomic variables, particularly the balance of
payments, as it did in 1982/83, to maint3in its liquidity to meet its
immediate debt service obligations.
PART II - BNK GROUP'OPERATIONS IN EGYPT 1/
21.      The proposed loan would be the World Bank's sixty-eighth lending
operation to Egypt and would bring Bank and IDA comitments to US$2,896.5
million. Through these operations, the Bank Group has assisted the
development of agriculture, industry, power and energy, water supply, family
planning, transportation, telecomunications, tourism, urban and education.
Annex II contains a sumary of Bank loans and IDA credits as of March 31, 1983.
'2.      In assisting Egypt's development, the Bank has followed a strategy
which involves entry into a wide spectrum of sectors in order to
provide not only direct finance with its relatively limited resources but,
equally, to act as a catalyst for other bilateral and multilateral agencies,
and as a spur for initiating discussion and positive action on a coherent
framework of policies and investment proposals which can tackle the
substantive issues. The approach also includes delivery of technical
assistance, not only for sound execution of specific projects but for
developing the domestic institutional capability to articulate and implement
future policies and investment programs.  The Bank's deliberate multisectoral
intervention has been differentiated by sectors and tailored to the pace at
which the Egyptian authorities can reasonably be expected to address these
issues and implement the programs.
l/ This section is substantially the same as the corresponding part of the
President's Report for the Road Maintenance Project (P-3609-EGT), dated
June 9, 1983.



- 7 -
23.      Industry illustrates the nature and scope of the Bank's role.
Efforts under Bank financed projects have gone beyond the immediate objective
of improving capacity utilization (two imports projects) and increasing
production capacity and supply of essential commodities in resource-based
industries (cotton ginning, textiles, cement, steel and fertilizer projects).
The more fundamental effort has been directed at introducing policy and
structural improvements. Towards this end, the Bank has financed six
subsector studies in textiles, building materials, pulp and paper, food
processing, metals, and engineering industries, in order to assist the
Government in form.ulating a package of policy and investment proposals which
are embodied in our projects.  The Bank has also channeled considerable
financial assistance to Egypt's private sector through financial
intermediaries, a growing proportion of which is reaching small-scale
industrial enterprises. To complement these efforts the Bank is assisting the
Government in carrying out a technical assistance program for small- and
medium-scale industries. The Bank has also assisted the Government in a
comprehensive study of the construction/contracting industry, one of the major
bottlenecks facing Egyptian industry today, and is supporting the Government's
efforts in carrying out its recommendations, which include extensive policy
and institutional reforms. Finally, the Bank is discussing with the
Government a recently completed study of Trade Strategy and Investment
Planning which focuses on the sectoral allocation and timing of Egypt's
investment program in the context of a viable foreign trade strategy.
24.      The illustrative sketch provided above is representative of the
multifaceted approach that the Bank has adopted in varying degrees in the
entire spectrum of the Egyptian economy. It is a role that is in harmony not
only with the Government's wishes but is welcomed by the various bilateral and
multilateral donors as an appropriate function for the Bank as Chairman of the
Consultative Group. Projects being prepared for future lending will follow
this strategy, and the pipeline includes projects in vocational training,
power and gas development, urban development, transportation, water supply,
agriculture (including drainage), development finance, industry, and
construction.
25.      Bank and IDA disbursements in FY82 represented 8% of Egypt's medium-
and long-term capital inflow. The Bank and IDA shares of total external debt
outstanding and disbursed were about 42 and 3%, resDectively, as of June 30,
1982. In FY86, the Bank and IDA shares of total external debt outstanding and
disbursed (excluding military debts) are estimated to reach about 7.5% and
4.4%, respectively. It is estimated that in FY86, debt service payments due
to the Bank and IDA will represent about 5.7% and 0.2Z, respectively, of
service payments due on Egypt's external debt. With regard to disbursements
on Bank loans and IDA credits, FY83 saw a marked improvement over FY82, with
disbursements for Egypt increasing from US$190 million to US$277 million. The
Egyptian Government has placed a high priority on improving overall project
implementation and in introducing improved monitoring practices; as project
execution accelerates, loan disbursements should continue to improve.



26.      IFC's equity participations and lending commitments for projects in
Egypt as of March 31, 1983 totalled about USt86 million and include: a
ceramics project, a ready-made garment project, a project for an agricultural
complex primarily for sugar beet, a poultry project, a fish farming project, a
building material project, and a tourism project. IFC is discussing several
other private sector and joint venture projects. A summary of IFC operations
in Egypt is given in Annex II.
PART III - THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR
Water Resources
27.      Egypt's main water source is the Nile River, which supplies some 55
billion cubic meters of water each year. With an expanding population, a
growing industrial base and increasing demands from agriculture, the
appropriate use of this water is of paramount importance. A UNDP-financed
Water Master Plan Study, for which the Bank is the executing agency, is
expected to help the Government to decide on this. Since potable water
represents a small fraction of the country's water use (only 5Z to 6Z of
resources), water quality, distribution of adequate and timely quantities to
consumers, and appropriate disposal of waste water are the key issues rather
than insufficient supply.
28.      Potable water is drawn from two sources; groundwater from wells and
surface water from the Nile River and irrigation canals. South of Cairo,
groundwater is usually fresh, although sometimes high in iron and manganese
content. Use of groundwater normally requires only disinfection by
chlorination. To the north of Cairo and in the Fayoum Depression, groundwater
is characteristically brackish and may require blending with sweeter surface
water. Groundwater in the coastal areas of the Delta is generally not
suitable for human consumption, and communities depend entirely on surface
water which usually requires elaborate treatment; long transmission lines are
often needed to transport the water to demand centers.
The Setting
29.      Egypt's population, currently 43 million, has doubled in the last
three decades and is increasing by over one million pers'-s a year. Growth in
the major urban centers, fed by migrants seeking work ai... refugees from the
1973 war, has been particularly rapid. The city of Cairo, for instance, has
increased from 6 million in 1966 to an estimated 10 million today. Without
the necessary compensating investments, this had led to overcrowding, housing
shortages and a severe strain on the supporting infrastructure. The resulting
deterioration is apparent in Egypt's water supply and sewerage sector where
the situation has been exacerbated by many years of neglect. Operations in
the sector are handicapped by systems that are often old, overloaded and
poorly maintained. There is also a dearth of skilled staff, and agencies in
the sector are constrained by bureaucratic regulations, especially relating to
wages and incentives, and their own performance deficiencies. Finally, the



- 9 -
sector suffers from inadequate levels of cost recovery. Water tariffs are
generally low and no sewerage charges are collected. The inadequate internal
cash generation has prevented the water and sewerage entities from
maintaining, rehabilitating and expanding existing systems to meet the demands
of Egypt's increasing population.
Water Supply
30.      About 90% of Egypt's population live in areas served by public water
supply facilities. Because these systems are often inadequate and
*        inconvenient, it is estimated that at least 40% of the total population (most
of whom live in areas of provincial Egypt) have to rely on "alternative"
non-public, and often highly polluted, water sources.
31.      Greater Cairo and Alexandria are served by separate water authorities
while the canal cities of Port Said, Suez and Ismailia are independently
supplied by systems developed and operated by the Suez Canal Authority. In
general they have been in a better position than the provincial systems to
plan and provide water service more efficiently; the average overall per
capita consumption in these cities is estimated to be from 150 to 200 liters
per day (lcd). Elsewhere in Egypt, public water supply is provided through;
(i) 16 regional water supply systems which were largely built and operated by
the General Organization for Potable Water (GOPW) and handed over recently to
the governorates following the reorganization of the sector on the national
level (para. 36); (ii) 115 systems operated by the municipalities of larger
provincial towns; and (iii) some 1,250 rural well systems operated by
governorate housing directorates serving smaller communities. Average
production is about 76 lcd, but with excessive leakage in the distribution
systems (often exceeding 60Z of the water supplied), the average amount of
water reaching the consumer is estimated to be less than 40 lcd. In two
governorates, water supply companies have recently been established which
consolidate the various operations mentioned above (para. N8).
32.      Throughout provincial Egypt th- quantity of water delivered is much
less than demanded due to insufficient treatment capacity and undersized or
badly leaking mains. Many urban water supply systems are not able to maintain
a 24-hour supply. Water quality at the tap is often below acceptable
standards. Bacteriologically unsatisfactory water frequently reaches the
consumer because of lack of attention to chlorination and by allowing
untreated water to pass into the system either because of plant overloading or
failure or as a result of operator negligence.
Sewerage and Sanitation
33.      Some 20 sewerage systems operate throughout Egypt, the two largest
being those of Cairo and Alexandria. Another nine systems are under
construction and 11 are in the planning stage. In addition, groundwater
lowering schemes have been constructed in 13 delta towns. Sanitation and
sewerage services in most of the provincial towns are in desperate need of
upgrading. Most of them are in poor state of repair and are generally working
beyond design capacities. System breakdowns are common, with a particularly
serious one recently in Cairo, where raw sewage flowed through the streets in
large sections of the city for days.



- 10 -
34.      About 70  of Egypt's urban population ha"e access to a public
wastewater disposal system or use septic tanks or soakaways. In provincial
Egypt, about 10% of the urban population are served by sewerage systems while
another 60% use septic tanks or cesspits. There are no piped sewerage
facilities in rural communities, and less than 30X of rural houses are
provided with latrines. In some cases, sullage water is just emptied into the
streets.
Health Aspects
35.      Limited ac-ess to potable water and lack of proper sanitation
facilities, particularly in the crowded urban poor districts and the rural
areas, have led to high incidences of parasitic and infectious diseases in
Egypt. Typhoid/paratyphoid and infectious hepatitis are endemic to the
country, and more than half of the infant deaths in rural areas reportedly
result from diarrhea. The Dotential risk of contracting water-borne and
water-related diseases is very high because of the general lack of sanitation
faciliti_s and the ease of obtaining untreated contaminated water from nearby
irrigation canals and private shallow wells which many of the people have to
rely on either entirely or to supplement inadequate public water supply.
Sector Organization
36.      The sector has suffered from -excessive central government
involvement. This has stifled local accountability and initiative without
providing for clear policy directions or national standards or for planning
and implementing priority investment programs. Coordination among the several
government agencies and between central and local authorities has also been
difficult. In 1981, the Government reorganized the sector. The National
Organization for Potable water and Sanitary Drainage (NOPWASD) was created by
the merger of GOPW and the General Organization for Sanitary Drainage (GOSSD)
with a redefinition of responsibilities. NOPWASD, which is under the Ministry
of Development, Housing and Land Reclamation (NHLR), is now the primary
agency in the sector and is responsible for the formulation of policies and
planning at the national level and provision of guidance to the governorates
in the development and operation of their water supply and sewerage systems.
The governorates will now have to assume full responsibility for operating,
planning and implementing projects for water supply and sewerage in their
territories; although it is expected that they will continue to rely on
NOPWASD for assistance until their own ctpabilities can be developed.
Government's Actions
37.      In recent years, the Government has been able to attract a
substantial amount of external assistance to finance the upgrading of the
water supply and sewerage facilities in major cities. The US Agency for
International Development is providing financing for sewerage in Alexandria,
water and sewerage in Cairo and the Suez Canal cities. The UK Overseas
Development Association and Japanese Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund are
also providing financing for parts of the Cairo sewerage. The Bank is



- 11 -
financing Alexandria's watei. supply expansion program (para. 41). In
contrast, the needs of the secondary cities and the rural areas of the
governorates in provincial Egypt have until recently received little
attention.  In 1977, thoe DA Water Swipply Eninee-ing and Technical Assistance
Credit S-20 (para. 41) financed a comprehensive study to identify the major
problems and deficiencies in the water supply service of provincial Egypt and
made the following major recommendations: (i) decentralization of water supply
operations by the establishment of separate governorate level w-rter supply
entities with full responsibility for delivery of services; (ii) an increase
in investments in the sector, particularly in the provincial governorates;
(iii) greater efforts to increase cost recovery; and (iv) a national training
program to increase the level and improve the quality of staff at all levels.
38.      As noted above, the Government has begun to redress the situation in
the sector. The governorates are now responsible for defining and developing
organizational arrangements for the provision of water supply and severage
services in their respective areas. Water companies, with adequate financial
autonomy and administrative authority to manage effectively manpower and
resources, have been established in two of the governorates. The Beheira
Water Company (BWC) was created in 1981 through a project with assistance from
IDA and a similar water company was established at a later date in the
Governorate of Kafr El Sheikh (para. 41). The same credit is also financing a
national water supply training center. Decentralization of responsibility for
sector management has also entailed the establishment of two organizations for
sewerage in Greater Cairo and in Alexandria. In the provinces, the Government
is reviewing the institutional arrangements for sewerage; a single
governorate-based entity for water and sewerage is currently under
consideration.
39.      The Government has also substantially increased the funds allocated
for investment in potable water and sewerage, particularly in provincial
Egypt. Under the latest Five Year Plan CFY83-87), investments in the sector
would amount to about LE 3,450 million (US$4,880 million), an increase of
almost four times (in current prices) over the period FY78-82. In particular,
the investments planned for the water and sewerage in provincial Egypt have
been raised to about 25% of total sector investments from a level which did
not exceed 11% of total investments in the previous plan.
40.      The Government is also beginning to rectify its water pricing
policies. Significant water tariff increases have recently been approved in
Cairo; and tariff increases in Alexandria, in addition to those already
approved in the past, and other cities are also under way. The establishment
of sewerage charges has also been recently decided, and detailed proposals for
their implementation are being finalized by HDHLR. While these increases are
still small compared to what is required, they constitute an important step in
the right direction.
Bank Lending in the Sector
41.      The Bank first became involved in Egypt's water supply subsector in
1977 when it approved Loan 1369-EGT for US$56.0 million to help finance a
water supply project in the city of Alexandria. The execution of this project



- 12-
is progressing satisfactorily, and its completion is expected in 1984. As
stated, given the success Egynt has had in mobilizing external resources to
finance water and sewerage works in the major cities, the Bank has gradually
shifted its strategy to assist the needs of the provincial governorates. In
1979 IDA approved a Water Supply Engineering and Technical Assistance Credit
(S-20) for US$2.0 million to finance studies pertaining to the physical and
institutional improvements in water supply of provincial Egypt. The studies
also helped prepare the Beheira Water Supply Project (Cr. 1156-EGT), for which
IDA approved a US$56.6 million credit in June 1981, and the Kafr El Sheikh
Project being financed by the Federal Republic of Germany. The Beheira Water
Supply Project is providing physical facilities and technical assistance to             U
rehabilitate and expand water supply facilities in the governorate and support
the fledgling Beheira Water Company (BWC), as well as assistance in
establishing a national water supply training center. Afcer some initial
delays, due in part to IDA funding difficulties, progress is now generally
satisfactory. Based on this favorable experience the Bank proposes to extend
this approach to other governorates, particularly in terms of the
institutional framework. BWC's performance is very encouraging, giving
cautious optimism to its replication in other governorates. The proposed
project would provide the basis for doing so.
The Proposed Project Area
42.      The project area includes the three delta governorates of Beheira,
Daqahliya and Damietta with a combined population of about 6.5 million (of
which 2.9 million are in Beheira, 3.0 million in Daqahliya and 0.6 million in
Damietta). About 75X of the population live in rural areas. There are four
major urban ceuters, Damanhur, Kafr El Dauwar, Mansurah and Damietta, with a
combined population of about 852,000, and some 23 smaller urban centers.  The
present water supply systems are inadequate and unreliable and much of the
population is using water from sources of doubtful quality. The sewerage
systems in the main urban centers are generally used beyond design capacity;
in smaller towns groundwater lowering systems have been used as sewerage
systems, but these are becoming totally inadequate. Poor sewerage and
wastewater disposal and inadequate water supply systems have led to health and
environmental problems.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
43.      The project was proposed to the Bank in September 1982, identified in
January 1983 and appraised in May 1983. Negotiations were held in Cairo,
August 28-31, 1983. The Egyptian delegation was headed by Dr. Erfan Shafey,
Pirst Undersecretary, Ministry of Investment and International Cooperation. -
The main features of the project are summarized in the Loan and Project
Summary and in Annex III.  The project areas are shown in the map attached to
this report. There is no separate appraisal report for this project.



- 13 -
Project Objectives
44.      The project is part of the government's program to improve water
supply and sanitation in provincial Egypt. Through it, the Bank would
continue the work started by IDA under Credits a-20 and 1156-EGT to enhance
the technical and financial capabilities of the agencies in the sector (para.
41). The project would help prepare possible projects for upgrading water
supply and sewerage systems in two governorates (Daqahliya and Damietta) and
sewerage facilities in the governorate of Beheira. These governorates are
experiencing serious health and environmental problems because of inadequate
i         sevage disposal and water supply deficiencies.  The project would also
initiate programs of institutional reform in the first two governorates and
further strengthen the new institution in Beheira. The studies to be carried
out under the project would identify the segments of population to be served
and the required level of services in the three governorates, although it is
estimated that approximately four million people could eventually benefit.
Project Description
45.      The project includes technical assistance for the preparation of
feasibility studies, engineering design and contract documents for water
supply and sewerage improvements in three provincial governorates and for the
development of institutional and financial policies and structures for the
proposed institutions, building upon the work already begun under Credits S-20
and 1156-EGT; and the provision of a small amount of operational equipment
(vehicles and office equipment). The project has three interrelated
components:
-    The first component would consist of the preparation of engineering
and feasibility studies for the improvement of water supply in the
governorates of Daqahliya and Damietta, and for sewerage and
sanitation services in these two governorates and the governorate of
Beheira. The objective of this component is to produce complete
feasibility studies for projects in these three governorates suitable
for financing by the Bank or in association with other financiers.
-    The second component would study the most appropriate institutional
arrangements for the provision of water supply and sewerage services
in the governorates and provide assistance to the governorates to
develop the necessary institutional capability. Proposals for the
financial structures and policies of the recommended organizations,
the development of required management and financial systems,
staffing requirements and staff training would also he included. It
is expected that the new institutions would be established during
project execution, and the component provides for consultant services
to develop the proposed management and financial systems.
-    The third component would cover the preparation of engineering design
and contract documents for a subsequent project or projects which are
to be identified under the first component. It is anticipated that
the engineering design would comprise the rehabilitation of existing
systems, new water and wastewater treatment plants and extension of
water distribution networks and sewerage facilities.



- 14 -
The Government has agreed to review the results of the various studies with
the Bank be,ore implementing any of the recommendations and to select, in
agreement with the Bank, the projects to be designed under the third component
(Loan Agreement, Section 3.0;tb) and (c)).
Project Costs and Financing
46.      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$5.3 million
(including the capitalized front-end fee), of which the foreign cost component
would be US$4.0 million or about 80% of the total cost. The cost includes
about US$0.19 million of taxes and duties; fees payable to foreign consultants            e
would be exempt from duties and taxes. A detailed cost table is given in the
Loan and Project Summary. The estimated cost covers 300 manmonths of
expatriate professional staff and 537 manmonths of local professional and
support staff, which is reasonable in view of the nature of the work. The
average manmonth cost, including salary costs, fees, international travel and
overhead is expected to be about US$10,000 for expatriate staff and US$1,600
for local staff including support staff. Physical contingencies are estimated
at 152, and projected annual price increases at 7.5Z for 1984, 7% for 1985 and
6% thereafter for expenditures in foreign exchange. Price contingencies for
local expenditures are projected to increase by 15Z in 1984, 13% in 1985 and
10% thereafter.
47.      The proposed loan of US$4.0 million would be made to the Government
and would cover the foreign exchange cost of the project and the front-end
fee. The balance of US$1.3 million, representing the local cost, would be
provided by the Government (Loan Agreement, Section 3.01). No UNDP funds are
available for this project. The loan is intended to be refinanced under a
later loan should Bank financing of a subsequent project materialize.
Procurement and Disbursements
48.      A short-list of consultants would be invited to submit technical and
price proposals in separate envelopes, and a two-stage procedure would be used
for evaluation of proposals. As vehicles and office equipment are required
before commencement of consultants' work, they will be procured after inviting
quotations from at least three reliable suppliers. The total estimated value
of this equipment woule not exceed US$250,000, with individual contracts
estimated at less than US$100,000. The proposed loan would be disbursed over
a two year period as follows: 100% of foreign expenditures and 80% of local
expenditures for contracts awarded to consultants; and 100Z of foreign
expenditures, 1002 of local expenditures ex-factory and 80X of other local
expenditures for purchase of equipment. The estimated schedule of
disbursements is given in the Loan and Project Summary.
Project Execution
49.      NOPWASD would be responsible for the execution of the project through
its Project Implementation Unit (PIU) created to follow through on the work of
the provincial water supply plan. Participation by the three governorates
would be ensured through the assignment of their staff to work with the PIU.



- 15 -
NOPWASD has the staff needed to supervise the execution of the project, but
needs the Bank's technical assistance in the preparation of the terms of
reference of the studies and the subsequent review and evaluation of technical
alternatives and institutional arrangements. The terms of reference were
prepared by Bank staff in cooperation with NOPWASD and were agreed upon during
the appraisal mission in May 1983. The studies and engineering work would be
carried out by consultants acceptable to the Bank, recruited in accordance
with Bank Guidelines for Use of Consultants (Loan Agreement, Section 3.02(b)).
50.      Consultants would be invited to submit proposals in October 1983 and
would be appointed by February 1984. It is expected that by October 1984 the
recommended institutions for operating water supply and sewerage in the
project area would have been established and that design of the proposed works
would be advanced enough to allow Bank appraisal of a follow-on project. All
studies and engineering design should be completed within a period of 16
months. An implementation schedule is shown in Annex IV. The consultants
would submit interim and draft final reports for review by the Government and
the Bank before issuing them in final form. In addition, quarterly reports on
the progress of project execution would be prepared and sent to the Bank for
review within 6 weeks of the end of each quarter (Loan Agreement, Section
3.03(a)). The loan closing date is December 31, 1986.
Accounting and Auditing
51.      Separate accounts would be kept by NOPWASD exclusively for the
project to register all transactions. The accounts for each fiscal year would
be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, and NOPWASD has
agreed to furnish such audit reports to the Bank not later than six months
after the end of each such year (Loan Agreement, Section 4.02).
Project Justification and Risks
52.      The project would enable the Government to firm up its investment
program in water supply and sewerage and to continue the overall improvement
in the management of the sector. The experience gained under the project is
expected to provide the basis for carrying out similar work in other
governorates. The proposed studies would also help the Government to
establish a long-term development program for water supply and sewerage in
three provincial governorates and would help prepare urgently required
projects. These measures are essential to improve the water supply and
sewerage services, health and environmental conditions for a large number of
low income people in provincial Egypt. NOPWASD's staff would also benefit
from on-the-job training in the preparation of projects in association with
international consultants so that in the future they can undertake similar
studies on their own.
53.      There is only one potential area of risk in the project-the delay in
recruiting consultants. Thus, the studies and engineering design might take
longer than anticipated. The Government is, however, intent on having the
project executed expeditiously and has started the process for the selection
of consultants.



- 16 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
54.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Arab Republic of Egypt and the
Bank, and the Report of the Comittee provided for in Article III Eaction
4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank, are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
55.      Features of the project which are of special interest are listed in
Section III of Annex III.
56.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles           r
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
57.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
October 3, 1983
Washington, DC



ANNEX I
- 17 -                                         Page I of 6
T AN L E 3A
EGTPT AIUUI REP. OF    - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SIErT
ECTPrT  ARa REP. OF                REFERENCE CHOUPS (IEICQTED AEACFS) La
ODST                    (HOST RECENT ESTMATE) lb
RECENT  ~    IDLEINOM               NIDE iNjCaME
1960'-    197D    R ESTIMATS-    M. AFRICA A MID EASr   EAT. MOCtICAR CARIS
A  (TUSm -. no
T0rTL                            1001.4     1001.6      1001.4
ACR0CULTURAL                       26.3       28.4       28.6
N? MR CaPITA CUSS)                  100.0       130.0      650.0           1360.0                    203.2
-  3G  CUNOWIOU PE CAPTA
KILOGRAMS  Or COAL EqUIVALENT)   287.0       312.0      595.0            810.4                   1407.6
7DLTID0 AM VITAL SMTYSTICS
FPoFLATION.NID-rEAR (TNOUSANDS)   5832.0    33053.0    43290.0
URBAN POPULATION (2 OF TOTAL)     37.9        42.3       46.3             47.4                     65.9
PoULATION PXOJECTlOYS
POKLATION IN WEAR 2000 (MILL)                          63.8
STArIORL  POrLArION (NtL)                             116.7
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACID                           2115
POPULATION DENISM
PER SQ. Q.                       25.8       33.0       43.2             36.0                     3S.6
PER SQ. XKM. AGII. LUD         982.2      1162.6     1461.2             49.0                    93.2
POPULATION ACE STRUCTRE (Z3
O-I& TRS                        *2.2       41.8       39.5             43.9                     40.1
1    IRS                         54.7       54.9       56.9             52.8                     55.8
65 AND ARMNE                     3.1         3.2        3.5              3.3                      4.1
POPULATION CIOMR RATE (C)
TOTAL                             2.3        2.5        2.5              2.9                      2.3
URUI2                             4.0        3.6        2.9              4.6                      3.7
CEDE BIRTH RATE (PER  DHO)        43.5        38.5       35.7             42.5                    31.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER T7OUS)      19.0        15.1       11.7             12.0                     8.1
GROSS REPRODUCTIOS RATE            3.0         2.7        2.3              3.0                     2.0
FAMLY PLANIINC
ACCEPTORS* AmNUU. (THOU)          *-      206.0      357.0
USER-S (Z OF MARRIED wmfl)        ..         9.0       17.0
INDEX OF OCO PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                     96.0        99.0       88.0             97.1                    113.0
PER CAPITA SUlPFLY OF
CJLORIES (Z OF REOUUDEM)        109.0      107.0      117.0            I02.3                    111.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS ER DAY)         78.0        74.0       76.0             72.0                    67.9
OF WHICH ARTUL AND PULSE        19.0       17.0       19.01c           17.8                     34.1
CHILD (ACES 1-4) DEATH RATE       34.0                   16.4             15.2                      5.3
LIFE EXPECT. AT IRn! (YEARS)      46.1        51.3       56.9             57.2                     64.6
INFAwNr HOT. RATE (PER TIOUS)    128.0         *-       110.0/c          104.2                    62.6
ACCESS T0 SAFE WATER (JFOP)
.0TAL                              ..         ..       66.0/d           59.3                     64.8
URs:                             39.5         ..       86.071           84.9                     77.8
RURAL                              . _                 50.07            37.5                    44.3
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(2 Or POPULATION)
TOirAL                             _          _           .               __                     54.6
URBAN                                    .         ..                     ..                    69.8
RURAL                              ..         ..         ..               ..                     29.8
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN        2550.0      1900.0      970.0/f         3536.0                   1776.0
POP. PER NURSING PERSON          1930.0/f.f 1620.0/f   1500.07         1820.7                   1012.2
POP. PER HOSPITAL 8ED
TarAL                          466.0       460.0      480.0/d          643.3                    477.0
IRBAN                           510.0te    360.0      6110.0o          545.0                    667.5
RURAL                          2190.07d   2170.0     2410.07i         2462.0                   1921.6
ADMIssIONS PER HOSPtTAL ED           ..        ..        30.8/d           26.4                     27.2
AVERAGE SLZE OF HOlSEHOLD
TOTAL                                                   5.2/d
DRUN                              4.          ..        S.07i 
RURAL                              ..         ..        5.57d.
AVERACE NaO OF PERSONS/ROOF
TOTAL                              .                    1.8/d
URBAN                             '.6         ..
RtRAL                              ..         ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. 12 OF DWILINCS)
TOTAL                              ..         .        45.7/d           46.2
ORBS                             37.8         ..       76.9/d           77.6
RURAL                                    .             18. 671          16.1



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
- 18 -
TABL E 3A
REP. Or    - SOCIAL DNDTDCARS DATA SREEr
EGYPT, ARM REP. OF                 RMEzrs SOON (SINTED AVEAGE) Ia
DST                    (NDST RECENT ESTlTU) lb
2964A  1470Ž       T  ,,       MIDDLE INCUS          Il....E nCoe
196¢1    1917OL   ESTIz    M. ARCA & MfD EAST   LAT. AMRA I CAI
ADJUSIED ENRCLLPENT RATIOS
PRIMARY   TOTAL                 66.0       72.0        76.0             89.6                   105.0
MALE                  80.0       88.0       89.0            104.8                    106.3
FEMALE                52.0       56.0       63.0             72.6                    *0.6
SECONDARY: TOTAL                16.0       34.0        52.0            41.7                     40.0
HLE                   23.0       46.0        6.O             52.8                     38.6
FEUALE                 9.0       22.0       39.0             31.2                    41.2
VOCATIONL (2 OF SECONDARY)        22.0       19.0       21.6             10.3                     34.0
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIKARY                         39.0       35.0       28.0             31.9                     30.7
SECNDARY                        16.0       25.0       24.0             23.3                     16.7
ADULT LRACY RATE (2)              25.8         ..       44.0             43.3                     79.5
PASSENGER CARS/TROOSAND POP        2.3        *.0        a.3&            13.0                    45.6
RADIO RECEIVRSflNOUSAND POP       58.1      133.1      141.9            138.1                    228.2
TV RECEIVERSITHUOSAND POP          1.9       16.0       33.1             45.6                    106.3
NESIPAPER (-DALY GENEN
INTERESrJ CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION            ..       22.5       60.4             31.D                     64.1
CIN,iiM. AN     ATXENDANCEICAPITA  2.6        2.1        1.8/h            1.7                     2.9
LABORPOC
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)       7453.0     9241.0    11180.0
FaCALE (PERCENT)                 7.3        7.2        8.0             10.7                    24.8
ARICULTURE (PERCENr)            58.0       54.0        50.0            42.5                     31.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)              12.0       19.0       30.0             27.3                    23.9
PARTCIPATION RATE (PERCEN)
TOTUL                           25.9       28.0        25.8            25.6                     31.3
MALE                            53.2       51.5       47.0             45.4                     49.8
FEa.E                            4.2        4.1        4.2              5.6                     14.8
ECONQESIC DEPENDENCY RATIO         1.6        1.6        1.5              1.8                     1.4
PERCT  OF PRIVATE INCQrE
RECEIVED BY
nIGaEST = oF HONUSER.DS         17. 5/i    17.4ftA    22.0/k
NICHEST 202 OF HOUSEHOLDS       44.47r     42.8fij3   69.27F*
LOWEST 202 OF HOUSEHU.DS          6.6       7.07j    sS7*
LOWEST 40l OF ROUSENULDS        17.571     18.77   14.37                 *-*-
POVERTY TARG  CRO-
ESTIMATED AISOLUTE POVERTY INCOMtE
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                             ..         ..       131.0            276.1                   289.3
RURAL                              '         ''        94.0            177.1                   134.5
ESTIMATED RELATtVE POVERTY INCUE
LEVEL (05$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                             ..         ..       180.0           400.0                    519.8
RURAL                             ..         ..       113.0           283.3                    372.1
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW A1SOLUTE
POVERTY INCOmE LEVEM (2)
URJAN                             ..         ..        21.0             22.0
RURL                              ..         ..        25.0            30.8
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
Pi O T E S
/a The group averages for eaeh indicator are populationeighbted aritmetic m*an. Coverae of contrlem song the
indicatore depends On ailability of data and ts not utiform.
/b Unless otherise noted -Data for 1960- refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; Data for 1970 betmen 1969 and
1971; and data for -Most Recent Estimate betwenu 1979 and 1981.
Ic 1977; Id 1976; Ie 1962; /f Registered. not all practicing in the country; l  1978t lb 1975; ti Rural epenitures;
Li 1965; Ik Nat1onal, 173i75.
May 1983



- 19-
ANNEX I
Page 3 of 6
Otat.a  elti-gh the at.W spa dasa fra  aett..- gotealy jadged the aoe- se%ttiMttlt. aN1 tIa.It alacal alaa he -oed thet thyasp - W  he ls.aratclaalty
raaarb!abas.._E the lath of Lta."dlea  difWlatt- ea   .a.t  . ad by dift-eat  -anrt. it taiItatW  tie det. The date are* nahet.-. usfu1i
darte ade. e  asst.cde. tdtrt. tr=da. sad ob-ralere   -arte. aeIa  daffareawa  Wtat..raad
the t- raaet   rSC-. er  (L) the a-  ea-atry grasp .1 the aabjat tasr  WAn  (f) . t-tY gawP eth --.Whe  higher ..-R.t Lt-e. thea the  -tary gasp at the
.ahjrt L=atr  (a-rPeta ". Nighf% aa O- '  tt  pre    arsP uhera "tidiad er.  fbihM  ArIre  -d OMit. ts-ta i. rh.-. harna at ata-eWa,              a-ara
fttte . I the ref-ct  gmep data the aveag. are  rartltts -Sihtad erith-etit saa  tar e-ch tadta-a-r ad .h            Warni  thee ajalty Lat tie  -tasaia   l S
tra-P he. dMeas tarit oictr.Slt  the moaag  at ta.trtaa west rhe taitat-er  dap,Ada -  h  evatlabtllty at data s-e ta nt-Ehla   -iaa -t he
saerted taraaa   tageat a J. tad-tatr -   -eehe. theatrW                a   r eipy -efal a. -sa-r:  the aeta   e tadaata. et  teat   -K ie ra-atye
&a-Tate  -artot  era  taurtatog teed- er.sd isla4 at .raI 19*0.                          pa -qe               as   ate    ta  at ntrartap teed.
ItiW  -a 1W date.                                                                       Yettlsea  irea  Yna-    0a-te  dvided by erElpratt.o.1g
a                  L~~~~~~Arrt-titorl -  etta-t  at.rctaeCa   adtseatpe  pa.aaearl                            anP1te  s   .aegaot   a..  elaetsee,patttaia 
EWO eat -Iit.  pi WOIt   ai- date.                                                       -r,a!!nz2IL eIja       a..mhe.edrn      aplte   ttt
.1178 -d   -,t                                                     "'~~~~~~~~~~~     admr    dtdd  itht raattaatae "f heaple. had.
%        APAcup wecpt   ci  uP.r -sPit. ast-nis  at tar-ai srt palcas.                       avial-nphl  dpjma geasrl ad-                  atied   h-spLtIe  ad
1"40. 1520. sot teaL 4-t                                                                   by at I-ea  Se phalta.-   fatablltf-an  petidlag pitaslpeiyeeatl
taear Is ILAaldd. R-taL taapltaa. hee-ar. thate heetl sad
Ueoc   ai.utIas tM CAPt?& - nAsah-I      aea ona- apllee at tan--a-ta                        ad last set-et  ara-aatl atatad by a ilayatri  (tot hy a -dlasi
piteatyearynaad  Pa..tIe             . peraeatetrl go. ad hydr-, earlee                    anattas. aer. aidattle, atta! thttb afte  la-pteL     caateea
sad tsa-Eraa  s1tet trtot) Iahtarasa  teat-     aqa-aI        Par antat.                   preotte aIatted  -rang  ataadca  teIIttlita.  Par atetClatoe  asflas
1160. 1tn, sad 11W0 data.                                                                  arha  heaplt.ta I-ad  WNsO. prIanlpi/Saeari Wipttala. ad ruts!
yonistas AM VITAL iTATSTiGS                                                                  SpertaIL-I heapltte  er  -l.Atida  snap aede tstl.
i.t.  Pastatla.    v-,ea  II-ada) - LA. et hip7 l. 11. 1920. and NUt1                                               WI Tu  oar at           L.lsls   tar diatherge
deisa                                                              area hasjiiai~~~M .. dittda   ky ah  a-ae  at bde..
rthe  taaastio  Irreta   el  - letta at arbee a tet1 paEattaa
ditfaree  deflottse. 51 stes era  asp sItat easparshlttl  at dat             HURl
-eaIrt; 1IS0. 19i0, ad 11L daa                                                    rrc   tta  ealtdfse-               a   attt     oa,tr.   sre
M v,     - Cesret papaletle. prejatt- er  ieas  an IK                  sad theIr ania  -I.e. £ herder er ledgr asp -a y ast he InLda  is
~~ ad see ad4==             .  theIr  WtayAd fertLifty                              th  heasahed tar atittfP-.as-
retaa. Prejattta  P.entr  ta artalli, "I'te teaia  at thre                          WrrISetr  tata   e ra     aa.  re.cdrra   era    a
avala sdaasia  ttfa topaltey St birth latisole  With  -tosat. Pa.,                         oanprtnI   l  ra. n   etaettdtselee
tents tas-   aral, Sad tanie Itt. aapett-at, stbtitete   M 72.3                       dasLLtaga. MePer.taatp. ipltasesld  sa             h-earaaet eliatrseh ad
tear. the parntai-a fertitltpI rat alas bot  thea  1avat                              estrtd par..
-eedo  datlia  ta fertily aItt=rdag Ws tera  level a   Paat teaflp                   Ateet ta 1lertrtit7 (paraal t  datls)    tii.ur   . adrra
Ptantos partaraat.  reek  a-try ta thea anag-e  a-  a t iea  ala                      teaaltaI-  dteliaeu  .tth a1shitriap to ;Itlia0qsttsr  Vapratg
tatteatlat at aaraittp ad Periftti  teed. tar prajarit   parpeasa               at te-ei  trb.a -ad ras daultiag  tapetttei.
Sltttse,eeuiata  - s   adIst-o y, papLaetla- ther  1a n gseath
es.tebrth rot  e  qa te the da_h rte, adf alas the ag                        rla1O
datltn  ft therp. tet leve at -il WEot  r         -rCat-e rate Sac                    yr=in#!j[totslae             sa  feeel  - tree  tatel. aWl. adtae
-erb gar-eilan at   -arptna  It-If Seactiy. The atat-eay                                 Iaaleta  all as. at he -rer  leve ea perttean at rapatli
Papatatta  cit  -   viatd- at hat a-t  th  prasetd  herst-                               paleey at-h-el-ag   aetaaarasly tatde. Childre  aged h1-ti
NeISa of the paPelatt-n t the Pea 2(0. end the WsIa at deklls of                        year t..  djw.ta  for diftter-t teegtts at pyerMy avata  t
[aralttty rat  to rpIE--ta t leve.                                                       --naLan tLtI, unlaran  edetftle   -rlee  as ee.oe  LOOpits
Yea  .tateae       I      L.aata   haraetd - the pest she  arett1sy                        ele erpptcst             -ee  arase  h e  ttlroa  anee sea
pepealcc aan Wll e rathd.                                                        issdi  eet-ttl  aetdfe.- C-pgtad sa shve   aadr
Ptz ttla ant                                                                                 odeta   euitattntts   eta fepprad pieary tcaates-lc
-  -   -ltad-pea  papsiette pr eq-i bkla-tar  (O lh-ttr-) at                         pravide aa-rl. ieelan.    eethe  Ltrslaat  tatraLisan tar
WiataUila  19*0, 1970. .ad 19* dAta.                                                    Papila nan!!, at 12 -Al it peer at.;e asrnpa-d-se  casa era
Per so" e  artlualtu   Ceapard anb saE-faragtcaltarl teed                                 g       IerFt e-eade.
PbasL.tt-n A.e trarar  Ceret)-rLIdae  (0-la yea-). eM.rbagas  (It-                        latla" tsehette.  Latie   ar  the  p-teren aAsh epeet  itePaad-
hAPM,-6 pers), and raLLe  (as year sAt -ee) a  ..petetisa  at add-year                    caty er an deprtaslt. at arodary  Mtaitatla-.
PertalasI; twa.. ten,. ad lisat et.L                                                   1craltearhr ra ta1-arer.etarnee-111aaasnei
PaataIaaL Creti R.te (earant - C=as  - bleat gAMCt  rats .a  tata  aId-                   pr-r`a-eoadr  Wael dttde  i  ar   a  tdr  La thete
peer Vpap.alai   far teoa    9*0-25. ad 1901041.                                         rsp-dtiigtea
Pucltt    ! tet tat- ferae) - nete  - blea  ge-t  r-t_  at sita                     Sail tleirt (eewes) -Lit=st adula  at [ Ia itad ad st1e) a
pa C=ton  a  iqit-ba  1153-fl. sad 1920-It,                                           aPeIrarga  t  at.! Mutt pe Itta  Zage  is pev  a-dser
Crud  iehtte(a tSssd             A--Ieas tEL- biatt. per the-an  at aid-
Crude barb nate (s7r t      Iena)   1-bsa  danthe err t%-sa  at aid-pear                 Ytnarea  erIecndsrlts)-Pssgrer    prianeae
paniet,an  iibO   -102,ed        aa,WY_                                                 ears 4aettag. SM.WEb.   te.  thanP" e P.,t p -ce etndac a".tnaeae.  hearse sa
fetlt   uer9nul   .epe   aaga   de   s111  90   attettat  geral peb-lKIr perthe-s   ef ppulat.t enriadas as
pragres.                                                         i~~~~~~~~TV ta ..ar (par ahened erpastlv) -TV r-tiver  tsr bre-1-st to
PetePI.L.aa -  trL-ata   sra  aa)-Praat   tatIe                                        pacrs  pence per Tteadpplts;eatdeslrta V reeter
a-    t hadhare  eg I1-*pet  t  a tiro-ratrMld;Leta  eti r.tttrr  .,ad istiar-`r  rlctta  ef TV We.a   to offart.
allnrld -s   intarsa -ra.2                                                         acurcer Ci-ralilea tea ibanta  re ate)-teath   arg
selprdttc1a   l  fad ta-pdca.   rdrle   nia    ee  a                                     o  edi    fI aperaaw lsr  bard tim. a saarb,
ta WdtI      aedr  erhse    adto  aa   rer   td  (e..                                 len M.e!dtaeaeerln, r   er_                       da  h  easier: at       I
date.  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~esas~~~~=.dt taIc                             f.t.CZ:I
fnprta anW    haa IWal". at_k   Pat. C--pLe.ettd  asJ-,tcd a-d.d                        caprel;  10.120ad   l  ae
_esttis  sd IcfeLrtana,edZssah   ltiEce.!                                                 M!SeIyl -, Pste  ae  far          prSata.-   rsttte  clabrtes..
elIraIl  err e-ltat) htlc PS head as ehailsla -n t. Ce aS-c                          MtXiLin2-ltrtreI   Eela,trar.ifgd
atW tenhl  ee:1*-!.tna    a   aa                                                           a FOelattiy   ta   a  a   nprseoo  ee   a.  oy   9
ee:ap:Fa. te -pert say.M-  apya  fatst I. dette  an- ahI...r titratte. ba  (e Riest - .tots! ante sad ~ tents rtitlatWE  a
a,-d:d aS e lase  thtiona.Tea   tolipaa.a   23 eednretlet -g sa -ee   aturer   at  th   rpeistecta  lea  tear tread.  £
ThtrdMIrl-Pas -.terep;ldt- b     iw  eat tie dat7e.1                                  toosasir Sot--IoariSall - tLc. 11 at peptalta   tader )sa h- t9t seedI
pe-taita  erette as _le  ran ai_       -der     -    =raai   Waprioftn                    the totalb"  lae P-tore..      1L1-ff-.IN,I                AllA"
data,                                                                          toot htgtgtaiotytfle-t.I--7       Wr .-  .    us
cetrs  dtadrtn t9re6e life   -dtet 9tbt. 1970adrlFidate                           toeabita
.Cltosase   Ut ..t. Ivero  -. Sesraie ete  of year. at lit                              W Isaottea t=oia  (elas -ssa  asspainesaae   fa ryllna
51  rea  in. ln ed  001tea.                                                     eebIIh isteptoad-ltr tesirat. E a7 naSibtfs.
letet Natstay Nto (rr bctasad `-I deaes drama of jofs-  f -dsr  -d                Istlated deacite-Pseen   larsd love! p(I.t ea    ffIts)  B-era andtic y.!
pea  tat  e  thSasa  IXr- hIat.  19*1          1  -.. 10adlt date.60 1aInnI p .ait  lo6 dtas ia  it- tha  te-as  les heMst flrtwpt a ato
stars tf Ots Ittee (ritea  ei r late=    -f a-el urban. cod ree 1-                 tofrttenll  edeq.l  diet ale Eacenpo  as-tend isqaiCSat -ta  -
as:I at peri (oe,  res  o  rura,'   l] Ot -p re        byea AO etan  to. ast            atedaLa-.   -f            t-  
esasanarad  ane   s   ste  ie   rtts  orhls "rse eat                                 attat rlativeNc aseir   i-   intel f    sce-.itrd Wat avese per  tot to
henae. it roalane  uaee9    ete  aIdea,t.t.heh(ceaiooraA--Iri     aie. a  ppaatt  trt. ndrua!-o  reatolt
eate Jatp thy te-..l  do astd  ban  ahi epei aM;f dlp      sta pert atO M.Im                                         -     -ip        m , 
thedayta fotd.itg the- Lasip. atbor nuts. in-    91d"                                       - I
otrato o totrte Oteoasl (eriestot ecilaltan  - tett - ciaa. su
rura  - lsterat papie(totl. 'ibsa ad ruroll asre-ed by a-rsta                                                              --           P_ Y          W
diapaci a  penotags ctthei ranat-is  paplatt-s.withaa                                                      _-I__c
an  ttldeth SP,lete  cat  ispre AlIt saM taittuo't.,taat. a                                                        tuenrsd ,-Int.) tat  ltttsWAo -
taarns  dnl-utrb  atrhrv   pt. ar the a-at p1-1                                                                       fre-F1-  AMcalt belyaa sa   Prjalha Sape1t1nt
prIm    sti stela   asalio.-M          -      mWSld                                       bL-



- zo -
1091? - EcONKc 1IU1tCAZS
population: 43.3 million (aid 1951)                T      DIEA                                                                                     I
ChP per capita: IUS SbS a*/ 11991 dollars)                                                                                                   P        el 6
muet (million
US at eurrat                                   A NN  U A L  C E O W T 1  * A T E S   (_)
prices)                  ACTUAL                                           MT.       80JECTED
198alb2      1975   1976   1977   1915   1919   19SO/41  I91182  1982183   1953114   1951S   196514e  19S6/37
NATIoNAL ACCOUMI
Cream Domesti Preduct bI       Z529b.0          9.3    B.3   11.1    8.0    9.7         t.7       7.6       6.9       *.0      6.6       6.4       6.0
Agricuiturs                   4787.0         6.1      1.6   -3.0    5.6    4.2        3.5       3.0       2.5      2.4       2.6       2.7       2.3
ln4ustry Si                   47ZS.0         10. 7     5.5    8.2   11.0 e    .9    71.         7.3      6.S       5.4       7.8       7.7       7.5
Petroleum                     3522.0        40.6   51.7   54.5   22.0    10.3   1I.9            5.1      6.0       4.3       6.0       5.0       5.5
services di                  10725.0          9.1   11.5   16.9    6.0    13.2    10.2          9.9       6.1      *.9       7.2       6.6       b.4
LoustiSption                    21338.0        -0.3   11.5    5.5    4.4    9.3    1o.7            7.6      5.5       5.0       5.2       6.0       5.5
Cross LIvestment                 7F61.0        44.!  -11.7   25.5   10.5   10.5          2.9      10.9       1.S      4.0       S.S       6.1       b.6
Exports of GOES                  7902.0         27.2   3Q.3    8.9    3.1    0.5         9.5      10.1      4.1       5.2       7.2       7.0       e.4
Reports of C11FS                llb15.0        17.1   -5.3    2.4    4.3   15.3          9.4      9.0      -1.7       3.9       5.1       4.9       4.5
Cross National Saving            4109.0        176.0   50.1   57.1   22.4  -3.4         -4.5      -4. 1
GDP Deflator                                   45.3   ^C.2   oe.O   b2.2   76.1    91.F    100.0
EachaOle ltte e/                                2.15    2.21    2.07    1.85    1.43     1.35      1.23     -         _         _         _ 
Share of GDP et MArket Prices (tl                    A96r5l  Increase (7 ) at Constunt Pries
(at eurnt prie.)                              1953   ie   1975 Prices    19.1182 Prices
1960   I970   9753  1VN9  I19OUOt   VIY8UU   ISO/SB7        I9bU-I 7   IY7IY75 IY75-IY,7Y         : rtM6
Cross Domestic Product
- Agricwltur                27.9  25.3  28.2  19.9    19.2         16.9      15.2            4.7          5.1       2.0        2.5
- Industry 4 Petrolam el   23.7  26.1  26.5  34.1    36.1          33.0      49.0            3.0         2.6       11.8        7.4
- Services dl               42.9  40.8  42.7  41.2    40.3         42.4      42.3            5.3         4.4       11.5        6.7
Coosumption                 87.3  90.5  87.7  55.8    55.9         84.3      *1.2            4.4         *.0        7.7        6.4
CGrss Investment            13.3  13.9  33.4  32.8    29.5         29.9      30.5            5.8         4.2        7.9        3.4
.xport of QtFS              19.5  14.2  20.2  29.7    33.4         31.5      34.9            4.9        22.8       10.2        4.6
Imprt of cIPS               20.1  15.5  41.3  48*3    48.8         46.1      47.0            1.1        13.5        3.9        3.5
Cross Natioeal Saving       12.9   7.7  13.2  21.1    19.2         16.2      19.9            7.2         17.2      27.0
Se 2 of GCD
1950    1970   1975   1919   1980111   19511132    1982/83
PUBLIC FINUMG
Current ReWiImm              15.5   21.3   29.2   29.0        42.6      40.2       39.1
Curer  Ltaenditure           21.5   22.0   40.5   35.5        39.2      40.1       40.4
Current Surplus (*) or
Deficit (-)                -3.0   -0.7  -11.3   -6.8         3.4       0.1       -1.3
iavestmet supeoditure        11.8   11.1   17.2   20.0        21.7      22.1       20.0
Foreign Vinancing             -       -       5.9    8.9       6.4       3.5        6.4
1960-70  1970-75  1975-SO  PF73-FUB
otUa INDICLTORS
GN? Growth late (X)             4.5      5.0    11.5       7.5
CgW per Capita growth
rate (2)                      1.9      2.7      5.7     4.7
Energy consumption growtb
rate (2) f/                           14.9    13.2      S.b
teln                            -       -        3.6      4.1
Marginal Saeving late           -        -        0.46    0.19
Import Elssticity               0.9      1.7     0.9      0.9
Al Bssed on world bank Atlas mAtbodolOy (thrs year averlge exchange rat').
Si  CDP for 1981152 at curr-Et prices is valued at arhat Prices. Sectoral shares and rte  o4frovth concern CP at factor eot.
el Kanufacturing and mining. Electricity And Construction.
d/ Di-tribatnon and Service- Sectors.
/ Weighted average of all nurrent account item  includint traxactions. undor the  ree earkat rate.
f/ ElectrIc±ty ou±y.
DIIDA
SeptWmer 1953
(4ZO)



- 21 -
ANNEX I _
ECYPT - EXTERNAL TRADe
Population: 43.3 millio7 (mid 1981)
GNP per capita: Us$650-!(1981 dollars)
Amount (million)                 Annual Crovth Rate (I) et Constant 198t/82 Prices
US$ at current
prices)                          A C T U A L                              EST.       P R O J C C T E D
1981182    197.,    1976    1977    1978    1979    80/51    81/82    I=71       83/84    84185    85/86
EXTERNAL TRADE
_Mrchsndise Exports           5779       27.Z    19.5       3.0      7.7      8.5      4.7     12.1    -1.3      4.4      7.5       7.3
-  Primry b/                   570      -15.4    -E./    25.9   -29.9         5.1    -9.9      8.8    -3.3       7.4      4.8       3.6
- Manufnctures bI              540       24.6   -14.5   -27.4    15.2   -30.1   -10.6   -12.6    -8.2            4.9      6.4       6.9
- PetroleumS/                 4669       72.1    63.2    11.1    16.1    21.1          9.5    16.2    -0.1       4.0      8.1       7.8
Merchandise ILports          10380       15.3    -5.0    -1.0        8.5    12.8    10.6       5.4    -2.4       4.1      6.4       5.1
- Food                        268e       27.3    17.0   -18.1    25.8    -1.2         19.6     8.1      0.7      2.4      7.6       3.7
- Petroleum                    505      -34.2   -23.3   -53.3        3.0   -12.0    -0.2    68.3        8.4      6.1      8.5       5.6
- Machinery and Equipment    3175        62.4    24.8    21.3    -0.7    28.9    10.1   -11.6    -9.1            7.1      5.4       6.4
- Others                      4020       20.1   -26.2    10.7        7.5    11.9      6.3    10.0       9.9      2.7      6.1       5.1
Prices
Export Price Index                       56.1    54.3    57.0    57.7    82.9   109.0   100.0    95.9   101.9   111.9    121.8
import Price Index                       63.5    67.6    74.9    81.0    93.6   106.4   100.0    98.8   105.6   113.1    121.7
Terms of Trade Index                     88.3    80.3    76.1    71.2    88.6   102.4   100.0    97.0    96.5    98.9    100.1
Composition of Merchandiee Trade (2)   Average Annual Increase (2)
(at current prices)           at constant 1981/82 prices
1975    1979   80/81   81/82   85186       1975/79  1Y82/FY86
Exports                                                                         9.8       4.7
Primry ki                      28.1    13.7       9.6    9.9   12.9         -4.1       3.0
Manufactures_/                 46.7    15.4    10.5    9.3    9.8          -15.3       4.0
Petroleu/.                     25.2    70.9    79.9   80.8   77.2            26.8      4.9
Imports                                                                         1.9       3.9
Food                           23.6    22.8    26.1   25.8   25.0            2.9       3.6
Petroleum                       6.9      3.1      3.2    4.9    5.1        -24.5       7.2
Machinery                      23.7    37.4    36.6   30.6   30.6            17.2      2.7
Others                         45.8    36.7    34.1   38.7   39.3           -3.1       3.3
Share of Trade with        Share of Trade with                  Share of Trade with
Industrial Countries (Z)   DeelopinR Countries (I)          Cspitsl Snrplus Oil Exporters (Z)
1965   1970  1975  1981    1965  1970  1975   19B1            1965    1970    1975   198
DIRECTION OF TRADE
Exports                  27.0  17.0  14.0  52.0   18.0  22.0  10.0  36.0                1.0      1.0       4.0   3.0
Primary               29.0  19.0  18.0   -        17.0  22.0  11.0    -               -       1.0       3.0
Manufactures          19.0  12.0   3.0   -        23.0  23.0   9.0    -              4.0      3.0       5.0
Imports                  55.0  42.0  65.0  75.0   18.0  25.0  14.0  13.0                 -        -        4.0    1.0
J/ Based on Wo'  Bank ..Ctla- ethodolog  (three year average exchange rate).
b/ Not includ *b oil and oil products.
c/ Includes oil companies' exports.
ElIDA (0236J-Revised)
9.29.83



-22-                                                                           MUSK e
IgVPT   511¶¶ff-,'71n   o              6r&       A' MD BEST
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2                                              P IILo  J U  C  Tubn prle
1974    1975    19)6    1977    1975    1979   1lO9 l  lest/m1         r17iit-     19         r9L%/ £ C V 60   L
sAL611C or PAtmiT
Export of Coeods nd Hea-Factor
santicu                                 2151    2503    3319    333       4e99    5401    7503       7962       gala        mbai       La1a0       llbSO      In3to
- of whleb mrchandise f.o.b.              1513    1573    2119    G3,6  255          3Wi7    3617      5779        54n1       bOO        7i9a         ma60       9bOU
ImpoTts Of Goods ..d Hon-Fter-O
services                               -3959   -5141   -3132   -579   -4612   -3751  -11404  -11665           -11300      -12510      -14240     -16090      *L79PO
- of which mrechandise c.i.f.            -3U11   -460    -4659   -5110   -5991   -7517  -10334  -10310           -9320      -11030      -12630     -14290      -15990
Sat Facter Incoe                            7D      122     413      4t2    1095    1376    1190        151         960        ?U          ta0         *10       4OU
Iat Frivat Tr ansfra                        42       90      87       63      34       me      63        51          30         40          so          SO          sU
Currant Accowut Balanes                  -159b  -2426   -1313   -1456  -1361   -1915  -2345    -35a1             -2140       -3a1a       -34b        -3730      -4140
Frivate Dirct Invastmnt                     57     225      444      477     337    1516    1036       1325        1400       1650        1500        1980       2130
MLT loan. and Grants (hat)                  69      269     647      730    1141    1011    1244        9515        g         1470        131        aaao       Is5
- official Lona and grants                 -21      210     490      303    1028      749    1020       941         340        990        1150        1400       1475
- private                                   90      59      137      -73     113      262     224        45         140        4U0         660         Goo        620
othar MLT Financing tL                     357      509     404    1164      305    -305      -2        571         724       --           --           20         315
overall bIstnce -                         1053    1123      *76    W15    -472    -307        130       *15       -U4          110        -150        -20D       -100
Interntional Ramurvae/                     516     676      642     a0o    1504    1090    1197        2313       2351        --          --         --
- of  ich  sold                            102      102     102      104     104      104     103       773         546       -           -          -             _
Reserves am Nftha Imports                  1.7      1.5     1.7      2.1     3.0      1.7     2.0       1.7        2.9        -           -          -            -
sflSHAL cAPIta ame AM    e
Gross Diaburammnts                        2135    3522    2213    3236    2753    2291    2362         30U2       3102        3470        3355       4252        4960
Official Grants                        1261    9W6       703      3S2     291       72     279       395        400         432         554        597         662
Concesaionsl Loans                      120   144       666   155    1600       99b    1271      1034         952         904         "45        53o         949
- SAC                                    31     199      421     S91      199     533    1103       900         798         727        696         733         50
-_OPc                                     3    1142      171     137       93      43       69       2           1            6     *     I          0           0
-IDA                                     12      49       42      42       45      55       45       99         127         164         107         42          32
- Otbra                                  50      54       34    1085      663      5       56         7         11          27          44         60          67
UonCancsssionl Loans                    W04    1092      345    1049      567    1223    1007      1653        15b1        2054        2453       2754        3034
- officisl   port ordits                379     639      214      24       44      SO       03      1S5         292         339        342         406         434
_mmU                                     -       14       36      37       57     113      146      139         190         253         330        387         429
-other m_tilataral                       -        6       -      236      I1         S       4        15         Z7          24          31         36          50
-private                                425     433    S15       732      74A    1030      774     1311        1052        1468        1750       1935        2121
Cap Financie                                                                                                        139          a           0          20        315
Externas DObt
OabL outtandini and disbursed             2330    4325    5770    3092    9920   11411   13653    14956          159W        17312       15477      20064       21340
- oEficial                             1990    3910    4720    6U14    1S07    9554  102         11932       12223       13054      13744       14523       13352
- private                               540     915    1050    1273    1413    1557    2725        3024        3536        4069       4724        5331        5750
- Wap financing                                                                                                 189        1i9         19          210         438
Undisbur ad Debt                          1602    2426    3014    4515    4390    4629    5951         5013       35"         7979        7269       6541        5724
O bt rvaice
Iettl Survica  aymant                      342      64      795    1040    1190    1244    201         2371       2540        2532        3239       3601        4230
- interest                              156     190      274     361      415     420      759      912        1100        1226       1320        1319        1429
- paymnt as H eXports b1               22.0    23.2    20.1    22.6    21.5    17.3    21.3        26.3        25.1        27.1       27.0        26.6        27.8
Averaga Interest Rats on Nan loans         6.3      4.7     5.1      5.1     4.6      6.4     6.5       7.3       10.0        10.0        10.1       10.2        10.1
- official
- private
veas.r Haturity of mm leans (yCsts)    17.2    13.5    23.3    13.7    27.9    24.5    19.5             16.9        14.4       14.7        14.3       14.2       14.2
- official
- private
I/  tocluding spactal balancs  of paymets fnncn  ad u4 siloc-atd itevm.
2/ KLnU  -) inditatas accumulatin of foreag  asts.
31  Forslga assets of Central lank.
*/  Harcbandis  Only.
Including spacal banlace of psystts grants.
6/ Eports of goods and ervicas not including forign oil ceanias sports.
ullVA (0234J)
g.29.53



- 23 -
= 11
1.1 2
AL  _     r o VW  m         U5 UM
CMt of wom 31. MW
4 ~~~~~~~~-  mLa~ 15 aU
2aimm mg  ut5 ftuy dioued Z1                                          33.4  257.8        -
3A WV.          75         NA        9am u.1 -it2i-i                  50.0      -        7.7
in up39         76         AM         *1ana htt                       4.0       -        2L3
Zm 1276-? 31    76         AM         huit ed 43e am.                 50        -        33
tF 637          76         AMI             aw      i                    -    A.          4.9
Zs Ms5          76         AKpm Fpor   Faa.r  U                        10L0     -        M0
La 19           76     JI             Mci1e :i i                      52LO     -        4.5
Zs I39          77         AK         hIEia Ibm srLy                  53.2      -        19A
o  n19          77         A. o   lairDit         uimII                 -     270         LA
in   9          77         AM         Mae ad" oi_q  1                 27.0      -       2z.0
La Y4-? 3       77         AM            a tba m WU                    12rr r.  -        9.5
C  774          7A                      - miin I                        -     53.0       3LO
o  J3           78                      ctUvre1 Km1_                   - 3O  -19.4
O r31 n7                   AIE         1       ---                      -     3,.0      31L6
O  R5D          79         AUE       uElil   II                         -    25.0        U.S
cM        I    79          in-       oia.                               -O   40         20.3
In S14          79         AM         M  Vl ZlW fta*m in_iiq
ad Im1  _iice                 1LO      -         3.3
Cr  9W          79         AU        rThim                              -     3Z.5       Le.5
i 1732          79         Af of a                S                   7SA       -        3.7
o  935          79         AM         -1-  I1           _ h11           -     37.0      2Z.7
Zn 133          79     9                a         n i  les  Iamr 41 10.0        -   Y10
*} 93B                                 i AM  pin ies,                         45.0       L35
in 3Mr          SD         DM         bm3    lMtrial be IV            500       -        7.4
Lit I4          ND         AIE        DS                               ]O       -        26.8
-   24          so0         AIE       >iu go Diatrihtimi                -     50.0       0.3
i.1n   9        SD         JE -WadPOW                                  50.0     -       44L9
in 336          so         WA         R     Km                         7.0      -        7.0
4f lS2          so         mL        P         in                       -    12.        9tA
or 369                                   a r atien iif                  -    401        25.6
ZA 3928         8L                    b      C  1 n Dt    OMuiz=      25.0      -         7.2
or 03           a      1  Am                            5/              -      00       55.4
*t 1121         3L A1                                                 -       14.0       14
in 21    8t                afStU          lb            -             640       -        6Z.1
O1156 I1 a                 AUE        MR=i New 9ly5                     -     56.6      47.2
o. 112          K                     3 aAE    '.i  iJ ./               -      6.9       .1
Zn 2061         82         in    r bIrm.iCri   iI                      64.0     -        64.0
In 2D74         82         DM         bw1_   hustuima         V       120.0     -        040
In 2103         82         am          uQ.r Gm b'e1m                   90.0     -        900
in 26          8z2       Ain          mo ar         n     l          59.0      -       59.0
In Z3           83         AU       ftrrili     6                     3.2       -         L2
lb71                                                                 3520.   970.9    1139
OE dig be bee '  paid                                                 303.6    L7
-d WV oatdig7    gZ
Amx   old                                   7.5
Of which b  b.  ,id                         7.5
IbTal  mbeld  by 3nk md ML417.2  %9.2
VI l-   i   of X  peoctc liueti  in be A in dmrib. in a _a  Ret port ca L B      M Limmi pujWt
in Ylati- whic is  dI twic yowly a  c;zu1- to  e brnatiw WOigectw. mAniL0 D ant Db   3L.
V    h cl 3 cmififr e_ m      iz5 vhidi _          1y wEiA . .' & a_U  -11im  pW
fcw MeW Vcah  mmke Cm lpn DIwrnt.
3/ Thud       Km.
FOE iw 1h1 is ME Sg.cial Actim    dit 20 of 1V35.0 viflim qA.1.
S/ Odit   mi        in Us.    n         is Ms @apsmiR ti  of   tiii, fo   ML mama.  d M
eVivaIo at bidi 31. L983 Ear   edid d i   t.
6/   ye t eflutiw.
71 *dae. a 38832 jlUima 3m  f   n  DiMimila bet fhojot. a 15313 uilimn lm for a Vcc*iinl keUI
Pzmne. a 38*61.5 ofllim lof fam Er - kpciao  i   riang FA1biin  hPject adia 3*65.3 .illiu
lm fr m El DiQ)ila biof   ig w P rojet. twd,  e  iAd oftw   d 31. 13; ad a U4  ilLim 3m
fior a        k ace  hojwt whic be bum  1       by ab   bed. bt mt ya ai.
(232T t & 2. pink 15)



AE2    II
- 24 -                                Page 2 of 2
B. SrATOi  F  IllflllWEST
(As of )h di 31, 1983)
Fiscal
Year   C wpe of aiines                                    TOM              Total
76, 82 Aab Ceraicc Cmpuy    cemie In&stry                  6.63    1.14     7.77
78  Rile Clot1dii g Co0 p    Rwayikd Gwt   lusty         0.43    0.16     0.59
78   Delta gSw Cbpry       Agrultural Pl&dw n,          20.00    3.00    23.00
mgily smpr
79, 83 Ismilia Mfisr PlbLtxy   Food md Food PFocessig     12.9    2.35    14.84
80, 81 Iinilia Fish          Foo ar Food Pzocessirg        3.91    L05      4.96
80   Szez c      o.t zayw  Uuidid  Materials            30.0O      -     30.00
81   1ma Ibt               C dcoile zburist Project      4.41    0.72     5.13
Total gross cmmituNta                                     77.87    8.42    86.29
Tess; Cmcellatis, teuuwtioms, 1epsymts
ad sales                                       12.00     -      12.00
Total coatts ww held by IE:                               65.87    8A2    74.29
Total lisbded                                             12.41    2.99    15.40
231J-3



- 25 -
ANNEX III
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE ENGINEER-MG PROJECT
(IN DAQAHLIYA, DAMIETTA AND BEHEIRA)
Supplementaxy Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare                  Four months (January 1983
the project:                           to May 1983)
(b) Agency which prepared the project:      National Organization for
Potable Water and Sanitary
Drainage
Sc) Project first identified:               January 1983
(d) Date of Bank appraisal mission;         May 1983
(e) Date of completion of negotiations;   August 31, 1983
(f)  Planned date of effecti-7eness:        January 1984
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
Government to reviev findings of various studies with the Bank before
implementing any of the recommendations (para. 45).
U.



- 26 -
ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 2
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE ENGINEERING PROJECT                          z
(IN DAQAHLIYA, DAMIETTA AND BEREIRk)
Implementation Schedule                                    ;
Study Outline
The study consists of three interrelated components which are to be
carried out concurrently.
First is the preparation of a feasibility report for project or
projects in water supply and sewerage areas of the Governorates of
Daqahliya and Damietta and in sewerage areas in the Governorate of
Beheira. The report would identify the needs, recommend improvements
and prepare a suitable investment package to improve and upgrade the
water supply and sewerage services in the project area.
Second is the completion of a comprehensive organization and
managemnet study for the provision of water supply and sewerage
services in the project areas. This would include preparation of
financial policies for the proposed institutions and the provision of
assistance in the establishment of the recommended institutions.
Third is the preparation of detailed engineering design and contract
documents for the project to be prepared under the first component.
Terms of Reference
Detailed draft terms of reference were prepared in consultation with
NOPWASD by a Bank appraisal mission which visited Egypt in May 1983. They
would be issued to a short list of consultants by October 15, 1983.
Procurement and Implementation Schedule
Selection and appointment of consultants will be in accordance with
Bank guidelines for the use of consultants. Expression of interest has been
sought from consultants on the understanding that one firm, by itself or in
association with others, will be responsible for completing the entire study.
A short list of three to six consultants is being prepared by NOPWASD from
applications received. Consultants will be asked to submit with their
proposals both technical and price proposals in separate sealed envelopes. An
estimated manpower requirement budget will be given ir. tis invitation for



- 27 -
ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 2
proposals. Upon completion of technical evaluation, the price proposals
will be opened and evaluated in conjunction with the technical proposal
to obtain the final rankiug of the consultants.
The following timetable is proposed;
Preparation of Short List of Consultants
Consultants Submission for Participation      -   July 5, 1983
Establishment of Short List                   -   September 30, 1983
Recruitment
Invite Proposals                              -   October 15, 1983
Receive Proposals                             -   December 1, 1983
Complete Proposal Evaluation                  -   January 15, 1984
Negotiations with Consultant                  -   February 1, 1984
Contract Award and Signature                  -   February 15, 1984
Consultant Mobilized                          -   March 1984
Study Implementation
First Preliminary Report
(a) Project Development                    -   within 4 months of
commencement
(b) Engineering                            -   within 6 months of
commencement
(c) Management and Organization            -  within 6 months of
commencement
(d) Review Period                          -   I ionth
Draft Final Report
(a) Complete Study                         -   within 11 months of
commencement
Cb) Review Period                          -   one month
Final Report
Complete Study                                -   within 13 months of
commencement
Completion of Detailed Design                 -   within 16 months of
commencement



f/       91         F! -   --  ,  -F      A  N,                                       5;
KA FR \EL SHEIKH               \
-i             KaIroi Sheikh - -l
IA L EXA NDRIA.            B                                                  A;
!  M N
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT\                                                         ,
WATER SUPPlY AND SEWERAGE ENGINEERING M OJ    CAIRO
GOVERNORATES OF DAQAHlIYA, DAMIETTA AND BEHEIR     
TREATMENT PLANTS (WATER):                                                          |
*   IDA Financed Project (1156 EGT),;
0   Under Construction
a Existing Combined Surfaced and C;rouncl Water Source
PIPEUNES:                                                -   Canals
IDA Financed Project (1156 EGT)
(Q 200 mm and above in the Regional System)                  Rivers
Exiing Regional Distribution System                           Salt Lakes
(Schematic layout of major pipes only)                 -     Divided Highway
Main Roads
SEWERAGE SYSTEMS:                                         E   Notional Copital
A   Under Construction                                        0   Governorate Capitals
A   Existing                                                       Governorate Boundaries
A   Existing Ground Water Lower;ng System                          international Boundaries
30-



IBRD 17326
31                                               3?2                         AUGUSr 1983
KAFR- El SHEIKH 
Port Said
PORT SAID
K'-'                                               San El Haggar     (       SMA/I/A
5XAX g ) ~--GH ,   A,
o  + ;@A^/UB~~K f')r e                   awo 
Z.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
Source                                                                      -.-ont
\~~      ~         ~     ~~ 0   20  30   PO  O    t                        \
A AND BEHEIRA  >             1               i.                               A~~~~~~ISA I I
/l       '         _y 
Ai'1 IV,  ,-                                                   
Canals                         KL0U515                     A,ee ISr    *                    An
'- )          - - ~ Rivers                                                                               \J ,) 
Salt Lakes                                                                            --I.-
DividedING   Highr     R        ePRf RtOmvr             ARAB REPUBLIC OF                 AtABIA
-'                            u r wl caB d The ;Ue Bn
-A   AND    Ma BEHEI      s                   fer   ,d  E,O   ZS
r   Naeionol Capital              ad NIj                           E
C Governorate CGpitals                    T dOR i-
- - RGovernorste Boundaries                n wrr me
wr ftu~  CavvuIx
Salt Lake
3!-~ ~~~~~~~a is 5ua fo on                      EGYPT
No-ionol Capital      awdm' euyan
--   nternational Boundaries    OWjuXIIwIt nvmaag sb&as
.drenIw  acw wj3an of
sLcd bourddnem
___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ __ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ IS   U D0 A   N






