ocumeant of
The World Bank
FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-6189 AL
THE DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
ALGERIA
EMERGENCY DESERT LOCUST CONTROL PROJECT
DECEMBER 1993
TECHNICAL ANNEX
Middle East and North Africa Region
Maghreb and Iran Department
Agriculture Operations Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(October 1993)
Currency Unit           Algerian (DA)
US$1.00                 DA 23.00
DA 1.00           =     US$0.0434
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ANN               National Agency for the Protection of Nature
ANPE              National Agency for the Protection of the Environment
CILA              Interministerial Committee for Locust Control
INPV              National Institute for Plant Protection
NGO               Non-governmental Organization
ONM               National Meteorological Services
PCC               Central Command Post
PCW               Wilayate Command Post



FOR OMFCL USE ONLY
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
EMERGENCY DESERT LOCUS CONTROL PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
Table of Contents
I.    BAG GROUND AND  STRATEGY                                         Page
Introduction .................................1 l
Genesis of the Current Situation .................................., 2
Economic and Social Impact.                                          4
Lessons Learned.                                                     5
Government Response and Strategy.                                    5
Bank Response and Strategy.                                          6
Rationale for Bank Involvement ..................................,, 6
II.   DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Background ...........................,                              7
Pesticides .7
Commercial Aircraft Services.                                        8
Vehicles and Equipmsnt ...........................,                  8
Training and Short-term Consultancy.                                 9
III.  INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS AND PROJECT IMPLEMENTATIO
The Legal Context.                                                   9
Environmental Aspects .11
Procurement .11
Disbursements .12
Special Account .13
Accounts and Audits ..................................              13
Supervision Plan .13
Monitoring and Evaluation .............................             13
Reporting and Completion Report .13
Agreements Reached .14
NOTES
1. - Environmental Analysis .15
2. - Environmental Datasheet .20
2. - List of Pesticides Acceptable for Locust Control .21
This document has a restricted distribution and r.ay be as by recipients only in the performance
| of their offc duties. Its contents may not othervise be disclod without World Bank authoriaion.|



Table 1 - Summary of Project Costs .....   ................. ......... .23
Ta'l)e 2 - Component A. Desert Locust Control .................................  24
Table 3 - Component B. Strengthening Locust Control Capacity .    25
Table 4 - Component C. Strengthening Surveillance/Warning System.. 26
CHARTS
Project Implementation Schedule       ......
Map I - Overall Locust Invasion Scenario    .      .30



I. BACKGROUND AND STRATEGY
A. InttodU.tQ
1.   About 20X of Algeria's total land area of 238 million hectares is
suitable for agriculture but of this only some 7.5 million ha, or 3X, are
suitable for cultivation. The country's agricultural sector faces a number
of physical constraints, including a high proportion of land with shallow
and erodible soils, erratic climatic conditions, and limited water
resources. In addition to those physical constraints, the development of
agriculture in Algeria has in the past been severely hindered by the
country's post-independence economic development strategy, which
concentrated on industrialization at the expense of agriculture.
Consequently, some-60 to 701 of basic food needs is still being imported.
Algeria currently spends almost 20X of its merchandise export earnings to
import foodstuffs.
2.   Despite five years of adjustment and reform, the economic crisis has
continued. Weak economic growth has lowered per capita consumption and
exacerbated unemployment. Over the 1985-1992 period, aggregate CDP growth
has averaged only 0.5 percent p.a., and data indicate that the recession is
continuing in 1993. The number of unemployed workers has more than tripled
since 1985, and the official unemployment rate is at 21 percent.
3.    In 1987, Algeria began taking major steps toward the economic
transformation of its agricultural sector. The transformation of the state
farms into private farms has changed the basic structure of the
agricultural sector. Complementary reforms also have been undertaken,
including privatizing certain activities previously carried out by the now-
dismantled parastatal cooperatives, liberalizing the prices of a range of
agricultural goods, and allowing a broader role to the private sector. As
a result, agriculture has been the bright spot of the economy, averaging an
encouraging 5.5 percent growth rate p.a.. The growth rate in agricultural
value added is quite remarkable, although year-to-year fluctuations caused
by varying climatic conditions remain large. The response of the
agricultural sector to these structural reforms has been encouraging.
4.    Support from the Bank has involved both investment projects and
adjustment lending, in addition to economic and sector work. Investment
lending has been concentrated in public infrastructure, agriculture, and
the social sectors. The agricultural project portfolio in Algeria
currently includes six projezts, representing Bank financing of US$332
million and a total investment of some US$840 million.
5.    It is against the above background that combines an economy in crisis
albeit in transition, a positive reversal in the country's agricultural
policy, and a rather important investment effort in the agricultural sector
that the Government is now likely to be confronted with yet another major
uncertainty. According to independent and reliable sources including FAO,



2
the agencies for crop protection in both Algeria and Morocco, and
consultants from CIRAD-PRIFAS (a department, specializing in locust control
within the french research system) climatic conditions are most favorable
for a major outbreak of locusts possibly in December 1993 and definitely in
February/March 1994.
B. Genegis of the Current Situation
6.    Favorable conditions for the reproduction of the desert locust took
place throughout most of 1992 in the hilly areas surrounding the Red Sea.
Significant rainfalls occurred in Eritrea, Sudan, Yemen, and Somalia from
April 1992 until February 1993. From the first rains onward, the desert
locust began to reproduce over vast areas. Optimism still prevailed in
October 1992, at a meeting of the DLCC, as only few increases in the locust
population had been noted in both Mauritania and northern Niger. No
mention was made at the time of the dangerous situation developing around
the Red Sea.
7.   Toward mid-November 1992, and to everyone's surprise, numerous and
large locust swarms began invading the western coasts of Yemen and Saudi
Arabia. It was then discovered that all the countries on the edge of the
Red Sea were affected. Saudi Arabia launched a major operation and treated
some 500,000 ha of infested land. Because of an acute lack of means, Yemen
appealed for help from the international community. Both Sudan and Eritrea
approached KLCO-EA, the spraying capacity of which is rather limited.  FAO
provided some limited support to Sudan and to Yemen.
8.   A relative calm settled in from March to June 1993, which was
interpreted by some experts as a sign that the situation had been brought
under control. A partial demobilization followed. The swarms left the
breeding areas and wandered beyond inhabited zones in search of favorable
new breeding sites. Ground prospection was halted, and vast areas with
sparse locust populations were left untreated. The international community
which had started to mobilize itself gradually lost interest as no
immediate threat seemed about to materialize. Emergency aid to affected
countries was stopped.
9.   In late June 1993, huge, dense swarms appeared in Yemen and in Saudi
Arabia. Large areas were infested with bands of larvae at various stages.
Again Saudi Arabia launched massive land and aerial spraying operations.
Yemen's total forces included no more than some 40 sprayer trucks. A
second appeal for international assistance was made. Unfortunately, the
much needed help arrived too late, as the locusts had already assembled
into large, active, and highly mobile swarms.
10.  In early July 1993, swarms were spotted in t*e northeast and central
regions of the Sudan. As climatic conditions remained favorable, with
rains occurring in patches from the Red Sea to the Atlantic, the swarms
spread to Chad, Niger, Mali, Mauritania, and even northern Senegal, a
5,000-mile journey. However, most swarms which had originated from the Red
Sea area moved eastward. They first reached Oman. They then continued
towards India and Pakistan, a 3,000-mile journey. The locusts' arrival on
the sub-continent once more corresponded to favorable climatic conditions



3
for their reproduction. It must be noted that the monitoring of both the
location and activity of locusts has been severely impaired for several
years due to either unrest, civil strife, or war in various countries,
including Eritrea, southern Sudan, northern Chad, and northern Niger.
11.   During September and October 1993, locusts were multiplying rapidly
in three main areas:
(a)   The Sahelian Zone of Mauritania, Mali, and Niger.  In that
zone, Mauritania was harboring very active and swarms of adult
locusts. They were essentially located in southern Tagant,
Brakna, Assaba, and Hodh Charbi.  Mali too has had active
swarms that benefited from favorable meteorological conditions
as they moved toward the western and northern parts nf the
country. Prospection could not take place in northern Niger due
to unrest. In Chad, principally in Ouaddai and Biltine, some
sightings were reported in the Fada region.
(b)   The Central Zone. In that zone, Sudan had the most active
locust populations. Breeding areas were to the East, close to
the border with Eritrea, in northern Kordofan and throughout
Darfour. Swarms were assembling at the time.
(c)   The Eastern Zone. Both India and Pakistan were affected to some
degree. In Pakistan, the areas infested by larvae covered more
than 300,000 hectares essentially in Punjab, Sind, and
southeast Baluchistan. Despite the localization and
destruction of numerous patches of larvae, swarms had formed
and moved on.
The likely consequences of present conditions are as follows:
12.   Sahelian Region. The most likely scenario for the SaheJlan region is
that the locusts will head to northern Mauritania and southern Morocco,
where favorable climatic conditions will result in widespread breeding.
SubstantiLl rains have already been reported from early to mid-November
1993 in those areas.
13.   Central Region.  The swarms which assembled in September and October
1993 will spend winter in breeding areas around the Red Sea, including in
Eritrea, Ethiopia, Sudan, Somalia, Yemen, and Saudi Arabia. In thi_
region, the probability of rainfalls occurring in fall and in winter is
high. The swarms will most probably have a serious damaging effect on the
cultivated areas in the spring of 1994 when they become active once again.
14.   Eastgrn  Zon W. Without excluding the pcssibility of serious
destruction to crops before their long migration, swarms reproducing in
India and Pakistan will head in two directions. Some are likely to invade
Iran via Baluchistan. Other locust populations, pushed by the dominant
winds, will move southwest, pass the southern part of the Arabian
peninsula, reach the horn of Africa, and move on to Kenya, southern
Somalia, ond Ethiopia. The build-up of locust populations in these latter



4
areas could lead to very serious consequences, including the start of a
full-scale invasion from the Red Sea to the Atlantic Ocean.
15.   The locust threat to Algeria is real. However, considering the data
currently available, the threat is not quantifiable in terms of numbers or
density of the locust populations. Data from the neighboring countries are
fragmentary, at times inaccurate and incomplete, or even totally lacking.
However, the ri8k from locusts is once again real, closely linked to the
heavy rains in the Hoggar region in late August (95 mm in Assekrem) and to
the sparse rainfalls recorded in central Sahel in September 1993 which have
allowed an abundant regrowth of vegetation.
16.   The first wave of locust swarms is likely to move frow the south and
head north during the course of Decembe- 1993. As they reach the Saharian
Atlas mountains, these swarms will be halted by both the seasonal cold and
the altitude. As temperatures rise again, the locusts will become active
in February-March 1994. At that time, two possible events could occur
simultaneously:
- swarms already in Algeria could breed and then move further
North. The winged adults could fly through three passes at Ain
Safra, Laghouat, and Biskra. This would constitute a direct
threat to the country's main agricultural region. It would
also seriously threaten TuIisia's northern productive crop
land.
- swarms from Mauritania resulting from winter breeding could
move all the way North in the spring of 1994. This is most
likely, since rainfalls in September through November have
generated a regrowth of vegetation. Hence, very favorable
conditions do exist for the latter scenario to develop.
C. Economic and Social Imgact
17.    A major locust invasion could devastate Algeria's still very fragile
agricultural sector and further decrease the per capita GDP currently at a
low US$1,721.5 down from US$2,905 in 1989. It is roughly estimated that
only a 2 percent decline in the country's agriculture production due to
locusts would result in a loss of over US$100 million. Damaged orchards
and tree plantations would in addition require several years to reach lost
production levels. Millions of people still rely on agriculture for their
livelihood at a time when joblessness is at its highest.
18.   Areas likely to be affected include:(i) the South and the Southwest
of the country, which, although covered with desert, also hold pastures,
palm groves, and irrigation systems. Should the climatic conditions remain
favorable, the wilayate of Adrar, B4char, and of Tindouf could come under
the direct threat of locust intrusions as a result of the fall and spring
breedings (see map ). Further North, pastures, staple crops, horticulture,
and tree crops on the high plateaus and along the fertile coastal area
could be devastated by the migrating swarms in search of new breeding



5
grounds.  Finally, nationAl parks with their precious habitats and natural
resources ¢ould also be seriously affected.
D. Lessons Learned
19. Together with other countries in the region, Algeria was affected by a
major locust plague dusing 1987 and 1988 which led to the treatment of
about 2.2 million hectares. A new cycle of locust invasions was expected
to start in the Maghreb, including Algeria, in the fall of 1988. It was to
last for the following two years if not for over the next eight to ten
years. The. Government requested assistance from the Bank for its locust
control program and for improving its surveillance system. About 3 million
additional ha were to be treated between 1989 and 1990. However, due to
heavy downpours and strong winds, locust activity was minimal, and
treatments were consequently reduced to some 6,000 ha. The energetic and
successful locust control efforts undertaken by the countries affected and
the international community also had a positive impact on locust control.
20.Since locusts did not reappear in 1991, minimal spraying was carried out
that year. Expenditures under the Loan for pesticides and aircraft
services, the two major components of the project, were thus drastically
cut. Although the small technical assistance component was not used,
prevantion and surveillance efforts as well as training of staff were
pursued. Also, and most fortunately, prospection vehicles and
meteorological equipment were purchased as originally planned. As a result
of the locusts slow activity and thus a temporarily calm situation, US$36
million of the US$58 million loan was cancelled as of February 6, 1991.
21. The findings and lessors derived by the Project Completion Report
(No.11849), which was satisfactory, included the following points. During
recession periods, Algeria can keep the locust situation under control with
the means it currently has at its disposal. If, however, the country were
to be invaded by a serious locust plague in the future, it would once again
need to have recourse to external financing to cover the high costs of
pesticides and aircraft services. It is clear, however, that to bring
about a lasting and effective control of the locust plague, the prevention
and control capabilities in all affected countries in the region would need
to be reinforced.
E. Government Response and Strateax
22. Fearing disaster, the Government has moved swiftly in order to be ready
should a major outbreek occur. Short of foreign currency, the Algerian
authorities approached the Bank in early August 1993 to secure the
necessary funds. Algeria, which lies far away from the main sources of
locusts from around the Red Sea, has adopted a strategy whereby it
monitors, controls, contains, and destroys invading locust populations as
far possible from its productive areas. It has thus established early
warning posts next to its borders to the South in contact with Libya,
Niger, Mali, and Mauritania.



6
23. Algeria is an active member of the Maghrebian Task Force, which
includes countries from both the Maghreb and the Sahel. During a meeting
in Algiers, on September 27 a,nd 28, 1993 of the ministers of agriculture of
the Maghreb and of the Sahel, Algeria was unanimously selected to represent
the group of countries attending the meeting, and to lia8se with the
international community for financial support. Algeria operates in close
collaboration with Niger, Mali, and Mauritania, sending ground prospection
teams beyond its own borders. Since September 1993. the country has 44 of
the 115 specially equipped trucks from the Bank-financed first locust
project (Ln 3017-AL) deployed in Mali and in Mauritania. As the situation
in the latter country further deteriorated in both October and November,
Algeria redeployed most of its equipment to its southwestern border. The
rains over southern Morocco and Algeria have created additional sources of
infestation.
F. Bank Response and Strategy
24.     In response to the Government's official request for assistance, of
August 5, 1993, the Bank sent a mission to Algeria on August 28, 1993 to
assess the situation, evaluate the country's readiness and needs, and
decide with the Government on possible options. The conclusions of the
highly qualified experts that were part of the mission, together with their
well-trained and highly professional Algerian counterparts, was that the
situation was very serious and that emergency procedures were warranted.
The overall situation is definitely more worrisome than that of 1988-89, an
assessment confirmed through regular contacts with experts in the region
and in Europe. Tho Bank is also liaising, through its operational
divisions and its resident missions, with the countries involved and likely
to be affected by locusts. Should the expected locust invasion of
November-December 1993 not materialize to the full extent anticipated, it
will just be a matter of time before large swarms invade the country with
the potential to inflict catastrophic damage. Nobody is in a position to
predict with great accuracy which scenario will take place. The stakes are
so high for Algeria that there is indeed little to no choice left but to
provide the country with the assistance requested.
G. Rationale for Bank Involvement
25.    The seriousness of the forecasted plague, the crippling effect of
inadequate action not just for Algeria but also for the region, and the
need for immediate mobilization of resources to combat the problem amply
justify Bank involvement in the proposed project. Algeria is currently
short on foreign currency to acquire urgently the needed pesticides and
commercial aircraft services. Other donors have provided some limited
assistance mainly to Mauritania and are focusing their attention on the
Sahelian countries. It is therefore most unlikely that Algeria will get
any support from the international community at large, with the exception
of from the Bank. The latter is indeed helping Algeria through
readjustment loans as well as free- standing projects in infrastructure and
in the agricultural sector. Inaction on the part of the Bank would
therefore seriously compromise the country's long awaited recovery and put
further into jeopardy the institution's already problem-riddled portfolio.



7
II, DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
A. Backgzogn
26.   The project is designed to provide urgent assistance in support of
Algeria's national locust control program. Within an eighteen-month time
span, the project would also further reinforce the existing surveillance
and warning system, enabling the country to better predict locust activity
and movements, thus facilitating planning and implementation of future
control programs in situations of plague and of recession. The early
warning activities financed under the project would also benefit the other
countries in the region. The project would essentially consist of disaster
prevention rather than disaster relief and having to deal with an existing
emergency situation.
27.   The project would provide the necessary funds for pesticides, rental
of commercial aircraft espscially designed for the spraying of pesticides,
equipment, vehicles, consultants and training. The project's total cost is
estimated at about US$51 million equivalent, with a foreign exchange
component of US$30 million (591). The cost of pesticides (US$12.5 million)
and of the rental of commercial aircraft services (US$12.2 million) alone
amounts to about 80 percent of the foreign exchange needed, whereas
vehicles and equipment account for only 12 percent. Detail cost tables are
in note 1.
B. Pesticides.
28.     It is estimated that should the anticipated late autumn
(November/December 1993) locust invasion materialize, the country will rely
on the about 800,000 liters of pesticides left over from the first Bank-
financed locust project. The pesticides remaining of those purchased in
1989/90 have a normal potency of up to 6 years. Laboratory analysis of the
several pesticide samples sent in August 1993 to Marseille, France
(analyzed by the French National Laboratory for Fraud Detection) show a
loss of potency of less than 5 percent. The types and quantities of
pesticides currently in INPV's stores are shown in Table 1 below.
Table 1 : Nature and quantities of insecticides in stock
Products            Quantity in      Quantity in        Potential
m.a.           liters          Hectarage
MalathLon 95X ULV                  950 g/l           327,000      327,000 ha.
Malathion 50% CE                   500 g/l            52,000       26,000 ha.
Malathion 201 CE                   200 g/l            17,000        3,400 ha.
Fenitrothion 1000 ULV            1,000 g/l            63,000     126,000 ha.
DDVP (dichlorvos)                  300 g/l           190,000     285,000 ha.



8
29.   The above pesticides are among these for locust control that meet the
present standards of FAO/WHO, and are approved by the Bank (see FAO 1992
list of ULV pesticides for desert locust control in Note 1). Algeria has a
remaining stock of some 20,000 liters or 100 drums of Sevin oil 4
(carbaryl), no longer on the FAO list, and which the authorities do not
intend to use. The carbaryl cannot be reformulated for any other use in
agricultural as it is in the Ultra Low Volume (ULV) form. Rhone Poulenc
Agrochimie, the former supplier, has been approached by GOA to provide
advice on and possibly financial compensation for the disposal of the
latter pesticide. Regarding storage, the project will finance the repair
and maintenance of existing stores. Door locks need to be installed at
some sites. Also, necessary works will be undertaken on all stores to
ensure proper ventilation.
30.   The project would finance three locust control campaigns during the
period February/March 1994 to January 1995, using some 1.5 million liters
of pesticides, at a cost of about US$13 million. The pesticides will be
purchased in tranches so as to keep storage problems manageable. Also the
project will explore the possibility of having pesticides transferred into
smaller containers (25 liters) for easier handling. Pesticides which are
available from only a limited number of suppliers will be procured under
both LIB (the initial tranche equivalent to some US$5 million), and under
ICB for the balance of about US$8 million.
C. Commercial Aircraft Sevicegs
31.     As temperatures raise In the spring, the locusts will bacome
increasingly active prior to congregating into huge numbers and flying away
in large awarms. Speed thus becomes essential and requires the use of
specially equipped aircraft. The project will therefore finance the rental
of both specially equipped helicopters, and of aircraft used for low
altitude spraying. The funding for rental of commercial aircraft will
amount to about US$12.6 million for which there exists a relatively high
number of contractors mainly in neighboring Spain, France, and Italy where
the aerial spraying of crops is rather common.
D. Vehicles and Eauioment
32.     The project will provide for the acquisition of additional
vehicles. GOA using counterpart funds, intends to buy some 8 trucks from a
local manufacturer. The loan will provide the necessary foreign currency
for the purchase of 50 four-wheel drive vehicles together with the
corresponding spare parts including for the trucks purchased under the
first locust project. The above light vehicles will be used by the
prospecting units as well as for collecting data on a regular basis from
distant automatic meteorological stations. Three forklifts will be
procured for the loading and unloading of pesticide drums. Some US$3.4
million have been earmarked for the purpose of vehicles and spare parts
under Bank financing. Equipment includes some 100 atomizers pumps and 80
manual pumps with spare parts, limited laboratory equipment for pesticide
analysis, 10 handheld global positioning systems, and portable radio
transmitters for the prospecting teams.



9
E. TIaining and Short-term Consultancy
33.     Operators will undergo regular refresher courses prior to each
desert locust control campaign. They will in particular review prospecting
methods, pesticide handling, phytopharmacy principles, and pesticide- -
related environmental protection. Each session will last about three days.
Transportation costs and per diem will be paid to the trainees by the
Government.
34.   The hiring of short-term consultants will be provide by the project
at an estimated cost of about US$60,000. The total funding for training,
short-term consultancies, and the provision of materials will amount to
some US$150,000. The consultants (2) with expertise in the handling,
application, storage, and disposal of pesticides and pesticide containers,
and in the preservation of the environment will each be hired for some four
weeks possibly in two stays. The consultants advice will also be sought in
the spraying process both on the ground and from the air. In that respect
it is estimated that sizable savings of pesticides can be made by better
adjusting the equipment (especially the nozzles) as well as by adopting
better aerial sprayinx, cechniques including having aircraft cover wider
stripes of land at each passage, and taking advantage of wind drifting.
III. INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS AND PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. The Le2al Context
35.     Algeria has a whole host of laws and decrees aimed at allowing the
Government to take urgent action should an outbreak of desert locusts
occur. Locust invasions are classified as one of fourteen natural
disasters likely to heat the country. In light of the current uncertainty
as to which scenario will unfold, and whereas locust populations are
breeding on a large scale in neighboring Mauritania, GOA has since August
1993, reactivated the Interministerial Locust Control Committee (CIIA) and
various crisis groups at the field level. The CILA was created on August
31, 1967 and includes the ministries for Defense, Transportation, Foreign
Affairs, Interior, Agriculture, Finance and Planning, Industry and Energy,
and Telecommunications.
36.    Locust control is the responsibility of the National Institute for
Plant Protection (INPV) in the Ministry of Agriculture. In times of minor
upsurges, locusts are controlled by the Locust Control Unit within INPV.
The monitoring and control function in recession periods is linked to plant
protection services provided on a permanent basis. Government strategy
which has been set and refined since the first project is to mobilize the
necessary resources, both human and material, from existing sources so as
not to create a permanent structure to deal with unpredictable events.
37. The same institutional arrangements that were established in 1988/89
will be maintained during the proposed project. At the central level, the
CILA will be the principal policy making body for locust control
operations. Its mandate will be to define locust prevention and control



10
strategy, to monitor implementation of the operational plans adopted, and
to coordinate locust control activities at the ministerial level. In the
immediate future, CILA will need to ascertain that all five ministries have
signed the interministerial order required to officially launch the 1994
locust control campaigns.
38.   The Central Command Post (PCC), the executing body of the CILA, has
been reactivated as well and will continue to manage locust ontrol
campaigns during plague situations. Its Director reports directly-to the
Minister of Agriculture and to the CILA. The PCC will continue to play a
key coordinating role by disseminating control strategies and operational
plans to the provinces, by providing information to the regional commission
and to neighboring countries, and by liaising with regional organizations,
with the FAO providing coordination at the international level. Three
operational units within PCC provide: (i) technical support through the
provision of technical assistance to the provinces when necessary; (ii)
logistical support through management of the central resource base
(pesticides, commercial aircraft services, vehicles and equipment); and
(iii) management and financial support. Once reactivated, the PCC is
staffed with INPV personnel that are temporarily assigned to the locust
control effort.
39.   Both INPV and PCC will continue to work closely with the National
Meteorological Services which releases important information for the
tracking and predicting of locust activity. INPV/PCC will also liaise
with: (a) the National Agency for the Protection of the Environment (ANPE)
which monitors industrial pollution including the use of pesticides; and
(b) the National Agency for the Conservation of Nature (ANN) which is
responsible for the national parks as well as for the preservation of the
country's assets of natural resources. The Ministry of Health will be
another important partner, particularly by ensuring that the operators
handling pesticides are adequately protected and treated should any misuse
of chemicals occur.
40.   At the Wila    level, and for those wilayate concerned there is a
Wilaya Command Post (PCW), whose president is the Wali (governor).
Depending on the severity of the locust situation, a technical unit will be
created within the PCW, headed by the local chief of the Division for the
Department of Hydraulics and Agriculture. The PCW, through its technical
unit, implements wilaya level operational plans, and is mandated to
mobilize all the necessary resources. An elaborate communication system
keeps the PCC in constant radio contact with the PCWs as well as with the
mobile prospecting units in the field.



11
B. Environmental Aspects
41.     As a result of the potential widespread use of pesticides, the
project features several important safeguard measures. These include: (i)
restricting pesticides to those approved by the Bank from among the list of
pesticides for locust control that meet the present standards of FAO/WHO;
(ii) providing the pesticide operators with protective clothing and
equipment including health kits, and ensuring that they will be adequately
qualified and trained to handle pesticides; (iii) giving the areas
populations sufficient advance warning prior to any treatments taking
place; (iv) ensuring that the labelling, packaging and storage of pesticide
containers and the disposal of pesticides and of pesticide containers will
take place in accordance with practices acceptable under the standards of
FAO; and (v) ensuring suitable pesticides effluent disposal mechanisms will
be made available to prevent environmental pollution and pesticide leakages
to ground water including leakages resulting from the rinsing of pesticide
containers.
42.   In addition to the above measures, INPV/PCC have prepared detailed
maps showing all national parks, waterways, lakes, dams and open water
reservoirs. Should large-scale spraying of pesticides be considered, all
sensitive areas will be avoided to the greatest extent possible. In this
respect, the project will make every effort to keep some of the main local
and international NGOs informed of the project strategy, progress, and
measures to safeguard the environment. The first of a series of regular
meetings between GOA snd six local NGOs was held in Algiers, November 20,
1993.
43. As mentioned in para. 34, short-term experts will be consulted on the
safe storing, handling, and disposal of pesticides, pesticide effluent and
pesticide containers. Most importantly the country has a laboratory of
toxicology at the university hospital of Bab-el-Oued that analyses the
harmful substances to humans and to animal, contained in pesticides. This
is most useful in ensuring the proper treatment of operators in cases of
pesticide poisoning. It is noteworthy to mention that the Algerian
Government is taking very seriously its obligation to preserve the
environment and the health of its population. In this respect, the country
has signed most of the resolutions and protocols produced since the
Barcelona Convention in 1975, and the status of the environment has become
a top priority.
C. Procurement
44.     Procurement under the project would be in accordance with Bank
guidelines. Except as indicated below, goods would be procured through
International Competitive Bidding (ICB). These would include the
procurement of pesticides, vehicles, and telecommunication, meteorological
and other miscellaneous equipment. The pesticides required for
February/March 1994 and the rental aircraft services would be procured
through Limited International Bidding (LIB), which is justified by the fact
that there are only a limited number of suppliers of the particular goods



12
or services needed. To the extent feasible, contracts for the supply of
goods would be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
US$1 million equivalent or more.  Firms which submit for pesticide supply
under the project would be required to certify that the pesticides are
formulated in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank. These
guidelines, contained in 'Formulation of Pesticides in Developing
Countries* published by UNIDO, would apply to all suppliers.
45.   Items or groups of items for vehicles and equipment estimated to cost
the equivalent of US$100,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to US$500,000, will be procured through International
Shopping (IS) on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from
at least three suppliers, from at least two different countries eligible
under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
D. Disbausments
46.    Given the emergency nature of the project, the implementation phase
would be 18 months, and the Bank loan would be disbursed over 24 months.
The additional six months have been provided to allow for the completion of
disbursements.
47.  The proposed Bank loan of US$30 million equivalent would be disbursed
against the categories and at rates stated below:
(1) Pesticides          100l   of foreign expenditures
100- of local expenditures(ex-factory cost)
501 of local expenditures for other items
procured locally
(2) Commercial          1001 of foreign expenditures and
aircraft            70X of local expenditures
services
(3) Vehicles and        1001 of foreign expenditures
spare parts
(4) Equipment           1001 of foreign expenditures,
and materials       100l   of local expend. (ex-factory cost) and
601 of local expenditures for other items
procured locally
(5) Consultants
services and
training            100l
48. Full documentation would be submitted to the Bank in support of
withdrawal applications with respect to pesticides, commercial aircraft
services, vehicles, equipment and consultants fees for contracts in excess
of US$100,000 equivalent. Expenditures for these categories at or



13
below US$100,000 equivalere woulr be reimbursed against Statements of
Expenditure (SOEs), for which the related documentation would be retained
for review by the Bank supervision missions.
E. Sgecial AcgCoun
49.    In order to facilitate rapid disbursements, the Government will
establish a Special Account at the Bank of Algeria (BOA), the central bank
of the borrower, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the World Bank.
An initial deposit of US$3 million would be made into the Special Account
which would be maintained as a separate identifiable account for the
project's expenditures.  Operation of the special account will follow World
Bank procedures.
F. Accounts an Audits
50.     BOA is designated representatives of the Borrower for withdrawing
the proceeds of the Bank loan. BOA would keep separate accounts for
project expenditures in accordance with accounting principles and practices
acceptable to the Bank. The special account would be audited annually by
auditors acceptable to the Bank.  The audit reports wovd be sent to the
Bank no later than nine months after the end of the fiscal year.
G. Sugervision Plan
51.     Project supervision would be the responsibility of the Task
Manager. He would be assisted by various specialists including a
procurement and disbursement specialist, an environmental specialist and a
pesticides specialist during one or the other missions. In all, some four
supervision missions have been planned between project inception and June
1995 when the project is complete. About 8 staff weeks will be required
for the project launch with a total of 24 staff weeks for 1994 and 10 staff
weeks for 1995. A detail chronogramme of actions, interventions, and of
proposed supervision missions is in chart 1.
H. Monitoring and Evaluation
52.     INPV will be responsible for monitoring the progress of project
implementation. This will require that well-defined key indicators be
determined from the onset. INPV/PCC would elaborate a status report
describing physical and financial implementation under the project.
Evaluation would be carried out toward the end of the project with CIIA
representatives.
I. Reporting and Completion Report
53.    INPV will prepare bi-annual progress reports that will be sent to
the Bank no later than two months after each semester. The lay-out of the
progress reports will be established together with the Task Manager during
the first supervision mission. A key element of the progress reports would
be updated forecasts of control requirements for the following campaign.



14
The reports would also address the status of environmental actions related
to pesticide use under the project. Finally, INPV will prepare and send to
the Bank, a Project Completion Report within the six months following the
end of the project.
AGREEMENTS REAHBED
54. During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government on the
following points:
(a) pesticides to be used during the locust control campaigns will
be restricted to those approved by the Bank from among the list
of pesticides for locust control that meet the present
standards of FAO/WHO;
(b) pesticide operators will be provided with protective clothing
and equipment including health kits, and will be adequately
qualified and trained to handle pesticides;
(C) the areas' populations will be given sufficient advance notice
prior to any treatments taking place;
(d) the labelling, packaging and storage of pesticide containers
will take place in accordance with practices acceptable under
the standards of FAO;
(a) suitable pesticides effluent disposal mechanisms will be made
available to prevent environmental pollution and pesticide
leakages resulting from the rinsing of pesticide containers;
(f) all goods will be procured according to Bank guidelines;
(g) a special account will be opened with the Central Bank of
Algeria; and
(h) the project accounts will be audited each year by auditors
acceptable to the Bank.



DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
EMERGENCY DESERT LOCUST CONTROL PROJECT
Environmental Analysis
OVERVIEW
1.          The project is classified in Bank category B, which does not
require a full environmental assessment or EA. The appraisal mission,
which was in the field from August 28 to September 13, 1993, carried out a
limited environmental analysis and was satisfied that the use of pesticides
in locust control programs by the Government of Algeria (GOA) reflects a
sound basic knowledge and understanding of safety, health, and
environmental considerations. At the present time and for the foreseeable
future, Algeria's locust infestation will be at the outbreak stage, and
chemical control is the only effective means of dealing with the locust
problem at this level. Other control methods (biological, for example)
would be envisaged should they become available. Under the proposed
project, the safe use of chemical control measures would be enhanced by
improving locust survey methods (para. 20). Locusts crossing into Algeria
from West Africa and the Sahara would be treated in isolated regions before
reaching areas of human population.
2.          Based on its experience with the first Bank-financed Locust
Control Project (Loan 3017-AL, FY89), GOA would continue to observe
appropriate safeguard measures to minimize any potential negative impact on
humans and the environment. These measures would include: (i) using only
those pesticides that are environmentally acceptable to FAO/WHO; (ii)
assuring adequate protection and training of pesticide operators; (iii)
appropriate storage of pesticides and disposal of pesticide containers; and
(iv) appropriate disposal of effluents and pesticide washings. These
aspects are discussed below.
INSTI,TUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
3.          As was the case previously in Desert Locust Control Project
(Loan 3017-AL, the Algerian Ministry of Agriculture's Plant Protection
Institute (INPV) would have overall responsibility for the project. This
agency would collaborate closely with the central command post (PCC) and
the field posts in the wilayate (PCWs) created in 1988 to manage locust
operations during plague situations. Other agencies associated with the
project would be the National Meteorological Services (ONM), the National
Agency for the Protection of the Environment (ANPE), and the National
Agency for the Protection of Nature (ANN).
PROJECT INVESTMENTS
4.          With the means acquired under the previous project, GOA has the
capability to control a first small-scale locust invasion expected up to
the end of 1993. In order to combat much larger waves of locusts expected
in February-March 1994 and from October to January 1995, Algeria will need
pesticides and rental aircraft services (90 of the proposed Loan



- 16 -
amount) to cover an estimated area of about 1.5 million ha. In addition,
equipment and vehicles would be purchased to strengthen Algeria's locust
control, prospection, surveillance, and warning system. Short-term
consultants would be provided in pesticide handling and application and
storage and disposal of pesticides and pesticide containers. In addition,
technicians would be trained in the areas of locust prospection,
phytopharmacy, spray applications, and diagnosis and treatment of poisoning
cases.
£$TICIDES
5.          Algeria currently has a stock of about 717,000 liters of
pesticides remaining from the last control campaigns, an amount GOA
considers sufficient to deal with a first invasion expected in 1993. These
chemicals have the potential to treat about 650,000 ha. Given that these
products were purchased in 1988/89, analyses have been carried out which
show a loss in their effectiveness of less than 5 percent. These products
are stored in 10 wilayate located in the areas likely to be affected by
locusts. The pesticides are all on the FAO/WHO approved list of pesticides
for desert locust control.
6.          Imgorts.  To deal with three locust campaigns, about 1,500,000
liters of pesticides are to be imported between December 1993 and July
1994. Pesticides would be procured in three separate tranches. This would
avoid the problem of having to dispose of large stocks of surplus and
obsolete pesticides. Also, unused pesticides would be returned to the
original manufacturer for their reformulation and/or disposal. The
pesticides which GOA intends to purchase would be from the same families as
those which were used during the previous campaigns. Agreement was reached
during negotiations that only those products that are approved for use in
locust control operations by the FAO/WHO will be used in Algeria.
7.           Legislation.  Algeria has detailed legislation concerning the
use of toxic chemicals. Approval by a committee of toxicologists from the
national toxicology laboratory at the university hospital of Bab-El-Oued is
also required prior to the introduction of any new pesticide. The Action
Plan for the Protection of Man and the Environment prepared in 1989 (para.
9) would continue to be enforced during the proposed project.
8.          aplications.  Approximately 902 of the locust control program
will require aerial spraying since speed will be a major factor if the
locust are to be successfully destroyed prior to their becoming active and
forming highly mobile swarms.
MIROMNTAL ACIO_N PLAN
9.          Under the previous project, and in anticipation of a major
locust invasion that was expected to affect some 3 million ha, an
environmental action plan was implemented during the first campaign by the
INPV and the ministries and agencies concerned. The plan set out the
criteria for the selection of locust insecticides which were, inter alia:



- 17 -
FAO approval, rapid contact action, specificity toward this type of insect,
low doses applied per ha, and short persistence resulting in rapid
degradation on sprayed areas. Products deemed to have greater
environmental impact were restricted to the desert zones of the Sahelian
plateau. Moreover, dichlorvos was banned in the vicinity of food crops as
it was unsuitable for crop applications.  In collaboration with the
National Agency for the Protection of the Environment (ANPE), national and
regional maps of ecologically sensitive regions (i.e., national parks,
nature reserves, dams, rivers) were prepared by the regional command posts
(PCW) to ensure that the impact from spraying would be as limited to the
fullest extent possible.
10.         Between 1988 to 1990, the period covered by the previous
project, locust activity was well below expectations due to the successful
control efforts undertaken in the region and also owing to exceptional
ecological and meteorological factors. Pesticide spraying was minimal at
the time and the INPV/PCC continued to comply with the environmental
safeguards contained in the Action Plan. They used the respite to refine
the control strategy and techniques applied in earlier campaigns, to train
and educate personnel involved in locust operations, and to test the newly
acquired equipment, including meteorological equipment and prospection and
treatment vehicles. The reinforcement of the meteorological network in the
south which was insufficiently covered in earlier campaigns was an
important contribution of the project.
11.         As part of the Action Plan, a national program was established
to monitor the health and exposure levels of pesticide operators who
participated in the locust control campaigns. Acetylcholinesterase testing
was routinely performed for worker exposure monitoring. INPV also provided
protective clothing and equipment for locust control personnel, however,
protective gear was often in short supply. Three missions were organized
in different test zones between December 1988 and May 1989 which showed
that those pesticides used during the 1987/88 campaign had no lasting
adverse impact on humans and the environment. The May 1989 mission visited
pesticide stores and handling depots and was generally satisfied with the
storage conditions and handling of pesticides and with the procedures for
disposal of pesticide wastes.
12.         Under the proposed project, the environmental action plan would
apply with some improvements in the areas of health monitoring, testing for
pesticide residues, training, and in the storage and disposal of pesticide
wastes and pesticide containers (paras. 13-17). Criteria for the use of
pesticides by the wilayate (PCWs) would be based on the toxicity and the
way in which certain types of pesticides are used, the degree of
sensitivity of the sites concerned (specified on maps), and the location
and biological stage of the locust populations.
HAZARD TO POPULATIONS AND PESTICIDE OPERATORS.
13.            The insecticides being used to combat locusts in Algeria
have been judged acceptable from a human toxicology standpoint. The group



- 18 -
at the highest risk are the insecticide handlers. Emphasis will be placed
on training the operators in pesticide formulation and pesticide
application techniques. INPV will also provide additional and sufficient
protective clothing, equipment and health kits to pesticide operators.
14.         The national health program (para. 11) will be pursued.
Additional laboratory equipment will be purchased to closely monitor the
workers' health with high exposure risks. The operators of locust control
equipment and the regional medical personnel involved will continue to -
receive training on safety precautions in the handling of insecticides, and
emergency measures to be adopted in case of poisoning.
15.         The Ministry of Health will play an active role in the locust
control program. It will develop appropriate safety measures for the
general public in treated areas to minimize insecticide exposure; inform
provincial medical authorities concerning medical interventions to be
applied in the event of intoxication; and coordinate the locust control.
campaign efforts linked to occupational health of the workers handling
pesticides, including prevention, detection and treatment of poisoning
cases. Prior to pesticide treatments taking place, the areas' populations
will receive sufficient advance notice.
STORAGE AND DISPOSAL OF USED PESTICIDE DRUMS
16.         The management of insecticide drums, the disposal of used
containers and of effluents and washings resulting from rinsing of
equipment, would follow international norms. During field visits in
September 1993 of pesticide storage depots and locust operations sites, the
environmental expert, although generally satisfied with safety precautions
being implemented, recommended minor improvements to facilities, including
ventilation, installation of doors with keys to keep the areas secure. The
expert also noted that insecticide drums are difficult to handle due to
their heavy weight. Therefore, facilities will be upgraded and any new
order of pesticides would require that the capacity of the containers be
limited to a maximum of 25 liters. Given the large quantities of
pesticides which are expected to be used in the locust campaigns, short-
term technical assistance would be provided to advise on the disposal of
used drums and effluents. The possibility of acquiring mobile
installations for their destruction will also be explored.
OUTDATED PESTICIDES
17.         The pesticides remaining from the last campaigns (about 650,000
liters equivalent) would be used in slightly higher quantities to make up
for the loss of active ingredient (less than 101 according to the results
of the analyses (para. 5)). The stock of obsolete carbaryl will be
returned to ASKIDAL. In the future, experts would be consulted as needed
for the appropriate disposal of obsolete pesticides.



- 19 *
ENVIRONMRNTAL MONITORING
18.         Under the proposed project, additional laboratory equipment
would be purchased and training provided for more systematic analysis of
pesticide residues in the soil, vegetation and water.
19.         In conjunction with INPV, ANPE would provide a status report at
the end of each control campaign on environmental aspects related to
pesticide use under the proposed project. The preparation of the report
would benefit from the results of the program which will be implemented to
monitor the effects of pesticides (pre- and post- applicaticn) on selected
areas.- A Bank environmental specialist/consultant would participate in
supervision missions to monitor compliance with environmental safeguards
included in the project.
GO2QL ,S EGY
20.         Under the project, the country's surveillance and control
capabilities will be enhanced through the acquisition of additional
equipment including ground to air radios, global positioning systems (GPS),
maps, prospection vehicles. In conjunction with the meteorological network
to be strengthened under the project, this will help in the rapid
pinpointing of targets, so as to coutrol the locusts at the earliest
possible stage, and reduce the impact of pesticide treatments on humans and
the environment. Recognizing the complementary nature of the breeding
areas, close contacts are being maintained with all affected countries in
the region. Finally, both local and internrtional NGOs will be kept
informed through regular meetings.



20
ENVIRONMENTAL DATA SEEST FOR PROJECTS              NOT& 2
IN THE XBRD/IDA LENDING PROGRAM                 Page 1 of 1
Country            :Algeria                              Project ID No:
Project            :Zmergency Desert Locust Control
Appraisal Date      tSeptember 1993                      Total Project Cost:$52 m.  Board
Date                :December 7, 1993 (expected)
Managing Division  :NN1AG                                Sectors:  Agriculture a Rural Devt
Leading Instrument :ST                                  Status:
Date (set.) for receipt of EA by Bank:
EA Category in ENVISSB          ,                        EA Category in MIS:
PA Category to be assigned: A        C (circle one)i date assigneds 9/93
Major Project components:
-Carrying out of locust control campaigns
-technical assistance and training
-improving amitoring and dissemination network
Maj,jr:Znvironmental Issues: (identified or suspected in project)
-the use of pesticides over up to 1.5 million ha.
-handling and storage of pesticides
-disposal of left-over chemicals and of containers
-health of operators.
Other Environmental Xisues: (of lesser scope associated with project)
-health of populations
Proposed actions: (to mitigate issues described above)
As described in the environmental analysis, only those pesticides acceptable to FAO and
the Bank will be used. A committee of toxicologists would screen any new pesticides prior
to their introduction. Pesticides would be delivered in tranches to avoid storage
problems and any pesticides remaining would be returned to the manufacturer. Maps of
ecologically sensitive zones have been prepared and sent to all the wilayate. National
parks would not be treated to the extent possible. To avoid handling of very heavy
insecticide drums, any new order of pesticides would limit the size of the containers to
25 liters.  Technical assistance would be provided to train local engineers in appropriate
techniques, notably safe and effective storage, handling, and application of pesticides;
specialists would advise on disposal of unused pesticides and of containers; health of
operators would be regularly monitored by para-medics. Pesticide operators would be
provided with sufficient protective clothing, equipment and health kits. The acquisition
of GIS systems will help pinpoint targets and control the problem at an early stage.
The insecticides being used against locusts in Algeria have been judged acceptable from a
human toxicology standpoint. However, advance warning would be given to populations prior
to treatments.
Justification/Rationale for Environmental Category: (presents reasons for
environ=ental category selected and explanation of any changes from initial
classification)
Mal= decided on a rating of "al and that a more limited environmental analysis was
appropriate, given that the project may have specific environmental impacts.
Status of Category A EnvironZmntal Assessment: (presents EA start-up date,
VA first draft, and current status)
Remarks: (gives status of any other environmental studies, lists local groups
and local NGOs consulted, tells whetber borrower has given
permission to realease EA, etc.)
Signed by: T. Sinha,    Acting Division Chief
Qperatl    ivion Chief
Signed by: _
Regional tvironment Division Chief



NOTE 3
Page 1 of 2
58  THa DRERT LOCuSr GUWNAS
APPENDIX 2. ULV pesticidos feor Dosort Lo¢ust control
In ommon use for Deet Locust oonfroL
OI&keo name:              sdes               re         *aS
:Zwtommended dose        . 1008g8JA
larnufactucr:            CAMO
Vrndi ama:               Ficam
VLVfornmotion:           ULV 20% (200 gi)    Jc.I    0.5 Mla
- --- - O. ,  ~   -        -      --  W--. - -.ff -Ma.f~W.       
Chemk 4 % name.                              Type     organophosphate
Recommendeddose:         225-240 g a.Jha
warnufacStlrer           Dow Chemicals
Dnmd hame:               Durbsan, Lorsban
U-LYforuiation           240 ULV (240 uA)    Rede.    1.0 Lh*
450 ULV (450 gi)             0.6 t4a
Ciwenmkal name:         dAam fZtn            Type:    synthetic ,yrothro1d
ne.ommendcd dosed        15.0 c &iha
ManUf/e4 Urer:           l oissel UCLAF
Br0sd uame:              DecIs
tjLvformutafion          ULV 12.5 (12.5 i)    Rate:    1.2 1/ha
ULV 25 (25 gil)              0.6 liba
chaem.sca nare:          Aiazi               1pe      orEanophosphat.
Recommanded dose:        450-500g aiha (1)
Manufacturer:            Ciba "Simy
Drand name:              Basudin, Diazinon
ULVformuwa*ion           90 SCO (980 an)    i.te.    0.5 i/a (swarms only)
Manufaturor:             Nippon Kayaku
Brand name:              Dianon, Dia4non
LVformuziaonw            90% (w / VoL) g9o gJj  Rate:  0. noha (swarm nlly)
_ - - - _ - - - _- _   _- _- - --__ __ ___ _-   - _      -
Chemica1 h4me:           £a i.ibn *,Pe.,    oraophosphAt.
eccommended dose         400-500 g aAAia
Manufacturer:            Sumitomo
Brandname:               Sumithion
ULVforrnuaatlom          L5 (500 gI)        RWae:    1.0 1Ia
J.1100 (1000 an)             O.51/ha
98% (w /w) technical         0.4 Asa
3-20(200g)                   2.8 1ha
(1) rato may someumes be too low for reliable sifecUve onl FA.ostlrtd U,o£oree Group, 19).



NOTE 3
Page 2 of 2
22
Z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Y .                         ON.A  . ._
_- __ __   __-     _      - -  -        __   - -          ___   _  
Chemnia sMnOMe:       fth±rtwb ia:    oripnopho.phbate
s                 sayntJptle pyroid
MvommenAd dose:         24S + 6 g &Ja
M               ; t;u~~~&mftomo
nBna mlSumzcombt'.
?JLVbrIPYW'J.Iorn  mu65 (2600             AMW       1.0LO4a
1,50(6000)                  0.65 ha
-   - - - a   - a  ~~-  --011------ da  ~fMf. .* .          ..
Chemeal name:                    =p                 synathetic pyethrod
fleoommended ooss 20 a &Aja
Aannfaotairer.         lot
Brand nons":            IaratP
LZVfonnatlon           0.8 ULV (8 &I)     JIW.    2.G Vha
4.0 ULV (40 gil)            0.61/hit (hppes)
CAemtck wuw 7e. a2pe                               or    opi
Recommended dese:      SiOQ  aAiha
Ma*ntu4clure            Aznerica Cyanamid
Arand name:            Malathion
Wfor.nulaton:          96% (w Vol.) (900 VI) Rae':   0.94.0 Uha
Mon uf#turer:           Cheminova
Brund nOme:             Fytanov
lLYformulaSotn         96%(w/w)(1180gf
ULV techncal      late.   0aTh 3ha
Manusic*rirer:         Chenminova
Brand name:             vytanon
VLvfornnaaorn           ULtIEC(926gi)    RoSe:    S.OUlha
ULV /BC (OOO g)             0.9 V/ha
Chemcol name:          v     +! pc:    organophosphat. 4
Recommended dose:       268 . 42 g alAh
Manfoesrtwen           Bayer
Brand name:             Volaton-Unden
VLvfoinuwaitSor        UL 80o(300 g/)      alt      1.0 1ha
UL 900(900 gl)              0.3 LWaU



Table 1
23
ALGERIA
ENERGENCY DESERT LOCtST CONTROL PR(pJECT
PROJECT COST PURmlY
........ ............... ...... ........... ........ .............. ...............................
Base Costs                        Bank Financing
1994     1995       Total        Total Amount   Percent
----- (DA '000) . .(US$ 00)..
COMPONENT A. DESERT LOCUST CONTROL
1.   INVESTNENT COSTS                                    654,920       460    655,380       28,495   24,725         87
11.  RECURRENT COSTS                                     109,422   5S,211    164,633         7,158        87         1
,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,................................................... ................. ........................   
Sub-Total COMPONENT A                                    764.342   55,671    820,013         35,653   24,812        70
COMPONENT B. STRENGTHENING LOCUST CONTROL CAPACITY
I.   INVESTNENT COSTS                                     69,279         0     69.279        3,012    1,725         57
It.  RECURRENT COSTS                                       4,000    3.000        7,000          304        0         0
......... ................. ..........   .............. ..... ......... .. .... .....  
Sub-Total COMPONENT B                                     73,27      3.000      76.279        3,316    1,725        52
COMPONENT C. STRENGTHENING SURVEILLANCE AND WARNING SYSTEN
1.  INVESTMENT COSTS                                      51,483         0      51,483       2,238    2,087         93
11.  RECURRENT COSTS                                      29,000   12.000       41,000        1,783        0         0
. .... ....... ........... ................  ................................. ....................
Sub-Total CONMONENT C                                     80.483   12,000       92.483        4,021    2,087        52
,...... .................................... ................   .................................  ...
Total BASELINE COSTS                                            918,103   70.671    988,774        42,990   28,624         67
Physicat Contingencies                                           34,59Z   17,296      51,888        2,256    1,376         61
Total PROJECT COSTS                                           1,052,695  125.089  1,177,784        51.208   30,000         59
Taxes                                                   100.000   37.122    137.122          5,962        0         0
11/24/93
N:\mseltati%locust\cost.wk1



Table 2
24
ALGERIA
EMERGENCY DESERT LOCUST CONTROL PROJECT
COMPONENT A. DESERT LOCUST CONTROL
._    *_....... _..  __.......__.. .._. .. ..... .... . . .... .... ... .. .... ..........
Base Costs                      Bank Financing
Unit   Quantity Unit Cost         1994     1995      Total       Total Amount  Percent
.----   --------- --------   --------- (OA '000) ----------   -.........(USS '000) -----
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Pesticides
1. twport                '000 t      1,500   192.00       288,000        0    288,000       12,522   12,522      100
2. Local Purchase        '000 1        300   192.00        57,600        0     57,600       2,504         0        0
3. Transport             DAJl        1,500     8.30        12,450        0      12,450         541        0        0
4. Storage               PA/l        1,500     1.30         1,950        0       1,950          85        0        0
B. Aircraft Services       DA/l        1,400   210.00       294,000        0    294,000       12,783   12,143       95
C. Consultancifs                                                920      460       1,380          60       60      100
Total INESTMENT COSTS                                       654,920      460    655,380       28,495   24,725       87
11. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Personnel               Person        500  325.27        108,422   54,211    162,633        7,071        0        0
B. Training                                                   1.000    1,000      2,000          87        87      100
.. ......... .......   ..........................  ---------------------------.........
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                       109,422   55,211    164,633        7,158       87        1
=::=2#3 # =tS:#====#-2U=          Ilu=== g#=u ===         u
Total BASELINE COSTS                                        764,342   55,671    820,013      35,653   24,812        70
11/24/93
W:NmselLati\1ocust\cost.wk1



Table 3
25
ALOERIA
EMERGENCY DESERT LOCUST CONTROL PROJECT
COMPONENT B. STRENGTHENING LOCUST CONTROL CAPACITY
............................. .........................................................
Base Costs                      Sank Financing
Unit  Quantity Unit Cost          1994     1995      Total       Total Amoumt  Percent
------------..--..*-------   ......... (DA '000) -----       .C---  ........ (USS '000) -----
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Vehicles
1. Trucks (10 T)           unit          8  2500.00        20,000        0     20,000         870         0        0
2. Forklifts               unit          3  1600.00         4,800        0      4,800         209       209      100
3. Tanks (2000 l)          unit         10  150.00          1,500        0       1,500         65         0        0
4. Spare Parts              lot        128   145.82        18,665        0      18,665        812       812      100
5. Tires                   unit        440    10.00         4,399        0      4,399          191        0        0
6. Tubes                   unit        570    0.18            102        0         102          4         0        0
7. Batteries               unit        523     1.37           717        0        717          31         0        0
B. Equipment
1. Protective Gears                                           660        0        660          29         0        0
2. Camping Equipment                                        1,314        0      1,314          57         0        0
3. Pouring Equipment                                        1,070        0      1,070          47         7       1S
4. Sprayers f/Trucks       unit        100   60.00          6,000        0      6,000          261      261      100
5. Spare Parts f/Sprayers   Lot        130    15.40         2,002        0      2,002          87        87      100
6. Pesticides Analisys Lab.                                 8,050        0      8,050         350       350      100
Total INVESTRENT COSTS                                       69,279        0    69,2          3,012    1,725        57
I1. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Operating Costs
1. Vehicle Operation                                        3,000    2,000      S,000         217        0         0
2. Insurance                                                1,000    1,000      2,000          87         0        0
Totat RECURRENT COSTS                                         4,000    3,000      7,000         304         0        0
Total BASELINE COSTS                                         73,279    3,000     76,279       3,316    1,725        52
1    e1/2/93
1: \msetl tatiXl\ocustRcost. uk1



Table 4
26
ALGERIA
EMERGENCY DESERt LOCUST CONTROL PROJECT
COWPONENT C. STRENGTHENING SURVEILLANCE AND WARNING SYSTEM
............... ................................  . ..................... .................
Basoe Costs                      Bank financing
Unit   Quantity Un1t Cost          1994     1995       Total       Total  Amount   Percent
.--------------------------   ----        -(DA 0000) ----------  -.---.---(USS 'OO) .....
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Vehicles
1. Light Vehicles (4x4)    unit          50   800.00         40,000        0      40.000       1,739    1,739       100
2. Spare Parts               Lot         50   145.82          7,291         0      7,291         3t7       317      100
3. Tires                    unit        200    10.00          1,999        0       1,999          87         0        0
4. Tutes                    unit        300      0.18            54         0         54           2         0        0
5. Batteries                unIt         50      1.37            69         0         69           3         0        0
B. Equipment
1. Tetecomunication                                             450        0         450          20         0        0
2. Offiee Equipment                                             420        0         420          18         0        0
3. Prospection Equifpmnt                                        700         0        700          30        30      100
4. Naps                                                         S00         0        500          22         0        0
,_.................. ............. 4.. .   .. .. ........ ................  ....
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                         51,483        0      51,483       2.238    2,087        93
11. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Operating Costs
1. Vehicle operation                                          3,000    2,000       5,000         217         0        0
2. Insurance                                                 1t000    1.000        2,000          87         0        0
3. Tetecomunication                                          15,000    5,000      20,000         870         0        0
4. Meteorology                                               10,000    4,000      14,000         609         0        0
......... ....................... .......  ---------------------------......... ............... .....
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                          29,000   12,000      41,000       1,783         0        0
Total BASELINE COSTS                                           80,483   12,000      92,483       4,021    2,087        52
11/24/93
N:\msellati\tocust\cost.wk1



Algeria - Emergency Locust Control Project
Project Implementation Schedule
_                t~~~~~~994                                  t996           
ID   Name                                                                    Stert    Q   J I F I    A I A I J I Jo A_S      I    o*           J F          JAI11  IASI
1   Projet implementation                                                   12t4193
2        Projct Signing                                                     1214193  t
3        Project Effectiveness                                                 SSi
4        Notify NGOs                                                         1116t94
9        Supervison Missions                                                 2t
14       Progress Reports                                                     611/94
18       Audit Reports                                                        311J95                                                       K2
21       Project Completion Report                                           12t96
22       Procurement Campaign I (Pesticide. Aircraft Rental, Equipment, Vehicles)   12114193
23            Prepare Bid Documents                                         12tl4/93
24            Send Bid Documents to Bank                                    12tl4/93
25            Publish Bid Documents                                         12tl4t
26            Establish Committee                                           lV14193
27            Open Bids in Public                                           1V14I93  O                                                                   _
28            Evaluate Bids                                                    18t94
29            Award Bids                                                     ltli
30           Ptepare Contracts                                               ltl9194
31            Sign Contracts                                                 112094
32       Procmemenr- Campaign iI (Pesticide, Aircraft Rental)               12tl4t93
33            Prepare Bid Documents1lV14t93
34            Send Bid Documents to Bank                                    lV14193
3ti           PubUsb Bid EDocufmens                                         12tl4t93 
36            Establish Comminea                                            lV14t93
37            Open Bids in Publiic                                          12J14193  r                                                                                          _
38            Evaluate Bids                                                  4/26/94
39           Award Bids                                                      4/27194
40            Prepare Contracts                                              4130194 _n
41            Sign Contracts                                                  511194 __
Project: Locust - Algeria                                        CAtical                                     Progress                         Summary
Data: 1i/8193                                                               Nonri     tical                 Milestone                        Rdled Up
Page 1



Algeria - Emergency Locust Control Project
Project Implementation Schedule
1994                                        1995
ID   Name                                                                    Start    tJ I r I       A I            A         0 1  0  J I J         A i M I J  I J I A I S  0 o   0 1 
42       Procutement - Campaign IU (Pastkcide)                               12V14/93              -
43            Prepare Bid Documents                                         12V14/93 *
44            Send Bid Documents to Bank                                    12114193
45            Pubish Bid EDocuments                                         12114193 +
46            Establsh Commtdaae                                            12/14193 *
47            Open 8ids in Pubilic                                          12114/93  M Z
48            Evaluate Bids                                                  812894
49            Award Bids                                                     B/29/94
50            Prepare Contracts                                              8130194
51            Sign Contracts                                                 8131/94
52       Consuttancy                                                         1/15194     y:_
53            Ptepare TORs                                                   1/15194      3
54           PublIsh qids                                                    1/19194
55           Analyze Of fers/SelectIon                                       1119194
56            Prepare Contracts                                              1122/94       gm
57       Train Local TechnIcians                                             2126194                 .,V
51       Locust Control Piogram                                              3115S94                ,
62            Campaign 1                                                     3/151/94
63                Notify PopulatIon                                          3115/94 _
64                Deploy Peasonnel/EqulpmentVehiciesPFuel                    3116/94             t
65                Strenghthen monitoring and warning network                 3S15194             U
66                EnvwonmentdA Conservation measures                         4115/94
67            Campaign of                                                     5/2/94 
es                Notify Population                                           6/2/94                   a
69                Deploy Personnel/EqulpmentNehictes/Fuel                     512194
70                Strenghthen monitoring and warning network                  5/2194                   _
71                Environmental Conservation measures                         519/94                    am
72            Campaign 0I                                                     9/3/94                                                                                                     C)
Project: Locust - Algeria                                                   Critical                         Progress                         Summary              ' w 
Date: 1118/93                                                               NonccrItcal                      Mihstone  *                      Rolled Up  O                                _
Page 2



Algeria - Emergency Locust Control Project
Project Implementation Schedule
1994                                         1995
10   Namne                                                                    Start    D  J I f IU  A IU I  Ij IA 1S  0 1             Di   f DA   U I F            A S    0        0.
73                Notify Population                                             913194                                  t
74                Deploy Personnel/EquipmentNVehicles/fuel                      913/94                                  3
75                Strenghthen monitoring and wauning network                    913194                                  5
76                Environmental Conservation measures                          9110194
Proje.et: Locust - Algeria                                                   Critical Pors     uray--wo 
Noncritical                      Milestone  *                      Rolled Up  O                             2
Page 3



ll~~~~~~ t
Plo 1.- Los ptlnclpaux foyers do multiliaton at do grEga.tsaffon du Cdqaet pEIrhi. R6throsetv et votluion pbale - mars 1992- mas 1994.
1    mal-nooenibre 1992            3      ocdobrul1993fi6vior 1094           5    aulomne.hiversl99d
nowembro 1992 .juk 993 
2    Julit 1993 -a~e 1993          4      pfcterps 1994
D'aprbs LAUNOIS M, 9923dJAb   w Qftg C p~ff1 Cmment giver (s sqluesiEs dim kasn 6nv5sie - D.476, CIRAD4ERDAT^PRIRAS: Mo_ eler- 17 P. (l70c mni.,Lt
POXTUML~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I



IBRD 2526CR
M  e d i t erro n e  o            d  a a              i iA
HASL MREK
cpiqpA 40
''. ,'- ''         '                   ,  w :g er-  I
Ailo~~~tie Ocao~~~~  ~~60".~ O04TI..tlSE   Am  IknE
-   el 'nibnnIIt                 k   -,MS  ,e.. Dwll
<=   ~~~OIV. R~                                        4M5W1@  .v.
At/acHe  Ocean                    '%                  5 IbMRb',,
G/
. \ t t s R c! 9 ~~3   1 9 9 A                       il-wd,,
,44~~~~~~~4
._V_p       -    -A~t                           OoorrDb 
to
0'
LU
-~-/'i'iEd  'er                                                 *A
NN
,or,                   N      r                                         "<~~                                  j~<                        )
IN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ %
N. N.  Z                                            TASSE NATL PAN         N
ALGERIA
EMERGENCY DESERT   N.
LOCUST CONTROL PROJECT
DESERT LOCUST FLKGHT PATHS:                             N                                                  P
SEPTEME-OCTOBER 1°93                                     N.
FEBRUARY-MARCH 1994              *    NINM          AIRPORTS    (                                                 t             db nte
BOUNDARIES OFINTERVENTION ZONES                                                                                                - SECONCAfAIRPORTS  A /M.dn TbrJB
'MWAYACOMMAND POSTS                C   SELECTED TOWNS ANDT VILAGES                                                           - 5   d.aeMpM ceA.
0    PESTICIDE STORAGE DEPOTS           9   NATIObL CAPITAL                       I                                                      o-
MOUNTAINOU AREASo                       RIERS AND ITERuBLE STREAMS          .          .dhcooSd
-. . _  WITERNATIONPAL ODARIES 



