Emergenicy Desert Locust Control Project                                                     Page 1 of 9



              Algeria- Emnergency Desert Locust Control Project

l'roject ID: P034140
Credit/l,oan/Guarantee No.: L3690
Borrower: DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPU1BLIC OF ALGERIA
Other Partv:
Effective Date: 07/06/1994
Closing 1)ate: 06/30/1996
Sector: AY - Agriculture/Other-Agriculture
Lending Instrument: SIL - Specific Investment Loan
Plrogram Objective: EN - Environment
E'nvironment Rating: T - To Be Determined
UN Registration No.: 31128
                                         Loan Agreement
                                                                                     CONFORMED      COPY




                                                                                LOAN NUMBER 3690 AL




                                            Loan Agreement




                            (Emergency Desert Locust Control Project)



                                                 between



                           DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA


                                                   and



                               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                                          AND DEVELOPMENT




                                                                 228b852564990066be64/b...     12/27/2005
  lIttp://nweb 2 3.worldbank.org/legal/legalagr.nsf3e9006b5ce4
Emergency Desert Locust Control Project                                                      Page 2 of 9




                                      Dated January 27,     1994
                                                                               LOAN NUMBER 3690 AL
                                           LOAN AGREEMENT

                                                                  REPUBLIC OF
AGREEMENT, dated January 27, 1994, between DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR
ALGERIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
 (the Bank).

                                                                     and priority of
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility
                                                                      the Bank to
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested
assist in the financing of the Project;

                                                              foregoing, to extend
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;


 NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                       ARTICLE I

                                 General Conditions;     Definitions

                                                                        Agreements"
 Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
                                                            set forth below (the
 of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications
 General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:

 (a) The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

                                                                                        (l) and a
 (b) In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-paragraph
 new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

                                                               any further
 "(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which
 withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions of Article
 III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."

                                                                  terms defined in
 Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
 the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
                                                               have the following
 meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
 meanings:

                                                                     of the Borrower
 (a) "ANN" means the National Agency for the Conservation of Nature
 (Agence Nationale de la Conservation de la Nature), a public authority established
                                                              Borrower, dated
 and operating pursuant to Executive Decree No. 91-33 of the
 February 9, 1991, as the same may be amended  from time to time;

                                                                  Environment of the
  (b) "ANPE" means the National Agency for the Protection of the
 Borrower (Agence Nationale  de la Protection de l'Environnement), a public authority
                                                                     of the Borrower,
 established and operating pursuant to Executive Decree No. 83-457
 dated July 23, 1983, as the same may be amended from time  to time;


  (c) "Banque d'Algerie",      means Bank of Algeria,      the central bank of the Borrower,




  littp ://lnlweb23.worldbank.org/legal/legalagr.nsf/3e9006b5ce41228b852564990066be64/b...     12/27/2005
Emergency Desert Locust Control Project                                                    Page 3 of 9


                                                                                  dated April
established and operating pursuant to Law No. 90-10 of the Borrower,
14, 1990, as the same may be amended from time to time;

                                                                    of the Borrower
(d) "ICLC" means the Inter-ministerial Committee on Locust Control
established pursuant to Executive Decree No. 67-177 of the Borrower, dated August
31, 1967, as the same may be amended from time to time;

                                                                     of the Borrower
(e) "INPV" means the National Institute for the Protection of Crops
 (Institut National de la Protection des Vegetaux), a public authority established
                                                               of Agriculture of the
and operating under the supervisory authority of the Ministry
Borrower, pursuant to Executive Decree No.  93-139 of the Borrower, dated June 14,
1993, as the same may be amended from time to time;

                                                                    (Office National
 (f) "ONM" means the National Meteorological Office of the Borrower
de Meteorologie), established  and operating under the supervisory authority of the
                                                               Decree No. 75-25 of
Ministry of Transport of the Borrower pursuant to Legislative
                                                                from time to time;
the Borrower, dated April 29, 1975, as the same may be amended

 (g) "IPCC" means the Central Command Post        (Poste de Commandement Central) within
 INPV;

                                                                2.02               (b) of this
 (h) "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
 Agreement; and

                                                               organized pursuant to
 (i) "Wilaya" means an administrative division of the Borrower
                                                                 dated April 7,
 the Borrower's Wilaya Law (Loi Relative a la Wilaya) No. 90-09,
 1990, as the same may be amended from time to time.
                                      ARTICLE II

                                              The Loan

                                                               terms and conditions
 Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
 set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that shall have
                                                                dollars
 an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of thirty million
 ($30,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each
 withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

                                                                  the Loan Account in
 Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
                                                                  for expenditures
 accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
 made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect   of the reasonable cost
                                                                        2 to this
 of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule
 Agreement and to be financed out of  the proceeds of the Loan.

                                                                   maintain in
 (b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and
 dollars a special deposit account in Banque d'Alg rie on terms and conditions
                                                               the Special Account
 satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of,
 shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

                                                                      date as the
 Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1996, or such later
                                                                   of such later
 Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower
 date.

                                                                charge at the rate of
  Sec:ion 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
  three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the
  Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

                                                                     amount of the
  Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
                                                                  each Interest
  Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for



  lhttp://lnweb23.worldbank.org/legal/legalagr.nsf/3e90O6b5ce41228b852564990066be64/b...     12/27/2005
Emer-enicy Desert Locust Control Project                                                   Page 4 of 9


Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in             respect of the
                                                                 each of the dates
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
                                                                 Interest Period,
accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding
calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest Period.

                                                           the Bank shall notify
(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
Semester.

(c) For the purposes of this Section:

                                                          the date immediately
 (i) "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on
preceding each date specified in Section  2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with the
Interest Period in which this Agreement is signed.

                                                                   determined by the
 (ii) "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably
Bank and expressed as a  percentage per annum, of the outstanding borrowings of the
                                                                or portions thereof
Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                                                                and (B) loans which
as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments;
may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing  interest rates determined
otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

                                                                        of a calendar
 (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the second six months
year.

                                                              months' notice to the
 (d) On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
 Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to
 read as follows:

                                                               of the Loan withdrawn
 "(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount
 and outstanding from time  to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of
                                                              Quarter, plus one-half
 Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
                                                             in Section 2.06 of this
 of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified
                                                                      amount
 Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal
 outstanding during the preceding Interest  Period, calculated at the rates
 applicable during such Interest Period."

                                                                Bank shall notify
 "(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the
 the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
 Quarter."

                                                                       1, April 1,
 "(c) (iii) 'Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January
 July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."

                                                                         on February
 Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually
 1 and August 1 in each year.

                                                                the Loan in
 Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
 accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this
 Agreement.
                                     ARTICLE III

                                     Execution of the Project

                                                               objectives of the
 Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
                                                                          shall carry
 Pr:je-t as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end,
 out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with




  http ://lnweb23.worldbank.org/legal/legalagr.nsf/3e9006b5ce41228b852564990066be64/b...     12/27/2005
Emergency Desert Locust Control Project                                                   Page 5 of 9


                                                                                              and
appropriate administrative, financial, technical and environmental practices,
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project.

                                                                              and
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section,
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry
                                                                         in Schedule
out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth
5 to this Agreement.

                                                                          Borrower
Section 3.02. For purposes of carrying out Part A.1 of the Project, the
shall ensure that the following  health and environmental safeguards are observed:
                                                                               for
 (a) only pesticides approved by the Bank, from among the list of pesticides
locust control  which meet the present standards established by the Food and
                                                                            on the
Agriculture Organization and the World Health Organization, shall be used
Borrower's territory; (b) persons handling pesticides   shall be provided with
protective clothing and equipment, including health kits, and shall be adequately
                                                                                 be
qualified and trained to handle pesticides; (c) adequate advance notice shall
given to the local  population in the areas to be sprayed with pesticides; (d) the
                                                                             of
labelling, packaging and storage of pesticide containers, and the disposal
pesticides and pesticide containers, shall be carried out in   accordance with the
 internationally accepted general standards provided for under the International
                                                                             Food and
Ccde of Conduct on the Distribution and Use of Pesticides published by the
Agriculture Organization;  and (e) suitable pesticide effluent disposal mechanisms
                                                                           leakage
 shall be made available to prevent environmental pollution and pesticide
 into groundwater, including leakage resulting from the rinsing of pesticide
 containers.

 Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods
                                                                           of the
 and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out
 proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
 Agreement.
                                      ARTICLE IV

                                          Financial Covenants

 Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, records
                                                                                the
 and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
 operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments
 or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
 thereof.

  (b) The Borrower shall:

 (i) have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section
 including those for the Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
 with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
 acceptable to the Bank;

                                                                               nine
 (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than
 months after the end of each such year, the report of such audit by said auditors,
                                                                               and
 of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested;

                                                                          and
 (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records
 accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
 request.

 (c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan Account
 were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:




  http://lnweb23.worldbank.org/legal/legalagr.nsf/3e9006b5ce41228b852564990066be64/b...     12/27/2005
Emergenicy Desert Locust Control Project                                                    Page 6 of 9




(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph               (a) of this
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;

                                                                           report
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment
                                                                     invoices,
out of the Special Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;


(iii)   enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and

                                                                       audit
(iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such audit
                                                                           of
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and
                                                                        support the
internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to
related withdrawals.
                                      ARTICLE V

                                     Termination
                                                                         is hereby
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04  of the General Conditions.
                                      ARTICLE VI

                          Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

 Section 6.01. The Minister of Economy of the Borrower is designated as
                                                                     the General
 representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
 Conditions.

                                                                      of Section
 Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
 11.01 of the General Conditions:

 For the Borrower:

 Ministry of Economy
 Zighout Youssef Palace
 Algiers
 Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria

 Cable address: Telex:

 FINPLAN 67073
 Algiers

 For the Bank:

 International Bank for
 Reconstruction and Development
 1818 H Street, N.W.
 Washington, D.C. 20433
 United States of America

 Cable address: Telex:

 INTBAFRAD 248423 (RCA)
 Washington, D.C. 82987      (FTCC)




 lhttp ://lnweb23.worldbank.org/legal/legalagr.nsf/3 e9006b5ce41228b852564990066be64/b...    12/27/2005
Emaergenicy Desert Locust Control Project                                                 Page 7 of 9


64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names
in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.




DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA




By /s/ Nourredine Y. Zerhouni
                                                                      Authorized Representative




INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECON4STRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT



 By /s/ Anil Sood
                                                                 Acting Regional Vice President
                                                                   Middle East and North Africa
                                            SCHEDULE 1

                        Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
 1. The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the
 proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category
 and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

 Amount of the
 Loan Allocated % of
  (Expressed in Expenditures
 Category Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed

 (1) Pesticides 12,500,000 100% of foreign
 under Part expenditures,
 A.2 of the 100% of local
 Project expenditures
 (ex-factory
 cost) and 50%
 of local
 expenditures for
 other items
 procured locally

 (2) Commercial 12,150,000 100% of foreign
 aircraft expenditures and
 services 70% of local
 expenditures

 (3) Vehicles 3,000,000 100% of foreign
 and spare expenditures




 http://Inxveb23.worldbank.org/legal/legalagr.nsf/3e90O6b5ce41228b852564990066be64/b...    12/27/2005
Emer-geicy Desert Locust Control Project                                                     Page 8 of 9


parts

(4) Equipment 700,000 100% of foreign
and expenditures,
materials 100% of local
expenditures
 (ex-factory
cost) and 60%
of local
expenditures for
other items
procured locally

(5) Consultants'     150,000 100%
services and
training

 (6) Unallocated 1,500,000


TOTAL 30,000,000


2. For the purposes of this Schedule:

 (a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and

 (b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the
 Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.

 3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be
 made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
 Agreement.

 4. The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis
 of statements of expenditure for such expenditures and under such terms and
 conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                      SCHEDULE 2

                                     Description of the Project

 The objectives of the Project, which has been designed in anticipation of a large
 locust invasion in February/March 1994, are to: (i) provide urgent assistance in
 support of the Borrower's locust control program; and (ii) reinforce the existing
 surveillance and warning systems of the Borrower to better anticipate locust
 activity and movement and facilitate the planning and implementation of future
 locust control programs.

 The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof
 as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
 objectives:

 Part A: Locust Control Campaigns

 1. Carrying out three locust control campaigns over the period February/March 1994
 to January 1995, including the aerial and ground spraying of approximately one
 million five hundred thousand (1,500,000) hectares of infested areas in the




  litp :// nNweb23 .worldbank.org/legal/legalagr.nsf/3e9006b5ce41228b852564990066be64/b...    12/27/2005
Emergenicy Desert Locust Control Project                                                  Page 9 of 9


territory of the Borrower.

2. Provision of about one million five hundred thousand (1,500,000) liters of
pesticides required for the campaigns referred to under Part A.1 above.

Part B:        Strengthening the Borrower's Locust Control Capabilities

Provision to INPV of three (3) fork lifts, about eighty (80) manual pumps, about
one hundred (100) atomizers, laboratory equipment to analyze pesticides, health
kits, and spare parts for INPV's existing stock of vehicles and for the
aforementioned atomizers.

Part C: Reinforcement of Surveillance and Warning Systems

Provision to INPV of about fifty (50) four-wheel drive vehicles, spare parts for
said vehicles, small meteorological equipment and mobile telecommunications
equipment, including air to ground receivers and about ten (10) hand-held global
positioning systems.

Part D: Technical Assistance

Provision of materials and short-term consultants' services to strengthen the
capabilities of INPV in handling, application and storage of pesticides, and
disposal of pesticides and pesticide containers.

 Part E:       Training

Training of the personnel of INPV in locust prospection, pesticide handling,
phytopharmacy and pesticide-related environmental protection.


 The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,           1995.
                                      SCHEDULE 3

                                        Amortization Schedule

 Payment of Principal
 Date Payment Due (expressed in dollars)*

 On each February 1 and August 1

 beginning August 1, 1999
 through August 1, 2010 1,250,000

 and on February 1, 2011 1,250,000




 [ ;..    'A     ic,ltl S   i.ibr8arv




 http://InXweb23.worldbank.org/legal/legalagr.nsf/3e9006b5ce41228b852564990066be64/b...    12/27/2005
                                                     ,,'i',,!
                                                                                    .4.......   i   ,..*....................
C   ,,.




                                            14-


                                       SCHEDULE 3

                                  Amortization Schedule

                                                                 Payment of Principal
               Date Payment Due                                 (expressed in dollars)*

          On each February 1 and August 1

                beginning August 1, 1999
                through August 1, 2010                                1,250,000

                                                                      1,250,000
          and on February 1, 2011




                                                                equivalents
          *     The figures in this column represent dollar
                determined as of the   respective dates of withdrawal. See
                General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                                -   15   -




                      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
                                                               Loan
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified  for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of P7epayment                        Premium

                                    The interest rate (expressed as a
                                    percentage per annum) applicable to
                                    the Loan on the day of prepayment
                                    multiplied by:

Not more than three years                       0.18
      before maturity

More than three years but                       0.35
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                         0.65
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                      0.88
      more thar, 15 years
      before maturity

More than 15 years before                       1.00
      maturity
                                17     _                                .



bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation and comparison of bids
obtained from at least three qualified suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines and in accordance with procedures set forth in Sections
                                                                 and
I and 11 of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55
2.56 thereof).

2.    Items or groups of items of vehicles and equipment estimated
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or less per contract, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $500,000, may be procured under
contracts awarecd on the basis of comparison of price quotations
obtained from at least three suppliers fr-,- at least two different
countries eligible under the Guidelines,       in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.

Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.     Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to each contract for pesticides and each
contract for commercial aircraft services, and each contract for
vehicles and equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000
or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix
1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where pa3ments for such contract
are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be
modified to ensure that tile two conformed copies of the contract
                                                                  2
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph
(d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.

       (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
                                                                    4
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and
of Appendix    to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract  are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as pari of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedui 6 to this Agreement.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
                                                                be
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to
made on the basis of statements of expenditure.
                              -   18   -




2.     The figure of 15% is hereby specified       for   purposes   of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II. Employment of Consultants

1.    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Parts D and E
of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants: (i) whose
quallfications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) who shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published
by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex,
time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such consultants
under contracts using the standard form contract for consultants'
services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have
agreed with the Bank. Where nc relevant standard contract documents
have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard
forms agreed with the Bank.

2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts
shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than $100,000
equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Bank review shall
not apply to the terms of reference for such contracts or to the
employment of individuals, to single source selection of firms, to
assignmants of a critical nature as reasonably determined by the
Bank or to amendments of coatracts raising the contract value to
$100,000 equivalent or above.
                              -   19   -




                            SCHEDULE 5

                       Implementation Program

1.    The Borrower shall ensure that INPV shall at all times be
responsible for the implementation of the Project and the monitoring
of the activities to be carried out thereunder.

2.    Without prejudice to the provisions of Section 9.07 of the
General Conditions, the Borrower shall cause INPV, not later than
March 31 and September 30 of every year, commencing September 30,
1994, until completion of the Project, to prepare and furnish to the
Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as shall be
satisfactory to the Bank, describing progress achieved in the
carrying out of the Project.

3.    The Borrower shall cause PCC to assist INPV in the carrying
out of Part A.1 of the Project. PCC shall be responsible for
formulating a lccust control strateg3, in connection with the
impending locust invasion, and supervising the coordination of
locust control operations. PCC shall consist of three (3) units,
each of which headed by a staff member of INPV temporarily assigned
to PCC for purposes of assisting in carrying out Part A.1 of the
Project. The first unit shall be responsible for technical matters,
the second unit for logistical support and the third unit for
management and finance.

4.    In order to achieve the objectives of Part A.1 of the Project,
the Borrower shall cause (i) command posts in Wilayas which are
likely to be invaded by locust to assist INPV and PCC in the
carrying out of Part A.1 of the Project; (ii) ONM to provide up-to-
date weather forecasts and analyses; (iii) ANPE to monitor the
impact of the use of pesticides on the environment and prevent
pesticide-related environmental pollution; (iv) ANN to take all
measures necessary on its part to protect the natural habitat and
wildlife in national parks to be sprayed by pesticides; and (v) the
toxicology center within the medical university center of Bab-El-
Oued to monitor the health condition of field operators engaged in
the carrying out of Part A.1 of the Project.
                              -   20   -




                            SCHEDULE 6

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1),
(2), (3), (4) and (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule I to this Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

       (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $3,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
                                                                       r
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it chat
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or reQuests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or arounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)    (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account       at   such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.                3




                                                                       I
            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such equest,
                   the  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                               -23--


                   documerts and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested. On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Accournt and deposit into
                   the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to
                   have been paid out of the Special Account for
                   eligible expenditures.

                                                       from the Loan
.. 1*such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank
  .couat tinder the respective eligible     Categories, and in the
                                                              by said
   !spe:tive equivalent amotnts, as shall have been justified
::)cusrnts and other evidence.
                                                              Special
*      For each payment made by the Borrower out of the
  .count, the Borrower shall,     at such time as the Bank shall
                                                            and other
--asonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents
  .idence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
 -cpentiitures.
                                                          of this
..     Notwithstanding the provisions of parag-aph 3
                                                          deposits
§:.hedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further
:.ato the Special Account:

              it, at any time, the Bank shall have determined   that all
        (a)
                                                                from the
.arther withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
                                                                V of the
LDan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
                                                        2.02    of this
 :ene::al Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section
 greement; or

       (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
                                                           outstanding
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
cpecial commitment entered   into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
                                                           shall equal
cf t">e General Conditions with respect to the Project,
                                                         Allocation.
the .-quivalent of tuTice the amount of the Authorized
                                                           remaininig
?hereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the
,inwithdrani amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
                                                        by notice to
-hall follow such procedures as che Bank shall specify
                                                      only after and
-he Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made
                                                       that all such
'iothe extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied
.Qmounts remaining on deposit in the Special  Account as of the date
                              - 22   -



                                                       elig .ble
of such notice wilL be utilized in making payments for
expenditures.

6.    (a)    If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
                                                                  h
                                                          2 of --is
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
                                                           Bank: (A)
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
provide such additional evidence   as the Bank may request; or (B)
                                                            requ.!st,
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such paymen: or
                                                            the -lank
the portloni thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless
shall otherwise agree,   no further deposit by the Bank into the
                                                                 3uch
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided
evidence or made  such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
                                                                to
amount cutstanding in the Special Account will not be require-l
                                                          Borr3wer
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund tc the
                                                            Spezial
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to t½le Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
                                                              Account
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan
for subsequent withdrawal  or for cancellation in accordance wit1 the
                                                         the General
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including
Conditions.
