Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB3038 
Operation Name 
RY-INSTITUTIONAL REFORM CREDIT 
Region 
MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA 
Sector 
General industry and trade sector (51%);General public 
administration sector (49%) 
Project ID 
P101453 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF REPUBLIC OF YEMEN 
Implementing Agency 
BD. 
Date PID Prepared 
April 4, 2007 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
March 24, 2007 
Date of Board Approval 
June 28, 2007 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
After the civil war of 1994, Yemen undertook painful economic reforms and saw the benefits 
through a healthy growth in per capita incomes.
1
With the slowdown in the reform process 
between 2000 and 2005, Yemen made limited economic and social progress over the period of 
implementing its first Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (2003-05). External assistance in 
support of the Government’s program has been modest despite widespread recognition of 
assistance necessary to address the development-poverty-security nexus. Initially, this resulted 
from perceptions that Yemen could finance its development from its oil resources. More 
recently, aid levels have been lower due to governance concerns as well as shifting donor 
priorities. 
 
Beginning with the implementation of delayed economic reforms in July 2005, the situation has 
begun to slowly improve. Two recent developments provide the first significant window of 
opportunity since the successful growth episode of 1995-1999. First, the Government has started 
implementing long delayed governance and economic reforms.  In 2005, it simplified its tariff 
system, subjecting most goods to a 5 or 10 percent rate.
2
It also replaced a 10 percent 
consumption tax and a 10 percent production tax with a single 5 percent sales tax.
3
In 2006, 
Government undertook a number of measures to strengthen public financial management and 
governance.  Second, neighboring countries are offering Yemen the long-term prospect of 
regional integration and, during the transition period, funding to develop institutions, 
infrastructure and human capacities.  
 
1
Parts of this section are drawn from the World Bank’s 
Country Assistance Strategy
 -- Republic of Yemen (May 17, 
2006). 
2
The Bank recently estimated the weighted average tariff at 7%. 
3
Doing Business 2007 calculates that the replacement of the production and consumption tax with a general sales 
tax reduced the total tax burden on businesses from “170% to 48% of profits.”  
3
Price Waterhouse Coopers and The 
World Bank Group.  “Paying Taxes:  The Global Picture”  (Washington:  2006) 
 
http://www.doingbusiness.org/documents/DB_Paying_Taxes.pdf
Page  2
Yemen’s success in the reform process is crucial and must be both closely watched and 
supported by all development partners.  One reflection of donor’s growing confidence in the 
country’s reform program came in November 2006, when Yemen’s development partners 
pledged approximately US$4.7 billion in aid for the four year period of 2007-2010, a significant 
increase over prior levels.  This reflected in part an unprecedented level of regional donor 
commitment. 
 
2. Operation 
Objectives 
 
The Institutional Reform Development Policy Credit is a SDR 33.3 million (US$50 million 
equivalent) development policy loan supporting the Government’s Reform Strategy, as discussed 
in the country assistance strategy (CAS).  It emphasizes two key elements: 
·
Supporting non-oil growth through investment climate reforms by: 
 
¾
Rationalizing the incentive framework (by harmonizing treatment of income, expenses 
and investment with international standards)  
¾
Strengthening property rights (by reducing ambiguity of land titling and improving public 
management of land registration). 
·
Strengthening governance and public financial management by: 
¾
Reforming procurement to increase transparency and accountability, and to separate the 
policy-making function from the administrative function. 
¾
Supporting the civil service reform strategy, in particular through wage policy, 
retrenchments
 
and improved information on public employees as part of broader civil 
service reform. 
¾
Increasing revenue transparency though Yemen’s accession to the Extractive Industries 
Transparency Initiative (EITI). 
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
1. 
The Bank’s country assistance strategy for 2006-09 is explicitly based on the 
Government’s PRSP for 2006-10.  The CAS pillars are consistent with the key focal areas in the 
PRSP (i.e. diversifying growth; human development; and fiscal sustainability). Further, the CAS 
emphasized the issue of resource sustainability by elevating it to be a fourth pillar.  Each pillar 
associated with a set of outcomes arising from the Bank’s experience, analytic work and policy 
dialogue: 
 
·
Pillar One: Diversifying growth through better governance and better delivery of public 
service 
 
·
Pillar Two: Improving human development through more efficient service delivery and 
improved safety nets. 
 
·
Pillar Three: Increasing fiscal sustainability through improved public expenditure 
management. 
 
Page  3
·
Pillar Four: Increasing resource sustainability through improved management of water 
resources and reduced population pressure. 
 
The CAS places short-term priority on economic governance, in order to create the basis for 
medium-term actions.  In particular it highlights: 
 
·
improved oil revenue transparency to ensure better use of oil revenues and also lead to 
increase willingness to be taxed. 
·
improved expenditure management - to ensure efficient expenditure management that 
upholds safety nets, the delivery of basic services and public investments needed to support 
private sector development while controlling waste. 
·
improved business regulatory environment including improving predictability in macro-
economic management, regulation, taxation and inspections. 
·
improved institutional arrangements and public service delivery mechanisms for groundwater 
resource management and controlling population growth. 
 
The CAS identifies the IR DPC as addressing two of the four pillars:  accelerating non-oil 
growth and increasing fiscal sustainability.  The IR DPC is strategically sequenced as part of an 
effort to strengthen economic management in anticipation of a subsequent Poverty Reduction 
Support Credit (PRSC).  The CAS envisions the IR DPC as reinitiating policy-based lending to 
Yemen and helping to establish the conditions for a subsequent three-part programmatic PRSC, 
intended to launch in the third year of the CAS.  In this context, it envisions the IR DPC as 
follows: 
 
·
To assist the Government in dealing with the immediate reform agenda, the Institutional 
Reform Credit would primarily support the Government’s National Agenda for Reform 
(including actions on governance, public sector reform and private sector development 
actions) as well as sector-specific actions supporting improved governance. The emphasis 
will be on a credible program of prior actions and establishment of specific financing needs 
for the program (e.g. with regard to the costs of retrenchment in support of the civil service 
reform program). 
 
The CAS further emphasizes four sources of fiduciary risks in Government systems that Yemen 
should work to reduce:  budget transparency; internal auditing; preparation of final accounts; and 
external auditing. The ongoing public financial management strategy is working to strengthen all 
of these elements, and the IR DPC is specifically designed to complement the existing 
Government partnership with donors.   Further, work to strengthen civil service reform and the 
investment climate under the IR DPC should contribute to reducing fiduciary risk, both by 
helping to contain the overall wage bill and strengthen service delivery, and by contributing to 
non-oil growth, hence medium- and long-term revenue.   
 
4. Financing 
 
The proceeds of the credit will be made available to Yemen following the enactment of the 
Financing Agreement. This operation is a two-tranche credit of SDR 16.65 million (US$25 
million equivalent). The first tranche of credit proceeds would be made available to the Borrower 
Page  4
upon the effectiveness of the Financing Agreement between the Bank and Yemen, while the 
second would be made available upon certification of the fulfillment of second tranche 
conditions. 
 
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
Overall implementation, coordination and monitoring for the proposed DPC program will be 
done by the Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation (MOPIC).  The Bank will 
request the Government to form a core IR DPC team, to be chaired by the Vice-Minister of 
MOPIC and with senior representation from the Ministries of Finance and Civil Service and 
Insurance and from the Tax Authority.  This team will be responsible for assuring that key 
actions occur in accordance with the agreed prior and subsequent actions under the IR DPC.   
 
The Bank team will focus on monitoring outcomes.  It will directly verify that required actions 
for first and second tranche release have taken place.  The set of six prior actions for first tranche 
release will be fully achieved before the IR DPC is presented to the Board.  One of these, the 
submission of the procurement law, is already achieved.  Others are in preparation with active 
consultation and, in several cases, assistance of the IR DPC team.  At the same time, the policy 
matrix sets out actions for the subsequent tranche release, to assure that policy reforms are 
implemented and the momentum of reform progress is maintained.   
 
6. 
Benefits and Risks 
 
Risks of reversal:
 
As with any reform strategy, there is always a risk of policy reversals or loss 
of momentum.  The Government’s relatively recent focus on reform does appear firm, and the 
key counterparts (including the three key counterpart Ministers and the head of the tax authority) 
have stated their firm commitment to IR DPC goals.  The Government’s recent reform 
achievements signal a sea change in favor of rapid reform and a real sense of urgency to put the 
country on a firmer financial and fiscal footing as oil revenues decline.   
 
The risk of reversal is primarily a risk for the second tranche actions, since most of the first 
tranche actions are well-advanced.  Changes in key counterparts, public reaction, parliamentary 
opposition, civil strife or exogenous regional events could each detract from full commitment to 
the reform program.  These risks will be mitigated by strong dialogue throughout the life cycle of 
the credit to assure the maximum understanding, ownership and engagement with the reforms 
supported by the project, donor coordination in support of the project, and civil society 
understanding of the project.  Careful monitoring will further mitigate risk by sounding alarms if 
progress waivers on any key action.   
 
Capacity concerns:  
A
central danger for achievement of the prior actions for second tranche 
release is the relatively weak administrative capacity in Yemeni Government.  Since several of 
the second tranche actions concern implementation of supported policy reforms, it is here that 
capacity weaknesses may pose a threat.  To help mitigate this risk, the project team will mobilize 
appropriate technical assistance resources as required, either directly or through donor 
coordination, to strengthen and supplement Government capacity.   
 
Page  5
Macroeconomic stability:  
Macroeconomic instability is clearly a potential risk.  One key factor 
is the price of oil which, if it falls below projections, may limit the Government’s ability to 
finance key reforms.  Another is tax policy and collections, which have been the subject of 
contention between the Government and private sector in recent days.  A final concern is 
expenditure discipline.  It is hoped that the PFM measures underway will help to mitigate this 
risk, as they are designed to dramatically strengthen both revenue and expenditure management.  
In some dimensions, budget and expenditure planning and discipline are improving already.  The 
Government shared with donors in November its first Public Investment Program (PIP), now 
under revision to account for donor commitments.  Under the PFM, a process for preparing a 
Medium-Term Expenditure Framework
4
has been drafted, and procedures are expected to be 
approved in the first half of 2007.  After a suitable period of piloting, the Government will be 
developing the capacity to apply the MTEF under the likely guidance of the Ministry of Finance.  
These internal reforms, along with continued careful macroeconomic monitoring by the country 
economist and the IMF, will help to mitigate this risk. 
 
7. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
The IR DPC should have a generally beneficial impact by encouraging investment and 
improving the management of public resources.  Generally, the initiatives supported are aimed to 
encourage growth and employment, which have been identified repeatedly as necessary 
concomitants to poverty alleviation.   
 
One component has a potentially poverty-inducing impact:  the support for redundancies under 
the Government’s civil service reform.  However, this is mitigated by the fairly generous 
separation package, which is equivalent to between six and seven year’s salary.  The project 
requires full budgetary commitment for this package.  The ongoing poverty assessment is 
evaluating the potential poverty impact of civil service redundancies, which will inform the 
Government and project team of the implications and any need for further mitigation of negative 
impact. 
 
A
second concern is the potential negative impact of land registration for the poor and powerless.  
This concern is especially associated with large-scale, systematic land-titling initiatives that have 
sometimes dispossessed the poor of land to which they held traditional tenure or on which they 
were squatting.  The IR DPC does not envision or support such a program and the team is not 
aware of any Government plans to implement one. 
 
The intention of the reform is in fact the opposite – to establish rule of law to defend claims of 
the less influential and wealthy against those who can now use power and corruption to 
challenge and undermine legitimate land claims.  This reduces the transactions costs and risks 
associated with new investment.  Further, having a clear law and politically independent (and 
institutionally capable) registrar of lands should have a positive effect to minimize the impact of 
opportunities for corruption and political meddling (in which the poor tend to lose).  Currently, 
very high transaction costs and risks puts investable land at a premium, making land markets 
dysfunctional and segmented, to the detriment of all, but especially disadvantaging the poor.  
Improved titling could be anticipated to greatly broaden formal land markets, and to reduce legal 
4
The MTEF also encompasses the Medium-Term Fiscal Framework and the Medium-Term Budget Framework. 
Page  6
and violent conflict over property rights (again where the poor and the politically weak would 
usually be expected to lose). 
 
The development of the implementing regulations for the new land law pose an opportunity to 
mitigate any risk of its use to undermine customary or tribal land claims.  The procedures 
adopted should address settlement of customary land rights disputes through a transparent and 
rule-based process to ensure that land registration does not adversely affect tribal groups with 
legitimate claims.   The process and procedures for making such claims and the basis on which 
these claims would be need to be made explicit, particularly in executing regulations relating to 
the section of the law relating to "sigel shakhsi" clause. 
 
This project is classified as Category C: it is likely to have minimal or no adverse environmental 
impacts.
5
While economic growth is often associated with consumption of natural resources and 
some negative environmental externalities, there are no specific environmental dangers imposed 
by this product.  Furthermore, the component to secure property rights may enhance stewardship 
of land resources.  In general, measures to enhance governance and align the functioning of the 
economy with market forces may work to reduce a number of negative externalities currently 
observed from the separation of economic costs from benefits and rents. 
 
8. Contact point 
 
Contact: Andrew H. W. Stone 
Title: Sr Private Sector Development Spec. 
Tel: (202) 473-7651 
Fax:  
Email: astone@worldbank.org 
 
9. 
For more information contact: 
 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
5
OP 4.01, January 1999. 
