Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB2914 
Operation Name 
RY-INSTITUTIONAL REFORM CREDIT 
Region 
MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA 
Sector 
General industry and trade sector (51%); General public administration 
sector (49%) 
Project ID 
P101453 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF YEMEN 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation 
Date PID Prepared 
February 26, 2007 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
March 29, 2007 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
June 28, 2007 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Yemen is a World Bank Group IDA recipient country, with per capita GDP of under US$600.  It 
has a population of 21 million, with nearly half age 15 or below.  The Poverty Reduction 
Strategy Paper (PRSP) classifies 35.5 percent of the population as living in poverty, sharply 
divided between an urban rate of 19 percent and a rural rate of 41 percent.
1
Yet growth has been 
slow, barely outpacing population.  The investment climate remains constrained, while the 
economy remains vulnerable to energy prices and regional political insecurity.  The economy is 
highly dependent on a dwindling oil sector that is weakly linked to local industry and capacities, 
yet accounts for almost 93 percent of all exports. Unemployment is estimated to be 17 (and 34 
percent for youth), while agriculture (while comprising only 13 percent of formal GDP) 
continues as the main source of income for the vast majority of the population. At the same time, 
Yemen, one of the most water-scarce countries in the world, continues to rapidly deplete its 
groundwater.   
 
The Government, in recognition of the urgency of reform, launched an active program with the 
third five year plan (PRSP) and subsequent National Reform Agenda.  
The Government’s 
medium-term strategy is embodied in the Yemen Third Socio-economic Development Plan for 
Poverty Reduction (2006-10) (DPPR), which also serves as its PRSP.  In this document, the 
Government identifies its strategic goals (or “pillars”), namely to: 
·
achieve a steady improvement in economic growth;  
·
reduce poverty and raise the quality of life;  
·
promote good governance;  
·
reduce regional and gender disparities;  
·
enhance decentralization; and  
·
broaden the participation of civil society 
1
Republic of Yemen, Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation.  The Socio-Economic Development Plan 
for Poverty Reduction (2006-2010)  October 2006
.
The CAS refers to the results of the 1998 household budget 
survey, which placed the poverty rate at 42% of the population. 
Page  2
Beginning in July 2005, the Government started implementing long delayed governance and 
economic reforms.  Neighboring countries are offering Yemen the long-term prospect of regional 
integration and, during the transition period, funding to develop institutions, infrastructure and 
human capacities. Donor support is critical to the success of these reforms.  
Yemen’s success in 
the reform process is crucial and must be both closely watched and supported by all development 
partners.  One reflection of donor’s growing confidence in the country’s reform program came in 
November 2006, when Yemen’s development partners pledged approximately US$4.7 billion in 
aid for the four year period of 2007-2010, a significant increase over prior levels.  .  Donor 
support is critical to the success of these reforms.  The Institutional Reform Credit (IRC) forms 
one part of the Bank’s overall strategy to support poverty reduction, specifically by stimulating 
non-oil growth and strenthening governance.   
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The IRC encourages and rewards actions associated with this recently initiated and dynamic 
reform effort.  The project should contribute to accelerating growth, poverty alleviation and 
improved governance through its provisions, which comprise key parts of the Government’s 
overall growth strategy.  The Institutional Reform Credit (IRC) also contributes to Bank’s overall 
strategy to support poverty reduction, specifically by stimulating non-oil growth and strenthening 
governance.  It is specifically linked to two pillars of the CAS:   
 
·
diversifying growth through better governance and better delivery of public services;  
·
increasing fiscal sustainability through improved public expenditure management. 
 
Thus the IRC is organized in two pillars: the first one comprises two components that address 
key challenges to private investment and non-oil growth.  The structure of incentives confronting 
investors and the security of property rights underpinning markets are each critical to a sound 
investment climate. 
 
The second pillar comprises three components address governance and public financial 
management challenges.  A number of analyses have concluded that Government cannot deliver 
the economic reforms and social services required to fulfill its Poverty Reduction Strategy 
without substantial public sector reform.  International and national indicators suggest 
governance quality in Yemen is low.  Two central components of this are strengthening public 
financial management and conducting broad-based public administration reform.   
 
3. Preliminary 
description 
 
Pillar 1:  Strengthening Property Rights and the Incentive Framework to Encourage Non- 
 
Oil Growth   
 
The first two components of the IRC address key challenges to private investment and non-oil 
growth.  The structure of incentives confronting investors and the security of property rights 
underpinning markets are each critical to a sound investment climate.    
 
Page  3
Component 1:  Income Tax Reform 
 
Objective:  To rationalize incentives facing private investors through standard treatment of 
income, investment and expenses, and a sharp reduction in the discretionary implementation 
which mars the incentives and adds uncertainty for firms operating in Yemen. 
 
Main Actions Supported:   
·
Cabinet approval and submission to Parliament of a new tax law, reflecting international 
norms of treatment of income, investments and expenses. (First Tranche) 
·
Implementation of the new corporate income tax law. (Second Tranche) 
 
Component 2:  Land Titling and Registration Reform 
 
Objective:  To create system of secure and enforceable property rights, with unambiguous title. 
 
Main Actions Supported: 
·
Presentation to Parliament of a new land registration law that takes into account the 
recommendations of the Land Policy Task Force (LPTF), as detailed in the Wo
rld Bank’s 
“Yemen Urban Land Policy and Administration Policy Note”. (First Tranche) 
·
Completion and endorsement by Cabinet of an organizational decree for the authority that 
organizes its mandate and functions vis-à-vis other authorities and agencies. (Second 
Tranche) 
 
Pillar 2:  Strengthening Governance through Improved Public Financial Management And 
 
Civil Service Reform. 
 
The next three components complement ongoing Government strategy and donor support to 
strengthen public financial management and public administrative (civil service) performance. 
 
Component 3:  Strengthening Public Procurement 
 
Objective:  To strengthen public financial management and governance with regard to public 
expenditure through procurement reform.  As a first step, Government has approved a standard 
procurement manual and procurement documents to be used in public sector transactions.  
Proposed legislation would professionalize (de-politicize) the high tender board and create a 
separate Procurement Policy Monitoring Board with a procurement tracking system under its 
authority.  This would give the Government a systematic means of overseeing and regulating 
procurement, and a dedicated body handling policy and monitoring.   
 
Main Actions Supported: 
·
Cabinet approval and submission to Parliament of a new Procurement draft law 
consistent with international standards. (First Tranche) 
·
Establishment of a separate Procurement Policy Monitoring Board to address policy and 
regulatory functions with a procurement tracking system under its authority. 
 
Page  4
Component 4:  Improving Revenue Transparency 
Objective:  Government should commit to and achieve transparency with regard to revenues 
from oil and natural gas, which provide the largest share of the Government’s income, though 
accession to and adherence to Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), an 
international compact of resource-exporting nations willing to abide by agreed international 
standards for the full publication and verification of company payments and government 
revenues from oil, gas and mining. 
Main Actions Supported: 
·
Through a Presidential Decree, the Government should make a clear and well-publicized 
statement of commitment to EITI principles stating explicit measures that will be taken to 
conform to its principles. (First Tranche) 
·
Adherence to EITI principles, including publication of independently audited accounts 
documenting all material oil, gas and mining payments by companies to governments 
(“payments”) and all material revenues received by governments from oil, gas and 
mining companies (“revenues”) in a publicly accessible, comprehensive and 
comprehensible manner. (Second Tranche 
 
Component 5:  Reforming Central Government 
–
Civil Service Reform
 
Objective:  To reform the civil service, both as a fiscal necessity (due to the huge burden of the 
wage bill and related obligations) and as a vital component of public administrative reforms to 
promote good governance and effective service delivery. 
 
 
Main Actions Supported 
·
Development and approval by Council of Ministers of the Civil Service Fund program 
for 2007-2010, in the context of the broader civil service reform strategy, with an 
appropriate alignment between the schedule (work stream) of redundancies and the 
budgetary allocation for 2007-08 committed in the program. (First Tranche) 
·
Adherence to a wage strategy consistent with the wage law passed in 2005.  This requires 
agencies to meet defined reform criteria before any future salary increases. (First 
Tranche) 
·
Achievement of the first year’s schedule (work stream) for Civil Service Fund. (Second 
Tranche)  
·
Evidence of continued adherence to a wage strategy consistent with the law passed by the 
Government in 2005. (Second Tranche) 
 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
This project is classified as Category C: it is likely to have minimal or no adverse environmental 
impacts.
2
While economic growth is often associated with consumption of natural resources and 
some negative environmental externalities, there are no specific environmental dangers imposed 
by this product.  Furthermore, the component to secure property rights may enhance stewardship 
of land resources.  In general, measures to enhance governance and align the functioning of the 
2
OP 4.01, January 1999. 
Page  5
economy with market forces may work to reduce a number of negative externalities currently 
observed from the separation of economic costs from benefits and rents. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
International Development Association (IDA) 
50 
 Total 
50 
 
6. Contact point 
 
Contact: Andrew H. W. Stone 
Title: Sr. Private Sector Development Spec. 
Tel: (202) 473-7651 
Fax: (202) 614-0958 
Email: astone@worldbank.org
 
