Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H336-YEM 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Institutional Reform Development Policy Financing) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated January 14, 2008 
 
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER H336-YEM 
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated January 14, 2008, entered into between REPUBLIC OF 
YEMEN (“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as 
defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Association has decided to provide this 
financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (a) the actions which the Recipient has already taken 
under the Program and which are described in Section I.A of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement, and (b) the Recipient’s maintenance of an appropriate macro-economic 
policy framework.  The Recipient and the Association therefore hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II - FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to 
thirty two million and eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR32,800,000) (“Financing”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the 
Program in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Payment Dates are March 1 and September 1 in each year. 
2.05. 
The Payment Currency is United States dollars. 
Page  3
2
ARTICLE III - PROGRAM 
 
3.01 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  
To this end: 
 
(a) 
the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request 
of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program and the actions specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress 
achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Recipient shall exchange views with the Association on any 
proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the Financing 
which would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the 
Program, or any action taken under the Program including any action 
specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following: 
 
(a) 
A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part of it, will be carried out. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Events of Acceleration consists of the following: 
 
(a) 
The event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement 
occurs and is continuing for a period of sixty (60) days after notice of the 
event has been given by the Association to the Recipient. 
 
ARTICLE V - TERMINATION
 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and twenty (120) days after 
the date of this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Minister of Planning and International 
Cooperation. 
 
Page  4
3
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation 
 
P.O. Box 175 
 Sana’a 
 
Republic of Yemen 
 
Facsimile: 
 
967.1.250.665  
 or 
976.1.250.605 
 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  
 
AGREED at Washington, District of Columbia, United States of America, as of 
the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN 
 
By /s/ Abdulwahab Abdulla Al-Hajjri  
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  
 
By /s/ Daniela Gressani 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  5
4
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds 
 
Section I
.
Actions under the Program
A. 
Actions Taken Under the Program
.
The actions taken by the Recipient under 
the Program include the following:
 
1. 
A new corporate income tax law, reflecting international norms of treatment of 
corporate income, investments and expenses has been submitted to the 
Recipient
’s Council of Ministers. 
 
2. 
A new land registration law encompassing the recommendations of the Land 
Policy Task Force has been submitted to Parliament. 
 
3. 
A draft procurement law has been submitted to Parliament by the Recipient’s 
Council of Ministers. 
 
4. 
The Recipient has declared its commitment to the Extractive Industries 
Transparency Initiative (EITI) principles by virtue of a letter submitted by the 
Recipient to the EITI Secretariat. 
 
5. 
The Recipient’s Council of Ministers has approved the Civil Service Fund 
program for 2008-2010 and the alignment of the budgetary allocation for 2008 to 
the said program. 
 
B. 
Actions to be Taken Under the Program
.
The actions to be taken by the 
Recipient under the Program include the following: 
 
1. 
The Executive Regulations for the newly enacted corporate income tax law, 
satisfactory in substance to the Association, have been issued. 
 
2. 
The Council of Ministers of the Recipient has issued a decree whose substance is 
satisfactory to the Association, defining the mandate and functions of the General 
Authority for Lands, Survey and Urban Planning of the Recipient. 
 
3. 
The Recipient has taken all action necessary, including regulatory action, to 
establish a procurement policy monitoring board to monitor procurement policy 
and undertake its regulatory functions utilizing a procurement management 
information system satisfactory to the Association. 
 
4. 
The Recipient has complied with the EITI principles and criteria by publishing 
the independently audited accounts of the Recipient documenting all material 
payments made to the Recipient by oil, gas and mining companies operating in 
Page  6
5
the Republic of Yemen (“payments”) and all material revenues received by the 
Recipient from such oil, gas and mining companies (“revenues”) in a publicly 
accessible, comprehensive and comprehensible manner. 
 
5. 
The Recipient has completed the implementation of the Recipient’s civil service 
fund program for the period June 2007-May 2008. 
 
6. 
The Recipient has consistently applied the provisions of the 2005 Wage Law 
which requires government agencies of the Recipient to meet defined reform 
criteria before making any future salary increases. 
 
7. 
The Recipient has taken all actions necessary for the establishment of a 
computerized employee databases including biometric identification information 
system, all satisfactory to the Association, with coverage extended to all 
employees on the state payroll in all sectors. 
 
Section II
.
Availability of Financing Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as 
the Association may specify by notice to the Recipient. 
 
B. Allocation 
of 
Financing 
Amounts.
 
The Financing shall be withdrawn in two 
tranches.  The allocation of the amounts of the Financing to this end is set out in 
the table below: 
 
Allocations 
Amount of the Financing Allocated 
(expressed in SDR) 
 
First Tranche 
 
16,400,000 
Second Tranche 
 
16,400,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
32,800,000
C. Tranche 
Release 
Conditions.
 
No withdrawal shall be made of the Second 
Tranche unless the Association is satisfied, after an exchange of views as 
described in Sections 3.01 (a) and (b) of this Agreement based on evidence 
satisfactory to the Association: 
 
1. 
with the progress achieved by the Recipient in carrying out the Program; 
Page  7
6
2. 
that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Recipient is 
appropriate; and 
 
3. 
that the actions described in Part B of Section I of this Schedule have 
been taken. 
 
If, after this exchange of views, the Association is not so satisfied, it may give 
notice to the Recipient to that effect and, if within ninety (90) days after the 
notice, the Recipient has not taken steps satisfactory to the Association with 
respect to paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 above, then the Association may, by notice to the 
Recipient, cancel all or any part of the Unwithdrawn Financing Balance. 
 
D. Deposits 
of 
Financing 
Amounts.
 
Except as the Association may otherwise 
agree: 
 
1. 
all withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into an account designated by the Recipient and acceptable 
to the Association; and 
 
2. 
the Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the 
Financing into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the 
Recipient’s budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the 
Association. 
 
E. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the 
Financing shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association 
determines at any time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a 
payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Association, refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to 
the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be 
cancelled.
 
F. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is June 30, 2010. 
Page  8
7
APPENDIX 
 
Section I
.
Definitions
1. 
“Civil Service Fund” means the Recipient’s redundancy facility established by 
the Recipient by virtue of Law No. 1 of 2004 for the purpose of processing 
redundant employees. 
 
2. 
“Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative” or “EITI” means the international 
compact of resource-exporting nations willing to abide by agreed international 
standards. 
 
3. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or 
loan; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the 
Recipient: 
 
Group
Sub-group 
 
Description of Item 
 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-
manufactured, tobacco 
refuse 
 
122  
Tobacco, 
manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
Page  9
8
Group
Sub-group 
 
Description of Item 
 
unworked or worked 
 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-
irradiated, for nuclear 
reactors 
 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing 
machinery 
 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals 
(except watches and watch 
cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares 
(including set gems) 
 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international 
agreements to which the Recipient is a party; 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
 
(f) 
under a contract with respect to which the Association determines that 
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Recipient or other recipient of the Financing 
proceeds during the procurement or execution of such contract, without 
the Recipient (or other such recipient) having taken timely and 
appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to remedy the situation. 
 
Page  10
9
4. 
“First Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the category 
entitled “First Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement. 
 
5. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 with the 
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
 
6. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or 
referred to in the letter dated October 6, 2007 from the Recipient to the 
Association declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the 
Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in support of the 
Program during its execution. 
 
7. 
“Second Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the category 
entitled “Second Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
Section II
.
Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the “International Development Association General 
Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered 
accordingly. 
3. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above 
and relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures 
Page  11
10
 
under the Financing until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient 
shall enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.” 
 
6. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to 
read as follows: 
 
Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six months after the Closing 
Date, a report of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by 
the Recipient and the Association of their respective obligations under 
the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Financing. 
 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows: 
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in 
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded 
pursuant to the Financing Agreement.” 
 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the 
Appendix are deleted in their entirety. 
 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in 
support of which the Financing is made.”  All references to “Project” 
throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be references to 
“Program”. 
 
