                                                               55446
       International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
                International Development Association




                   PROGRESS REPORT
         TO THE BOARD OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE MANAGEMENT ACTION PLAN
                  IN RESPONSE TO THE
             REQUEST FOR INSPECTION OF THE




                             YEMEN

INSTITUTIONAL REFORM DEVELOPMENT POLICY GRANT (IRDPG)
                   (Grant No. H336-YEM)




                           June 21, 2010
              Abbreviations and Acronyms

CSO     Civil society organization
BIT!    Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative
GSD     General Services Department
IPN     Inspection Panel
IRDPG   Institutional Reform Development Policy Grant
MNA     Middle East and North Africa
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PD      Project Document
PID     Project Information Document
TTL     Task Team Leader




                             ii
1.        This report takes stock of progress made in implementing the Action Plan presented by Management
to the Board on September 15, 2009, in the context of the Request for Inspection, IPN Request RQ09/05,
registered on April 20, 2009 (hereafter referred to as the "Request"), concerning the Republic of Yemen Institutional
Reform Development Policy Grant (Grant No. H336-YEM) (hereafter referred to as the "IRDPG") financed by the
International Development Association. Specifically, the Requesters stated that: (a) the Bank Country Office in
Sana'a refused to disclose information about the IRDPG and, in particular, to provide the Requesters with an Arabic
translation of the IRDPG Program Document; (b) the Bank violated the principle of partnership with civil society;
(c) implementation of the IRDPG would lead to soaring prices and to increased poverty in Yemen; and (d) timely
disclosure of the IRDPG's contents would have allowed civil society to help mitigate this impact. A detailed matrix
is provided in the attached annex.

OVERALL IMPLEMENTATION

2.        Overall, Management is satisfied that significant progress has been made on all key activities which
were. part of the Action Plan. These included: (a) engaging a dialogue with the organization that submitted the
Request (hereafter referred to as the "Requesters"); (b) strengthening MNA's practices with regards to disclosure,
translation, and consultations in line with applicable Bank policies; (c) monitoring risks associated with the
implementation of the IRDPG in consultation with stakeholders; and (d) further strengthening relevant participation
processes in support of the World Bank program in Yemen. The Region has allocated a substantial amount of budget
resources to the implementation of the Action Plan.

3.       Management has also continuously engaged with the Requesters throughout the period. This included
consultations on IRDPG implementation and on the broader Bank program in Yemen. The Regional Vice President
also had a private meeting and open exchange of ideas with the Requesters on November 8, 2009.

4.       It should be noted that the implementation of the Action Plan took place in a sharply deteriorating
security environment. This affected the timeline for implementation of some activities, especially during the period
January-February 2010, when World Bank missions were suspended and key diplomatic missions temporarily
closed following terrorist threats. This has also affected the ability of Bank staff to engage and consult with some
Civil Society Organizations (CSOs) based outside of Sana'a as travel within the country remains restricted for
security reasons. Finally, in view of the security risks, and on the basis of advice by the UN security system, the
Bank had to adopt a "light footprint" approach in Yemen, which is somewhat at odds with the institution's efforts to
engage in a proactive communication campaign and to "open doors."

DISCLOSURE, TRANSLATION, AND CONSULTATIONS IN                                 MNA

5.       Disclosure. As per its commitment under the Action Plan, MNA reviewed its system to monitor
compliance with the Bank's Policy on Disclosure regarding Project Information Documents (PIDs), Project
Appraisal Documents (PADs), and Project Documents (PDs) within the Region. Detailed instructions were issued
by the Regional Vice President to all Task Team Leaders (TTLs) on October 31, 2009. A unit (MNA Development
Effectiveness) was assigned the responsibility for monitoring disclosure and following up with task teams as needed.
Each sector unit nominated a disclosure focal point in charge of monitoring compliance with applicable policies. A
monthly monitoring table is now also shared with Regional Management. As of June 8, 2010, MNA is in full
compliance with its commitment to disclose information on its current portfolio of mRDJIDA projects.

6.       Translation. Following a review of translation practices in MNA (including the World Bank MNA
websites), translation of core operational documents (PIDs, PADs and PDs) into Arabic was made a requirement for
all new operations in countries where Arabic is the main business language, and a new monitoring system was
developed for the Region to keep track of this commitment. Detailed instructions were issued to that effect by the
Regional Vice President on October 31, 2009. Focal points were appointed in each sector unit to support Task
Teams and monitor compliance and issues. The Region also engaged with the Arabic Translation Unit in the
General Services Department (GSD) in Washington and Cairo and in a meeting held on November 11, 2009
received assurances that GSD's capacity to translate into Arabic would be increased as needed. As of June 8, 2010,
all qualifying PIDs! in MNA were disclosed in Arabic and PADs are continuously being translated for
ongoing operations (although at a slower pace, as it takes 8 weeks to translate such documents). In parallel,
MNA is continuing to translate and disclose operational documents in French in the Maghreb and Djibouti. In
addition and as a rule, substantive consultations in Yemen are now carried out based on background documents
made available to participants in Arabic, and with discussions held in Arabic (using interpretation as needed). A
parallel effort has been completed to revamp MNA's Arabic-language web sites and ensure their content is up to
date. An initial analysis shows that, thanks to these efforts, visits to the Yemen Arabic website increased by 48.2
percent during the last 6 months, compared to the same period last year. It is noteworthy that 57 percent of the
Yemen Arabic website users are based in Yemen, against 21 percent of the users of its English version.

7.        Consultations. As per the commitment under the Action Plan, the Regional Vice President issued detailed
instructions on October 29, 2009 to Country Directors, Country Managers and TTLs to strengthen outreach to civil
society stakeholders. To date, directories of CSOs are available in all Country Offices for use by staff. In the case of
Yemen, a customized survey was developed so as to identify new stakeholders to contact and update the directory; a
total of 102 CSO representatives responded. In parallel, Country Directors and Country Managers have also engaged
in a systematic effort to strengthen outreach. 2 In addition, a series of training sessions was held to disseminate good
practices on consultations and strengthen effectiveness of project-level consultations: first for Washington-based
TTLs (at Headquarters, in January and February 2010) with participation by 61 staff,3 then for Country Office-based
TTLs (in Beirut, during the May 17-19, 2010 Regional Operations Forum) with participation by 52 staff from all
MNA Country Offices.

IMPLEMENTATION OF THE                   IRDPG

8.       Meetings with CSOs during supervision missions. As per the commitment under the Action Plan, the
Task Team met with a cross-section of CSOs representing the main viewpoints within civil society to discuss
IRDPG implementation progress during each supervision mission (September 6, 2009; November 4, 2009;
December 16, 2009; January 31, 2010; April 7, 2010). These meetings were held in Arabic, on the basis of
background documents and/or presentations in Arabic. On the Bank side, they were attended by the TTL (and often
managers/directors). On the CSO side, there was an average participation of 10 to 15 persons representing as many
organizations each time. At least one and sometimes, two of the Requesters attended each of the IRDPG
consultations and participated actively in discussions. This provided a useful 'forum for exchange of views and ideas
with the Requesters and with a broader range of CSOs (some of whom had participated in consultations in the
design phase ofIRDPG, while others were engaging for the first time). Meetings initially focused on the IRDPG and
concerns about its potential impact, as well as CSOs' views of the Bank and the Government. As these consultations
progressed, discussions evolved from a simple exchange of views to the provision of substantive feedback and an
active exploration of how CSOs and the Bank could better interact at a broader level (this resulted in a workshop on
modes of CSO engagement in development project and public service monitoring and evaluation, held in January
2010).

9.       Work with CSOs involved in the implementation of IRDPG-supported measures. Particular efforts
were made to work closely with the CSOs that are involved in the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative
(EITI) component of the IRDPG. On October 19-20, 2009, a workshop - organized in partnership with Revenue
Watch Institute and Publish What You Pay - gathered 30 participants (14 of which were from civil society) to
discuss ways to raise the level of transparency in the management of extractive industries revenues (oil, gas and
minerals). On February 15, 2010, a second (half-day) workshop was organized for civil society, together with the
Yemen EIT! Secretariat and the Human Rights Information and Training Center. The event was attended by 16
representatives from various nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), including the Requesters. Presentations
included an overview of the EITI process in Yemen, global implementation status and key next steps for the EIT!.
Discussion focused on key issues facing civil society members under the EITI. Finally, on April 5-6, 20lO, a two-


! Qualifying documents are all documents for which a project Concept Note Review or any new documents were released since
November I, 2009 in Egypt, Gulf Cooperation Council countries, Iran, Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Libya, Syria, West Bank
and Gaza, and Yemen.
2 E.g., during preparation of the Country Partnership Strategy, the Morocco Country Manager met on a monthly basis with CSOs;
the Lebanon Country Director and the Tunisia Liaison Officer also met with CSOs and think tanks at several occasions.
3 During FYIO, there have been 71 TTLs in MNA.




                                                              2
day workshop focused on EITI best practices from around the world was organized, with speakers from Mauritania
(Head of Mauritanian EITI and advisor to the Prime Minister) and Kazakhstan (Head of NGO EITI Coalition).

10.       Outreach to representatives of potentially affected parties. Parallel efforts were made to reach out to
entities that are representatives of the parties that may be affected by measures supported under the IRDPG,
especially under the land titling and civil service components. The task team followed up on issues raised during
these discussions (including questions relating to issues not directly supported under the IRDPG) and facilitated
exchanges between CSOs and Government on these issues (e.g., with regard to the potential displacement of
informal occupants of public lands under a possible systematic land registration effort).

BANK PROGRAM IN YEMEN

11.      Regular meetings with CSOs. As per the commitment under the Action Plan, the Country Office arranged
frequent meetings with a cross-section of CSOs. Discussions were organized around specific activities in order to
maximize the impact of each interaction. On average, two to three events were held each month, on topics as diverse
as the new Social Welfare Fund operation,4 the Integrated Urban Development project,S the Qat Demand Reduction
Agenda,6 and Climate Change. 7 The Requesters were invited to all of the events held in Sana'a.

12.        Advice to Government on consultations. The Region's objective to emphasize the need for consultations
in Yemen was met using two parallel tracks: first, the Region took advantage of every formal meeting of senior
Management with the Yemeni authorities 8 to emphasize the importance of consultations and offer Bank assistance in
this regard. Second, and as had also been previously done in December 2006, a letter was sent by the Country
Director on December 15, 2009 advising Government to consult on several key thematic areas and Bank-supported
activities 9 and offering help to do so; two missions visited Yemen (November 3-5,2009 and December 12-15,2009)
to practically demonstrate the advice to that effect. In May 20 I 0, 10 the Region took stock of the impact of this advice
in an assessment note that will be shared with Government this month.

13.      Report on stakeholders' landscape and consultations. The Region just finalized a paper on the
stakeholders' landscape and consultations in Yemen, which includes an analysis of the key segments of civil society,
to help refine the Bank's understanding of relevant stakeholders and their constituencies. The paper provides
recommendations on mechanisms to further broaden and deepen interactions between the Bank and civil society,
including in the context of Government-led consultations during the preparation and implementation of Bank-
supported operations. It also includes options for establishing a feedback system for proactive and time-bound
responses to inquiries and complaints from communities, civil society, and the private sector. The paper was
developed based on, inter alia, consultation with a total of 166 CSO representatives in Sana'a, Aden, Ta'iz and
Mukalla. 11

14.       Training program for CSOs. A training program on the new Access to Information Policy was delivered
on May 8, 201 0 to representatives of 43 CSOs. Other training sessions aimed at strengthening the capacity of CSOs
in Yemen to effectively participate in consultations on economic reforms and Bank activities were also developed
by task teams in the context of their respective projects.




4 Sana'a, October 18,2009; April 10,2010.
5 Sana'a, October 2009.
6 Mukalla, October 26; Aden, October 28; Dhamar, October 31; Sana'a, November 2,2009.
7 Sana'a, November 15-17,2009 and May 10,2010.
8 This included a meeting with the Managing Director on October 6, 2009 and meetings with the Regional Vice President on
November 6-9, 2009 and in April 2010.
9 These included Climate Change, Anti-Corruption and Strengthening of the Social Welfare Fund.
10 Mission of May 10-12,2010.

II February, March and May 2010.




                                                              3
LOOKING FORWARD

15.      Looking ahead, the Region will continue to deploy every effort to maintain a very strong focus on the
issues of disclosure and translation; and in particular translation into Arabic of PIDs, PADs, and PDs for new
Bank-funded projects (in countries where Arabic is the main business language).

16.        The Region is equally committed to helping create an environment that is conducive to effective
consultations between Governments and CSOs where possible in the Region. MNA staff will in particular continue
to provide country-tailored advice to the authorities as may be necessary / relevant and the Region plans to expand
its training program for CSOs across the region.

17.    A particular effort will be made to maintain and further enhance consultations around the
implementation of the IRDPG until its closing date (in December 2010).

18.      A parallel effort will be made to ensure that adequate consultations continue to take place in Yemen,
building on lessons learned under the Request. In particular, the Bank is currently considering (among other
options) to provide support to Yemen through a new DPG, assuming the successful completion of negotiations on an
IMF program. If a decision is made to proceed in this direction, the Bank will formally advise the Government to
consult with CSOs on the program of reforms to be supported under the DPG, even before the Concept Note review
(and will provide technical support to that effect). The Bank will also prepare a Country Assistance Strategy
Progress Report in FYll and will pay particular attention to adequately consulting with CSOs in that process. The
Bank will also continue to consult on other relevant activities.

19.     The Regional Vice President sent to the region, on June 21, 2010, a message updating staff on
progress in implementing the Action Plan and reiterating the importance of sustaining efforts and
accomplishments under the Action Plan.




                                                         4
                                                  ANNEX 1
                                        SUMMARY UPDATED ACTION PLAN




DIALOGUE WITH THE REQUESTERS

Provide translation of the PD to the    Completed (June 2009). Requesters acknowledged receipt of this translation.
Requesters and other interested
stakeholders.

Invite the Requesters to meet at        Completed (May 30, 2009; September 6, 2009). Requesters also met with the Regional Vice
their convenience with Bank             President (November 8, 2009). They were systematically invited to relevant events held in
representatives to inform them          Sana'a.
about plans for the translation and
again, once the translation is ready,
to discuss their concerns.

PARTICIPATION AND CONSULTATION.IN MNA

 Review the system to monitor           Review completed. The Regional Vice President assigned the Development Effectiveness Unit
 effective compliance with the          the responsibility for monitoring regional compliance. Detailed instructions to implement
 disclosure policy of PIDs, PADs,       recommendations were issued on October 31, 2009. A Disclosure and Translation Monitoring
 and PDs within the MNA Region.         table is now shared on a monthly basis with Regional Management. Each Sector has
                                        nominated a disclosure focal point to assist the Region in following up on its commitment. As
                                        of June 8, 2010, MNA is in full compliance with its commitment to disclose information
                                        on its current portfolio of IBRDIIDA projects.

 Review translation practices in        Review completed. The Regional Vice President assigned the Development Effectiveness
 MNA for PIDs, PADs, and PDs            Unit the responsibility for monitoring regional compliance. Detailed instructions were
 with a view to gradually               communicated to MNA staff on October 31, 2009. The above mentioned monthly Disclosure
 expanding the number of                and Translation Monitoring table is also .shared each month with the GSD Translation Units in
 translated documents in a realistic    Washington and in Cairo so as to ensure maximum responsiveness to the Region's translation
 manner.                                requests. Each Sector's disclosure focal point also serves as translation focal point to assist
                                        the Region in following up on its commitment. As of June 8, 2010, all qualifying PIDs in
                                        MNA were disclosed in Arabic and PADs are continuously being translated for ongoing
                                        operations (although at a slower pace, as it takes 8 weeks to translate such documents).

Review MNA websites and                 Review conducted in July 2009, followed by a major revamp of MNA' s Arabic-language
revamp Arabic websites, to              websites to facilitate access in Arabic to relevant Bank materials, including project
facilitate access in Arabic to          documentation and analytical work. This exercise was completed in August 2009 for Yemen.
relevant Bank materials.                A first round of updates was posted in August 2009 and the second round in October 2009.
                                        An initial analysis shows that, thanks to these efforts, visits to the Yemen Arabic website
                                        increased by 48.2 percent during the last 6 months, compared to the same period last year. It
                                        is noteworthy that 57 percent of the Yemen Arabic website users are based in Yemen, against
                                        21 percent of the users of its English version.

Develop in each country a               To date, directories of CSOs are available in all Country Offices for use by staff. In the case
directory of CSOS, specifying           of Yemen, a customized survey was developed so as to identify new stakeholders to contact
their special niche and sector          and update the directory; a total of 102 CSO representatives responded.
interest, which shall be targeted
for consultation.

Issue an instruction by the             Instructions were issued on October 29,2009. Country Directors and Country Managers have
Regional Vice President to MNA          also engaged in a systematic effort to strengthen outreach.
Country Directors I Managers to
engage in a systematic effort
aimed at strengthening outreach
with relevant stakeholders where
necessary and to report to
                        ona



                                                                  5
 regular basis.

Issue an instruction by the          Instructions and supporting materials issued on October ~O, 2009. A series of training
Regional Vice President to MNA       sessions was held to disseminate good practices on consultations and strengthen effectiveness
staff to further raise awareness     of project-level consultations: first for Washington-based TILs (at Headquarters, January 12-
and disseminate good practices on    14, February 2-4, 2010) with participation by 61 staff, then for Country Office-based TILs
consultations. Provide training to   (in Beirut, during the May 17-19,2010 Regional Operations Forum) with participation by 52
relevant TTL and Task Team           staff from all MNA Country Offices.
members as needed.

IMPLEMENTATION.oF THE IRDPG

Organize meetings between the        During each supervision mission, the Task Team met with a cross-section of CSOs
Task Team and a cross-section of     representative of the main viewpoints within civil society, to discuss progress in
CSOs to discuss progress in          implementing the measures supported under the IRDPG and concerns CSOs may have
implementing the measures            regarding the impact of these measures on the poor. An invitation was systematically
supported under the IRDPG.           extended to the Requesters. The TIL met CSOs in September, November and December
                                     2009, and January and April 2010.

Work closely with CSOs directly      Particular efforts were made to work closely with the CSOs involved in the EITI component
involved, as actors, in the          of the IRDPG. On October 19-20,2009, a workshop - organized in partnership with Revenue
implementation of some of the        Watch Institute and Publish What You Pay - gathered 30 participants to discuss ways to raise
measures supported under the         the level of transparency in the management of extractive industries revenues (oil, gas and
IRDPG with a view to facilitating    minerals). On February 15,2010, a second (half-day) workshop was organized for civil
implementation of the operation.     society, together with the Yemen EITI Secretariat and the Human Rights Information and
                                     Training Center. The event was attended by 16 representatives from various NGO groups,
                                     including the Requesters. Presentations included an overview of the EITI process in Yemen,
                                     global implementation status and key next steps for the EITI. Discussion focused on key
                                     issues facing civil society members under the EITI. Finally, on April 5-6, 2010, a two-day
                                     workshop focused on EITI best practices from around the world was organized, with speakers
                                     from Mauritania and Kazakhstan.

Make particular efforts to reach     The Task Team made particular efforts to reach out to entities representative of the parties
out to entities which are            that may be affected by the measures supported under the IRDPG, in order to discuss
representative of the parties that   concerns they may have on these measures (including land titling and civil service reform
may be affected by the measures      components).
supported under the IRDPG.

BANK PROGRAM IN YEMEN

Continue to hold bi-monthly          The Country Office continued to hold regular meetings with a cross-section of CSOs in
meetings between the Country         Yemen, representative of the main viewpoints within civil society, to discuss Bank activities in
Office and a cross-section of CSOs   the country. Topics included the new Social Welfare Fund, the Integrated Urban Development
to discuss Bank activities in        project and the Qat Demand Reduction Agenda, among others.
Yemen.

Emphasize with the Government        Regional Management continued to emphasize with the Government (at both senior
the importance of adequate           Management and working levels), the importance of ensuring adequate consultations with
consultation processes. Offer        stakeholders in the formulation of the country's development program and in the design and
support to the Government in that    implementation of critical reforms, during the 2009 Annual Meetings (Oct 2009) and
process, including training and      throughout the year, as an essential part of the country dialogue. This emphasis was reiterated
institutional strengthening as may   during the Regional Vice President's visits to Yemen (November 2009, April 2010). An
be requested.                        assessment of the Government's use of consultation processes was also carried out in May in
                                     the context of the Anti-Corruption, Climate Change and Social Welfare Fund activities.

Prepare a white paper on the         Management has prepared a paper on the stakeholders' landscape and consultations for the
stakeholders landscape and           Bank in Yemen. This paper includes: (i) detailed information and contacts on CSOs; (ii) an
consultations in Yemen               analysis of the key segments of civil society, with a view to helping refine the Bank's
                                     understanding of relevant stakeholders and their constituencies; and (iii) options for
                                     mechanisms to further broaden and        interactions between the Bank and civil       and




                                                               6
                                  for the Bank to further support and monitor Government-led consultations processes during
                                  the preparation and implementation of Bank-supported operations. The paper also includes
                                  options for establishing a feedback system for proactive and time-bound responses to inquiries
                                  and relevant complaints from communities, civil society, and the private sector.

Develop a training program for    Training programs aimed at strengthening the capacity of CSOs in Yemen to effectively
CSOs in Yemen on economic         participate in consultations on economic reforms and Bank activities are developed by Task
reforms and Bank activities, in   Teams in the context of their respective project. In parallel to these efforts, other sessions
order to help strengthen the      introducing the Access to Information Policy have started to take place (Yemen, May 8, 2010,
capacity of these entities to     with representatives of 43 CSOs) and are planned for Morocco (June 24,2010) and Egypt
effectively participate in        (August), in parallel with the Financial Management Capacity Building session offered to
consultations.                    NGOs in both countries.




                                                            7
