                    ReportNo. 48995-YE




The InspectionPanel       e
 Report and Recommendation



Yemen: InstitutionalReform
DevelopmentPolicy Grant
  (Grant No. H336-YEM)




         June 18,2009


                                  The Inspection Panel


                            Reportand Recommendation
                                            On
                                 Requestfor Inspection

          YEMEN: InstitutionalReformDevelopmentPolicy Grant
                                (Grant No. H336-YEM)


    1. On April 13, 2009, the InspectionPanel received a Request for Inspection ("the
        Request") related to the Yemen's Institutional Reform Development Policy
        Program (the "Program"), which is supported by Grant No. H336-YEM (the
        "Grant"). The Request was submitted by Mr.Abdelkader Ali Abdallah and Mr.
        Yahya Saleh Mohsen, both residents of Sana'a, Yemen, on their behalf and on
        behalf of the Yemen Observatory for Human Rights, a local Non-Governmental
        Organization (NGO). The Request claims, inter alia, that the Bank failed to
        comply withprinciplesoftransparency and disclosureof informationwith respect
        to a Development Policy Operationfor institutionalreforminYemen, which they
        contend will produce negative effects on wages, employment and poverty
        reduction.

    2. The Panel registeredthe Request on April 20, 2009 and Management submitted
        its response on May 19, 2009 (the "Management Response"). As provided in
        paragraph 19 ofthe 1993 Resolutionestablishingthe InspectionPanel(the "1993
        Resolution"),' the purpose of this report is to determine the eligibility of the
        Request andmakea recommendationto the ExecutiveDirectors as to whether the
        mattersallegedinthe Requests should be investigated.


    A. THEPROGRAM

    3. The Yemen: Institutional Reform Development Policy Grant (IRDPG) has its
        origins in the 2006-2009 Yemen Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) and was
        approvedby the Boardof Directors on December 6, 2007. The Programhas two
        objectives. The first is to bringabout investmentreformswhich will allow Yemen
        to diversify its economy so that its dependence on oil revenues is reduced. The
        second objective is to strengthen governance and public finance management by
        reforming the civil service, procurement systems, and promote oil revenue
        transparency by having Yemen join the Extractive Industry Transparency
        Initiative(EITI). These objectives are meant to assist the country reduce poverty,
        increase growth, andimprovepublic sector governance.
'InternationalDevelopmentAssociation(IDA)Resolution93-6, datedSeptember22, 1993 ("the 1993
Resolution").


                                             1

     4. The Grant is aimed at assisting the Government realize discrete components of its
        medium-term strategy as elaborated in its Development Plan for Poverty
        Reduction 2006-2010 (DPPR), which is also the country's Poverty Reduction
        Strategy Paper. DPPR priorities are taken forward inthe short term by a National
        Reform Agenda which focuses on investment climate reform and governance and
        democratic institutions strengthening. A Matrix of Good Governance Measures
        (MGGM) developed in 2006 lays out short and mediumterm activities aimed at
        realizingspecific aspects o f the reform agendas2

     5. The IRDPG was conceived after the Government realized that "supplemental
        assistance" would be needed to implement the reforms. The Program
        "encourages and rewards key selected actions associated with this recently
        initiated and dynamic reform eff~rt".~   The ProgramDocument (PD) states that the
        IRDPG "is strategically sequenced as part of an effort to strengthen economic
        management in anticipation of a subsequentsector wide or programmatic type of
        operation (e.g. PRSC). The CAS envisions the IR DPG as reinitiating policy-
        based lending to Yemen and helping to establish the conditionsfor a subsequent
        three-part programmatic PRSC, intended to (sic) launch in the third year of the
        CAS'.4

     6. The Program's objectives are to be achieved through five components that are
        "based on both prior analytical work and extensive dialogue with key

        country experts, and other donor^".^
        Governmentcounterparts, local stakeholders (including members of civil society),
                                                     Each component focuses on a reform
        agenda identifying a set o f actions constituting conditions for first and second
        tranche releases.

     7. The Programcomponents are as follows:

             a. Component      1- Income Tax Reform: This component supports
                Government's     aim to reduce distortions,         eliminate discretionary
                implementation o f taxation, and remove uncertainty for firms operating in
                Yemen. The two "prior actions " for this component are the "preparation,
                approval by the Ministry of Finance and submission to Cabinet of a new
                corporate income tax law" and "implementation of the new corporate
                income tax law" through the issuance of executive regulations.

            b. ComDonent 2- Land Titling and Registration Regulatory and Institutional
                Reform: The prior actions related to this component are the preparation
                and submission to Parliament o f a new LandRegistration Law and several

* ProgramDocument,Republic o f Yemen: InstitutionalReformDevelopmentPolicyGrant,November6,
2007, Paragraph19.
  Ibid,Paragraph25.
 Ibid,Paragraph28.
 Ibid, Paragraph37.


                                                2

                actions related to the implementation o f this law (such as development o f
                implementation regulations, appointment o f an independent registrar, and
                issuance o f a Cabinet Decree to clarify the mandate o f the General
                Authority for Lands, Survey andUrbanPlanning(GALSUP).

            c. Component 3- StrengtheningPublic Procurement: Believing that sound
                public procurement i s central to Government's ability to "manage public
               services in support of private-led growth", the two prior actions o f this
                component are the approval o f executing regulations o f the approved
                Procurement Law and establishment o f a Procurement Policy Monitoring
                Board.

            d. Component 4- Improving RevenueTransparency: The prior actions ofthis
                component are a formal announcement by the government o f its adherence
               to EITI principles and the procedures it will use to achieve these
               principles, andthe publicationo f independently audited accounts.

            e. Component 5- Reforming Central Government - Public Administration
               Reform: This component aims to support public sector administrative
               reforms initiated by the Government. The prior actions associated with
               this component are the approval and implementationof the Civil Service
               Fundprogram, the implementationo f reforms identifiedinthe 2005 Wage
               Law prior to making any wage increases, and the development of a
               computerizedemployee database and a biometric identification system.

    8. The set o f six prior actions for first tranche release were already achieved at the
       time of Grant approval. The Operation Policy Matrix (Annex 2) of the Program
       Document lists all the policy actions to be achieved under the five Program
       components andtheir respective tranche release triggers.

    9. The Program Document states that it should have a generally beneficial impact
       but identifies two potential social safeguard concerns, the first being the
       `potential negative impact of land registrationfor the poor andpowerless"6 and
       the "land rights of women'" and the second being whether the reform of the
       corporate income tax law might adversely impact the poor. However, according
       to the Program Document, these concerns are allayed by Government's
       commitment to monitor the impacts o f these policies and mitigate them through
       appropriate safeguards.*

    10.The Program Document also mentions potential risks to the environment from
       some o f the policy reforms. The reform o f the income tax law might lead to
       investment in sectors which degrade the environment (such as mining) and land


 ProgramDocument, Republic ofYemen: InstitutionalReformDevelopmentPolicyGrant, November6,
2007, Paragraph80.
'Ibid,Paragraph
'Ibid,Paragraph85.
               88.


                                              3

         titling reform may leadto the conversion of agricultural land for industrial use, or
         development inecologically fragile areas. However, it is statedthat Government's
         Letter o f Development Policy recognizes some o f these potential risks and
         contains a commitment to mitigatethemqg

     11.The Program Document further states that "through broad consultations, the
        preparation process [of IRDPG] countered some of the weaknesses in existing
        participatory processes".lo


B. FINANCING

     12.The Yemen: InstitutionalReform Development Policy Grant (IRDPG) is an IDA-
         financed operation o f approximately $50.73 million comprised of two equal
         tranches o f approximately $25.47 million. The first tranche was released upon
         Grant effectiveness after first tranche prior actions (mainly legislative actions)
         were met, and the second tranche i s to be disbursed at the latest 18 months after
         effectiveness which is the timeframe in which "agreed upon measures" and
         especially second tranche prior actions are expected to be completed. Second
        tranche prior actions focus explicitly on the implementation o f the Program's
        policy reforms." The Grant i s scheduled to close on June 30,2010.


C. THEREQUEST

     13. The Request raises three issues related to the Program.

     14. Thefirst issue concerns disclosure o f information. The Requesters state that they
        have incurred and will probably continue to incur damages "as a result ofthe
         information blackout policy practiced by the World Bank Ofice in Yemen and its
        refusal to disclose information" related to the Program. The Requesters add that
        pressure from civil society led to the disclosure o f the English version o f the
        Program Document but "the Bank office in Sana'a refused to give [them] a
        translated copy into Arabic or to cooperate with civil society to get it translated."

    15. The Requesters say they made a number o f phone calls to the Country Office in
         Sana'a to request the Program Document and list a number o f correspondences
        requesting the Country Office in Sana'a to disclose "a complete copy of the
        Institutional Reform Program and its translation." They state that they received a
        copy in English o f the Program Document.             However, in a subsequent
        correspondence, the Country Office reksed to provide them with an Arabic
        language translation. According to the Requesters, on Jmuary 30, 2008, over


 ProgramDocument,Republic ofYemen: InstitutionalReformDevelopmentPolicy Grant, November6,
2007, Paragraph 105.
loIbid, Paragraph36.
`IIbid,Paragraph34.


                                              4

       twenty Yemeni organizations addressed the Country Office to confirm their
       request for a complete copy o f the Program in'Arabic, but "receive[d] no response
       to [their] request and all [their] communicationsand letters were ignored.

   16. The second issue concerns participation. The Requesters state that the Bank and
       the Country Office "violated the principle of partnership which the World Bank
       adopts and callsfor itspromotion with civil society," andviolated the principle o f
       transparency and disclosure o f information. They add that the lack o f translation
       i s contrary to the principle o f information sharing emphasized by the former
       President o f the World Bank in his introduction to the Disclosure Policy o f June
       2002. They state that the former President "stressed the signzjlcance of
       information sharing as a substantial factor to achieve sustainable development
       and to improve transparency and accountability in development." They further
       state that "he also stressed the signijkance of information sharingfor promoting
       public support to efforts designed to improve people's lives in developing
       countries."

   17. The third issue concerns impacts o f the reforms supported by the Grant. The
       Requesters state "according to the World Bank, the implementation of the
       Institutional Reform Program in Yemen will lead to soaring prices and the
       increased suffering of the poor in the Yemeni society. Poverty rate, currently
       running around 45% will increase by 9.2% up to a total of 54.2%." They add that
       the Program will reduce wages by 1.6% of the GDP. The Requesters question the
       reforms proposed by the Program stating that the "social cost" o f such reforms
       will be considerable and will result in an "increase in poverty and
       unemployment." They add that had the Program contents been disclosed earlier,
       civil society would have been able to contribute by providing recommendations in
       relation to the adoption o f fair tax policies and other options could have been
       proposed "to provide resources through anti-corruption measures and the
       adoption of quality policies to addresspoverty and unemployment."

   18. In the Notices o f Registration, the Panel noted that the above claims may, inter
       alia, constitute non-compliance by the Bank with various provisions o f the
       following Operational Policies and Procedures:

               OP/BP 8.60              Development Policy Lending
               World Bank Policy on Disclosure o f Information(June 2002)


D.     MANAGEMENT RESPONSE

   19. On May 19, 2009, Management submitted its Response to the Request for
       Inspection.l2


'*ManagementResponseto  Requestfor InspectionPanelReviewofthe Yemen; InstitutionalReform
DevelopmentPolicyGrant (Grant No. 336; YEM), May 19,2009.


                                             5

   20. Concerning the disclosure o f IRDPG documentation, Management states that it
       complied with the requirements o f applicable Bank policies, since the Program
       Document was disclosed on the Bank's external website on December 11,2007,
       within three working days of Board approval and hard copies o f the PD were
       available inthe Bank's Public Information Center in Sana'a.13 Management also
       stated that it was committed to facilitating access by the public to information
       disclosed by the Bank and has initiated translation o f the IRDPG Program
       Document into Arabic and will provide the translationto the Requesters andother
       stakeholders withinthree weeks.l4

   21. Concerning participation, Management stated that it agrees with the Requesters
       on the importance o f partnership with stakeholders as a substantial factor to
       achieve sustainable development and to improve transparency and accountability
       indevelopment. Management states that it is satisfied that the requirementunder
       OP 8.60 which requires the Bank to "advise borrowing countries to consult with
       and engage theparticipation of key stakeholders" was met. The Bank highlighted
       this requirement ina letter to the Government on December 5, 2006.15The Bank
       supported the Government's consultations on the design o f the overall policy
       agenda supported under the IRDPG. It adds that additionally, the Bank engaged in
       a three-fold set o f consultations: i)during IRDPG preparation in December 2006
       and March 2007; ii)sectoral consultations for each IRDPG component; and iii)
       consultations on related activities.l6

   22. Concerning the social impact o f measures supported under the IRDPG,
       Management states that the measures supported under the IRDPG are expected to
      have a positive social and poverty impact." The corporate income tax will reduce
       exemptions and loopholes and i s expected to increase fiscal revenues. The land
       registration law i s expected to strengthen land property rights. The new
      procurement law is designed to strengthen transparency and competition;
       experience in other countries indicates that this reduces the incidence o f
       corruption and lowers prices for publicly procured works, goods, and services.
       The independent audits o f oil and gas payments are unlikely to result inany social
       costs, but may instead increase fiscal revenues that could be used to improve
       living standards. And the civil service reform is expected to have an overall
      positive social impact and compensation packages for retrenchments and
      retirements are generous by international standards.l8

   23. Though Management believes that it had made every effort to apply its policies
      and procedures in the preparation of the IRDPG, it regretted two oversights in
      document preparation. These are the absence o f a description of the IRDPG
      consultation process in the PD and the late disclosure of the PID in the InfoShop


l3
 ManagementResponse, p. 18 para.56.
l4
 ManagementResponse, p. v para. 8 andp. 21para.64.
Is
 ManagementResponse, p. 11para. 37.
l6
 ManagementResponse, p. 12para. 39.
'*ManagementResponse,p.p.
l7                       19para.60.
 ManagementResponse,     19-20-21para.62.


                                              6

       by almost nine months. Management also believes that the Requesters' rights or
       interests have not been, nor will they be, directly and adversely affected by a
       failure of the Bank to implement its policies and procedure^.'^

   24. In addition, Management proposes to pursue and strengthen participation
       processes in support of reforms in Yemen, to provide a translation of the PD to
       the Requesters and other interested stakeholders by June 2009, to review and
       enhance the system to monitor effective compliance with the disclosure policy
       and translation practices of PIDs, PADS, and PDs within the MNA Region, to
       continue monitoring the risks associated with the IRDPG in consultation with
       stakeholders, and to invite the Requesters to meet in May or early June at their
       convenience with Bank representatives to inform them about plans for the
       translation and discuss their concerns and ways to strengthenpartnerships.20


E.     ELIGIBILITY

   25. The Panel must determine whether the Request satisfies the eligibility criteria for
       an Inspection, as set forth in the 1993 Resolution establishing the Panel and the
        1999                   andrecommendwhether the matters allegedinthe Requests
       should be investigated.

   26. The Panel has reviewed the Request and Management's Response. A Panel team,
       comprising of PanelMember Alf Jerve and OperationsOfficers Serge Selwanand
       Mishka Zaman visited Sana'a, Yemen, from June 9 through June 12, 2009.
       During the visit, the Panel team met with signatories of the Request for
       Inspection, representatives of local Authorities, Bank staff, and civil society
       organizations.

   27 The Panel wishes to express its appreciation to the Yemen Observatory for
       Human Rights and to officials of the Ministry of Planning and International
       Cooperation for sharing their views. The Panel also wishes to thank the World
       Bank Country Office in Sana'a for providing relevant information and assisting
       with logistical arrangements, and the Task Team Leader for briefing the Panel
       team on relevant aspects of the Program.

   28. During the visit, the Panel confirmed that the Requesters are legitimate parties
       under the Resolution to submit a Request for Inspection to the Inspection Panel.
       The Requesters are residents of Sana'a, Yemen, and have common interests and
       concerns as requiredby Paragraph9(a). Also, during the visit, the Panel met with
       seven civil society organizations that had signed the request for disclosure of



*'ManagementResponse,p. 23 para.69.
  ManagementResponse,p.22-23 para.68.
21Conclusionsofthe Board's SecondReviewofthe InspectionPanel(the "1999 Clurflcutions"), April
1999.


                                             7

     Program-related documents addressed to the Bank Office in Sana'a. These
     organizations expressedtheir support for the request for inspection.

29. The Panel notes that facts stated inthe Request"assert in substance that a serious
    violation by the Bank of its operational policies andprocedures.has or is likely to
    have a material adverse effect upon the requesters" as required by Paragraph
     9 w

30. The Panel considers that, in the context o f consultation, participation, and
     disclosure o f information with regards to Policy lending, the term "material
    adverse effect" includes the lack o f opportunity o f the Requesters to contribute to
    the preparation of the operation in question, and the adverse consequences that
     such lack o f opportunity can result in.

3 1. Inthat context, the organizations the Panel met during the mission allege that the
    reforms proposed under the Program lacked credibility because o f the manner in
    which they were put together. They further hoped for "real participation in
    reforms because of the impact they would have on the country."

32. The civil society organizations the Panel met with in Sanaa confirmed that they
    were not involved in the consultation process leading to the design o f this DPL.
    The Requesters asserted that "up until now civil society had been sidelined in
    consultations, and only during the preparation of the new Country Assistance
    Strategy and the Disclosure Policy review [inMarch 20091 had there been good
    consultations." They added that these reforms are viewed as "one-size fits all,
    taken$+omEastern European cases and the poorest will bear the most burden."
    Furthermore, they stated that they had suggestions on "other ways to increase
    revenues" andto avoid the adverse impact that could result o f these reforms.

33. The Requesters asserted that the Bank's refusal to translate the Program
    Document i s an "obscure" way o f operating that may have caused direct harm to
    the Yemeni civil society and population. They claimed that the way this operation
    was prepared did not enable them and other organizations o f civil society in
    Yemento contribute effectively to its design.

34. The 1999 Clarifications further provide that the Panel shall satisfy itself that the
    Request "does assert that the subject matter has been brought to Management's
    attention and that, in the requester's view, Management has failed to respond
    adequately demonstrating that it has followed or is taking steps to follow the
    Bank'spolicies andprocedures" as set forth inParagraph9(c).

35. During the Panel's visit, as stated in the documents attached to the Request, the
    Requesters reiterated to the Panel the attempts they made to the Bank's Country
    Office to receive the documents relevant to this Policy Grant. They stated that the
    initial response o f the Bank was positive, andthe Bank sent them the document in
    its original language in English. However, because o f their inability to read



                                           8

         English, they requested a translation into Yemen's national language, Arabic. The
         Country Office responded saying it was "busy with other commitments" and finds
         it difficult to do the translation. Nevertheless, over twenty different organizations
         petitionedthe Country Office to reconsider translating the document, to no avail.

     36. The Panel is, therefore, satisfied that the Requestersbrought the Request's subject
         matter to Management's attention, and that the Requesters consider that
         Management failed to respond adequately.

     37. The Panel notes that the subject matter o f the Request i s not related to
         procurement, as requiredby Paragraph9(d).

     38. As stated earlier, the Grant was approved by the IDA Board o f Executive
         Directors on December 6, 2007. The expected closing date o f the Grant is June
         30, 2010. As o f April 13, 2009, $25.47 million, or 50 percent, o f the Grant had
         been disbursed. Hence, the Request satisfies the requirement in paragraph 9(e)
         that the related grant i s neither closed nor substantially disbursed.22

     39. Additionally, the Panel has not previously made a recommendation on the subject
         matter o f the Request,thereby satisfying paragraph 9(f).


F.       OBSERVATIONS

     40. The Panel observes that the Requesters raise three main issues in relation to the
         Bank's obligations as per requirements relatedto consultationandparticipationin
         therelevantPolicies (OP 1-00,OP 8.60, andDisclosureofInformation).

     41. Firstly, the Bank was not forthcoming when the Requesters asked for a copy o f
         the PD in Arabic. Secondly, the Requesters assertedthat the preparation process
         o f the IRDPG did not give civil society organizations and other non-governmental
         stakeholders adequate opportunities to debate and potentially influence the design
         o f the Program supported by the Grant. Thirdly, they allege that the reforms listed
         in the Program will not be beneficial, arguing that important elements of it are
         likely to result in increased levels of poverty, with reference in particular to the
         removal o f fuel subsidies and a possible increase in taxes as a result o f the
         proposed income tax reforms.

     42. Regarding thefirst issue, the Panel notes that the Bank has taken action and that
         translation o f the PD to Arabic has been carried out. The Requesters confirm
         receipt o f the document on June 8,2009. It is the view o f the Panel, as well as the
         Requesters, that this issue has been resolved.




22Accordingto the 1993 Resolution, "[tlhis will be deemedtobe the case when at least ninetyfivepercent
of the loanproceeh have been disbursed." Footnote to fj14(c).


                                                    9

    43. Regarding the second issue, the Panel notes there are sharply differing views o f
        the Requesters and the Management. The Management holds the view that the
        requirements under OP 8.60 pertaining to consultation were met. The Requesters
        in meetings argued that the consultation process had been inadequate, and gave
        preference to organizations that were uncritical o f the reform program. The Panel
        notes that the issues raised inthe Request related to participation and consultation
        are not restricted to the signatories o f the Request alone. They were also o f
        interest and concern to the civil society organizations the Panel met during the
        visit, most of whom were also part of the earlier correspondence with the Bank's
        Country Office. The Panel, however, recorded satisfaction o f the Requesters with
        the consultation process that took place inMarch 2009 with regardsto other Bank
        activities.

    44. Regarding the third issue, the Panel notes that when it met with the Requesters
        they hadjust received the Arabic translation o f the PD. Although they had earlier
        expressed an opinion that these reforms could result inharm, they were reluctant
        to express definitive views on the extent o f the potential harmbefore having had
        time to carefully review the document.

    45. The Panel notes that OP 8.60 requires the Bank to advise the Government to
        consult and engage with key stakeholders during the development of a DPL, to
        describe the consultative process and its outcome inthe PD, and to make relevant
        analytical work available to the public as part o f the consultation process. It also
        requires the Bank to analyze consequences on the poor and vulnerable, to
        summarize this analysis in the PD, and describe how issues identified would be
        addressed.

   46. Furthermore, the Panel observes that the issue o f removing fuel subsidies is only
        indirectly linked to the IRDPG. The Grant Agreement itself does not include any
        relevant tranche actions (triggers), while the Letter o f Development Policy
        confirms that reductions in fuel subsidies are being planned and will be
        implemented"awaiting reforms to strengthen socialprotection schemes".23


   G.        RECOMMENDATION

   47. Regardingthejrst issue raisedby the Request, the Panel notes that the translation
        in Arabic of the PD was provided to the Requesters. Furthermore, the
        Management Response adequately explains the circumstances o f the Bank's
        actions and omissions in this regard. The Panel therefore, sees no need for an
        investigation o f this matter.




23ProgramDocument,RepublicofYemen: InstitutionalReformDevelopmentPolicyGrant, November6,
2007, Letter o f DevelopmentPolicy, Annex 1 Current ReformPrograminYemen: Objectives and
                                           -
Progress,p, iv.


                                                10

48. Regarding the second and third issues, the Panel notes that the Requesters see
   them to be linked. Concerning the adequacy of participation and consultation with
   key stakeholders related to this Program, the Panel would need to conduct an
    appropriate review o f relevant facts and applicable Bank policies and procedures
    in order to ascertain compliance or lack thereof. This can only be done in the
    context o f an investigationo f the points raised inthe Request.

49. In view o f the foregoing, the Panel recommends that the Board o f Executive
   Directors approves an investigation into the matters raised in the Request for
   Inspection. Considering that Management has provided a translation into Arabic
   o f the Program Document and thus resolved that issue, the investigation will not
   focus on this matter.




                                           11


     Annex 1



Requestfor Inspection




EnglishTranslation of
Requestfor Inspection


Mr.Executive Secretary ofthe InspectionPanel

We, the Yemen Observatory for HumanRights, a key civil society organizationinthe
Republic of Yemen, have incurred and will probably continue to incur damages as a
result of the information blackout policy practiced by the World Bank Office in
Yemen and its refusal to disclose information related to the "Institutional Reform
Program in Yemen" mutually signed by representatives of the World Bank Board of
Directors andthe Yemeni Governmenton December6,2007.

However, even after its signature by both the Government and the World Bank, the
program remained opaque to the public. Following pressures and several requests by
the civil society and help from the Bank Information Center (BIC) in Washington,
only the English version of the Program was disclosed. However, the Bank office in
Sana'a refused to give us a translated copy into Arabic or to cooperate with civil
society to get it translated.

According to the World Bank, the implementation of the Institutional Reform
Program in Yemen will lead to soaring prices and the increasedsuffering of the poor
in the Yemeni society. Poverty rate, currently running around 45% will increase by
9.2% up to a total of 54.2%, and this being the real rate of poverty in Yemen and not
the false information generally published by official authorities in Yemen. The
Program also includes a reduction in wages by 1.6% of the GDP. We question these
reforms, ifthey result inan increase inpoverty and unemployment.The social cost of
suchreformswill bevery exorbitant.Hadthe Programcontents beendisclosedbefore,
the civil society would have beenable to contributeby providing recommendationsin
relation to the adoption of fair tax policies whereby the society segments with higher
incomes would bear a bigger portion of the reform costs. Further, other options could
have been proposed to provide resources through anti-corruption measures and the
adoption of quality policies to address poverty andunemployment, etc.

We believe that the World Bank and its Sana'a Office have violated the principle of
partnership which the World Bank adopts and calls for its promotion with civil
society. There is also a violation to the principle of transparency and disclosure of
information. In addition, the lack of translations is in contrary to the principle of
information sharing emphasized by Mr. James Wolfensohn, the former President of
the World Bank, inhis introductionto the policy of disclosure dated June 2002 where
he stressed the significance of information sharing as a substantial factor to achieve
sustainable development and to improve transparency and accountability in
development. He also stressed the significance of information sharing for promoting
public support to efforts designedto improve people's lives in developing countries.

We submitted several complaints and requests to the managementof the World Bank
office in Sana'a, initially through telephone communications followed by the attached
written correspondenceas shown below:

    -  On 16thJanuary 2008, 11 Yemeni organizations submitted a request to the
       Bank office in Sana'a to obtain a complete copy o f the Institutional Reform
       Program and its translation.
    -  On 20'    January 2008, we received a reply from the country manager in
       Yemen apologizing for not beingable to provide the translation on grounds o f
       being very busy with other issues. We considered that reply unsatisfactory
       because their excuse was not convincing as we knew for a certainty that they
       had a translated copy, since we are almost positive that few Government
       officials are familiar with the English language. Further, we believe that the
       Bank Office's refusal to deal with us falls under one explanation, Le. it is in
       line with Government in its policy o f information blackout and isolation
       imposed on civil society in Yemen.
    -  On 30' January 2008, 25 Yemeni organizations again addressed the Bank
       country manager in Yemen to confirm their previous request for a complete
       copy o f the Program in Arabic. However, that time, we receive no response to
       our request and all our communications and letters were ignored.

We, at the Yemen Observatory for Human Rights, ask the esteemed Inspection Panel
to make a recommendation to the World Bank Board o f Executive Directors to
authorize an investigation o fthe issues o fthis complaint.

Name: Abdelkader Ali Abdallah, DeputyExecutiveDirector o f the Yemen
Observatory for HumanRights.

Name: Yahya Saleh Mohsen, Head o fthe Transparency and Anti-Corruption Unit in
the Yemen observatory for HumanRights.

Date: 10' April 2009



Signatures

Email Addresses

YahvaOOz@,vahoo.com

AIbanna002@,yahoo.com

observatorv@,maktoob.com

Attachments



                                                              January 20,2008




C8bk radrbr8: IMBAFIW) FTCC OZs(l7 MCI NO423 WUI 04146 TRT 107WO CI#. Addmr; INOEVM
                                  9

January 20,2008


DearRespectedMembersofCivil SocietyOrganizations

Subiect: Pm-iectdocument for the InstitutionalPolicyReform Develoument pTLu?f

The World Bank office in Sana'a would like to express its warmest greetingsand thank
you for your increasinginterest inthe documentsofthe World Bank'sprojectsin Yemen,
This interestshows a high level of awarenessof your own role in accelerating the
developmentprocess.

Concerningyour requestdated01/16/2008, we would like to inform you that the project
document for the Institutional Policy ReformDevelopmentgrant         - likeallotherproject
documents   - isavailableonly in English, since this is the official languageto beused in
all the transactionsand contractsbetweenthe Government ofthe Republic of Yemen and
the World Bank,as well as all the other international financial institutions.This
notwithstanding,the World Bankendeavorsto translateas many reportsand publications
issuedby the World BankGroup into Arabic as possible in order to guarantee a higher
levelofaccessibility.

However, we find it extremelydifficulty to translate all the documentsand publications.
'Therefore,we apologizefor not being able to translate this document at this time, given
that we are busy with other commitments. We hope you would be able to do the
&anslation yourselves. In the meantime, we would like to stress our commitment to make
accessibleall the documents andpublicationsavailable to us on the World Bank's
activitiesin Yemen. We are also readyto provideyou again with the Englishversion of
the document in question.

BestRegards,

MustafaRouis
Manager, World BankOffice in Yemen


.5

  Jan. 30,2008

  DearDr.MustafaRouis
  World Bank, Yemen country manager


  Thecivil society organizationsofferyoutheir sinceregreetings, andwould liketo let you
  knowthat they receivedyour letter datedJan.20,2008, andappreciateyour quick replyto
  our letter requestingthe translationintoArabic of the InstitutionalReformProgramthat
  was approvedby the WorldBank's BoardofDirectorsinWashington D.C. on Dec.6,
  2007.

  We also appreciateyour interest andyour understandingofthe importanceofthe rolethat
  the civil society organizations, together withother differenttypes ofcivil actors, are
  supposedto playto acceleratethe economic and social developmentprocess.

  Civil society organizatio,nsunderstandquite wellthe importanceandthe volumeofthe
  rolethe WorldBank is playingthe economic reformand integratedandsustainable
  development processes, includingthe projectspostedon itswebsite inthe field of
  education, portcities, irrigation, energy, publicworks, localities...etc.However, we
  stress that postingthose projects only inEnglishlimit excessively our ability to
  participateeffectivelyandactively.

  While civil society organizationsunderstandwhat you mentioned inyou letter about the
  difficultiesyou face to translate those projectsand documentsintoArabic, we still hope
  that you wouldkindlyapplythe measuresthat ensure the transparencyand accessibility
  to those programdocuments, especiallyby providingus withthe institutionalreform
  programinArabic.. ..This will definitelyreinforcethe partnershipbetweenus in sharing
  the responsibilityandperformingour expectedroletowards the presentcauses and future
  challengesfacingour country.

  We trust that you are lookingfor a completepartnershipwith us, in all itsforms..   ..
  Lookingforwardto more fruitful cooperation for the publicgood,
  BestRegards,

                       Replyto the Yemen Observatory for HumanRights.Fax :514607. E-mail
                       observatory@,maktoob.com


  (A tablewith the namesofthe 25 organizations, their representativesandtheir
  signatures)




6

     Annex 2



Management Response


                            MANAGEMENT RESPONSETO
                REQUESTFOR INSPECTIONPANELREVIEW OFTHE
       YEMEN: INSTITUTIONAL REFORMDEVELOPMENTPOLICY GRANT
                                 (Grant No. 336-YEM)

Management has reviewedthe Request for Inspection ofthe Institutional ReformDevelopment
Policy Grant (Grant No. H336-YEM), receivedby the Inspection Panelon April 13,2009 and
registeredon April 20,2009 (RQ 09/05). Managementhas preparedthe following response.


Yemen


                                                          Contents

Abbreviations and Acronyms           .........................................................................................      ...
                                                                                                                                    111

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY                .............................................................................................      iv
I INTRODUCTION             ....................................................................................................      1
I1 THE REQUEST                                                                                                                       1
I11 CONTEXT AND BACKGROUND
 ...                   .......................................................................................................
                                                        ........................................................................     2
      CountryBackground         ...............................................................................................      2
      Yemen's ReformProgram               ......................................................................................     3
      Bank's BroaderEngagementWith Yemen                             .............................................................   4
      The IRDPG   .............................................................................................................      5
      IRDPGComponents           ...............................................................................................      6
      Summaryof Triggers         ..............................................................................................      7
      IRDPGMilestones        ..................................................................................................      8
      Status ofImplementation          ........................................................................................      9
I V MANAGEMENT RESPONSE
  .                                              .............................................................................     11
      Partnershipwith Stakeholders             ...............................................................................     11
      Disclosureof IRDPGDocumentation                        ..................................................................    17
      Social Impact of MeasuresSupportedunder the IRDPG                                      ..................................... 19
      Communicationswith the Requesters                     ...................................................................    21
V . ACTION PLAN       ......................................................................................................       22

Annexes

Annex 1      Claims andResponses
Annex 2      DetailedInformationon Consultations
Annex 3...   Yemen 2006-2009 Country Assistance StrategyResultsMatrix
Annex 4      BibliographyofAnalytical Work Underpinningthe IRDPG
Annex 5..    Letter fromthe Bank's Acting Country Directorto the Governmentof Yemenon
             StakeholderConsultations
Annex 6.     Governmentof Yemen's Letter of DevelopmentPolicyfor the IRDPG
Annex 7      LegalTexts on Civil Society ParticipationinYemen
Annex 8..    EnglishandArabic Versions ofthe IRDPGProgramInformationDocument

Map 1.       IBRDNo.36931 Republicof Yemen InstitutionalReformDevelopmentPolicy
             Financing.Requestfor Inspection:ManagementResponse




                                                                 ii

                                     Institutional Reform Development Policy Grant




         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BIC       Bank Information Center
BP        Bank Procedures
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CPIA      Country Policy and Institutional Assessment
CSA       Country Social Analysis
DPPR      Development Plan for Poverty Reduction
DPR       Development Policy Review
EITI      Extractive IndustriesTransparency Initiative
FIAS       Foreign Investment Advisory Service
GDP        Gross Domestic Product
GSD        General ServicesDepartment
HATC       High Authority for Tender Control
IBRD       International Bank for Reconstruction andDevelopment
ICA        Investment Climate Assessment
IDA        International Development Association
IFC        International Finance Corporation
IMF        International Monetary Fund
IPN        Inspection Panel
IRDPG      Institutional Reform Development Policy Grant
JSAN       Joint StaffAssessment Note
LPTF       LandPolicy Task Force
MGGM       Matrix of Good GovernanceMeasures
MNA        Middle East andNorthAfrica Region
NGO       Nongovernmental organization
NRA        NationalRefomAgenda
OP         Operational Policy
PA         Poverty Assessment
PAD        Project Appraisal Document
PD         ProgramDocument
PID        Program Information Document
PRSP       Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
SDR        Special DrawingRights
           SupremeNational Authority for Combating Corruption
us
SNACC
           UnitedStates
USAID      UnitedStates Agency for International Development
YR         Yemeni Rial

         CurrencyEquivalent(as ofMay 18,2009)
                     US$1= YR200.70




                             iii

Yemen


                                    EXECUTIVESUMMARY

Background

1.      On April 20, 2009, the Inspection Panel registered the Request for Inspection, IPN
Request RQ09/05 concerning the Republic o f Yemen Institutional Reform Development Policy
Grant (Grant No. H336-YEM) (IRDPG) financed by the International Development Association
(the Bank).

2.      Management understands that the Requesters have stated as follows: (i)the Bank
Country Office in Sana'a refused to disclose information about the IRDPG and, in particular, to
provide the Requesters with an Arabic translation o f the IRDPG Program Document; (ii)the
Bank violated the principle o f partnership with civil society; (iii)implementation o f the IRDPG
would lead to soaring prices and to increasedpoverty inYemen; and (iv) timely disclosure o f the
IRDPG's contents would have allowed civil society to help mitigate this impact. This Request
contains claims that the Panel has indicated may constitute violations of certain of the Bank's
policies and procedures, specifically: (i)  OPBP 8.60 "Development Policy Lending;" and (ii)
World Bank Policy on Disclosure o f Information dated June 2002.

Context

3.      Thepoorest country in the Middle East and North Africa (MNA) region, Yemenfaces
daunting challenges in theface of rapid depletion of its oil reserves. With a GDP per capita o f
US$930, living conditions for most o f the 22 million Yemenis remain difficult and progress
towards the Millennium Development Goals is slow. In 2007, oil represented about one-third o f
GDP, three-quarters o f Government revenuesand 90 percent o fexports, butreserves are expected to
be exhausted in the next 10 to 15 years - and the corresponding revenues are already declining.
There is a consensus that the country needs to diversify its economy and improve governance to
providejobs and deliver services for a populationthat is growing at over 3 percent per year.

4.      The IRDPG supports the implementation of key elements of the country's overall
development agenda. As specified in the 2006 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), the IRDPG
focuses on: (i)increasing non-oil growth; and (ii)strengthening governance. Triggers for the
release o f the two financing tranches cover specific policy actions infive areas:

      Corporate income tax: improve the business environment through a revision o f the
      corporate income tax code in line with international best practice (reduced tax rates,
      reduced discretion intax administration, risk-based audits, etc.);

      Land registration: improve protection o fproperty rightsthrough the development o f a new
      land registration law and corresponding capacity building;

      Procurement reform: strengthen transparency and competition through the development o f
      a new procurement law and the establishment o f a HighAuthority for Tender Control;

      Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI): enhance transparency in the oil and
      gas sectors through accession to EITI, and the publication o f independent audits o f oil and
      gas payments and corresponding Government revenues;


                                                iv

                                                                 Institutional Reform Development Policy Grant



(v)   Civil service reform: support efforts to rationalize public service through completion o f the
      civil service census (and elimination o f ghost workers and double dippers), continued
      implementation o f the 2005 Wage Law (which provides for substantial salary increases
      linked to reform objectives), and continued implementation o f the program o f managed
      retirements and retrenchments launched in2005.

Partnershipwith Stakeholders

5 .     Management agrees with the Requesters on the importance of partnership with
stakeholders as a substantial factor to achieve sustainable development and to improve
transparency and accountability indevelopment.

6.      Management is satisfied that the requirement under OP 8.60for the Bank to "advise
borrowing countries to consult with and engage the participation of key stakeholders" was
met. The Bank highlightedthis requirement in a letter to the Government on December 5, 2006.
The Bank supported the Government's consultations on the design of the overall policy agenda
supported under the IRDPG.' Inaddition, the Bank engaged ina three-fold set o f consultations:

(i)    Consultationsduring IRDPG preparation in December 2006 and March 2007 (a member
       o f the Advisory Committee o fthe Yemen Observatory for Human Rightswas invited);

(ii) Sectoral consultations that provided the analytical underpinnings for each IRDPG
       component;2 and

(iii)Consultationsonrelatedactivities.

Disclosureof IRDPG Documentation

7.      Disclosure of the IRDPG Program Document complied with the requirements of
applicableBank policies. The Program Document was disclosed on the Bank's external website
on December 11, 2007, within three working days o f Board approval. Hard copies o f the PD
were available inthe Bank's Public Information Center in Sana'a.

8.      Management is committed tofacilitating access by thepublic to information disclosed
by the Bank. Management is sensitive to the importance o f translations into Arabic, even when
such translations are not required under the Disclosure Policy (as is the case with Program
Documents). Management has initiated translation o f the IRDPG Program Document and will
provide the translation to the Requesters and other stakeholders within three weeks.



'Consultations on the Third Socio-economicDevelopment Plan for PovertyReduction(DPPR) in late 2004 through
2006; onthe National Reform Agenda (NRA); and on the Matrix of Good GovernanceMeasures(MGGM).
 Consultations on corporateincometax reform inJanuary and May 2007; on landregistrationreform inFebruary
and September 2005; on procurementreform between March and June 2007; and on EITIinAugust 2007; as well as
work accomplishedas part ofthe drafting ofthe 2002 law on the Civil ServiceFund, the 2005 Wage Law, andthe
2006 Card Law.
 Consultationson 2006 CAS inNovember 2005 and March2006, InvestmentClimate Assessment in June 2006,
DevelopmentPolicy Review and Country SocialAnalysis inJune 2007, and Poverty Assessment inDecember2007.



                                                     V

Yemen


9.       Management regrets to report that the Program Information Document (PID) was
mistakenly not disclosed in the InfoShop in a timely manner. This was corrected within three
working days after the Bank was alerted to the mistake. An Arabic translation o f the PID had
beenmade available duringIRDPGappraisal inSana'a.

SocialImpactofMeasuresSupportedunder the IRDPG

10.      Based on the information available in the Request, it is difficult for Management to
evaluate to what extent or how the rights and interests of the Requesters may have been
affected. The Requesters state that "they have incurred and will probably continue to incur
damages" and that the program supported under the IRDPG "will lead to soaring prices and the
increased suffering o f the poor inthe Yemeni society." The Request suggests that the complaint
i s made on behalf o f the public at large. The IRDPG Program Document includes an analysis o f
the expected poverty and social impact (as required under OP 8.60). Implementation is not
expected to have an inflationary impact or to result in increased poverty. The Requesters do not
make reference to material adverse effects as a result o f the specific policy actions that are first
or second tranche release triggers for the IRDPGS4

11.      The measures supported under the IXDPG are expected to have a positive social and
poverty impact:

       Corporate income tax: by reducing exemptions and loopholes, the measures are expected to
       increase fiscal revenues (in spite o f the effective tax rate reduction), and hence resources
       for social services delivery; these reforms are not expected to directly affect the poor;

       Land registration: the measures are expected to strengthen land property rights; best-
       practice safeguards (and continued attention during implementation) are part o f the IRDPG
       to ensure that these measures are not implemented ina way that disadvantages the poor;

       Procurement: the new procurement law is designed to strengthen transparency and
       competition; experience in other countries indicates that this reduces the incidence o f
       corruption and lowers prices for publicly procuredworks, goods, and services;

       EITI: independent audits o f oil and gas payments are unlikely to result in any social costs,
       but may instead increase fiscal revenues that could be usedto improve living standards;

       Civil service reform: (a) completion o f the civil service census is expected to have an
       overall positive social impact; (b) implementation o f the 2005 Wage Law has already
       resulted in substantial salary increases for civil servants (by up to 80 percent o f base salary
       for those at the lowest level); and (c) compensation packages for retrenchments and
       retirements are generous by international standards (about seven years o f salary for
       retrenched workers; pensionequivalent to 90 percent o f last income for retirees).




 Paragraph 10of OP 8.60 refersto the needfor considerationof poverty and social impacts for "specific country
policiessupportedby the operation." The poverty and social impacts ofthe Government's broader development
program fall beyondthe scope ofthis policy.


                                                      vi


                                 I.INTRODUCTION

1.     On April 20, 2009, the Inspection Panel registered the Requestfor Inspection,
IPN Request RQ09/05 (hereafterreferredto as the "Request"), concerningthe Republic
of Yemen Institutional Reform Development Policy Grant (Grant No. H336-YEM)
(hereafter referred to as the "IRDPG") financed by the International Development
Association (the Bank). Bank Management has prepared this Response addressing the
Requestfor Inspection.

2.     Structure of the text. Section I1 presents a summary of Management's
understanding of the subject of the Request for Inspection. Section I11provides some
background information on the IRDPG and other contextual elements. Section IV
contains the detailed Management Response to the Request for Inspection. Finally,
Section V lays out a detailed Action Plan of recent and intendedmeasures by the Bank
which relate to the concernsraisedby the Requesters.Additional informationis included
inthe followingannexes:

       Annex I presents the Requesters' claims, together with Management's responses
       to the Requestfor Inspection, intable format;
       Annex 2 provides available information on each consultation referred to in the
       document;
       Annex 3 providesthe resultsmatrix o f the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for
       2006-2009, which includesthe measures supportedunderthe IRDPG;
       Annex 4 providesa bibliographyof analyticalwork underpinningthe IRDPG;
       Annex 5 presents a letter datedDecember 5,2006, from the World Bank's Acting
       Country Director for Yemen to the Government of Yemen on stakeholder
       consultations;
       Annex 6 providesthe Government's Letter of DevelopmentPolicyfor the IRDPG;
       Annex 7 provides the legal texts organizing civil society participationunder the
       new procurement law and the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative
       (EITI); and
       Annex 8 provides the English and Arabic versions of the IRDPG Program
       InformationDocument(PID).




                                 11.THE REQUEST

3.     The Requestfor Inspection was submitted by Mr. Abdelkader Ali Abdallah and
Mr. Yahya Saleh Mohsen, on their behalf and on behalf of the Yemen Observatoryfor
Human Rights (hereafter referredto as the "Requesters"). Attached to the Request was
correspondence related to the case, including an exchange of letters between the

Yemen


Requesters and the Bank (letter from the Requestersto the Bank dated January 16, 2008;
letter from the Bank to the Requesters dated January 20, 2008; letter from the Requesters
to the Bank dated January 30, 2008). No further materials were received by Management
insupport ofthe Request.

4.      Management understands that the Requesters claim that they have incurred
and willprobably continueto incur damages as a result of theBank'sfailure to comply
with its policies on transparency and disclosure o f information with respect to the
IRDPG.

5 .     Specifically, Management understands that the Requesters have stated as
follows: (i)the Bank Country Office in Sana'a (the Country Office) refused to disclose
information about the IRDPG and, inparticular, to provide the Requesters with an Arabic
translation o f the IRDPG Program Document (PD); (ii)the Bank violated the principle o f
partnership with civil society; (iii)the social costs o f the reforms supported under the
IRDPG would be "very exorbitant," with the Bank's own analysis indicating that
implementation o f the IRDPG would lead to soaring prices and to an increase in the
poverty rate from 45 to 54.2 percent o f the population; (iv) timely disclosure o f the
IRDPG's contents would have allowed civil society to help mitigate this impact (in
particular by providing recommendations on the adoption o f fair tax policies, the
provision o f resources through anti-corruption measures, and the adoption o f adequate
policies on poverty and unemployment); and (v) the Country Office replied in an
unsatisfactory manner to a letter dated January 16, 2008, and failed to reply to a letter
dated January 30,2008.

6.      This Request contains claims that the Panel has indicated may constitute
violations o f certain o fthe Bank's policies andprocedures, specifically:

            OPBP 8.60 "Development Policy Lending"; and
            World Bank Policy on Disclosure o f Information dated June 2002.




                           111. CONTEXTAND BACKGROUND

COUNTRYBACKGROUND

7.       Thepoorest country in the MNA region, Yemenfaces daunting circumstances
in an uncertain global and regional environment. With a GDP per capita o f US$930,
living conditions for most o f Yemen's 22 million citizens remain hard and progress
towards the MillenniumDevelopment Goals is slow.

8.      The depletion of Yemen's oil reserves poses difficult challenges. In 2007, oil
representedabout one-third o f GDP, three-quarters o f Government revenues and 90 percent
o f exports. However, reserves are being depleted rapidly (the life o f the reserves is
currently estimated at 10 to 15 years). Inthis context, fiscal sustainability is the foremost
macroeconomic issue because the reduction in oil revenues i s not sufficiently


                                               2

                                                         Institutional Reform Development Policy Grant


compensated for by increased revenuesfrom other sources (tax revenues remain very low
at an estimated 7.3 percent o f GDP in 2007). Government spending is driven by a large
public sector wage bill (10.9 percent o f GDP in 2007) and unsustainably high fuel
subsidies (around 9.3 percent o f GDP in 2007). The country is facing increasing
difficulties in financing a large public deficit (between 5 and 6 percent of GDP in 2007
and 2008), without an adverse effect on the economy and the delivery o f social services.

9.        There is a consensus that the country needs to diversify its economy both to
ensure fiscal sustainability and to providejobs for a population that is growing rapidly at
over 3 percent per year. A number o f studies conducted by the Bank-for                   example, the
Investment Climate Assessment (ICA) completed in 2006, Development Policy Review
(DPR) completed in 2007-suggest             that successful diversification will require significant
improvements inboth the business environment and economic governance.

10.       Yemen'spolitical system is aformal multi-party democratic system. There is a
relatively free press, and an active political opposition. The 2006 presidential elections
were called by the European Union Election Observation Mission "an open and genuine
contest," despite "important shortcomings.'' Parliament is active and has shown
independence from the executive.

11.       The underlying social structure is based largely on a tribal system, where the
power o f traditional leaders places limits on State authority. Many public institutions are
relatively weak, as reflected in the low Country Policy and Institutional Assessment
(CPIA) score,' which stands at 3.2. The weaknesses pointed out in the CPIA relate to
issues o f capacity, corruption, and staffing inthe civil service, as well as to the persisting
needto clarify institutional mandates and structures.

12.       Yemenisociety is going through a transformation. The role o f the private sector
and civil society is growing. In this mountainous country, the valleys, in which a large
part o f the population lives, have been severely isolated until recently. Today, the forces
o f urbanization and modernization are challenging some o f the long-entrenched features
o f the traditional order.

YEMEN'SREFORMPROGRAM

13.       Over thepast ten years, the Government has set out an ambitious visionfor the
country's development, with greater emphasis on diversifying the economy through
private sector-led activities, enhancing governance, improving social conditions, and
effectively managing natural resources than previously expressed in Yemen. These goals
were articulated in the "Strategic Vision 2025" (published in 2000), which was prepared
inconsultation with stakeholders at central and local levels.

14.       Since 2006, the Government has engaged in a broadprogram of reforms, which
were discussed inthe Third Socio-economic Development Plan for Poverty Reduction for
2006 to 2010 (DPPR). The DPPR was prepared by the Government through a
' The CPIA score  is an indicator developedby the World Bank to assess the quality of economic policy and
institutions.Scores range from 1 (low) to 5 (high).


                                                    3

Yemen


participatory process, and is serving as the country's Second Poverty Reduction Strategy
Paper (PRSP). The DPPR was presented at the November 2006 Consultative Group
meeting in London, where it was well received by the donor community. The DPPR is
built on eight pillars: (i)macroeconomic policies and targets; (ii)good governance; (iii)
development o f productive and promising sectors; (iv) water, environment, and basic
infrastructure; (v) human development; (vi) Government services; (vii) social safety net,
social protection, and social security; and (viii) women's empowerment. A Joint Staff
Assessment Note (JSAN) on the DPPR was finalized on May 16,2006.

15.     The DPPR was operationalized through the National Reform Agenda (NRA),
the Matrix of Good Governance Measures (MGGM), and the Public Investment
Program. The NRA sets a broad agenda o f priority reforms for the country to accelerate
economic     growth,    improve economic       governance,    broaden opportunities     and
participation, and strengthen cooperation with development partners. It focuses in
particular on the following issues: (i)judicial reform; (ii)administrative reforms and civil
service modernization; (iii)investment and business climate; (iv) anticorruption,
transparency, and accountability; and (v) political reforms. The MGGMprovides a more
specific action plan for implementingthe NRA priorities, including legislative measures
and a greater focus on the rule o f law and political participation. The Public Investment
Program identifiespriority investmentsinsupport o fthe DPPR.

BANK'SBROADER       ENGAGEMENT YEMEN  WITH

16.     As one of Yemen's major development partners, the Bank has developed a solid
program o f financial support, analytical work, and technical assistance. In an
environment where a number o f other donors and financiers are active, the Bank is also
playing an important convening role. For example, the Bank organized and co-chaired the
November 2006 meetingo f the Consultative Group in London, during which about US$5
billion was pledged, and continues to co-chair the follow-up stocktaking meetings (June
2007, February 2008, and April 2009).

17.     I n December 2007, at the time of IRDPG approval, Bank assistance was being
provided within the context of a CAS covering the period from 2006 to 2009. The CAS,
prepared through an intensive consultation process, was discussed by the Board in June
2006. The program outlined in the CAS aimed to support key elements o f the
Government's reform agenda as articulated inthe DPPR:

        Diversifiing growth through better governance and better delivery of public
        services, with a focus on: (i)businessregulatory environment; (ii)road and power
        infrastructure; (iii)skills improvement through technical education and vocational
        training and higher education; and (iv) support to selected sectors (rainfed and
        irrigated agriculture, fisheries, manufacturing, and natural gas);
        Improving human development through more eflcient service delivery and
        improved safety nets, with a focus on: (i)access to, equity and quality o f basic
        education; (ii)access to and quality o f health services; (iii)safety net programs;
        and (iv) water supply and sanitation;



                                              4

                                                    Institutional Reform Development Policy Grant


        Increasing fiscal     sustainability   through       improved public       expenditure
        management, with a focus on: (i)revenue transparency; (ii)expenditure
        management (including through reducing fuel subsidies); (iii)public sector
        reform; (iv) public procurement; and (v) public financial management; and
        Increasing resource sustainability through improved management of water
        resources and reducedpopulation pressure.

18.      The CAS identified a series of instruments to support this agenda, including a
program o f financial assistance o f about US$lOS million a year (with a focus on
infrastructure, education, agriculture and fisheries, and institutional reform); and
comprehensive analytical work, such as the DPR, ICA, Country Social Analysis (CSA),
and Poverty Assessment (PA), which was often reflected in the design o f Government
programs; and targeted technical assistance. The IRDPG was part of this program and
was explicitly described in the CAS. The CASResults Matrix references the entire set
of measures that are triggersfor disbursementof the IRDPG (see Annex 3).

THEIRDPG

19.     The IRDPG supports the implementation of key elements of the country's
development agenda. As specified inthe CAS, the IRDPGfocuses on two aspects o f the
broader country strategy: (i) increasing non-oil growth; and (ii) strengthening
governance. The IRDPG also aims to helpthe Government make progress towards fiscal
sustainability. Actions selected for Bank support under the IRDPG were based on three
criteria: (i)the likely impact o f those reforms; (ii)the likelihood o f success; and (iii)the
ability to identify and monitor specific actions that could be achieved in the short term in
furtherance o fthe reform agenda.

20.     Specifically, the IRDPG is designed to:

        Support non-oil growth through investment climate reforms by:
        - Rationalizingthe incentive framework (by harmonizingtreatment ofincome,
            expenses, and investment with international standards);
        - Strengthening property rights (by reducing ambiguity of land titling and
            improving public management o f land registration); and
        Strengthengovernance andpublicfinancial managementthrough:
        - Procurement reforms that increase transparency and accountability and
            separate policy-making from administrative functions;
        - Increased transparency of oil revenues, as would be realized through
            accession to the EITI; and
        - Support to the civil service reform strategy, especially wage policies,
            retrenchments, and the establishment o f a biometric database o f public
            employees.




                                              5

Yemen


21.     The IRDPG is a two-tranche Development Policy Grant of SDR 33.30 million
(US$50.93 million equivalent). The first tranche (SDR 16.65 million, US$25.47 million
equivalent) was made available upon effectiveness of the Grant Agreement. The second
tranche (SDR 16.65 million, US$25.47 million equivalent) will be made available upon
fulfillmentof secondtranche triggers.

IRDPGCOMPONENTS

22.     The IRDPG supportsfive key componentsof the Government's reform strategy.
Policy actions in these areas constitutetriggers for the release of the financing tranches.
Thesetriggers derive from the DPPRandMGGM.

23.     Component 1: Corporate income tax reform. The IRDPG supports Yemen's
corporate incometax reformagenda.The importanceof corporate incometax reformas a
meansto improvethe businessenvironment in Yemen was identifiedinpart throughthe
2006 ICA,which found that privatecompanies inYemen faced highmarginalincometax
rates; nonstandard treatment of income, investment and expenses; discretionary
implementationof the tax code with a large number of exemptions and tax holidays; and
pervasive corruption and irregularities in tax administration-affecting        both fiscal
revenues and the business environment. The MGGM also called for reform of the
corporate income tax code-evenprior to IRDPGpreparation. On January 1, 2007, with
support from the IMF, the Government introduced a value-added tax to replace the
general sales tax. Soonthereafter, the Governmentprepareda draft corporate income tax
code (with Bank and IFC advice), which incorporatedmany global goodpractices inthis
regard (reduced tax rates, fewer exemptions, standardized treatment of investment,
enforcement through risk-based audits). The IRDPG is supporting the finalization and
adoption of Yemen's draft corporate income tax code as well as the issuance of the
correspondingexecutiveregulations.

24.     Component 2: Land titling and registration reform. The IRDPG supports
Yemen's efforts to enhance the protection of property rights. At the time of IRDPG
preparation, the insecurity of land ownership rights was found to be a key deterrent to
private investment in Yemen. Less than 10 percent of all urban land and property was
registered; many investors had to pay twice for land; and up to half of all licensed
investment projects in cities such as Aden failed to materialize due to land-related
problems. The land registration law was rudimentary, and the registration process
ineffective, which led to fraud and disputes. The MGGM called for steps to enhance the
protection of property rights as a key measure to strengthen the rule of law. Prior to
IRDPGpreparation, the Bank worked with a Land Policy Task Force (LPTF) and made
recommendationsto strengthenthe regulatory framework for landregistration(published
in 2006 in the "Urban Land Policy and AdministrationPolicy Note"). The IRDPG has
supported Yemen in developing a new landregistrationlaw for submissionto Parliament
and strengtheninginstitutionalcapacity for its implementation.

25.    Component 3: Procurement reform. The IRDPG supports Yemen's public
procurement reforms. The importance of procurement reform was identified in part
through the MGGM, which called for a series of measures to enhance transparency and



                                            6

                                                    Institutional Reform Development Policy Grant


fight corruption inprocurement as a key aspect o f the governance agenda. To that effect,
the Government was already working with the Bank on preparation o f a new procurement
law and executive regulations even prior to IRDPG preparation. The IRDPG has
supported the submission o f the new procurement law to Parliament and the
strengthening o f institutional capacity necessary to its implementation (and in particular
the establishment of a procurement policy monitoring board, the High Authority for
Tender Control, HATC).

26.       Component 4: Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative. The IRDPG
supports Yemen's accession to the EITI, as a means to improve transparency inthe use o f
the country's oil revenues. The EITI is a coalition o f governments, companies, civil
society groups, investors and international organizations, which set a global standard for
companies engaged in the extractive sectors to publish what they pay and for
governments to disclose what they receive.2 Given the centrality o f oil revenues to the
budget, the MGGM identified accession to EITI as a critical priority to fight corruption.
The IRDPG supports Yemen's accession to EITI, as well as the steps to be taken to
ensure effective compliance with EITI principles (leading to the publication o f
independentaudits of oil payments and revenues).

27.       Component 5: Civil service reform. The IRDPG supports Yemen's efforts to
strengthen the civil service. The importance o f civil service reform was identified inpart
through the MGGM, which found civil service reform to be both a fiscal necessity and a
priority for strengthened governance. Yemen's civil service was found to be overstaffed,
in large part as a result o fthe 1990 unification ofNorth and South Yemen, duringwhich
the two civil services were merged without restructuring. As a result, the overall wage
bill was very high (at about 10.9 percent of GDP 2007), even though wages were low.
The existence o f a large, underpaid civil service also created incentives for corruption.
Prior to IRDPG preparation, the Government had: (i)launched a census o f the civil
service to eliminate ghost workers and double dippers (the Government had reported the
removal o f 34,000 such entries inthe payroll in 2006); (ii)adopted and implementedthe
2005 Wage Law, which calls for substantial salary increases in the public sector tied to
institutional reform objectives; and (iii)established a Civil Service Fund to manage a
retrenchment and pre-retirementprogram o f redundant civil servants (by early 2007 this
Fund had received over 14,000 applications). The IRDPG supports the approval and
implementation o f a Civil Service Fund program for 2007-2010, continued adherence to
the 2005 Wage Law, and the completion of the civil service census (extendedto all civil
servants, police andjudiciary employees).

SUMMARYOF TRIGGERS

28.       The summary of triggers is derivedfrom the IRDPG Program Doc~ment.~               Each
o f the first tranche triggers laid out in the PD was met prior to presentation o f the
program to the World Bank's Board o f Executive Directors.



 http://eitransparency.org/eiti/summary
 The IRDPGtriggers canbe found inAnnex 2 ofthePD, onpage53.


                                              7

Yemen


    ~ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~
 Component             ~    ~    ~~~~    ~~ First Tranche Trigger           SecondTranche Trigger
 1. Corporate incometax                     Submissionto the Councilof      Issuanceofthe executive
 reform                                     Ministersof anew corporate      regulationsfor the new corporate
 Rationalizeincentives facing               incometax law (reflecting       incometax law (in line with
 privateinvestorsthrough                    internationalnormsoftreatment   internationalnorms).
 standardtreatmentof income,                of corporate income,
 investment, and expenses, and a            investments, and expenses).
 sharp reductionof exemptions
 and other discretionary
 measures.
 2. Land titling and registration Submissionto Parliamentof a               Issuanceof adecree definingthe
 reform                                     new landregistrationlaw         mandate and functions ofthe
 Createasystem of secure and                (reflectingrecommendationsof    General Authority for Land,
 enforceableproperty rights, with           the LPTF).                      Survey, andUrbanPlanning.
 unambiguoustitles.
 3. Procurementreform                       Submissionto Parliamentof a     Establishmentofthe HATC,
 Strengthentransparency,                    revisedprocurement law (in line utilizing asatisfactory
 competition, and accountability            with internationalbest          procurementmanagement
 in public procurement.                     practices).                     informationsystem.

 4. EITI                                    Formaldeclaration ofthe         Publicationof independently
 Access EITIand abide by its                Government's commitmentto       audited accountsof payments
 standards for the full publication         EITIprinciples(through a letter madeby oil, gas, and mining
 andverificationof company                  to the EITI Secretariat).       companiesto the Government
 payments and Government                                                    and correspondingGovernment
 revenues from extractive                                                   receipts.
 industries.
 5. Civil service reform                    Approval by the Councilof           Complete implementationof
Reformofthe civil service, both             Ministersofthe Civil Service        the Civil Service Fund
 as a fiscal necessity(due to the           Fundprogram for 2008-2010           programfor the periodJune
very large burdenofthe wage                 and alignment ofthe budgetary       2007-May 2008.
 bill and relatedobligations) and           allocationfor 2008 to this          Consistentapplicationofthe
 as a vital component of public             program.                            2005 Wage Law.
 administrationreformsto                                                        Establishmentof a
promotegoodgovernanceand                                                        computerizeddatabase
effective service delivery.                                                     (includingbiometric
                                                                                identification)of all
                                                                                employeesonthe
                                                                                Government's payroll.

IRDPGMILESTONES

29.       The IRDPG wasprepared between August 2006 and December 2007. It built on
a significant amount of earlier analytical work (see Annex 4). Substantive preparation
work took place between December 2006 and May 2007.




                                                            8

                                                       Institutional Reform Development Policy Grant




30.      The IXDPG was supervised through a combination of: (i)regular in-country
interactions between the Country Office, the authorities, and stakeholders (so-called
"continuous supervision"); (ii)sectoral missions to monitor and support implementation
o f individual components; and (iii)formal supervision missions to review implementation
progress for the operation as a whole (November 23 and 29-30, 2008, and April 11-13,
2009).

STATUS OFIMPLEMENTATION

31.      Component 1: Corporate income tax reform. The corporate income tax law was
prepared and reviewed (preparation was a first tranche trigger).                   However, the
Government was advised to consider this law in tandem with the new investment law so
that all incentives could be integrated under the income tax law. This has led to delays in
Parliamentary consideration, but will allow for a more coherent policy approach.

32.      Component 2: Land titling and registration reform. The land registration law
was approved by the Cabinet on September 11, 2007, and submitted to Parliament
(submission to Parliament was a first tranche trigger). This law i s currently under
consideration, and there are indications that it i s subject to significant discussions among
Parliamentarians. The second tranche trigger (issuance o f a decree defining the mandate
and functions o f the General Authority for Land, Survey, and Urban Planning) may be
met inthe near future.

33.      Component 3: Procurement reform. The procurement law was ratified by
Parliament on July 24, 2007 (the submission o f this law to Parliament was a first tranche
trigger) and it is aligned with international good practices (as established by the UN

   The negotiations were interrupted to leave sufficient time to complete the assessment of the
macroeconomic framework in order to be able to providethe Boardwith adequate comfort on the overall
policy stance. An IMFmissionwas visiting Yemen duringJune 8-16,2007, and the team chose to await the
resultsoftheir macroeconomicanalysisbefore movingforward.


                                                 9

Yemen


Commission on International Trade Law). Relevant by-laws and executive regulations
have since been prepared and approved by the Cabinet on February 8, 2009, as Decree
No. 53 for 2009. The Government is currently working on the establishment o f the
HATC (which is a second tranche trigger), with representation from Government, the
private sector, the judiciary and civil society; discussions are ongoing on its staffing
(especially to review the caliber and integrity o f proposed candidates). The Procurement
Management Information System is being procured and i s expected to be piloted by the
end o f 2009.

34.     Component 4: Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative. On March 13,
2007, the Cabinet issued Cabinet Decree No. 111 affirming Yemen's decision to adhere
to EITIprinciples (this was a first tranche trigger). A multi-stakeholder EITI Council was
established in August o f the same year and includes representatives o f the Government,
private sector, and civil society. The EITI Council i s currently debating two issues: the
scope o f audits to be conducted (beyond those for payments and revenues) and the
procedural rules for decision-making within the Committee (by consensus, as advocated
by the private sector, or by majority, as preferred by civil society). Inaddition, the EITI
Council has launched discussion on the scope o f reports on revenues and payments
transactions from oil and gas between the Government and companies (publication o f
such reports is a second tranche trigger). Progress on this trigger has been slow, albeit in
part as a result o f the strong involvement o f civil society inthe process and the vigorous
debate that has ensued on the scope o freporting and audits to be conducted.

35.     Component 5: Civilservice reform.

                Civil Service Fund. The Civil Service Fund was established in 2005 (its
                authorization and funding were a first tranche trigger, with continued
                implementation as a second tranche trigger).                     According to the
                Government's tracking system, as o f March 2009, 13,437 persons have
                been referred for transfer to the Fund since its inception. O f these, 10,101
                have taken early retirement (about 90 percent o f last salary for the rest o f
                their lives) and 676 have o ted for a severance package (on average seven
                years o f annual income). An additional 2,060 individuals were either
                                                ?
                deceased or shifted to retirement because they were past the official
                retirement age, and 600 were shifted to vacant positions elsewhere in
                public service. By the end o f 2010, another 17,500 persons are expected to
                be transferred to the Civil Service Fund.

        (ii)    Wage Law. The first two increases have taken place and have been
                considerable (e.g., for lower salaries, the monthly base salary rose from
                YR11,OOO to YR20,OOO in the first increase). The Government expects to
                implementa third increase inthe near future (consistent application of the
                Wage Law is a second tranche trigger).

 The amount of the retrenchment package is intended to compensate the worker for loss of income. It
comes to about two-thirds of the amount employees would have earned in basic salary, had they been
employed in the government for their entire career. As such, this system tends to privilege those who are
younger andhave hadfewer years inthe civil service(andthus agreater potentiallossof income).


                                                   10

                                                             Institutional Reform Development Policy Grant


          (iii)    Civil sewice registration.The establishment o f a computerizedemployee
                   database, including biometric identification, which covers all state
                   employees, is a secondtranche trigger.Ninety-sixpercentof employeesin
                   the GeneralCivil Servicehavebeenregistered, together with 98 percentof
                  judiciary and education employees. The system is being extended to
                   security forces, with 30 percent ofthose inthe Ministry of Interior and 11
                   percent in the Ministry of Defense registered thus far. In the process, a
                   significant number of ghost workers and double dippers have been
                   identified, though exact figures are not yet available.6The design of the
                   employeedatabasehasbeencompleted, but hasyet to be approved.



                                 IV.MANAGEMENT RESPONSE

36.       Management's understandingof the Requesters' claims has been summarized in
paragraph 5 above. Management proposes to address these claims under four main
headings:

          Partnershipwith stakeholders;
          Disclosureof IRDPGdocumentation;
          Social impact o f the measuressupportedunderthe IRDPG; and
          Communicationswiththe Requesters.

PARTNERSHIPWITH STAKEHOLDERS

37.       Management agrees with the Requesters on the importance of partnership with
stakeholders as a substantial factor to achieve sustainable development and to improve
transparency and accountability in development as well as to promotepublic support for
efforts designed to improve people's lives in developing countries. Management notes
that the applicable Bank policy (OP 8.60, paragraph 6) requires the Bank to "advise
borrowing countriesto consult with and engage the participationof key stakeholders." In
a letter to the Governmentdated December 5, 2006, the Bank's Acting Country Director
for Yemen highlightedthis specific policyrequirement(see Annex 5).

38.
suggests a broad definition of stakeholder^.^ Inview of the nature of reforms supported
          Management notes that good practice in Development Policy Operations

under the IRDPG, a broad range of consultations was carried out with a variety of
stakeholders, including: (i) public institutions; (ii) Parliament; (iii) private sector



  The Ministry of Civil Service and Ministry of Finance have recently confirmed that, to date, 51,145
names have been removed from the payroll. This number includes ghost workers and double dippers, as
well as retirees. The World Bank has requested the disaggregated data from the Government, but at this
stage it is not possibleto state definitively the number of ghost workers and double dippers that have been
identified.
7See Good Practice Note 5: Supporting Participation in Development Policy Operations, October 2004.


                                                     11

 Yemen


representatives; and (iv) civil society organizations, which include, but are not limitedto,
nongovernmental organizations (NGOs).

39.      Management is satisfied that the requirement under OP 8.60for the Bank to
 "advise borrowing countries to consult with and engage the participation of key
stakeholders" was met. The IRDPG consultation process encompassed four sets o f
activities: (i)Bank support to consultations by the Government on the design o f its
overall policy agenda supported under the IRDPG, as required under OP 8.60; as well as
(ii)consultations held in the context of IRDPG preparation; (iii)earlier sectoral
consultations that provided the analytical underpinnings for each component o f the
IRDPG; and (iv) consultations on related activities.

(i)      Bank support to consultationsby the Government in the designof its policy
         agenda

40.      Management notes that the Government engaged in a participatory process to
define its overall developmentpolicy:8

     0   DPPR. The DPPR was prepared with the benefit o f extensive consultations
         throughout preparation from late 2004 to the first half o f 2006; a number o f
         thematic groups were established on topics such as economic growth, education,
         health, water, infrastructure, private sector development, food security, and local
         governance. The thematic groups were co-chaired by the Government and a lead
         donor. The Bank engaged closely with groups focusing on economic growth,
         water and education. Stakeholders (including civil society organizations) were
         represented in these thematic groups. Consultations also took place in five
         governorates (including Aden and Lahj) where all stakeholders were invited. The
         draft document was presented to the Cabinet inAugust 2006. The Arabic version
         o f the full document was posted on the internet by November 2006 (a shorter
         version in English was also posted on the internet). The Arabic document
         discusses the consultation process inparagraph 3 (page iii).g



  "Yemen's Strategic Vision 2025" was also prepared through a consultative process (in 2000) including
consultations at bothnationaland local levels.
  This paragraph reads as follows (translated from the Arabic): "Work on the preparations of the Third
Five-Year Development Plan has started since the issuance of the Republican Decree No. 185 for 2004,
concerning the composition of the Higher Committee for developing the Third Five-Year Plan. The decree
emphasizedthe importance of commitment to follow scientific methodologies and reflect the partnership
principles in all preparation stages in order to ensure participation of all development partners in the
implementation, following up and evaluation processes. In light of these principles, the Ministry of
Planning and InternationalCooperation was devoted to ensuring continuous coordination and consultation
with other ministries and public bodies centrally and locally as well as with stakeholders, private sector,
civil society and donors during all different stages of the plan preparations, and for all components of
general objectives and policies, sectoral plans and local development plans in order to reflect the public
partnership principle. Several events were held to achieve this objective, including a consultation meeting
in Sana'a City as well as in other governorates with strong participation of members of the House of
Representatives and Shura Council in addition to representatives of the local council, local executive
administration, civil society organizations andthe privatesector."


                                                     12

                                                        Institutional Reform Development Policy Grant


         National Reform Agenda and Matrix of Good Governance Measures (also
         publishedin2006). A similar consultativeprocess was followed for the NR4 and
         MGGM. The difference between the two is that the latter includes political
         governance measures. The MGGM was originally prepared in Arabic and
         consultations with stakeholders were managed by the Government, and
         stakeholders,includingNGOs, attendeddiscussionswiththe Government.

41.      The Bank has supported Government's efforts to engage in such broad
consultation efforts. This advice was provideddirectly by Country Office staff through
frequent contacts with decision-makers and was reflected in the active participationby
the Bank in the elaboration of the DPPR and the MGGM (e.g., in-time feedback and
commentsonreport drafts).

42.      The May 2006 JSAN by the Bank and IMF staffs reported "The staffs agree
that a wide consultative process, used in the preparation of the PRSP, continues to be
followed in the preparationof the PRS Progress Report [.            ..I.The  staffs share the view
with the government that there has been a perceptible improvement in consulting civil
society, which is due to the emphasis that the Government has placed on direct and
indirect consultations with the civil society." The JSAN further notes that: "the
monitoringstructure consists of a ministerialcommittee at the top, the central PRSP unit
inthe ministry ofplanningand internationalcooperation, and atechnical committee of 26
membersdrawnfrom other ministries,NGOs, donors, andthe private sector."10

(ii)     Additionalconsultations duringpreparationof the IRDPG

43.      TheIRDPG team consulted directly with stakeholders duringpreparation of the
IRDPG, in addition to the OP 8.60 requirement to advise the Government on
participation. This included:

         Consultations during the December 2006 identification mission to discuss and
         informthe overalldesignofthe IRDPG(seeAnnex 2A(1) for moredetails); and
         Consultations during the March 2007 appraisal mission to discuss specific
         elements of the IRDPG, on the basis of background documentation made
         available in Arabic. There was significant engagement by Parliamentarians,
         professional organizations, and private sector stakeholders, but only one NGO
         representative attended based on the Bank's invitation." (See Annex 2A(2) for
         moredetails.)

44.      A member of the Advisory Committee of the Yemen Observatory for Human
Rightswas invited to the consultations held during preparationof the IRDPGon March
26, 2007. The Advisory Committee member was invited in her capacity as the



"Republic of YemenPoverty Reduction StrategyPaper andJointIDA-IMF Staff Advisory Note on the
Annual Progress Report (Report No. 35070-RY).
"NGOshavebeeninvitedroutinelytopolicydiscussionshostedbytheCountryOffice, includingtothose
held duringthe IRDPGappraisal mission. Attendance at these sessionsvaries.


                                                13

Yemen


Chairperson o f the Sisters' Arabic Forum but did not attend the event (see Annex
2A(2)(i)).12

45.      Management notes that there is no federative entity that represents the
hundreds of NGOs registered in Yemen.The challenge for any consultation process is to
identify those organizations that can be the most effective counterparts for a given
operation. The Country Office extends invitations to individuals and groups on the basis
o f their mandate and interests, with a view to reflecting a diversity o f views. The Country
Office followed this approach in the case o f the IRDPG (see Annex 2A).

46.      The consultations indicated broad support for                   the proposed areas of
engagement. Stakeholders also emphasized the need to design and monitor carefully the
implementation o f specific reforms to safeguard the poor. This was reflected inthe design
o f the operation and in the assurances obtained from Government in its Letter o f
Development Policy (see Annex 6), e.g., for monitoring the impact o f land registration
reform and civil service reform on poor and vulnerable groups.

47.      Management acknowledges that the consultationprocess was not described in
the PD, but should have been, per OP 8.60.13 Management regrets this oversight.

(iii)    Additionalsectoralconsultationsunderpinningthe designofeach component

48.      I n line with good practice, the Bank team supported the Government in
engaging with stakeholders on the identification and design of priority reforms for
each component of the IRDPG. The paragraphs below describe the consultation process
followed for each component. (Specific details on dates, locations, participation, nature
o f supporting documentation, etc., for each event can be found inAnnex 2B.)

         Corporate income tax reform. The reform o f Yemen's corporate income tax law
         was informed by a review carried out in conjunction with IFC (by the Foreign
         Investment Advisory Service, FIAS) and with support from the United Kingdom
         Department for International Development in January 2007. The FIAS diagnostic
         report on the impact o f tax policy and tax administration on Yemen's investment
         climate was disseminated in May 2007.14 The Bank Group advised the
         Government to engage in extensive consultations with stakeholders, especially

  Other members of the 16-memberAdvisory Committee have long-standing relationships with the Bank.
Members of the Yemen Observatory for Human Rights are routinely invitedto Bank-sponsoredevents and
many attend, though they attend as representatives of their own organizations. In addition, one Advisory
Committee member, in his capacity as a member of SNACC, has worked closely with the Bank's Senior
Public Sector Management Specialist inthe context of the Bank's support to the country's governance and
anti-corruptionagenda. Another Advisory Committee member worked togetherwith the Bankto coordinate
a youth event held during June 24-27, 2006, in Sana'a, as part of a Democracy Conference hosted by the
Government of Yemen. Finally, one Advisory Committee member was contracted by the Bank as a
consultantto preparebackgroundmaterialsfor the Bank's CSA disseminationworkshops inJune 2007.
l3OP 8.60 states that "Bank staff describe in the Program Document the country's arrangements for
consultation and participation relevant to the operation, and the outcomes of the participatory process
adopted in formulatingthe country's development strategy.''
l4FIAS, "A Study into the Impact of Tax Policy and Tax Administration on the Investment Climate
OperationalPlan: Issues, Recommendations, Action Plan," April 2007.


                                                   14

                                                          Institutional Reform Development Policy Grant


          taxpayers and the business community, and included a survey on the tax
          compliance burden. As a result,the Governmentestablisheda steeringcommittee
          composed of representatives of corporate taxpayers and the tax administration,
          which meets on a weekly basisto exchange views and information.Consultations
         were also heldinJanuary and May 2007 with participationfrom key stakeholders
          (especially the private sector and including business membership organizations
          andacademics).(See Annex 2B(1) for moredetailedinformation.)

    0    Land registration. The Bank advised the Government to establish an LPTF that
         would include non-Governme-nt representatives to review land policy.l5The
          LPTF was established on February 21, 2005, and included representation of
         private sector and professional associations, Parliament, and the judiciary in
          additionto officials from relevant governmentagencies (see Annex 2B(2)(iii) for
          a membership list). It should be underlined that the involvement of non-
          Governmentrepresentatives in sucha process is an innovativestep inthe regional
          context.
         The work of the LPTF was informed by two workshops held in Sana'a, one on
         February 20-21, 2005, and another on September 18, 2005, both of which were
         the subject of extensive media coverage. (See Annex 2B(2) for more detailed
          information.) The workshop recommendationswere fully reflected in the design
         of the component.16For example, workshop discussions on the weaknesses of the
         existing system and on the proposed recommendations served as a platform for
         the reformulation of the land law into a best practice model. In addition,
         participants provided invaluable inputs on the creation of a Titling Registration
         Committee, adaptedfrom the Jordaniansystemto suit the context inYemen.
         Procurement reform. Inview of the nature of this component, the Bank supported
         the Government's discussions with Parliamentarians (from both majority and
         opposition parties), through direct contacts and with Yemen Parliamentarians
         Against Corruption. These consultations, which were held from March to June
         2007 (see Annex 2B(3)), provided an opportunity to discuss in detail the
         principles behindbest practice procurement laws and the importance of aligning
         the law in Yemen with global good practice (see Annex 7A for the text of
         Yemen's procurement law that pertains to civil society consultations). For
         example, an April 2007 workshop presentation to the Service and Finance
         Parliamentary Committees was facilitated by external consultants (Booz Allen
         Hamilton,financedby USAID) inthe presenceofthe media.



l5According to the aide-memoire for the Workshop on UrbanLandPolicy and Administration in Yemen,
held on February 20-21, 2005 (at which the decision to establishthe LPTF was announced), "the mandate
and objectives of the LPTF are to: (i)constitute the governmental body of experts in the land sector; (ii)
establish consensus.. .among government agencies and key private and civil society stakeholders on the
priority issues and challenges of urban land administrationand State land management in Yemen; (iii)
provide through a consultative process the official position of the Government of Yemen on
recommendationsand key areas of improvement of land policy and administration; and (iv) validate and
endorsethe UrbanLandPolicyNote."
l6The recommendationsare available in the Urban Land Policy and Administration Policy Note (Report
NO.32558-YE).


                                                   15

Yemen


         Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative. The design of the initiative is an
         international endeavor in which civil society has been very active. Yemen's
         decision to join EITIwas discussed duringpreparation o f the DPPR and MGGM.
         This component o f the IRDPGwas explicitly designedto incorporate civil society
         participation in the process o f achieving transparency with regard to revenues
         from oil and natural gas. One o f the five EITI Criteria, to which Government
         declared adherence as a first tranche trigger, is "civil society is actively engaged
         as a participant in the design, monitoring and evaluation o f this process, and
         contributes towards public debate." (See Annex 7B.) The design o f the
         component was informed by consultations with the Ministry o f Oil and Minerals,
         the Supreme National Authority for Combating Corruption (SNACC), and civil
         society on August 19,2007. (See Annex 2B(4) for more detailed information.)
         Civil Service. The key reforms underpinningthis component were voted into law
         by Parliament prior to IRDPG preparation (2002 law establishing the Civil
         Service Fund, 2005 Wage Law, 2006 Card Law authorizing biometric
         identification o f civil servants). These laws were the subject o f energetic public
         debates in Parliament, with substantive involvement o f stakeholders prior to their
         approval. The Bank encouraged the Government to engage in a participatory
         process during the drafting o f these laws and reviewed the minutes o f the
         corresponding consultations.

49.     Management would also like to note that measures supported under the IRDPG
derive from laws debated in Parliament. They are subject to examination and
amendment by elected representatives o f the people. Experience has shown that
Parliamentary debate inYemen can be vigorous.

50.      Furthermore, Management notes that, also in line with good practice,
substantive consultations have continued subsequent to approval of the IRDPG to
facilitate the effective implementation o f each component o f this operation. Examples
include weekly meetings with taxpayer representatives to monitor the application and
impact o f corporate income tax reforms, engagement o f civil society in the formation o f
the HATC as per the new procurement law, and collaboration with Publish What You
Pay (an NGO associated with the Open Society Institute and Soros Foundations Network)
to organize a forum for civil society involvement and training in the context o f EITI
implementation.

(iv)    Other relevant consultations

51.     Other participatory processes related to the substance of the Request in which
the Bank has been engaged include:

         Thepreparation of the 2006 CAS, which reflected in its resultsframework thefull
        list of triggers for the tranches of the IRDPG. The 2006 CAS was designed
        through an extensive consultation process, including substantive interactions with
        civil society organizations in both Aden (November 19, 2005) and Sana'a
        (November 22, 2005). (See Annex 2C( l)(i)      for details.) Follow-up consultations



                                               16

                                                          Institutional Reform Development Policy Grant


         were held in Sana'a on March 7, 2006, with members of the newly appointed
         Cabinet to discuss and validate the selection of strategic priorities under the CAS
         (see Annex 2C(l)(ii) for details). The 2006 CAS has been available in Arabic
         since May 2007. The 2009 CAS was prepared through a similar consultative
         process (see paragraph70).17
         Thepreparation and disseminationof the ICA, the DPR, the CSA, and the PA in
         2007. These documents provided the underpinnings for the IRDPG and were the
         subject of extensive dissemination and discussion-n                June 28, 2006 in Sana'a
         for the ICA; in Sana'a (June 23, 2007), Aden (June 25, 2007), and Taiz (June 27,
         2007) for the DPWCSA; in Seiyun (December 9, 2007), Al-Beidah (December
         11, 2007), Aden (December 12, 2007), Amran (December 13, 2007), Hodeida
         (December 15, 2007), and Sana'a (December 16, 2007) for the PA. (See Map 1
         and Annex 2C(2-4) for more details.)
         Work on Governance and Anti-Corruption, which was mentioned by the
         Requesters as an area in which they would like to see stronger Bank engagement.
         The Bank heldformal consultations with stakeholders, including civil society, on
         January 14-15, 2007, in Sana'a (with more than 35 representatives from
         Parliament, civil society, academia, and professional associations participating,
         including the Yemen Observatory for HumanRights). (See Annex 2C(5) for more
         details.) Implementation of this agenda is now supported by a group of donors,
         with substantial involvement of the Bank (through technical assistance and Trust
         Funds) inclose partnershipwith stakeholders.

52.      Management would like to take this opportunity to reiterate its commitment to
pursuing andfurther strengthening relevantparticipatory processes in support of the
reform effort in Yemen.

DISCLOSUREIRDPGDOCUMENTATION
               OF

(i)      Disclosureof the ProgramInformationDocument

53.      Management regrets to report that the PID was mistakenly not disclosed in the
InfoShop in a timely manner. The PID should have been disclosed by March 7, 2007
(when the first formal review of the proposed operation was held by Bank management)
and when there were updates. After the Bank was alerted to the mistake made in this
regard, the PID was disclosed in the InfoShop on December 12, 2007 (as described
below). Inaddition, an Arabic translation of the PID had been made available during the
IRDPGappraisalmission on March 26-27,2007, in Sana'a (see Annex 8).

54.      Management has looked into the circumstancessurrounding the late disclosure
of the PID in the Infoshop. First, the Concept-level PID was inadvertently not
transmitted to the InfoShop because of an oversight during the very short period between
the Concept Note Review on March 7, 2007, and the Decision Meeting on March 19,


l7 The CAS will be disclosed following the Board discussion, scheduled for May 28, 2009. It will be
translatedand made availablein Arabic as soon as possible.


                                                  17

 Yemen


 2007. Second, following the Decision Meeting, the Decision Meeting-level PID was
 inadvertently not transmitted to the InfoShop because o f a misunderstanding between
 staff in Washington and Cairo as to who was to post it. The Bank team learned o f this
 mistake on December 7, 2008 (after Board approval) through a communication from the
 Washington-based NGO, Bank Information Center (BIC).                           The team responded
 immediately and the PID was posted within three working days o f this notification, on
 December 12,2007.

 55.     Looking forward, Management will review and enhance its system for
monitoring effective compliance with the formal disclosure requirements for PIDs,
Project Appraisal Documents (PADS),and PDs to theInfoshop.

 (ii) DisclosureofthePD

 56.     Disclosure of the PD complied with the requirements of applicable Bank
policies. The Board approved the IRDPG on December 6, 2007. The PD was disclosed
on the Bank's external website on December 11, 2007 (Le,, within three working days,
which is a standard turnaround time). Hard copies o f the PD were available for
examination in Sana'a, including in the Bank's Public Information Center (50 copies o f
the PDwere sent to Sana'a inNovember 2007).

(iii)    Disclosureof a translated PD

57.      Management is committed to facilitating access by the public to information
disclosed by the Bank. In this context, Management is sensitive to the need for Arabic
translations o f documents relevant to the MNA Region, even when such translations are
not required under the Disclosure Policy (as in the case o f Program Documents).'*
However, Management notes that Bank capacity to conduct or review (outsourced)
translation into Arabic remains limited. Management is making efforts to expand the
technical linguistic capacity and expertise needed for sound translation of Bank
documents into Arabic.

58. Management has initiated translation of the PDfor theIRDPG and willprovide the
translated version of the PD to the Requestersand other interested stakeholders within
three weeks. Although the Requesters suggest that a translation of the PD existed at the
time of their January 2008 letters to the Bank, Management is not aware that the PD has
beentranslated. The Government may have translated part or all o f the PD, but the Bank
has no information about such a translation or any other translation of the PD.I9


'* The  Disclosure Policy does not require translation of Program Documents. The 2003 Translation
Framework (which is not a Bank policy) recommends prioritizing translation into Arabic and other
languages of "core documents" (documents and publications that address the institution's overall business
and strategic thinking that are destined for a wide international audience, such as institutional annual
reports, operational policies, procedures, guidelines, and issues and strategy papers). It indicates that "for
country- and project-specific documents, considerationcould be given to translating them into the national
language ofthe country."
l 9Background documentation for the March 2007 consultations (referred to in paragraphs 43 and 53)
existedinArabic.


                                                     18

                                                           Institutional Reform Development Policy Grant


59.      Lookingforward, Management will conduct a review of its translationpractices
in the MNA Region for PIDs, PADS,and PDs, with a view to expanding gradually the
number o f translated documents, in view o f the constraints on translation capacity, and
within the broader context of ongoing consultations on proposed revisions to the Bank's
revised disclosure policy. Management is committed to conducting this review through a
consultative process including civil society.

SOCIAL IMPACT OFMEASURES               SUPPORTED UNDER THE ImPG

60.      I n Management's view, actions supported under the IRDPG should have
overallpositive impacts (see paragraph 63). Paragraph 10 o f OP 8.60 states that, "The
Bank determines whether specific country policies supported by the operation are likely
to have significant       overty and social consequences, especially on poor people and
vulnerable groups.""       The poverty and social impacts o f the Government's broader
development program fall beyond the scope o f this policy. The PD for the IRDPG
incorporated an analysis o f the poverty and social impacts expected from implementation
o f the program, consistent with the provisions o f OP 8.60. This analysis did not indicate
that implementation o f the IRDPG would result in an increase inthe poverty rate, which
the Requesters appear to suggest. The analysis also did not suggest that the measures
supported under the IRDPG would have a noticeable inflationary impact. In fact, the
macroeconomic section o f the PD advocates fiscal policies that should moderate
inflationary pressures, and international experience suggests that the reduction o f
inflation has a powerful pro-poor impact.

61.      Based on the information available in the Request, it is difficult for
Management to evaluate to what extent or how the rights and interests of the
Requesters may have been affected. The Requesters state that: (i)"they have incurred
and will probably continue to incur damages" in relation to the IRDPG; and (ii)the
program supported under the IRDPG "will lead to soaring prices and the increased
suffering of the poor in the Yemeni society." The Requesters do not make reference to
material adverse effects as a result o f the specific policy actions that are first or second
tranche release triggers for the IRDPG. The Request also suggests that the complaint is
made on behalf o f the public at large.

62.      The following bullets provide an analysis of the expected social and poverty
impact of the measuressupported under the IRDPG:

         Corporate income tax reform. By reducing exemptions and other loopholes, the
         proposed corporate income tax reform is expected to broaden the tax base and
         improve collections. This will help generate the revenuesneeded to sustain public
         expenditures, including those that are key to alleviating poverty. Corporate

*'The   paragraph goes on to say that for country policies with likely significant effects, the Bank
summarizesinthe PD relevant analyticknowledgeof these effects and the borrower's systems for reducing
adverse effects and enhancing positiveeffects associated with the specific policiesbeing supported. Ifthere
are significantgaps inthe analysis or shortcomings inthe borrower's systems, the Bank describes inthe PD
how such gaps or shortcomings would be addressed before or during program implementation, as
appropriate.


                                                    19

Yemen


         income tax reform is also expected to improve the business environment, thereby
         leading to greater job creation (including for the poor). The proposed corporate
         income tax reform is also expected to reduce the effective tax rate.21Management
         confirms that the team will continue its weekly consultations with taxpayer
         representatives inan effort to monitor the application and the impact o fthe reform
         and encourage the Government to take corrective action ifnecessary.
         Land registration. As discussed inthe PD, the Bank is paying particular attention
         to mitigating the risksassociated with land registration reform. Management notes
         that, with the safeguards included under the IRDPG, the reformed land
         registration process is expected to have a positive social impact, by reducing land
         conflict and strengtheningproperty rights. The key safeguards that are built into
         the IRDPG, as a reflection of concerns raised in consultations during preparation
         o f this operation, include detailed procedures that facilitate inclusiveness in the
         land registration process, reduced land registration fees, and independent
         appointment o fjudges heading the registration committee.22
         Procurement reform. The procurement law supported under the IRDPG aims to
         strengthen transparency and competition. Experience in other countries indicates
         that this reduces the incidence o f corruption and helps to lower prices for publicly
         procuredworks, goods, and services.
         Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative. Implementation o f EITI will
         strengthen transparency in the flow o f oil revenues to the Government. As in the
         case o f procurement reform, experience in other countries suggests that this is
         unlikely to result in social costs, and on the contrary may result inincreased fiscal
         revenues that can be used to improve public spending on services that benefit
         poor people in Yemen.
         Civil service reform. The IRDPGsupports reform inthree areas:
         - Identification and elimination of ghost workersand double dippers@om the
             public payroll. This is expected to free up fiscal resources that may be used
             for poverty alleviation purposes and thus have a positive social impact;
         - Continuedenforcement of thewagelaw.Thislaw, whichwasvotedtwo years
             before IRDPG preparation, allowed for a significant increase in the base
             salaries o f civil servants, enabling many to escape near-poverty conditions;
             and


" The Requesters suggest that prior consultation with civil society would have allowed for the
consideration of "fair tax policies" whereby those with "higher incomes would bear abigger portionof the
reform costs.y'As indicated in the PD, "many of the key beneficiaries of the existing system's exceptions
are influential and/or well-financed investors" and "lowering rates and reducing exceptions could prove
beneficialto groups which may include many lower income participants." Management believes that the
''IRDPGdoescontinued
             indeedsupport such"fair tax policies."
    To ensure            support for efforts to reform land registration,the IDA-supported Taiz Municipal
Development and Flood ProtectionProject's first Additional Financing (currently under implementation)
provides significanttechnical assistance to the Government on land sector issues, includinga consultancy
study (currently expected to be launched by mid-2009) to formulate proposed draft land registration
executive regulations and a manualofprocedures for operations.


                                                     20

                                                           Institutional Reform Development Policy Grant


         - Effective functioning of the Civil Service Fund. Management notes that the
             Civil Service Fund provides those retrenched workers opting for a pension
             with 90 percent of their last salary for the rest of their lives and those opting
             for a severancepackage with seven years o f salary on average.23Management
             also notes that the Civil Service Fundhas been actively tracking the situation
             and circumstances of the 676 former employees who opted for a severance
             package. This follow-up is conducted through periodic interviews o f a sample
             group o f about 60. Most o f these individuals have begun a private activity
             (taxi driving is reported as the leading activity) and many have also invested
             in land or built a home.

COMMUNICATIONS WITH THE REQUESTERS

63.      Management notes thefollowing communications reported by the Requesters:

         Letter from the Requesters to the Country Manager, dated January 16,2008;
         Reply by the Country Manager dated January 20,2008; and
         Follow-up letter from the Requesters, dated January 30, 2008.

64.      Management wishes to clarifi points concerning the content of the Bank's
January 20, 2008, letter. The Arabic version o f the Bank's reply is appropriately
courteous; Management regrets that the English version contains somewhat less
courteous language. The Country Manager indicated correctly that it was not possible to
translate the PD at that time. The Yemen Country Office relies on the Bank's General
Services Department Arabic translation hub (GSDTl), based in Cairo, for translation o f
large documents; the Country Manager had learned from past experience that the capacity
o f this office to provide translations i s limited compared to the needs. He believed that it
would be unrealistic on his part to promise to the Requesters an Arabic version that could
not be delivered ina reasonable time frame.

65.      Management regrets that the concerns raised by the Requesters in their
January 30, 2008, letter were not addressed. To date, the Country Office has not been
able to find notice o f this letter in its correspondence logs. Management acknowledges
that Country Offices are expected to answer all such letters that are received on a timely
basis.

66.      Management wishes to make note of additional interactions between the Bank
and theRequesters after January 30,2008, which are not referredto inthe Request:

         One of the Requesters had a meeting with Bank staff on the IRDPG on April 15,
         2008. The meeting was requested through BIC. Participants included the Task
         Team Leader, two other Bank staff, one o f the Requesters (Dr. Yahya Saleh


23The PD notes that "on average, public employees who have been terminated through the Civil Service
Fund appear to have lost 13 to 15 percent of their purchasing power," taking into account lost wages as
well as allowances. This average reflects the very large proportion (96 percent) of public employees who
haveoptedfor the retirementoptionratherthan for the severancepackage.


                                                    21

 Yemen


         M o h ~ e n )and~two BIC staff plus a translator. During this one-and-a-half-hour
                      ~
        meeting, Bank staff listened to Dr. Mohsen's concerns. Notes taken by Bank staff
         indicate that: (i)the Requester expressed general concerns about inflation, the
        poverty rate, a water privatization project, the general sales tax, and potential
         social costs o f project components; (ii)the Requester encouraged the Bank to
         strengthen its anti-corruption work, expressing the view that influential double
        dippers and ghost workers were not eliminated from the payroll, and was critical
        o f the independence o f the EITI Council, SNACC, HATC, and High Tender
        Board. The Bank team left the meetingbelieving that this had been a productive
        exchange, even if both parties "agreed to disagree" on several specific issues.
        NeitherDr.Mohsen nor BIC requestedsubsequent meetingswiththe team.

    0    The Bank Senior Communications Oflcer in Sana'a visited the Yemen
         Observatoryfor Human Rights as part o f a routine outreach effort on May 3,
        2008. This Bank officer met with key staff o f the Yemen Observatory for Human
        Rights and, to the best of her recollection, characterized the discussion as an
        exchange o f information on Bank activities and on Observatory activities and
        indicated that neither the IRDPG nor the unanswered letter was raised duringthis
        discussion.

    0   Subsequent to May 2008, the Bank has had regular contacts with the Yemen
        Observatoryfor Human Rights, in the form of: (i)a visit to the Bank Country
        Office by executives from the Observatory to seek information on gender issues,
        which was provided; (ii)participation in the consultations for the new CAS (held
        on March 11, 2009, in Sana'a and March 15, 2009, in Aden; see Annex 2D for
        details); and (iii)informal and social interactions in various fora where both the
        Bank and the Observatory have beenrepresented.

67.     Looking forward, Management intends to invite the Requesters to meet with
Bank representatives to express their concerns and discuss their possible engagement in
the ongoing participatory process for the implementation of measures supported under
the IRDPG.



                                    V. ACTION PLAN

68.     Management plans to follow up on the issues raised by the Requesters. The
specific steps are outlined inthe table below.
I                                                               I
IPROPOSEDACTIONS                                                        TIMELINE          I
 Partnershipwith stakeholders

 1.Pursueandhrther strengthenrelevantparticipationprocesses in
 support ofreformsinYemen.                                       Underway; continuous



24Dr.Mohsenwas visitingWashingtonto takepart inBank-organizedtraining.


                                                22

                                                              Institutional Reform Development Policy Grant



 PROPOSEDACTIONS                                                                     TIMELINE
1Disclosure of IRDPG documentation

 2. Providetranslation ofthe PDto the Requesters andother interested
 stakeholders when completed(threeweeks needed).                             June2o09

 3. Reviewand enhance the system to monitoreffectivecompliance
 with the disclosure policy ofPIDs, PADs, andPDswithin the MNA               October-December2009
 Region.
 4. Reviewtranslation practices inMNA Regionfor PIDs, PADs, and
 PDs, with aview to gradually expandingthe numberoftranslated                October-December2009
 documents in arealisticmanner.



 5. Continue to monitor the risks associated with the IRDPG, in
 consultation with stakeholders.                                             Underway; continuous          I

 6. Invite the Requesters to meet inMay or early June at their
 conveniencewith Bankrepresentativeto informthem about plans for             May 2009 and after translation
 the translationand again, once the translation is ready, to discusstheir    available
 concerns and possibleways to strengthenpartnerships.

69.      Management believes that the Bank has made every effort to apply its policies
and procedures in the preparation of the IRDPG, including with regard to
consultations with stakeholders. Management regrets two oversights in document
preparation that were reported in the Management response, Le., the absence of a
descriptionofthe IRDPGconsultationprocessinthe PDandthe late disclosureofthe PD
in the InfoShop. Management believes that the Requesters' rights or interests have not
been, nor will they be, directly and adversely affected by a failure of the Bank to
implementits policiesandprocedures.




                                                     23

      Yemen




   We, the Yemen Observatoryfor Human               In Management'sview,actions supported under the
   Rights,a key civil society organizationinthe     IRDPG should have overallpositive impacts.
   Republicof Yemen, have incurredand will
   probably continue to incur damagesas a           Based on the informationavailable in the Request, it is
   result of the information blackoutpolicy         difficultfor Management to evaluate to what extent or
   practiced by the World Bank Office in Yemen      how the rights and interestsof the Requestersmay have
   and its refusal to disclose information related  been affected.The Requestersdo not make referenceto
   to the "InstitutionalReformProject in Yemen"     materialadverse effects as a resultof the specific policy
   mutually signed by representativesof the         actions that are first or secondtranche releasetriggers for
   World Bank Boardof Directorsand the              the IRDPG.The Requestalso suggests that the complaint is
   Yemeni Governmenton December6,2007.              made on behalf of the public at large.

   [Elven after its signature by both the           Disclosureof the PD complied with the requirements of
   Governmentand the World Bank,the Project applicableBank policies. The Board approvedthe IRDPG
   remainedopaque to the public. Following          on December6,2007. The PDwas disclosed on the Bank's
   pressures and several requestsby the civil       externalwebsite on December 11,2007 (Le.,within three
   society and helpfrom the Bank Information        working days,which is a standardturnaround time).
   Center (BIC) in Washington, only the English
   version of the Projectwas disclosed.

   However,the Bank office in Sana'a refused        Managementis committed to facilitatingaccess by the
   to give us a translated copy intoArabic or to    public to informationdisclosed by the Bank. In this
   cooperatewith civil society to get it            context, Managementis sensitive to the needfor Arabic
   translated.                                      translations of documents relevantto the MNA Region,even
                                                    when such translations are not required under the Disclosure
                                                    Policy (as in the case of ProgramDocuments).However,
                                                    Managementnotesthat Bank capacityto carry out or review
                                                    (outsourced)translation intoArabic remains limited.
                                                    Management is making efforts to expand the technical
                                                    linguistic capacity and expertise neededfor soundtranslation
                                                    of Bank documents intoArabic.
                                                    Managementhas initiated translationof the PD for the
                                                    IRDPG and willprovide the translatedversion of the PD
-                                                   to the Requestersand other interested stakeholders
                                                    within three weeks.

4. We believethat the World Bank and its            Managementagrees with the Requesterson the
   Sana'a Office have violated the principleof      importance of partnership with stakeholders as a
   partnershipwhich the World Bank adopts           substantialfactor to achieve sustainabledevelopmentand to
   and calls for its promotionwith civil society.   improvetransparency and accountability in development as
   There is also a violationto the principle of     well as to promotepublic supportfor efforts designedto
  transparency and disclosure of information.       improve people's lives in developing countries. Management
   In addition, the lack of translations is in      notes that the applicable Bank policy (OP 8.60, paragraph6)
-  contrary to the principle of information         requiresthe Bank to "advise borrowingcountriesto consult
   sharing emphasized by Mr. James                  with and engagethe participation of key stakeholders."'

      `This policy is complemented by a Good Practice Note on Supporting Participation in Development Policy
      Operations, issued in October2004. The Note underlinesthe importanceof participationandthe centralityof


                                                       24

                                                             Institutional Reform Development Policy Grant



                          Issue

Wolfensohn, the former Presidentof the             Managementis satisfied that the requirements under OP
World Bank, in his introductionto the policy       8.60were met. The IRDPGconsultationprocess
of disclosuredated June 2002 where he              encompassedfour sets of activities:(i) Bank supportto
stressed the significance of information           consultations by the Governmenton the design of the overall
sharingas a substantialfactor to achieve           policy agenda supported under the IRDPG,as required
sustainabledevelopment and to improve              under OP 8.60; as well as (ii) consultationsheld in the
transparency and accountability in                 context of IRDPG preparation:(iii) earlier sectoral
development!He also stressedthe                    consultationsthat providedthe analytical underpinningsfor
significanceof information sharing for             each componentof the IRDPG;and (iv) consultations on
promotingpublic support to effortsdesigned         relatedactivities.
to improvepeople's lives in developing
countries.                                         Managementalso wishes to notethat at least one member of
                                                   the Advisory Committeeof the Yemen Observatory for
                                                   Human Rightswas invitedto the consultationsheld during
                                                   preparationof the IRDPGon March 26, 2007.

We submittedseveralcomplaints and                  Management wishes to clarifypoints concerningthe
requeststo the managementof the World              contentof the Bank'sJanuary 20,2008, letter.The Arabic
Bank office in Sana'a, initiallythrough           version of the Bank's reply is appropriatelycourteous;
telephonecommunicationsfollowed by the             Managementregretsthat the Englishversion contains
attachedwritten correspondence as shown            somewhat less courteous language. The Country Manager
below:                                             indicatedcorrectly that it was not possibleto translatethe PD
 On 16 January 2008,ll Yemeni                      at that time. The Yemen Country Office relies on the GSD
organizationssubmitted a requestto the            Arabic translationhub (GSDTI), based in Cairo,for
Bank office in Sana'a to obtain a complete        translationof largedocuments;the Country Manager had
copy of the institutionalReform Projectand         learnedfrom past experiencethat the capacity of this office
its translation,                                  to providetranslationsis limitedcomparedto the needs. He
                                                   believedthat it would be unrealisticon his part to promiseto
 On 20th January 2008, we receiveda reply         the Requestersan Arabic versionthat could not be delivered
from the country managerin Yemen                   in a reasonabletime frame.
apologizingfor not beingableto providethe
translation on grounds of being very busy         Although the Requesterssuggest that a translation of the PD
with other issues,We consideredthat reply         existed at the time of their January 2008 lettersto the Bank,
unsatisfactorybecausetheir excusewas not           Management is not aware that the PD has been translated.
convincingas we knew for a certaintythat          The Government may have translated part or all of the PD,
they had a translatedcopy, sincewe are             but the Bank has no informationabout such a translationor
almost positivethat few Government officials      any other translationof the PD.
are familiarwith the Englishlanguage.
Further,we believethat the Bank Office's
refusalto dealwith us falls under one
explanation,i.e. it is in linewith Government
in its policy of informationblackout and
isolation imposedon civil society in Yemen.

On 30 January 2008,25 Yemeni                      Management regrets that the concernsraised by the
organizationsagain addressed the Bank             Requestersin theirJanuary 30, 2008, letter were not
country manager in Yemen to confirm their         addressed.To date, the Country Office has not been ableto
previous requestfor a complete copy of the        find noticeof this letter in its correspondence logs.
Project inArabic. However,that time, we           Management acknowledgesthat Country Offices are
receive no remonse to our reauest and all


   country ownership of the consultation process. The Note defines stakeholders as the Government,
   Parliament, business sector representatives, citizens, and civil society organizations (including NGOs,
   researchcenters,professionalassociations,etc.).


                                                      25

    Yemen




                                               expectedto answer all such letters.
                                               Managementwishes to make note of additional
                                               interactionsbetween the Bank and the Requestersafter
                                               January 30, 2008,which are not referredto inthe Request:

                                                0   One of theRequestershad a meeting withBank staff
                                                    on the IRDPG on April 75, 2008. Duringthis meeting,
                                                    Bank staff listenedto his concerns.The Bankteam left
                                                    the meeting believingthat this had been a productive
                                                    exchange,even if both parties "agreedto disagree"on
                                                    several specific issues. Neitherthe Requesternor BIC
                                                    requestedsubsequent meetingswith the team.
                                                    TheBank Senior CommunicationsOfficerin Sana'a
                                                    visited the Yemen Observatoryfor Human Rights as
                                                    part of a routineoutreacheffort on May 3, 2008. Neither
                                                    the IRDPG nor the unanswered letterwas raisedduring
                                                    this discussion.

                                                0   Subsequentto May 2008, the Bank has had regular
                                                    contacts with the Yemen Observatoryfor Human
                                                    Rights.



According to the World Bank, the                ThePD for the IRDPG incorporatedan analysis of the
implementationof the InstitutionalReform       poverty and social impacts expected from
Project in Yemen will leadto soaring prices     implementationof theprogram, consistent with the
and the increasedsuffering of the poor in the  provisions of OP 8.60.This analysis did not indicatethat
Yemeni society. Poverty rate, currently         implementationof the IRDPGwould result in an increasein
runningaround45% will increaseby 9.2%          the poverty rate,which the Requesters appearto suggest.
up to a total of 54.2%, and this being the real The analysis also did not suggest that the measures
rate of poverty in Yemen and not the false      supported under the IRDPGwould havea noticeable
informationgenerally published by official      inflationaryimpact. In fact, the macroeconomicsection of the
authorities inYemen. The Project also           PD advocatesfiscal policiesthat should moderate
includesa reductioninwages by 1.6% of the       inflationarypressures,and internationalexperiencesuggests
GOP. We questionthese reforms, if they          that the reductionof inflation has a powerfulpro-poorimpact.
result in an increasein poverty and
unemployment.

The social cost of such reformswill be very     Paragraph 70 of OP 8.60 refers to the need for
exorbitant. Hadthe Projectcontents been         considerationof poverty and social impacts for "specific
disclosed before,the civil society would have countrypolicies supported by the operation."The
been able to contribute by providing            poverty and social impacts of the Government'sbroader
recommendationsin relationto the adoption       developmentprogramfall beyondthe scope of this policy.
of fair tax policieswhereby the society
segmentswith higher incomeswould bear a         Managementhas reviewed the expected social and
biggerportion of the reform costs.             poverty impact of the measures supported under the
                                                IRDPG:

                                                0   Corporateincome tax reform. By reducingexemptions
                                                    and other loopholes,the proposedcorporate incometax
                                                    reform aims to broadenthe tax base and improve
                                                    collections.This will help generate the revenuesneeded
                                                    to sustain public expenditures, includingthose that are



                                                   26

                                                      Institutional Reform Development Policy Grant



                                                                        Response

                                                key to alleviating poverty, and the effectivetax rate is
                                                expectedto be reduced.
                                                Land registration.As discussedin the PD, the Bank is
                                                paying particular attentionto mitigatingthe risks
                                                associatedwith land registration reform. Management
                                                notesthat, with the safeguards included underthe
                                                IRDPG,the reformed land registrationprocess is
                                                expectedto havea positivesocial impact by reducing
                                                land conflict and strengthening property rights.
                                                Procurementreform.The procurementlaw supported
                                                under the IRDPGaims to strengthentransparencyand
                                                competition. Experience in other countries indicatesthat
                                                this reducesthe incidenceof corruption and helpsto
                                                lower pricesfor publicly procuredworks, goods, and
                                                services.
                                                Extractivelndustries Transparencylnitiative.EIT1
                                                implementationwill strengthentransparency in the flow
                                                of oil revenuesto the Government.Experiencein other
                                                countries suggeststhat this is unlikelyto result in social
                                                costs, and on the contrary may result in increasedfiscal
                                                revenuesthat can be usedto improve livingstandards in
                                                Yemen.
                                                Civilservice reform.The IRDPGsupports reform in
                                                three areas: (i) identificationand eliminationof ghost
                                                workers and double dippers from the public payroll;(ii)
                                                continued enforcement of the wage law; and (iii) effective
                                                functioning of the Civil ServiceFund. These measures
                                                are expected to have an overall positivesocial impact.

9. Further,other options could have been    Otherparticipatoryprocessesrelated to the substance
  proposedto provide resourcesthrough anti- of the Requestin which the Bank has been engaged
  corruption measures and the adoptionof    include:
  quality policiesto address povertyand
   unemployment,etc.                            Thepreparation of the 2006 CAS,which reflected in its
                                                results framework the full list of triggers for the tranches
                                                of the IRDPG.
                                                Thepreparation and disseminationof the ICA, the
                                                DPWCSA, and the PA in 2007.
                                                Work on Governanceand Anti-Corruptionin 2007 and
                                                2008.




                                              27

                                                 ANNEX2
                             DETAILEDINFORMATIONONCONSULTATIONS

Following is a detailed list of consultations conducted in the context of IRDPGpreparation, including -
where available - date, location, invitation, lists of invitees and participants, topics discussed, and the
nature and languageof background materials used.

For privacy reasons, the names, titles, and contact information of meeting invitees and participants have
been removed from the public version of this document (this information has been replaced with "--"), A
complete list of names will be made available to the Inspection Panel.

A.       Consultationsduringpreparationof the IRDPG

         (1)     IdentificationMission, December 16-18,2006

The missionteam held individual meetings with key stakeholdersto discuss and informthe overall design
of the IRDPG. Country Office staff arrangedthese meetings individually by telephone.

Date                Stakeholder                                Location
Saturday            --,CulturalDevelopmentPrograms             Sana'a, Hadda Area near complex
12/16/2006          PlanningFoundationoffice                   of Ministries

Saturday            --,Member ofParliament, Finance            World Bank Office, Sana'a
12/16/2006          Committee
Sunday,             --,Al-FarouqConsultancy                    World Bank Office, Sana'a
12/17/2006          Establishment
Sunday,             --,Socialist Party                         Socialist Party Office, Sana'a
12/17/2006
Sunday,             --,HumanRights, Liberties&Civic            Shura Council Building, Sana'a
12/17/2006          Organizations Committee Consultative
                    (Shura) Council
Monday,             --,CivicDemocratic Foundation              CDF Office, Hadda Road, Sana'a
12/18/2006

         (2)     AppraisalMission, March24-28,2007

The mission team held formal consultations with non-governmental organizations (March 26, 2007) and
Parliamentarians (March 27, 2007). The team attempted to consult with academics as well, but no one
attendedthe meeting despite several who confirmed their participation.

The Country Office extended invitations to these consultations by telephone. The draft IRDPG policy
matrix was discussedat each consultation.

The mission also held an individual meeting with the General Manager of the Federation of Chamber of
Commerce, on March 24, 2007, at the Taj Sheba Hotel in Sana'a.

Interactions with private sector counterparts were continuous in the context of the 2006 Investment
Climate Assessment as well as the IRDPG's corporate income tax component (see Section B1below).




                                                    28

                 (i)     IRDPG NGO Consultation: World'BankOffice, Sana'a,March 26,2007

  Invitees                                                         Attended?
I --,CharitableDevelopment
                Society for Social Welfare                         No

I --,Cultural               ProgramsPlanningFoundation           I No
  --,Civic Development Foundation(CDF) andSister's Arab            No
 Forum'
 --,AI-SalehSocialFoundationfor Development                        No
 --,YemeniWomenUnion                                               No
 --,Women Economic Empowerment                                     Yes
 --,Al-Farouq Consultancy Establishment                            No



                 (ii)    IRDPG Parliament Consultation: WorldBank Office, Sana'a, March 27,2007
IList of ConfirmedPartichants                                                                           1
 --,Member ofParliamentandFinance Committee
 --,MemberofParliamentandExternalAffairs Committees
 --,MemberofParliamentandExternalAffairs Committees

 --.Member
 --,MemberofParliamentandHumanRightsandLibertiesCommittee
             of Parliament
 --,MemberofParliamentandHumanRights, Liberties&Civic Organizations
 Committee/Consultative Council
 --,Memberof Parliament

B.       Sectoral consultationsunderpinningthe designof each component

         (1)     Corporate Income Tax Reform

The design of the corporate income tax reform component of the IRDPG was informed in part by work
conducted by the Foreign Investment Advisory Service (FIAS)' in reviewing Yemen's corporate income
tax system and its effects on private investment. Two missions were conducted in 2007, one in January
and one in May. Various non-government stakeholders, particularly from the private sector, were
consulted during both of these missions.

                 (i)     First FIAS Mission on Corporate Income Tax Reform, Sana'aandAden,
                         January 20-28,2007

The mission team held individual meetings with key non-government stakeholders (especially from the
private sector) to discuss and inform the review of Yemen's corporate income tax system. Country Office
staff arranged these meetings individually by telephone.



 This personis also a member of the Advisory Committee for the Yemen Observatory for HumanRights.
 FIAS is managedby the InternationalFinanceCorporation(IFC) and supportedby the Multilateral Investment
GuaranteeAgency (MIGA) and the World Bank (IBRD).

                                                    29

Name        _--_             Date        Position             Organization                  Location
                             20-Jan                           Apex Consulting               Sana'a
                             20-Jan             --            TeshreenLabs.                 Sana'a
            --              I           I
            _-              I20-Jan                           Movenpick Hotel Sana'a        Sana'a
                             20-Jan     I                     Thani Dubai Mining Company    Sana'a
                                                              Shihab Insurance and Trading




                                                              Marble and Granite




This personis also a member of the Advisory Committee for the YemenObservatory for Human Rights.

                                                   30

                (ii)    Second FIAS Mission on Corporate Income Tax Simplification, Sana'a, May
                        2007

As a follow-up to its January review of Yemen's corporate income tax system, IFC and FIASconducted a
workshop on corporate income tax reforms on May 19,2007, in Sana'a. The goal of the workshop was to
review the findings of the tax systemreview conducted in January 2007 and discuss the role of tax policy
infostering economic growth inYemen.

Many non-government stakeholders attended the workshop, particularly from the private sector.
The workshop invitation and list of invitees and participants are includedbelow.




                                                    31

Workshop invitation (translated from the Arabic): FIAS workshop on corporate income tax
reform, Sana'a, May 2007


May 2,2007

To:
Mr.
Fax Number:

 Invitation to attend a workshop on tax reforms Planned Saturday, May 19,2007 at the Office of the Tax
                                            Authority - Sana'a

International Finance Corporation is pleased to invite you to attend the workshop on Tax Reforms in
Yemen. The workshop will be held in the Office of the Tax Authority (Large Taxpayers building) in
Sana'a on Saturday, May 19,2007 at 10:30. The objective of the workshop i s to review the findings of the
report from the World Bank, which was the result of the visit of the Foreign Investment Advisory
ServicesFIAS's inJanuary 2007.

This Mission has come to work in Yemen at the invitation of the Yemeni government to study the effects
of the tax system on growth in Yemen. This comes in the context of a broader program of support offered
to Yemen by the World Bank in order to improve the investment climate. This project i s provided through
ajoint financing in collaborationwith the BritishMinistry of Development (DFID).

We are honored by your presence in this event. To confirm your attendance, please mark one of the boxes
below and re-sendthis invitationto this Fax No. 413743

M y Regards,
Sa'd Sabrah
Resident Representative


    I  Yes, Iwill attend c]

      Iwillnotattend,butIwillsendarepresentativetoattendonmybehalve(Kindlyputname
      and contact information of the person you are namingbellow:)
      Name:
      Phone:



    I I will not be able to attend                                                                  I



                                                   32

  List of invitees and participants: FIAS workshop on corporate income tax simplification, Sana'a,
 Mas 2007

I Name                 I Position        IOrganization
                                            -                       I Invited? I
                                                                               IInvitation Confirmed?
                                                                                          I          I
                                                                                Sent?
  Business
                                          Shihab Insurance and




                                            riculture Credit Bank




           --                   --
           --                             Bank                                             Yes
                                --        Deloitte                    Yes       Yes        Yes




 4This personis amember of the Advisory Committeefor the Yemen Observatoryfor HumanRights.

                                                   33

I Name        I Position     I Organization             Invited?

I             I              I Association
                                                                       I


        --             --       TeshreenLabs.                   I
                                AI-Fares for Trad. And
        --             --       _ - __.
                                Asri
              I
 Academics
        --             --       Sana'a University        Yes
        --             --    II Sana'a Universitv                      1
                                                         Yes    Yes
        --             _-    I  Sana'a University        Yes
 Government
                                                        Yes
                                Federation of Yemen
                                Chambers of Commerce
                                and Industr              Yes
                                                         Yes
        --                      Ministrv of Finance                      Yes
                                Federation of Yemen
                                Chambers of Commerce
                                and Industr              Yes
                                Federation of Yemen
                                Chambers of Commerce
       --              --       and Industry            Yes
I      --              --       Free Zone Authority     Yes
                                General Investment
       --     I        --       Authoritv               Yes     Yes      Delegated

       --                       General Investment
                       --       Authority                                Yes

       --              --       Chamber of Commerce
                                and Industry            Yes     Yes    I Yes

       --                       Chamber of Commerce
                       --       and Industry                             Yes

       --                       Ministry of Oil and
                       --       Minerals                 Yes    Yes      Delegated
                                Ministry of Oil and
                                Minerals                Yes              Yes
                                Ministry of Agriculture
                                                        Yes     Yes      Yes
                                Ministry of Fisheries
                                Wealth                  Yes     Yes
       --                                                                Yes
       --              --    1II
                             I  Ministry of Finance     Yes     Yes      Yes
                       --       Ministry of Finance     Yes
       --                                                       Yes      Yes
                       --       Ministry of Finance     Yes     Yes      Yes
       --             --        Ministry of Finance     Yes
       --                                                       Yes      Yes
                      --                                               II
       --                       Ministryof Finance      Yes     Yes      Yes
                      --
       --                       Ministry of Finance     Yes
                      --        Ministry of Finance     Yes


                                         34

 Name        Position       Organization            Invited? Invitation Confirmed?

      --                                                     Sent?
                    --      Ministrv of Finance     Yes      Yes        Yes




     --             --      GTZ                    I Yes    I Yes      I Yes      I
     --                  II World - ______         I        I          I          I
            I                 ---- Rank
                            U.S. Embassy- Sana'a,
I    --     I       --      Yemen




                                     35

        (2)      Land Registration

The work of the Land Policy Task Force was informedby two workshops, held in Sana'a on February 20-
21,2005, and on September 18,2005.

                 (i)       Workshop on Urban Land Policy and Administration in Yemen, February 20-
                           21,2005

The goal of the February 2005 workshop was to develop a common understanding of the issues and
challenges facing State land management and landregistration in Yemen, and to develop an action plan to
operationalize recommendations and follow-up interventions. The workshop included presentations in
Arabic on land policy, state land management, and legal framework reform.

Materials includedpresentations delivered verbally and as handouts in Arabic. Prior to the workshop, key
chapters of the draft Land Policy Note (executive summary, chapter on land registration law analysis and
improvements, and an extensive recommendations chapter with an action plan) were disseminated'in
Arabic to the workshop attendants. These documents facilitated and enriched the discussion.

The workshop invitation, agenda, list of invitees, list of participants, and proceedings are provided
below.'




 The invitationrefers to the original workshop date of February 19-20,2005; the meeting was postponeddue to an
emergencymeetingthat several confirmedparticipants neededto attend.

                                                        36

                                                                                 WorldBank

Dear Sir,

                     Subject: UrbanLandPolicy andAdministration inYemen

          The Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation and the World Bank invite you to a
two-day workshop on Urban Land Policy and Administration in Yemen. The meeting will include
presentations on the key issues in land policy, land registration and State land management in Yemen.
The goal of the workshop is to develop a common understanding of the issues and challenges facing State
land management and land registration in view of improving security of land tenure/ownership for
Yemeni citizens and investors as well as the business enabling environment for growth. The workshop
will conclude with the development of an action plan to operationalize the recommendations and follow
upinterventions.

          The workshop will take place on February 19-20,2005 at the Taj Sheba Hotel from 8:30 a.m. to
1:30 p.m. Please find attached the workshop agenda. We look forward to your participation and active
engagement inthis important endeavor.

          Best regards.

Mr.Ahmed MohamedSofan                                                 Mr.Mustapha Rouis

Deputy Prime Minister,                                                  Country Manager
Minister of Planningand InternationalCooperation                          World Bank


       Attachment: workshop agenda




                                                   37

 Workshop agenda: Urban Land Policy and Administration Workshop, Sana'a, February 20-21,
 2005

                     Workshop on Urban Land Policy and AdministrationinYemen
                                          February 20-21,2005

                                    Location: Taj Sheba Hotel, Sana'a

 Land in Yemen is a critical resource for economic growth and development. Yet access to land (for both
 non-residentialhnvestmentand residential use) represents one of the key obstacles to growth as well as to
 poverty alleviation due to high risk and transaction costs resulting from unclear, unenforceable property
 rights.

 The Government of Yemen and the World Bank are hosting an important 2-day workshop in Sana'a of
 key stakeholders in land policy and administration issues, accompanied by international land experts.
 During the meeting, key issues related to land registration and State land management in Yemen will be
 discussed. Our goal is to develop a common understanding of these issues and challenges facing State
 land management and security of land tenure/ownership for Yemeni citizens and investors. The meeting
 will include presentationson the key issues in landpolicy, land registration and State land managementin
 Yemen followed up by discussion of points raised by the participants.

 The thematic outline of a set of key questions that should be answered and elements of an action plan
 answering them through research with support from the World Bank will be drafted by the conclusion of
 the meeting. The draft outline will be subsequently forwarded to land stakeholders who have participated
 in the workshop. The subsequent research work is expected to be carried out with the assistance of the
 World Bank and in close cooperation of the Government of Yemen. The results of this work will be
 presented at a later workshop. The draft outline and the research work are expected to serve as the basis
rfor potential follow-up interventions to be decided by the Government of Yemen with support from the
 World Bank.
p&mF
 Da 1:


 08:30-09:OO

r09:oo-1o:oo




110:30-11:30      Reformingthe legal framework for land registration: Key issues and international~-
                                                                                  ~~~




                  best practice


                                                    38

             Format: 30mn presentationby John Bruce, followed by 3011x1discussion
             Objectives: (i)  presentWorld Bank experienceinthe land sector; (ii) best
                                                                                    present
             practices inthe sector including experience of Arab countries; (iii) discuss the
             adaptability and relevance of global experience andbest practices to the Yemeni
             context; (iv) discuss key issues inthe proposeddraft land registration law in
             Yemen
 11:30-12:00 Break

 12:oo-1:oo  Session 4:
             Land registration and land administration in Yemen: Assessment of current
             situation, framework and key issues
             Format: 30mn presentation by Bijan Azad, followed by 30mn discussion
             Objectives: (i)  present key issueskhallenges against international/regional
             standards and validate data; (ii) reach consensus on what are the key
             issueskhallenges and priorities; (iii) establish government and stakeholder
             priorities; (iv) seek high-level government commitment to tackling land

 140




             Keynote Speech:
 08:30-09:OO Keynote Opening Speech
             HEAhmed MohamedSofan, Deputy PrimeMinister, Minister of Planningand
             InternationalCooueration
~


             Sessions 5-6:
 09:OO-1Or00 Land registration, land administration and State land management:potential areas of
             improvement and recommendations
             Format: 40mn presentation by Bijan Azad and Sameh Wahba, followed by 20mn
             moderated discussion
             Objective: (i)  propose potential areas and specific recommendations for improvement


             Session 7:
             Recommendations for potential areas of improvement: participatory formulation of
             Driorities and next stem
             Format: Moderateddiscussion by Mohamed A1Sabbry and SamehWahba
             Objective: (i)  discuss and confirm recommendations and priority improvements of
             land administrationand State land management; (ii)     participatory formulation of
L-           agenda and next stem
             Summary of agreed next steps and closing remarks
             Format: Presentation bv Yehia A1Douid
             Objectives: (i)  establish land task force; (ii)
                                                            assignresponsibilities and set timeline
             for next actions




                                                   39

Workshop invitees: Urban Land Policy and Administration Workshop, Sana'a, February 20-21,
2005
    -
    I Name
      1. --                   Position/ Organization
                              --,Ministry ofPlanningandInternationalCooperation
      2. --                   --,Ministry of Planning andInternationalCooperation
    p 3. --                   --,Ministry of Planning andInternationalCoop.
      4. --                   --,Ministry of PublicWorks andHighways
                              --,Carrefour
                              --,LawyersSyndicateinSanaa
      7. --                   --.Commercial
      8. --                                   Court
                              --,Commercial Appeals Court
      9. --                   --,Ministry of LegalAffairs
      10. --
      11. --                  --,Survey Authority andLandRegistry (SALR)
                              --.SALR
      12. --                  --,SALR
      13. --                  --,StateLandandRealEstateAuthority (SLREA)
    1 14. --               7  --.SLREA
                              --,West SanaaPrimary Court
    I 16. --                  --.SunremeJudicial   Council
      17. --                  --,Ministry ofJustice
      18. --                  --,SupremeCourt
      19. --                  --,ServicesCommittee, Houseof Representatives
      20. --                  --,DevelopmentCommittee, HouseofRepresentatives
      21. --                  --.Constitutional Affairs Committee. House of Renresentatives
      22. --                  --,Registration Affairs, MinistryofJustice
    I 23. --                  --.Yemeni  Center for Arbitration
      24. --                  -- Investment Projects, Ministryof Awqaf
      25. --                  --,Development Committee, HouseofRepresentatives
      26. --                  --,Federationof Yemen ChambersofCommerce andIndustry
      27. --                  --,EastSanaaPrimaryCourt
    I 28. --                  Lawver
                              Private sector investor
                              --,Shame1Bank, privatesectorinvestor




    +
    I 31. --                  --,Haddaarea
                              --,GreenCity residential development inAden
                              Judge in Lahj Governorate
      34. --                  --.Green Citv residential develonment inAden
                              --,HousingBank
    I 36. --




                                               40

Workshop participants: Urban Land Policy and Administration Workshop, Sana'a, February 20-
21,2005

     Name                             Position / Organization
     1. --                            --,Ministry of PlanningandInternational CooperationI
     2. --                         III--,ServicesCommittee, HouseofRepresentatives
     3. --                            --,Development Committee, Houseof Representatives
     4. --                            --,StateLandandRealEstateAuthority (SLREA)
     5. --                            --,SurveyAuthority andLandRegistry (SALR)
     6. --                            --,Ministryof Planning andInternationalCooperation

     7. --                            (MOPIC)
                                      --,MinistryofFinance
     8. --                            --,InvestmentProjects, Ministryof Awqaf
     9. --
     10. --                           --,RegistrationAffairs,Ministry ofJustice
                                      --,West SanaaPrimaryCourt
     11. --                           Judicial Control/Monitoring
     12. --                           --,CommercialCourt, Sana'a
     13. --                           --,SALR
     14. --                           --,SALR
     15. --                           --.SLREA
     16. --                           --,MOPIC
     17. --                        II --.TaxAuthoritv. Ministrv ofFinance
     18. --                           --,ControYMonitoringDepartment, Tax Authority,
                                      Ministrv of Finance                                 I
     19. --                           Lawyer
     20. --                           --,SheikhTariqAbdullahLawoffices
     21. --                           Private sector investor, Member of Chamber of
                                      Commerce, Sana'a
     22. --                           --,A1Hamadanifor CommerceandRealEstate
                                      Investment
     23. --                           --,Haddaarea
     24. --                           --.Ministrv of Legal Affairs
     25. --                                             u
                                      Lawyer, Member of the Lawyers' syndicate in Sana'a
     26. --                           Technical Office. MOPIC
     27. --                           --,IslamicBankofYemen
     28. --                           --,Islamic TadhamonBank
     29. --                           --,YemenandKuwaitBank
     30. --                           --,YemenBankfor Construction andUrbanization
     31. --                           --.Hafez Fade1Law office
     32. --                           --
     33. --                           --,Federationof Chambersof Commerce
     34. --                           --,West Sana'a Court
     35. --                           --,Yemen BusinessmenClub
     Media
     36. --                           --,A1RaieAI Aamnewspaper
     37. --                           --,A1Abhar newspaper
     38. --                           --,A1Mo'tamar Net site
                                      --,AIThawraNewspaper
     40. --
     39. --
                                      --,FederationofChambersofCommerce

                                               41

42

Workshop proceedings: Urban Land Policy and Administration Workshop, Sana'a, February 20-
21,2005

                   Workshop on UrbanLand Policy and Administration inYemen
                                          February 20-21,2005

Introduction: workshop objectives

The Government of Yemen, in collaboration with the World Bank, organized a workshop on urban land
policy and administration in Yemen, which was on February 20-21, 2005 under the sponsorship of the
Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Planning and International Cooperation. The workshop brought
together key public, private and civil society stakeholders involved in urban land policy and
administration issues, accompaniedby international land experts.

The objectives of the workshop were to:
                Develop a common understanding ofheach consensus on the key issues and challenges
                facing urban land administration, land registration and State land management in Yemen,
                and establish government and stakeholder priorities
                Develop a common understanding of and establish initial consensus on potential
                recommendations and key areas of improvement of urban land administration, land
                registration and State land management inYemen
                Obtain high-level government commitment to tackling land issues and challenges
                Establish consensus on the next steps and prepare an action plan to operationalize the
                workshop recommendations

Workshop organization and proceedings:

The workshop was organized along three main axes:
    (i) Statelandmanagement
    (ii)    Legal framework governing landregistration
    (iii)   Urban land administration and landregistration

The first day of the workshop included presentations on the key issues in land registration and
administration, the legal framework governing land registration and State land management in Yemen
followed up by moderated discussions amongst the stakeholders to confirmhalidate and establish
consensus on issues and priorities. The second day included presentations of potential recommendations
and key areas of improvement of land administration and management, which were followed by
moderated discussions amongst stakeholders to confirmhalidate preliminary recommendations and
establish consensus on priority areas of improvement, as well as develop an action plan for the next steps.
It was agreed to establish a Land Policy Task Force (LPTF) to maintain a high-level dialogue on urban
land policy and administration issues in Yemen among key stakeholders after the workshop. The LPTF
would validatekonfirm initial findings, address gaps in knowledge of policy, legal and procedural issues
and opinions, and facilitate advancement to the next stage of outlining key areas for intervention and
policy options.




                                                   43

Thematic discussionsof key issues and recommendations:

(i) State Land Management:

The presentation highlighted the key issues and problems affecting State land management in Yemen,
namely:
         Lack of a consolidated institutional framework for allocating State land, inthe sense that multiple
         government entities have in the past allocated State lands. In addition, there i s a lack of
         systematic and transparent mechanisms to allocate State land, which have both resulted in a
         chaotic distribution of State lands especially in Southern cities. In Mukalla, the lands distributed
         in 1990-1999 could accommodatetwo times the current population. The problem in Aden is of a
         similar magnitude. Most of these lands remain undeveloped today. In addition, the lack of
         market-based allocation mechanisms (Le. auctions) and the reliance on administrative allocation
         (i.e. direct allocation to individuals or based on lists) results in the inefficient allocation of State
         land.
         Legal ambiguity of State lands as defined in the State Lands and Real Estate Law No.21 of 1995
         (especially marahek, i.e. mountain slopes channeling rainfall, and the coastal cities' urban
         expansion areas), which has resulted in many ownership conflicts with private and tribal
         claimants;
         Lack of a comprehensive and accurateinventory of State lands and lack of means to undertake it;
         Inability to preserve StateLands from encroachment and speculation;
         Lack of updated land use plans in cities, lack of mechanisms to implement and enforce
         masteddetailed plans, lack of strategies for sustainableuse of State Lands;
         Lack of systematic and transparent methods for valuing State land; and
         Lack of strategic framework for leveraging State land to achieve economic development
         objectives.

Preliminary recommendations were presented, focusing on the key areas of improvement:
         Consolidation of the institutional framework for the allocation of State-owned lands by
         centralizing dispositiodcustodianship at SLREA (as per the existing Law) based on the
         recommendations of GIA (for investment lands) and GLC (for non-investment.lands);
         Switch from administrative allocation to dispose of State-owned land (through direct individual
         or list-based allocation) to market-based allocation (through auctions);
         Disposition of State-owned land (for investment, market housing, and commercialhon-
         investment uses) at market prices, which would eliminate speculation incentives and
         market/allocation distortions, allow to recover the costs of service delivery;
         Revision of the State Land and Real Estate Law of 1995 taking into account the abovementioned
         recommendations; and
         Completion of the inventory and registration of State-owned land(and real estate) assets.

Workshop participants agreed that the diagnostic presented was accurate and comprehensive and
constituted a major problem that affected social stability and had negative effects on economic growth
and the investment climate. Emphasis was placed on the need to develop transparent mechanisms for the
allocation and valuation of State lands. Emphasis was also placed on the needto address land problems in
an integrated manner, including strengthening land dispute resolution mechanisms (especially the courts'
system), expanding and strengthening land use planning (the lack of which was attributed as one of the
main causes of the problem) and revising the existing State Land and Real Estate Law to ensure among
other things that State lands are properly defined.

                                                      44

(ii) Legal Framework Governing Land Registration:

The presentation highlighted the following issues:
     The existing Land Registration Law No. 39 of 1991 is very rudimentary and limited and lacks the
     necessaryby-laws that could have compensatedfor the lack of detail in the law;
     In2000, the deedregistration systemmovedfrom aperson-basedregistry (sejel shakhsee) to aparcel-
     basedregistry (sejel ainee) based on site inspection. How effective this is, when updated and detailed
     maps are absent, is questionable;
     Many registrations currently undertaken are based on inaccurate previous registrations and the
     investigation as currently conducted i s not an adequate basis for providing conclusive legal effect to
     registration;
     The Government's decision to replace the 1991 Law i s to be commended. The two drafts preparedby
     SALR in 2001 and the Ministry of Legal Affairs in 2004 introduced substantial improvements over
     the existing law, including: (i)  Provision for both mandatory (systematic) registration and voluntary
     registration; (ii)Detailed field inspection and instructions on how to handle contested registrations in
     voluntary registration; (iii)  Detailed systematic registration processes to ensure transparency and
     public confidence in the results; (iv) Strengthening the probative effect of registration; (v) Parcel-
     based registry with unique ID number; and (vi) Provisions for subsequent transaction registrations in
     the registry, to be distinguished from "voluntary registrations."

The revised law should take into account the following issues:
     Ensuring the financial sustainability of the registry system through among other things: (i)    dropping
     the transfer tax and replacing it with an annual land tax, but if there i s to be a transfer tax, then no
     penalties should be imposed on those seeking to register for previous unregistered transactions; (iii)
     the registering agency should be allowed to retain all registration fees for its support and a small
     portion of transfer tax for collection services.
     Improving the process of registration through: (i)   more effective publicity procedures for systematic
     registration; (ii)reformingheinforcing the role of the Amin to ensure a higher quality of
     documentation in transfers; and (iii)  the courts' role in authentication of land transfers must be either
     ended or substantially reformed.
     Strengthening the legal effect of registration through: (i)priority of registered transfers over
     unregistered transfers; (ii) inability of unregistered transactionshheritances to transfer title; and (iii)
     most importantly, legalconclusiveness of registration.
     Most importantly, concerning the debate institutional framework for land registration, it is not
     advisable to split the legal function of registration (which would be under the Ministry of Justice)
     from the technical function of surveying. The current consolidated structure should be retained as it i s
     under the Presidency of the Council of Ministers as it greatly facilitates effective registration
     implementation.
     Other issues dealt with included the treatment of mistakes and corrections in the registry, the need to
     expand private sector involvement in registration (except in adjudication), allowing for field
     mediation and the treatment of court cases in the titling settlement process, and the elimination of
     conflict between the mandatory system and voluntary registration.

Workshop participants agreed that the revision of the legal framework governing land registration i s a
critical step to improving registration. All participants except for the Tax Authority agreed on the needto
eliminate the requirement of paying back taxes on all past unregistered transfers, and to devise a penalty
system for delay different from the one currently in place. Participants also emphasized the importance of


                                                       45

finding solutions to the widespread problem of forgery of basiras (transfer deeds). They also emphasized
the need for reforming and properly regulating the functions of the Amin in the conveyance process, to
ensure that they only work in their area of jurisdiction and properly check on property rights prior to
drafting any property transfer (by checking with the land registry). Finally, participants proposed that the
authentication and land registration functions would be consolidated, with conveyance by the Amin also
to take place at the Land Registry to consolidate all these related activities and prevent transfers of
unregistered land. Participants also emphasized the need for standardized forms for transfer deeds
(basiras) .
(iii) Land Registrationand Land Administration:

The presentation highlighted the following key issues:
             Overall, there is a very limited utilization of the land registry in Yemen;
             Widespread public perception that court authentication of transfer deeds (basira) is as
             effective or more effective in securing property rights than deed registration, which means
             that court authentication ultimately undermines the deed registrationsystem;
             Concerns about land registration costs (especially the requirement that those seeking to
             register pay all accumulated transfer taxes on all past unregistered transactions) further limit
             demand for registration;
             Limited degreeofjudiciaVlega1 involvement in registration decisions;
             Inadequate regulationof conveyancing and monitoring of Amin activities;
             Inadequate registration and registry maintenance procedures, especially the lack of legally
             uniqueparcel/property IDnumber;
             Land disputes representa significant portion of overall court cases;
             Land disputes take a long time to resolve, which due to the large volume of cases and the lack
             of specializatiordpreparation amongjudges to handle land disputes; and
             Ineffectiveenforcement ofjudicial decisions.

Workshop participants agreed that the activation of the land registry i s a critical step to improving land
tenure security in Yemen. The lack of registration of State and Waqf lands was also noted as a key issue.
Participants underscored the importance of addressing the heavy financial burden associated with
registration (payment of current and all past land transfer taxes and penalties for delays) if the purpose is
to activate the use of the registry. The importance of regulating Amin functions was also underscored,
especially that Amin activities be limited as per the Law to their geographic jurisdiction areas, and that
Amins do not draft transfer deeds except after checking the basiras. In addition, participants emphasized
the importance of proper maintenance of the land registry, namely in cross-checking recorded liens prior
to issuing substitute basiras and curbing the practices of multiple sales of the same parcel of land.
Participants also stressed that the fact that "court authentication of transfer deeds does not confer
ownership" i s not well understood by the public, and that the involvement of the judiciary in
authentication i s not warranted since this i s supposedly an administrative procedure. It was also proposed
to modify the authentication stamp to state that "authentication of does not confer ownership."

(iv)    Concluding Remarks and Next Steps:

Workshop participants all agreed on the need to establish a Land Policy Task Force (LPTF) to maintain a
high-level dialogue on urban land policy and administration issues in Yemen among key stakeholders
after the workshop. A total of 13 public, private and civil society stakeholders, including Parliamentarians
and thejudiciary, are representedin the LPTF. The LPTF objectives include validating/confirming initial

                                                       46

findings, addressing gaps in knowledge of policy, legal and procedural issues and opinions, and
facilitating the advancement to the next stage of outlining key areas for intervention and policy options.
Annex C details the LPTFmandate, action plan, designated members, and other information. In addition,
a matrix of initial recommendations and areas of improvement i s included inAnnex C.3.




                                                   47

                 (ii)    Workshopon Urban Land Policy and Administration in Yemen, September 18,
                        2005

The goal of the September 2005 workshop was to review key findings and recommendations on land
policy and urban land management in Yemen. The workshop discussed a memorandum prepared by the
World Bank in cooperation with the Commission on Land Policy, drawing on the results of the February
workshop.

The workshop included presentations in Arabic on land policy issues, land laws, and institutional issues,
each with recommendations on how to move forward. The workshop invitation, agenda, list of invitees
and participants, and proceedings are provided below.




                                                   48

Invitation letter (translated from the Arabic): Urban Land Policy and Administration Workshop,
Sana'a, September 18,2005

To:

Mr.Ali Abu Halika,
Member of the House of Representatives,the Head of the Constitutional Committee.


Subject: Workshop on urban land management policy inYemen, on Sept. 18,2005

Dear Sir,

Sponsoredby the Ministry of Planning and InternationalCooperation, Ministry of Public Works and The
Authority of the StateLandand Property, and incoordination with the World Bank, a workshop under the
title "Land Management and Policy of urban land in Yemen" will be heldon Sunday, 18 September, 2005
at big hall in the buildingof the Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation. The workshop will
discuss the memorandum prepared by the World Bank in cooperation with the Commission on Land
Policy, which was formed after a workshop held recently in February. It will also be discussiing the key
findings and recommendations included in the memorandum with regard to policy and urban land
managementinYemen.

Accordingly, the Ministry of Planningand International Cooperation i s pleasedto invite you to participate
in this workshop to discuss ideas and recommendations contained in the memorandum prpared by the
World Bank, and to activate the functioning of the workshop, Kindly find the following attched annexes:
- Summary of the memorandum of the World Bank
- Draftplan of action to give effect to the recommendations
- Review the legal andregulatory framework for the managementof landin Yemen
- Summary of the recommendations reachedinthe World Bank memorandum
- Summary of the workshop on policy and land management in the cities of Yemen February 19 -
February 21,2005.

With Best Regards,

Ahmad MuhammadSufan,
Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Planningand International Cooperation




                                                   49

Workshop Agenda: Urban Land Policy and Administration Workshop, Sana'a, September 18,2005

               Workshop on Urban Land Policy and Administration inYemen
                                       September 18,2005

            Location: Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation, Sana'a

                                       Workshop Agenda:




             Initiatives. Moderated Discussion: Legal and Institutional Issues
12:30- 13:OO Next steps and action plan
              (in context of the proposed merger )
13:OO        Lunch




                                              50

Listof Inviteesand Participants: UrbanLandPolicy and AdministrationWorkshop, Sana'a,
September 18,2005


     Name                                  Position/ Organization
      1. --                                 --,Ministry ofPlanningandInternational
                                           Cooperation
     2. --                                  --,StateLandandRealEstateAuthority
                                          I
     3. --                                I (SLREA) Authority
                                            --,Survey           and Land Registry
                                            (SALR)
     4. -- (*)                              --,GeneralInvestmentAuthority
     5. -- (*)
     6. --                                  --,YemenFreeZonesAuthority
                                            --,ServicesCommittee, Houseof
                                           Representatives
     7. -- (*)                             --,Constitutional Affairs Committee, Houseof
                                           Representatives
     8. -- (*)                             --,DevelopmentCommittee, Houseof
                                           Representatives
     9. --                                 --,ChamberofCommerceandIndustrySana'a
      10. --                               --,Judicial OversightCommittee
      11. --                               --,West SanaaPrimaryCourt
      12. --                               --,Judicial Oversight Committee
      13. --                               --,Appeals Court, Sana'a
      14. --                               --,CommercialCourt, Sana'a
      15. --                               --,Haddaarea
     16. -- (*)                            --,Ministry ofPublic Works andHighways
     17. --                                --,ProjectsProgramming, MinistryofPlanning
                                           and InternationalCoop.
     18. --                                --,RegistrationAffairs, MinistryofJustice
     19. --                                --,UrbanPlanning, MinistryofPublicWorks
                                           and Highways
     20. --                                --,Ministry ofFinance
     21. --                                --,Tax Authority, Ministryof Finance
     22. --                                --,MinistryofPublicWorks andHighways


     25. --                                --,SALR
     26. --
     27. --                                --,SLREA
                                           --,Ministry ofLegalAffairs
     28. --                                --,InvestmentProjects,MinistryofAwqaf
     29. --                                --,FederationofYemen Chambersof
                                           Commerce and Industry
     30. --                                Lawyer
     31. -- (*)                            Lawyer
     32. --                                --,A1Hamadanyfor Trade andRealEstate
                                           Investment and Development
     33. --                                --,Islamic Tadamon Bank
     34. --                                --,YemenandKuwaitBank


                                            51

      Name
      35. --         Position/ Organization
                     --,Yemen IslamicBank
      36. --         --,YemenBankforReconstructionand




(*) Didnot attend




                     52

                (iii)   Members of the Land Policy Task Force and Designated Focal Points

Entity                        Head/ Presiding Member@)                                  point(s)
   1. Ministry of Planning    -- (Chair)                          II Designated Focal
                                                                     -- (Coordinator)
                                                                     -- (Coordinator)
   2. State Land and Real     --,--                                  --,--,LegalAffairs

   3. Survey Authority and --,--
       Estate Authority

                                                                     --1 --1Registration
       LandRegistry
   4. Ministry of Finance     --,--                                  --1 --,Property Tax (TBC)
   5. Ministryof Justice      --,--                                  -- --
                                                                        1

   6. Ministryof Public       --,--                                  TBN
       Works
   7. Ministry of Awqaf       --,--                                  --,--
   8. Ministry of Legal       --7--                                  --, Programs
                                                                         --1
       Affairs
   9. Amin                    --,--,Hadda,Sana'a                     --,--,Hadda,Sana'a
   10. Private sector         --,--,Federationof Chambersof          TBN
                              Commerce and Industry
   11. Lawyers' syndicate     --,--,Lawyers' syndicate Sana'a        --,Lawyer
                              -- --
                                   1
   12. Judges                 --,--,SupremeJudicialCouncil           --
                              --,--,SupremeCourt
   13. House of               --,--,ServicesCommittee                --,Member, Development
       Representatives        --,--,Development Committee            Committee (TBC)
                              --,--,ConstitutionalAffairs
                              Committee


        (3)     Procurement Reform

The procurement component of the IRDPG was informed by: (i) Bank's consultations with Yemen
                                                                the
Parliamentarians Against Corruption in March 2007 at the Bank's Country Office in Sana'a; (ii) April
                                                                                                an
2007 workshop presentation to the Service and Finance Parliamentary Committees facilitated by external
consultants (Booz Allen Hamilton, financed by USAID) in the presence of the media; and (iii)   meetings
with Parliamentarians on June 10,2007, in Sana'a.

Invitationsto the Marchand June 2007 consultations were extended by telephone.

        (4)     EITI

The World Bank participated in a workshop hosted by the Government on August 19, 2007, in Sana'a to
launch its participation in EITI. Representatives of the Supreme National Authority for Combating
Corruption (SNACC) and civil society also participated.

The meetingagenda and terms of reference for the EITICouncil are includedbelow:




                                                  53

Agenda for EITIlaunch

                                Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative
                                     InternationalConference Agenda
                                Ministry of Oil & Minerals, Sana'a, Yemen
                                             August 19,2007



Session 1:( 09:OO 1O:OO am )
                      -

** Why
1-Introductionto EITI                             9:00 - 9:20 am
    What is EITI?
         do we needit?
(TheMinister Consultant)

2- World Bank                                     9:20 - 9:35 am
(World Bank representative)

3- Concluding word                                9:35 -9 5 5 am
(H.E.The Ministerof Oil & Minerals)

4- Press Conference                               1O:OO - 10:30

Session2 :( 10:45 am).

Yemen EITICouncil lst
*** ReviewingTOR          meeting.
    Reviewing work plan

    Protocols for future meetings.

The Yemen EITI Council Members:

The Organization                                                IName                  /No I
Ministry of Oil & Minerals (MOM)                                               --    [I
Ministry of Finance (MOF)                                                      --       2
Ministry of Planning (MOP)                                                     --       3
NationalAuthority for Anti-Corruption                                          ----
                                                                               _-       4
Human Rights Information & TrainingCenter                                               5
FutureMovements                                                                         6
The Development Institutefor Democracy                                         --       7
Yemen Safer Company                                                                     8
Total EP Yemen                                                                 ----     9
Canadian Nexen                                                                 --       10




                                                     54

EITICouncilTerms of Reference


                              ExtractiveIndustries Transparency Initiative
                            Terms of Reference for the Yemen EITI Council

The TOR of the Yemen EITIcouncil:

A ) Purposeand work steps:

1- Facilitating the implementationof the EITIprocess by taking the necessarydecisions and ensuring
necessaryfinancial and human resources are securedto fulfill EITIwork plans.
2- Appointing an auditor and/or a reconciliationorganization.
3- Raising the public awareness on EITI.
4- Assessing and removing barriers to implementation
5- In due course and in coordinationwith EITISecretariat internationally, appointing and funding a
validator under EITIprocessesand reviewing validation reports
6- Developingor agreeing a work plan
7- Monitoring the auditors and reconcilers work
8- Developreporting templates for government and companies disclosing information
9- Facilitate stakeholder consultations on the reporting templates to mobilize and consolidate
stakeholdersinputinto them.
10-Developguidance for government and companieson how to complete and submit those reports in
accordance with the internationalstandards."----
11- Determinehow often EITIreports should be compiled and published.
12- Resolve any other technical issues regarding the managementof the contract with the audit and/or
reconciliation organization.
13- Regular Publishing of all material oil, gas and mining payments by companies to government
(Payments) and all material revenue received by the government from oil ,gas andmining companies (
Revenues) to a wide audience in a publicly accessible, comprehensive and comprehensiblemanner.
14- Exerting serious efforts to extend the EITIapproach to all companies including state- owned
enterprises.
15- The EITIcouncil shall send a letter of instructionregarding the provision of reporting forms to the
foreign and local companies operating in extractive industries.The letter shall instruct the foreign and
local companies to deliver complete reports directly to the audit company by the specified reportingdate
.The letter submission should be to the auditor by areportingdate.
16- The observation and evaluation of all EITIprograms including wide dissemination of the EITIreport
;ensuring necessary follow-up actions on EITIReport's recommendations and reviewing the overall EITI
process so that any neededrefinements are implemented to make the Yemen EITIinto a sustainable
process.

B ) Governanceof the Yemen EITIcouncil:
1-The members of the Yemen EITICouncil are chosen through the "Nomination Approach              "
2- The membership inthe EITICouncil is of ten members representing the government, the civil society
organizations and the non-governmental companies.
3- Decisions of the council can be taken by not less than the Two Thirds of the council members.
4- The initial membership will last for two years.
5- The Yemen EITICouncil work will be supported by the Yemen EITISecretariat inMOM.




                                                     55

C.      Other Relevant Consultations

        (1)     World Bank Group 2006 Country Assistance Strategy

The main objective of consultations on the 2006 CAS was to solicit feedback from' the government, civil
society and donors to be used as inputs into the preparation of the World Bank Country Assistance
Strategy for Yemen (2006-10).

                (i)     Initial Consultations on 2006 CAS,November 2005

The Bank heldfour workshops with about 150participants attending from various stakeholder groups
(government, 35 percent; academia, 6 percent; international community, 16percent; and others-
businessmen, NGOs,journalists, associations43 percent). These extensive consultations took place in
Sana'a and Aden duringNovember 19-22, 2005. Consultations with civil society specifically were heldin
Aden on November 19,2005, and in Sana'a on November 22,2005. The agendaand participants for these
consultations are includedbelow.




                                                   56

               World Bank CAS Consultation with Civil SocietyOrganizations
                 (Aden, Yemen, MercureHotel, Saturday, November 19, 2005)
                (Sana'a, Yemen, Taj Sheba Hotel, Tuesday, November 22, 2005)

                                          Program

8:30-09:OO   Registration

9:00-09:10   OpeningRemarks
             Mr.MustaphaRouis, Yemen Country Manager, WorldBank

9:10-09:30   IDA Allocation and the CAS Approach
             Mr.Emmanuel Mbi,Country Director,WorldBank:IDA-I4Allocation andResult-Based
             CAS

09~30-1O:OO  RetrospectiveReview-drawing lessonsfrom the past
             Mr.Gaiv Tata, Country ProgramCoordinator: 2002 CASStatusReport

10:00-10:30  Looking Ahead-the DevelopmentAgenda
             Mr. Srinivasan Gopalan Thirumalai, Senior Economist, MNSED, and Mr. Mustapha
             Rouis, Country Manager, World Bank: Development Policy Review-Main Hypotheses

10:30-10:45  Break

10:45- 12:45 Open Discussions: Yemen Priorities and the Roleof the Bank

12:45- 13:OO ClosingRemarks
             Mr.Emmanuel Mbi,Country Director, WorldBank

             Questionnaire

13:00-14:00  LunchHostedby the World Bank (All participants are invited)




                                             57

          Civil Society Consultationson 2006 CAS
                 Aden, November 19,2005
                    List of Participants

Participant
     --                         Affiliation
                                HRAssociation
     --
    --                          Health Office
                                Aden University
     --                         Yemen Women Union
    --
    --                          Social Affairs
                                Yemeni Writers Union


    --                          PCDP
    --                          Aden Local Council
    --                          MoPIC-Aden
    -_                          ECA
    --                          22 May Newspaper
    --                          WWA .
    --                          22 May Newspaper
    --                          Aden LocalCouncil
    --                          EPSP
    --
    --                          Poverty A. Association

    --                          PCDP
                                Local Council
    --                          AAWS
    --                          Governor's Office
    --                          14 October Newspaper
    --                          S A D
    --                          V W A
    --                          BusinessmanNater
    --                        IIPort Cities Project
    --                          Chamber of Commerce
    --                          Aden University
    --                          Yemeni Center for HR
    --                          Aden Local Council
    --                          Aden University
    --                          Al-Ayyam Newspaper
    --
    --                          Aden Local Council
                                AWAFD
    --                          Aden Universitv
    --                          Poverty Allev. Ass.
    --                          Aden University
    --
    ----                        Aden Women Assoc.
                                Saba'a News Agency
                                Local Council
    --                          Al-Zahra Association




                             58

Participant               --                        Affiliation
                                                    UNDP
                          --                        Sana'a University
                          --
                          --                        Watani Bank
                                                    Consultative Council
                          --                        OXFAM


                         --                         Hayel Saeed Group
                         --
                         --                         Consultative Council
                                                    Akhbar Al-Yaum NP
                         --
                         --                         Sana'a University
                                                    YCCI
                         --                         SharebCop.
                         --                         Parliament
                         --                         Sana'a University
                         --                         Al-Saleh Welfare Society
                         --                         YWU




               (ii)     Follow-up Consultationson 2006 CAS,March 2006

Follow-up consultations were held in Sana'a on March 7, 2006, with members of the newly appointed
Cabinet to discuss and validate the selection of strategic priorities under the new CAS. Participants
included Government officials from various ministries (including Planning, Finance, Health, Water, and
Agriculture). The draft CAS Completion Report for the previous CAS was presented as a means to
engage with participants in designing a realistic CAS program for 2006-2009. This meeting was
organized by the authorities.

The Country Director's March 2006 meeting schedule in included below, which makes reference to the
follow-up CAS consultation meeting.




                                                 59

     19:OO               Arrival on Yemenia 601 from Cairo
                 Proceeding to Taj Sheba Hotel (confirmation202478)
                       Sunday, March5
     09:OO      Meeting with Mr.Mustapha Rouis, Country Manager for          confirmed
                                      Yemen, CO
     11:30      Meeting with --,--,Ministry of Planning and International    confirmed
                                      Cooperation
     16:OO                   Donor Meeting on PFM, CO                        confirmed
Monday, March 6
     14:OO              Meeting with --,--,Ministryof Finance                confirmed
     16:30      VC on the draft reportfor the Yemen Investment Climate       confirmed
                                   Assessment, CO
     20:oo           Dinner hosted by -- at Al-Mankal Restaurant             confirmed

     1o:oo             CAS Meeting at the Ministry of Planning               confirmed
     13:OO              Meetingwith --,--,Ministryof Water                   confirmed
     16:OO                  Telephone conversation with --

     9:OO       Meeting with --,--,Ministryof Civil Service (to attend at    confirmed
                     your preference with Messrs Rouis and Tata)
  1o:oo-11:oo    Meeting with H.E.Abdul-Qader Bajammal, the Prime-         To be confirmed

     13:OO            Meeting with --,--,Ministry of Education                confirm

     08:OO               Departure on Yemenia 606 to Cairo




                                             60

        (2)     InvestmentClimate Assessment

The draft ICA was discussed with the Government, the private sector (through the Federation of
Chambers of Commerce), and academics on June 27-28, 2006. ICA findings were summarized in a
PowerPoint presentation in English, which was provided to meeting participants in hard copy form.
Invitations were made by telephone. A meeting schedule and related e-mail correspondenceare included
below.

                                   Andrew StoneAgenda Jun 27-28
            Entity                  Date                    Meeting with                Venue

                                            June 27,06



                                            June 28,06
    Ministryof Planning      9:OO-11:30a.m.       -- (--, MoPIC) and a number of  MoPIC
    and International                             other Gov't officials
    Cooperation


    Donors' meeting          2:OO-3:30p.m.        -- Dutch Embassy (confirmed)
                                                      _ _                          CO
                                                         ``DFD"
                                                  - -- (tbc) U S Embassy

    Federation of            4:30 Pam.-           --- German embassy (tbc)
                                                     & others                      --'s office
    Chambers of
    Commerce


From: Lina Yassin Al-Saffi on 06/26/2006 03:33 P MZE3
 MNCYE

To: Andrew H.W. StonelPersodWorld BankOWorldBank
cc: Abeer Yahia Aleryani/PersodWorld BankQWorldBank, Yahia Saleh
 AlanssilPersonNorld Bank@WorldBank, MustaphaRouislPersodWorld
 Bank@WorldBank
bcc:
Subject: Fw: Mission to discuss/disseminateICA?

Dear Andrew,

Kindly be informed that Dr.Yahia has kindly assistedus getting incontact with
Academicians. You will have a meeting with around 10 acads. tommorrw at 11:OO pm
inthe country office.

Best,

Lina Y, Al-Saffi




                                                  61

        (3)     Development Policy Review and Country Social Analysis

Upon completion of the Development Policy Review (DPR) and Country Social Analysis (CSA), both
key documents underpinning the design of the IRDPG, the Bank launched a series of joint dissemination
workshops around the country. Workshops were held in Sana'a on June 23, 2007, in Taiz on June 25,
2007, and in Aden on June 27,2007. Documents were disseminated inEnglishand Arabic.

The joint dissemination workshop agenda, Englishtranslations of the invitations (which were issued in
Arabic),6 and participant lists are included below. Participant lists are not complete given the broad
attendanceat these consultations.




 TheAden workshop was originally scheduledfor June 28, 2007, as reflectedinthe invitationbelow. However, the
team subsequently realizedthat June 28 was aThursday (part of the weekend inYemen), and the workshop was
rescheduledfor June 27,2007. Invitees were notified of the change by telephone.

                                                        62

                                     Joint Dissemination
                             Yemen Development Policy Review
                                and Country Social Assessment


Sana'a - Saturday,                    June 23 27,2007
                                               -
                  23 June

08:30 - 09:OO
Venue: Sana'a University Public Information Center
               I Registration
09:OO- 1O:OO    I Introduction bv WB Team Yemen DeveloDmentPolicv Review
                                           -                                                    I
 1O:OO - 10:30    Introduction by Yemeni Partner of Report- Own Perspective (to be named)
 10:30- 11:OO     Coffee break
 11:00- 12:OO     Introduction by WE3 Team - Country Social Assessment
 12:OO- 12:30     Introduction bv Yemeni Partner of ReDort- Own Persaective (to be named)
 12:30- 13:30 IOuestions and Clarifications                                                     I

Depart Sana'a to Taiz: Sunday, 24 June -By Road
Taiz: Monday, 25 June 2007
Venue: Sofitel Hotel
08:30 - 09:OO
09:OO - 1O:OO  II Registration
                  Introductionbv WB Team Yemen DeveloDmentPolicv Review
                                           -                                                    I
 1O:OO - 10:30    Introduction by Yemeni Partner of Report- Own Perspective (to be named)
 10:30 - 11:00    Coffee break
 11:OO- 12:OO     Introductionby WB Team - Country SocialAssessment
12:OO - 12:30     Introductionby Yemeni Partner of Report- Own Perspective (to be named)
12:30- 13:30 IOuestions and Clarifications                                                      I

Depart Taiz toAden: By Road Tuesday,26 June
Aden: Wednesday, 27 June 2007
 Venue: Mercure Hotel
08:30 - 09:OO  I Registration
09:OO- 1O:OO I Introductionbv WB Team Yemen DeveloDmentPolicv Review
                                           -                                                    I
1O:OO - 10:30     Introductionby Yemeni Partner of Report- Own Perspective (to be named)
10:30- 11:OO      Coffee break
11:OO- 12:OO      Introductionby WB Team - Country Social Assessment
12:OO - 12:30     Introductionby Yemeni Partner of Report- Own Perspective (to be named)

DepartAden to Sana'a: Wednesday,27 June - IY 1735 1820

                                                                                                I
  Theworking language is English. Arabic simultaneous interpretation isprovidedfor all sessions
    For more information about the WorldBank's work in Yemen,visit: www.worldbank.org/ye
                   For more information about those reports, visit:=======



                                             63

Invitation: Joint Dissemination of Yemen DPR and CSA, Sana'a, June 23,2007

June 11,2007

Mr./Ms.    ............................

                      Subject: Launchingthe World Bank Country Social Analysis and
                                Yemen Development Policy Evaluation Reports 2007
                                                                           -
The World Bank office in Sana'a plans to launch its Country Social Analysis and Yemen Development
Policy Evaluation Reports on Saturday, June 23, 2007 at the World Bank National Center for
Information, located at the Central Library of Sana'a University, from 9:00 am up to 12:30 pm.

The Country Social Analysis Report aims to present an analysis of the social context and social trends in
Yemen to identify risks and opportunities for development, provide a social analysis that can inform and
guide future investment projects and to propose strategies and priorities for development policies and
programs to improve the outcomes of the social development.

Whereas the Yemen Development Policy Evaluation Report aims to inform the Government of Yemen
during the preparation of the final draft of the Poverty Reduction Strategy 2006 - 2010, raising the
awareness on expected impacts of the depletion of oil reserves, and promoting more diversified and
sustainabledevelopment.

For your information, discussions will be conducted in both Arabic and English with simultaneous
interpretation.

For more information and queries, please contact Ms. Samra Al-Shaibani - senior communication officer
of the World Bank Office in Sana'a, Tel #: 421623-8, Fax #: 413733, or e-mail: sshaibani@worldbank.org

Yours sincerely,

Mustapha Rouis

World Bank Country Manager inYemen




                                                       64

List of Participants:Joint Disseminationof Yemen DPR and CSA, Sana'a, June 23,2007

  1                     --                   --,Sana'a University  Sana'a University
  3                     --                   --,Ministry Of        Ministry of Planning &
                                             Planning&             International
                                             International         Cooperation
                                             Cooperation
  2                     --                   --,Sana'a University  Sana'a University
  3                     --                                         Sana'a University
  4                     --                                         Sana'a University
  5                     --                                         Sana'a University
  6                     --                                         Sana'a University
  7                     --                                         Sana'a University
  8                     --                                         Sana'a University
l 9o                    --                                         Sana'a University
                        --                                         Sana'a University
11                      --                                         Sana'a University
12                      --                                         Sana'a University
13                      --                                         Sana'a University
14                      --                                         Sana'a University
15                      --                                         Sana'a University
16                      --                                         Sana'a University
17                      --                                         Sana'a University
18                      --                                         Sana'a University
19                      --                                         Sana'a Universitv
20                      --                                         Sana'a University
21                      --                                         Sana'a University
22                      --                                         Sana'a University
23                      --                                         Sana'a University
24                                                                 Sana'a University
25                      ----                                       Yemen Times
26                      --
27                      --
28                      --                                         Sana'a Universitv




                                              65

Invitation:Joint Disseminationof YemenDPRand CSA, Taiz,June 25,2007

June 11,2007

Mr./Ms.    ............................

                      Subject: Launchingthe World Bank Country Social Analysis and
                                YemenDevelopment Policy Evaluation Reports 2007
                                                                           -
The World Bank office in Sana'a plans to launch its Country Social Analysis and Yemen Development
Policy Evaluation Reports on Monday, June 25,2007 at Taiz Sofitel Hotel, from 9:00am up to 12:30 pm.

The Country Social Analysis Report aims to present an analysis of the social context and trends in Yemen
to identify risks and opportunities for development, provide a social analysis that can inform and guide
future investment projects and propose strategies and priorities for development policies and programs to
improve the outcomes of the social development.

Whereas the Yemen Development Policy Evaluation Report aims to inform the Government of Yemen
during the preparation of the final draft of the Poverty Reduction Strategy 2006 - 2010, raising the
awareness on expected impacts of the depletion of oil reserves, and promoting more diversified and
sustainabledevelopment.

For your information, discussions will be conducted in both Arabic and English with simultaneous
interpretation.

For more information and queries, please contact Ms. Samra Al-Shaibani - senior communication officer
of the World Bank Office in Sana'a, Tel #: 421623-8, Fax #: 413733, or e-mail: sshaibani@worldbank.org

Yours sincerely,

Mustapha Rouis

World Bank Country Manager in Yemen




                                                      66

List of Participants: Joint Dissemination of Yemen DPR and CSA, Taiz, June 25,2007




                                                67

Invitation:Joint Disseminationof YemenDPRandCSA, Aden, June27,2007

June 11,2007

Mr.IMs.    .........,.................,

                     Subject: Launchingthe WorldBankCountry Social Analysis and
                            YemenDevelopment Policy Evaluation Reports 2007-
The World Bank office in Sana'a plans to launch its Country Social Analysis and Yemen Development
Policy Evaluation Reports on Thursday, June 28, 2007 at the Aden Mercure Hotel, from 9:OO am up to
12:30 pm.

The Social Analysis Report aims to present an analysis of the social context and trends in Yemen to
identify risks and opportunities for development, provide a social analysis that can inform and guide
future investment projects and to propose strategies and priorities for development policies and programs
to improve the outcomes of the social development.

Whereas the Yemen Development Policy Evaluation Report aims to inform the Government of Yemen
during the preparation of the final draft of the Poverty Reduction Strategy 2006 - 2010, raising the
awareness on expected impacts of the depletion of oil reserves, and promoting more diversified and
sustainable development.

For your information, discussions will be conducted in both Arabic and English with simultaneous
interpretation.

For more information and queries, please contact Ms. Samra Al-Shaibani - senior communication officer
of the World Bank Office in Sana'a, Tel#: 421623-8, Fax #: 413733, or e-mail: sshaibani@worldbank.org

Yours sincerely,

MustaphaRouis

World Bank Country Manager in Yemen




                                                   68

Listof Participants:Joint Disseminationof Yemen DPRand CSA, Aden, June 27,2007

                          Names of Participants from Aden Governorate

                                      Mercure Aden Hotel
                                         June 27,2007

                          Name                                     Title

             Aden University
                             --                    --,Woman Center -Aden University
                             --                    Academic at the Universitv
                             --                    Faculty of Arts
                             --                    Faculty of Economy
                             --                    Faculty of Economy
                             --
                             --                    Faculty of Economy
                                                   Faculty of Law
                             --                    Faculty of Education - Sociology
                                                   Dept.
                             --
                             --                    Psychology & Sociology Dept.



                             ----                  --,Householdpromotion
                                                   Media - Consultant for many




                             --
                             --
                             --
                             --                    --,Center ofPeoplewith Special

                             --                    Needs

                             --
                             --
                             --
                             --                    School Principle
                             --                    Aden University


                                               69

        Name                       Title
          --
          --
II I              I Aden University
  I       --      1 Faculty of Law              I
          --        --,HumanRightsCenter
          --        --,HumanRightsCenter &
                    Democracy for Women
          --
          --       Ministry of Health
                    --,Woman Sustainable
          --        --,MediaFemaleWorkers
          --
                    --,Woman Federation- Aden
                    --,Woman Federation- Aden
          --
          --        --,NationalCommission




                70

        (4)      Poverty Assessment

Upon completion of the Poverty Assessment, which provided analysis that underpinned the design of the
IRDPG,the Bank launched a "road show" of dissemination workshops around the country in December
2007. Workshops were held in Seiyun on December 9, in Al-Beidah on December 11, in Aden on
December 12, in Amran on December 13, and in Hodeidah on December 15. The road show culminated
in a technical workshop hostedjointly by the Government of Yemen, UNDP, and World Bank in Sana'a
on December 16.

The road show schedule and technical workshop agenda are included below. Participant lists are also
included, though they are not complete given the broad attendance at these consultations and the team's
inability to ensure that all had signed in.




                                                 71

    Road Show

                                         Dissemination
                               Yemen Poverty Assessment Report
                                         Sana'a, Yemen

                              FinalAgendaDecember 8       - 16,2007                          mm
                                                                                             mm



   Saturday, December 8
      SANA'NSeiyun           Depart Sana'dSeiyun (by air)                         07:35 -0830
                             Check inhotel                                        07:15 - 09:OO
    Sunday, December 9       Meeting with selectedDGs of Govt. offices, District  1O:OO - 13:OO
                             Council and CSOs
   Monday, December 10
       Sana'dSeiyun        I Depart SeiyudSana'a (by air)                        I07:50 -08:50
   Tuesday, December 11
     SANA'NAl-Beidah         Depart Sana'dAl-Beidah (by car)                      06100- 11:OO
                             Meeting with selectedDGs of Govt. offices, District  12:OO- 14:OO
                             Council and CSOs
                             DepartAl-BeidaWSana'a (by car)                       14100- 19:OO
   Wednesday, December 12
       SANA'NAden            Depart Sana'dAden (by air)                           06~00-06~45
                             Meeting with selectedDGs of Govt. offices, District  1O:OO- 13:OO
                             Council and CSOs
                             Depart Aden/Sana'a (by air)                          19115-20100
   Thursday, December 13                                                          0600 0645
      SANA'NAmran            Depart Sana'dAmran (by car)                          08:30-09:OO
                             Meeting with selectedDGs of Govt. offices, District  1O:OO- 13:OO
                             Council and CSOs
                             Lunch in Amran (optional)                            13:OO
                             Depart Amran/Sana'a(by car)                          14~00 14:30
                                                                                       --14:OO
    Friday, December 14
     SANA'NHodeida           DepartSana'dHodeida(by car)                          08:OO 12:OO
                                                                                       -
   Saturday, December 15
                             Meeting with selectedDGs of Govt. offices, District  1O:OO- 12:OO
                           I Council and CSOs
                             DepartHodeiddSana'a (by car)                         13:OO- 17100
I  Saturday, December 16     Technical Workshop
         SANA'A            IILocation: CSO Training Institute                    11O:OO-13:OO



                                                72

ListofParticipants:Poverty AssessmentDisseminationWorkshop, Seiyun, December9,2007




    8 1            --            I Agriculture and Irrigation
    9 1            --            1 Social Affairs




                                              73

Listof Participants: PovertyAssessment DisseminationWorkshop, Al-Beidah, December11,2007

Republic of Yemen
Yemen Woman Union
Al-Baydha'a Office




                            --             I Al-Khulood charity association
           13               --             II  Al-Khulood charity association
           14 II            --                 Environment Advocates charity     I
                                               association
           15               --                 Environment Advocates charity
                                               association
           16 I             --             I   A1-Rifq charity association
           17 I             --                 A1-Rifq charity association
           18 I             --                 Al-Ihsaan charitv association     I
           19 I             --                 Al-Ihsaan charity association
           20 I             --             IIIIAl-Mardam charitv association
           21 I             --                 DisabledAssociation
           22 I             --                 Girls Education




                                               74

List ofParticipants: PovertyAssessmentDisseminationWorkshop, Aden, December12,2007




                                           75

Listof Participants:PovertyAssessmentDisseminationWorkshop, Amran, December 13,2007
    I    I Name                      I Organization           1Title
    I Local Council
      1                --
      2                --
      3               --
      4               --




      Societies
      1 1              --            I Al-Faous
      2                --              Life Makers
      3               --               Community Development
      4               --               Al-Dhameer
      5               --               AI-Ula
      6                                Al-Amal
      7               ----             NationalWoman
                                       Committee
      8               --               NationalWoman
                                       Committee
      9               --               NationalWoman
                                       Committee
      l o             --               Yemen Woman Union
      11              --               Yemen Woman Union
      12              --               Yemen Woman Union




    I Universitv
      -                              1                        I          I




                                            76

TechnicalWorkshopAgenda, Poverty AssessmentDissemination,Sana'a, December 16,2007

                                           Dissemination
                                 YemenPovertyAssessmentReport
                                           Sana'a, Yemen

                                       TechnicalWorkshop
                                    Sunday, December 16,2007

(Location: CSO Training Institutekobe confirmed)

8:30-09:OO    Registration

9:00-09:15    Opening Statement
              Dr. Mutahar Al-Abbasi
              Deputy Minsterfor Development Plans
              Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation

09:15-09:30   Presentation:
              Poverty Line, Methodology and Results
              Dr. Heba, UNDP
               CSO representative (to be named)

09:30-09145   Presentation:
              Growth, Reforms and Poverty in Yemen:
              Ingrid Ivins, World Bank
              MoPIC representative (to be named)

09:45-10:15   Coffee Break

10:15-10:30   Presentation:
              Evaluation of Social Protection of thepoor in Yemen:
              Irina Shaorshadze
              Social Welfare Fund representative (to be named)

10:20-10:00   Presentation:
               The Challenges of monitoring poverty in Yemen:
              Iqbal Kaur
              MOPrepresentative (to be named)

11:OO- 11:15  Discussions/Comments

11:OO- 11:15  Closing Statement
              HE Abdulkarim Al-Arhabi
              Deputy Prime Minister for Economic Affairs
              Minister of Planning and International Cooperation

11115-12~00 Press Conference




                                                  77

         (5)      Work on GovernanceandAnti-Corruption

In the context of its ongoing work on governance and anti-corruption (GAC) in Yemen, the Bank held
formal stakeholder consultations on January 14-15, 2007, in Sana'a. Participants included over 35
representatives from Parliament, academia, professional associations, and civil society organizations,
including the Yemen Observatory for HumanRights. The feedback from this consultations was given due
consideration in finalizing the design of the IRDPG, as well as that of the Bank's GAC Strategy.

A list of participants and areport on the feedback received during this consultation are providedbelow




                                                    78

                           STRENGTHENINGWORLD BANKGROUP
                ENGAGEMENTGOVERNANCEANDANTICORRUPTION
                                          ON
                                               PARTICIPANTS LIST
                                                     YEMEN
                                              (JANUARY 14-15,2007)


Government ofYemen
--,--,MinistryofPlanning    and International Cooperation
--,--,MinistryofJustice
--,--,MinistryofFinance
--,--,MinistryofCivilService
--,--,CentralOrganization for ControlandAudit
--,--,COCA
--,--,COCA
--,--,GTZprojectat COCA
--,--,Planning
--,--,MinistryofFinance-PlanningandStatistics Sector
                Sector

--,--,PlanningandStatistics-Ministry ofFinance
_ _ ,--,ExternalRelations, M i n i s t r y of Finance
_-,--,Civil Service ModernizationProject, Ministry of Civil Service
_-,_-,Supreme Tendering Committee
--,--,President's Office
--,TaxAuthority
--,--,NationalWomanCommittee
-_,-- Service Affairs, Cabinet
       ,
--,Mnistry ofFinance

Parliament and Civil Society
--,Memberofthe     Parliament
--,Memberofthe     Parliament
--,Memberofthe     Parliament
--,MemberoftheParliament
--,Member ofthe    Parliament
--,Member oftheParliament
--,Member oftheParliament
--,MemberoftheParliament
--,MemberoftheParliament
--,Memberofthe Parliament
--,Memberofthe Shura Council




                                                      79

--,--,SocialistParty
--,Sana'a University
--,--,YouthLeadershipDevelopmentFoundation
--,--,FederationofYemeni ChambersofCommerceandRegionalManager ofHayelSaeedCo.
--,--,Strategic StudiesCenter
--,--,Al-FarouqConsultancyEstablishment
--,--,MPs AgainstCorruption-YemenOffice
--,--,SocialDevelopmentForum
--,YemeniObservatory for HumanRight/ GlobalPrioritiesOrganization
--,--,CulturalDevelopmentProgramsPlanningFoundation
--,--,ExternalRelations-GeneralPeople'sCongressParty
--,Sana'a University
--,--,Parliament
--,HayelSaeedCo.
--,FightingCorruptionOrganization
--,InternationalProgramfor combatingChildLabor
--,MadaEstablishment
--,YemenOrganizationfor HumanRights
--,SistersForum

Media
--,--,Al-Thawra
--,--,Sep21Newspaper
--,--,Al-ShargAl-Awut NewspaperpddleEast)
--,Rait_yNews

Donor Community
--,--,NationalDemocratic  Institute
--,--,GTZ-COCA Project
--,GTZ
--,DCM-GermanEmbassy
--,FrenchEmbassy
--,FrenchEmbassy
--,EI(N
--,--,NDI
--,--,GTZProjectInstitutionalCapacityDevelopmentProject/ MoPIC
--,USAID
--,USAID
--,--,UNDP
--,UNDP
--,DFID
--,DFID
--,DFID




                                           80

                           STRENGTHENINGWORLD BANK GROUP
                ENGAGEMENTGOVERNANCEANDANTICORRUPTION
                                       O N
                                       CONSULTATIONFEEDBACK



                                                 YEMEN
                                          (JANUARY 14-15,2007)


Participants: See attached list
Feedback consisted of: (1) a set of extensive lscussions with around 25 senior government officials,
including the Ministers of Planning and International Cooperation, Finance, Civil Service and
Insurance andJustice; (2) a workshop with more than 35 representatives from parliament, civil society,
academia, and professional associations; (3) a two hour meeting with members of the donor
community; and (4) an afternoon discussion with selected members of the print media. A list of
Yemeni and donor participants i s attached. On behalf of the Bank, the participants included the
Country Manager Mustapha Rods (MNCYE); Robert Beschel, Arun Arya and Charles Adwan
(MNSED);and Samra Shaibani (MNAEX).
The meeting with senior government officials was moderated by H.E. Abdul Karim Al-Arhabi,
Minister of Planning and International Cooperation. The meeting with the donor community was
moderated by Mustapha Rouis. Charles Adwan served as the rapporteur for both sessions. An
external moderator, Dr. A. Karim Thabet, was used for the session with parliamentarians and c i d
society and the media session. An external rapporteur, Dr.I a a l e d Al-Hariri, served as rapporteur for
sessions three and four with parliamentarians and civil society and with the media.


How didthe process fit into ongoing country dialogue?
The discussions were fully consistent with the Bank's extensive and evolving country dialogue on
governance issues. The Bank has been working closely with the Government of Yemen (GOY)to
implement a host of important reforms in areas such as public financial management and civil service
reform. The principal vehicles for these discussions have been the Civil Service Modernization
Project (CSW), a $30 million investment loan that began in 2000 and i s scheduled to close in 2007
and the Procurement reform Trust Fund. The CSMP project marks an ambitious effort to take
forward needed reforms in areas ranging from establishing a computerized financial management
information system to a biometric human resource database for public employees to reforming and
reengineering a number of selected line departments. In 2005, discussions went forward with a
consortium of donors, i n c l u l n g the Bank, DFID and the Netherlands, for developing an action plan
for public financial management reform.
In2006, the GoY-working inclose consultation with donors-adopted             a National Reform Agenda
focusing largely on governance issues. The 2006 CAS for Yemen deals extensively with issues of
governance and public management reform, and governance related actions dform a major part of
an upcoming $50 d o n Development Policy Loan in FY07. The Bank has also been active in
supportinganalytic work on issues of governance and public management, includinga CPARin2004.



                                                     81

Recently, with the support of DFID, we have recruited a full-time governance advisor in Sana'a to
provide support on this agenda.


What were the key issues/themes raisedby participants?
The participants raised a number of important themes for both the Bank's broader Governance and
Anticorruption (GAC) paper and for Yemen as a whole. Perhaps the most important i s their concern
that the policy dbe applied selectively inonly the poorest and most heavily aid dependent countries.
Richer countries with access to alternative sources of capital will be able to distance themselves from
the Bank if they find i t s policies and conditionalities too onerous, so Bank staff will be reluctant to
apply the GAC policy stringently and thereby risk compromising the Bank's relationship with them.
Intheir view, the Bank willbe less constrained with poorer countries, which will ultimately have little
choice but to comply or risk losingBank funds.
The quality of indicators was a topic of considerable discussion. The GOY,inparticular, i s concerned
that the use of such indicators in the past had not fully or accurately reflected recent developments
withnYemen, includingnew reforminitiatives. There was a consensus amongmany participants that
the GOYneeds to do a better job in understanding and tracking governance indicators and in
marketing its accomplishments. On its part, the Bank needs to do more in resolving some of the
conceptual and methodological concerns surrounding its indicators and in ensuring fairness and
objectivity in their application.

There was general agreement among all participants that the Bank's strategy i s an important and
welcome document. They also agreed that the Bank needed to address issues of governance and
anticorruption as a part of Yemen's broader development agenda; the Bank should not disengage
from countries strugglingwith these issues. Other points of consensus include that there is a rich
agenda of governance reforms, including public financial management, civil service reform,
anticorruption and legal and judicial reform, where the Bank should support the Government; the
Bank should broaden its engagement to incorporate other constituencies beyond government,
including parliament, civil society and the media; and that improved donor coordination 'on
governance i s an important and worthwhile objective.
The design of Bank projects was held up to considerable scrutiny, with many participants argwng that
the Bank needs to do more to ensure effective implementation. There were discussions regarding the
extent to which the Bank i s adequately supportingthe good governance agenda, with questions being
raised as to whether adequate resources were being devoted to it.

Finally, a number of participants within Government, parliament, civil society, the press, and donor
community all emphasized that Yemen was entering a critical phase in its struggle against corruption.
The creation of the new anticorruption agency, and particularly the selection of its board of overseers
and staff (which should happen within the next couple of months), will be a very important signal
regarding the Government's intentions in this area. The key question will be whether individuals are
chosen with a reputation for integrity and capability. Similarly, the adoption of a new procurement
law-in   i t s final stage of preparation-and   i t s application through the restructuring of the High
Tender Board will be seen as another important signal of the Government's commitment to improve
governance and fight corruption.




                                                     82

Note About the M E N A Consultations:

1. In all countries in the MENA region, joint consultations were held involving parliamentarians, members of civil
   society, business associations and trade unions. It i s therefore difficult to disaggregate the views o f these distinct
   constituencies. Incases where observations clearly reflected the views of one group or another, we have broken them
   downseparately. Inother cases, they have been listed collectively under the "civil society" category.

2. Most consultations followed a standardized format, inwhich a brief 10-15minute Powerpoint presentationwas made
   by Bank staff that drew upon the key slides prepared by Central EXT and laid out the major aspects of the strategy.
   The discussions with various groups typically consisted o f two sessions. The first session focused on Questlons 1-3
   interms of the overall governance environment within a particular country. The more general questions providedby
   EXT were utilized in discussions with parliamentarians, civil society and the media, whereas discussions with
   government officials involved a more detailed and focused dialogue over their specific reform agenda. (Inall of these
   countries, the Bank has been closely engaged in supporting a host of governance and public management reforms.)
   The second session then focused on the five Board-mandated questions to be addressed.                After the initial
   presentation, Bank staff sought to refrain from subsequent interventions to maximize the time available for
   participant discussion.  The only exceptions were: (1) instances where staff were asked to respond to specific
   questions; and (2) areas where there was a danger that, by not intervening, the quality of the discussions could be
   compromised by extensive reference to false and/or misleadinginformation.

3. In two of the three countries (Egypt and Yemen), external facilitators and rapporteurs were used for sessions with
   civil society, parliamentarians and the media.  In Morocco, the Country Manager, Ferid Belhaj, moderated the
   discussions.   To ensure confidentiality, no external moderators or rapporteurs were present for any of the
   consultations with government.

4. Finally, in the interest of conserving space, we have deleted blank boxes from the matrix below where specific
   comments and/or feedback was not forthcoming during the consultations.




                                                             83

                        5
                          v)




                        33W




                       n  W

                        0
                        U




0    0    0 .    0   0  b     0

          8
          Uvl     d




0    0 .       0  0  0    0    0

                               W
                               00




e    e  e    e    e e  e  e


       b-4
        0
        a
        e,


       .r(
        ln

       -6,
        e,

        c0

       $3
       "o
        u
        e,
        P2
      30e,
      3 e,



1
k     38
      3M

       U
       E.
U
5
Ee,
8

U
ii
0


20
d
a
0
U
c
3
0
U
ln
M
u
V
cd
U

8
0


e,
U
C
i
8u0
U


e
a
a
-      0    0    0    0    0    0

                Ee,7
       +.-
       .3
        !?

       Be,

       a

       30
        3

       0
       E
       e0
       cu
        0
        e,
        V

       a8

       a3
        8

        c
       *3

       Ee,



       B"1
        8
        8
        Y,
     z  0
       U

      4
        3
     e  e,
     3
       %0




0  0    0     0

      8e,       I
     e




                 0
                U

                -5Mtd
                a
                Ei
                %




                      .
0  0 .     0             0

e     I .    e    e    e    e



-
$
c6


U
3

 d ,h
.3
 2    W


a
0




0          e    0

    $                 0
                      d
                    'rj
   U
  B  cd             zaii
                      4
  .$
    c
    s5              B
     C              -i
  .3
  3-                A
  -3                 cu
                      0

    V                 2
  'EE                 a,

                    .9
   U@               B

  4E2cd             ,"
                     -2'E
                     2


                      SI
                      cd

  'i3                U'

                    a 8
    e,               P5
  3
                     Uc




0   0      0  0  0 .  0


D.        Consultationsfor the World Bank Group 2009 Country AssistanceStrategy

The main objective of consultations on the 2009 CAS was to solicit feedback from the government, civil
society and donors to be used as inputs into the preparation of the World Bank Country Assistance
Strategy for 2009. These consultations were conducted by the World Bank on March 11, 2009; in Sana'a
and March 15, 2009, in Aden. The main themes of the draft CAS were presented in English with
simultaneous translation inArabic, and feedback was incorporated into the final document.

Invitations, lists of invitees and participants, and minutes for each of these consultations are included
below.

          (1)     Stakeholder Consultation for 2009 CAS, Sana'a, March 11,2009




7A member of the Advisory Boardfor the Yemen Observatory for HumanRights was inattendance(#I7 on the list
of participants).

                                                    95

           The World Bank
           INTERNATIONALBANK FOR RECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT                                       Tel.:413-708
           INTERNATIONALDEVELOPMEMASSOCIATION                            ~!~~$~~ber40,                    413-710

           World Bank 0-                                                 Off DamascusRoad            Fax:413-709
                           in Sana'a-Yemen
           MiddleEast Department                                         Sana'a, Republic of Yemen
           Middle East& NomAfrica Region




                                                                      March7,2009


   To:

    (Distribution List Attached)




                    Subject: CountrvAssistanceStrutem Consultations- Yemen
                                       March 11,2009- Shahran Hotel


   IwouldliketoinformyouthattheWorldBankisplanningtohaveCountry
Assistance Strategy (CAS) Consultation meetings with key donors, civil society, the
private sector and governmentoEcials in Yemen duringMarch 2009.

   The meeting for civil society has been scheduled for Wednesday, March 11,2009.
The agenda will include a retrospective review of lessons learned from the FY2006-
2009 CAS, and the main features o f a proposed FY2010-2013 CAS. Open discussions
will follow.


    Meetings will beheldat ShahranHotel andwill be followed by lunch.

    Looking forward to your active participation.




                                                         Sincerely yours,



                                                          BensonAteng
                                                         Country Manager




             CableAddress: INTBAFRAD* FTCC 82887. MCI 248423 WUI 84145 TRT 187888 CableAddress: INDEVAS
                                                                                  -


                                         96

  List of invitees: Stakeholder Consultation for 2009 CAS, Sana'a, March 11,2009




                            CAS Consultations Civil Society Listof Invitees
                                                -
                                Sana'a March 11,2009 Shahran Hotel

INO.   I             NAME                          TITLE                      I Designation

   1.                  --               --,PopulationandHealthCommittee             Parliament
  2.                   --               --,FinanceCommittee                         Parliament
  3.                   --               --,InformationandCultureCommittee           Parliament
  4.                   --               --                                          Parliament
  5.                   --             I --,PublicFreedoms&HumanRights             Shura Council

  6.   I               --             I CommitteeSaeed
                                        --,Hayel       Group                      Private Sector




I  13*
   14. I               --               Civic Democratic Foundation                   NGO


                       --               --,YemenWomenUnion                            NGO
   15.                 --               --,Al-Tahadi
                                        --,SOUL                                       NGO
   16.                 --                            NGO                              NGO
   17.                 --               --,A1Majdfoundation                           NGO
I  18. I               --             I --.Shabab A1reef                      I       NGO         I
   19. I               --                                                             NGO

  21.                  --             I --,Al-Saleh Welfare Society                   NGO
  22.                  --               --,Al-Islah Foundation                        NGO
  23.                  --             II--,Centerfor Strategic Studies              Academia
I 24.                  --             IISana'a University Dr.                       Academia
                                        AcademidGender Consultant
  25.  I                                                                      I     Academia      I
  26.                  --               University of Sana'a                        Academia
  27.                  --               Sana'a University                           Academia


                                                    97

NO.      NAME                TITLE                        Designation

 28.      --        Sana'a University                         Academia
 29.      --        Saba News Agency                           Media
 30.      --        --,Yemen Times                             Media
 31.      --        --.Women  Journalists Without Chains       Media
 32. I    --        YemenPost                                  Media
 33. I    --      IIAl-Ahalai                                  Media
 34.      --        A1Syassiah                                 Media
 35.      --        Yemen Observer                             Media
 36.                Media Economic Forum                       Media
 37.      ----                                                 Youth
 38.      --                                                   Youth
 39.      --                                                   Youth
 40.      --                                                   Youth
 41.      --                                                   Youth
 42.      --                                                   Youth




                              98

I    I    I

I




I




      8
      3




I




6-

Minutes: Stakeholder Consultation for 2009 CAS, Sana'a, March 11,2009

                 Civil Society Consultation Meeting on the World Bank CAS (FY10-13)
                                            Minutes of meeting

A civil society's half-day consultation meeting on the draft CAS took place in Sana'a on Wednesday
March 11, 2009. A list of attendants and the presentation i s attached to these minutes.

Benson Ateng, WB Country Manager, made a brief presentation on the role of CSOs as well as the
history of their relationship with the Bank, summarized the CAS and consultation process and presented
the proposedCAS.

It i s worth noting that the attendance was very high, inparticular by youth organizations, and the spirit of
the discussions was very constructive. The CSOs were passionate about the challenges facing their
country and the potential impact of the CAS. The meeting's overall reaction was of appreciation for the
participatory approach to CAS preparation as well as the willingness of the Bank to involve CSOs in the
CAS implementationitself. Their specific comments inthe discussions which followed touched upon:

1. Dialogue and partnership with CSOs. While the meeting appreciated the Bank reaching-out to
CSOs, it called for an increase in the partnership and dialogue during the CAS implementation. Some
participants expressed their wish to be heavily involved in the assessment, supervision and evaluation
process of the CAS.

2. Results and vision. Participants inquired as to the results of the previous three CASs and the
quantitative targets of this specific CAS. They expressedtheir feeling that the objectives of the Bank were
not changing over time illustrating the lack of progress and failure of Government's reforms in areas such
as PSDand civil service reform since 1995.They asked to receive copies of the evaluation of the previous
CAS. Some CSOs noted that the document was not expressing clearly enough its vision as to what it
intends to achieve at the end of the CAS period.

3. Activities and prioritization. CSOs appreciated the focus on health and education, the management
of natural resources (mining and fisheries) and the Governance agenda. There was a lively discussion as
to which pillar was the most important and the anti-corruption agenda seems to come out as the winner.
The participants regretted that the anti-poverty, youth and employment priorities were not obvious in the
document and that provision were not made for funding of small businesses. In particular, they strongly
regretted that the multi-sectoral Children Youth Strategy, which was mainly sponsored by the Bank, was
not being supported. The meeting also pinpointed specific crucial reforms such as the issue of inheritance
for women.

4. Context. Some participants felt that the gravity of the socio-economic and governance situation was
not well reflected inthe relevant sections of the CAS.

5. IDA allocation. Most participants expressed their dissatisfaction with the small size of the IDA
allocation given the level of poverty in Yemen, the size of its population and the numerous areas that the
Bank wishes to tackle through the CAS.

Next steps: After having answered along with the attending Bank staff, to many of the points raised
during the meeting, inhis concluding remark, the C M thanked the participants for their presenceand
remindedthe meeting of the Bank's commitment to working with the Civil Society. Currently, the CAS is
scheduledfor Boardpresentation at the end of May 2009.



                                                    101

         (2)     Stakeholder Consultation for 2009 CAS, Aden, March 15,2009

Invitations to the Aden consultation for the 2009 CAS were issued inArabic. Becausethe letter i s similar
to that usedfor invitations to the Sana'a consultation, the Arabic version of the Aden invitation letter i s
included below.




                                                     102

Invitation to Stakeholder Consultation for 2009 CAS, Aden, March 15,2009


To:

                  Subiect: Countrv AssistanceStrategy Consultations (CAS) Yemen
                               March 15,2009    -Aden                           -
                                                          Mercure Hotel

IwouldliketoinformyouthattheWorldBankisplanningtohaveaCountryAssistanceStrategy(CAS)
Consultation meeting with key donors, civil society, the private sector, and government officials in
Yemen duringMarch 2009.

The meeting for civil societv has been scheduledfor Saturday, March 15,2009 inAden Mercure
Hotel, during from 08:30 am to 02:OO Dm.

The meetingagenda will include a retrospective review of lessons learned from the FY2006-2009 CAS,
and the main features of aproposed FY2010-2013 CAS. Open discussions will follow, then lunch will
take place at the hotel.

Looking forward to your active participation.

Sincerely yours,


Benson Ateng
Country Manager




                                                  103

List of invitees: Stakeholder Consultation for 2009 CAS, Aden, March 15,2009

                       World Bank Country Assistance Strategy Consultation
                                            InAden With
                             Civil Society Organizations March 15,2009

                                           List of Invitees

          1.                   --                  NGO
          2.                   --                  NGO
          3.                   _-                  NGO
          4.                   _ _                 NGO
          5.                   --                  --,HR Association




          15.                  --                  Women Association for Sustainable
                                                   Development
          16.                  --                  Aden's Women Association for Family




          26.                  --                  Fisher folk Association
          27.   1I             --                I1NGO
          28.                  --                  NGO
          29.                  --                  NGO
          30.                  --                  NGO
          31.                  --                  A1-Madar Social Studies Center
          32.     Human Rights Studies Center      NGO




                                                 104

R
8
Y
Q)

             a     I




I   !




I        I    1    I

I

Minutes: Stakeholder Consultation for 2009 CAS, Aden, March 15,2009

             Aden Civil Society Consultation meeting on the World Bank CAS (FY10-13)
                                             Minutes of meeting

A civil society's half-day meeting on the proposed CAS took place inAden on March 15, 2009. English-
Arabic translation was provided. A list of attendants and the presentation are attached.

BensonAteng, Country Manager presentedthe role of CSOs and the history of their relationship with the
Bank, summarized the process and presentedthe proposed CAS.

The attendance was very high (about 60 participants) and diverse and the spirit of the discussions was
very constructive. The CSOs were very interested in discussing the development challenges faced by
Yemen and the potential impact of the CAS. The meeting's overall reaction was of appreciation for the
Bank's initiative to involve CSOs in its preliminary consultations. Their specific comments in the
discussions which followed touched upon:

6. IDA visibility and impact in Aden Governorate. The meeting expressedits feeling that the Bank's
support i s not translating into concrete progress in the Governorate. They also inquired on whether or not
the Bank had provided any help in the context of the devastating October floods. They urged the Bank to
(i)improve its monitoring and evaluation systems; (ii) the use of Bank funds; as well as (iii)
                                                          track                                     ensure
that the decentralization agenda remains central.

7. IDA allocation and size of interventions. Some participants expressed their disbelief that the
amount of LDA allocation planned for the next four years could make a difference. They also expressed
their wish that the Bank would make available smaller grants directly to CSOs.

8. Activities. CSOs highlighted the importance of youth, marginalizedgroups, gender, employment, qat
consumption regulation (particularly for children), corruption, historic sites preservation, culture, and
micro-finance priorities. They urged the Bank to bring comprehensive responses to these issues and
particularly regretted the lack of a youth sub-component. Finally, the meeting reminded the Bank of the
importance of Gulf 20 for Yemen's regionalimage.

9. Education and employment. The meeting reminded the Bank that education in Yemen is de-facto
not free, an impediment to development particularly for rural and poor communities. Additionally,
employment opportunities for graduates are quasi-inexistent leaving them unemployed for numerous
years after graduation. The meeting suggested that vocational training education could play a positive
role.

10. Role of CSOs. The meeting expressed that CSOs could assist in better targeting - in ensuring that
funds reach the real beneficiaries by being closely involved in project implementation. The CAS has
regrettably focused only on the government machinery for distribution of benefits and the role of CSOs
has been overlooked.

11. Implementation mechanisms. Many participants expressed their doubt in the capacity of the
Government to implement the projects planned particularly inregards to Health and Education.

12. Dialogue and partnership with CSOs beyond CAS consultation. While the meeting appreciated
the Bank reaching-out to CSOs in the consultation of the CAS process, some participants indicated that
they had already participated in the 2006 CAS preparation and felt their input was not considered in the



                                                      108

finalization of the document. They also asked the meeting to share the results of the previous CAS
evaluation.

13. Economic context. Some participants noted their concerns as regard to the international economic
crisis and its impact on the Yemen's economy and wondered if the CAS had been prepared ahead of the
crisis. Others suggested that Yemen was a "failing state" and wondered effectiveness of CAS in such a
context. They felt that only `manufacturing sector' could be a source of development in this context,
rather than natural resources and agriculture. They also expressed their impression that the country was
passing through a severe employment crisis while the economy was shrinking which required a major
`out of box' intervention.

Next steps: After having answered along with Frank Sader (IFC), Naji Abu-Hatim and Arun Arya (WB)
to many of the points raised during the meetingthe C M thanked the participants for their presenceand
remindedthe meeting of the Bank's commitment to working with the Civil Society. Currently, the CAS i s
scheduled for Boardpresentation at the end of May 2009.




                                                  109



0
Y

m
3
d

s
h

     I




I      I

If:
3


00
3
3

k

0
2


                                                ANNEX4
                 BIBLIOGRAPHY OFANALYTICAL        WORK UNDERPINNINGTHE IRDPG

The following i s an excerpt from the IRDPGProgramDocument, page 18. Each of these documents i s on
file in the Yemen Country Unit at World Bank headquarters(MNACS).

ANALYTICAL UNDERPINNINGS

The IRDPG components are basedon both prior analytic work and extensive dialogue with key
Government counterparts, local stakeholders(including members of civil society), country experts, and
other donors. Key analytic underpinnings to the IRDPGinclude the following:

         Republic of Yemen, Ministry of Planning and InternationalCooperation. The Socio-
         Economic Development Planfor Poverty Reduction (2006-2010) October 2006.
         The World Bank. YemenEconomic Monitoring Report (Washington: August 2006)
         World Bank. Country Assistance Strategy --Republic of Yemen (May 17,2006).
         World Bank. Republic of        Yemen -- Investment Climate Assessment: Priorities and
         Recommendationsfor Accelerating Private-Led Growth (May 12,2006)
         World Bank. Development Policy Review (March 2006)
         World Bank Group, Doing Business 2007 (Washington: World Bank Group, 2006)
         World Bank. Yemen UrbanLand Policy and Administration Policy Note (2006)
         United States Department of Commerce US. Department of State, Investment Climate Statement -
         - Yemen (Washington, DC: 2006)
         World Bank. Economic Growth in the Republic of Yemen: Sources, Constraints and Potentials
         (Washington, DC: World Bank. 2002)
         World Bank. ComprehensiveDevelopment Framework for Yemen (2000)
         World Bank. Project Appraisal Document for a Civil Service Modernization Project (March 23,
         2000)
         World Bank. Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) (2003)




                                                  121


                              ANNEX 5
LETTER
    FROM THE BANK'SACTING COUNTRY DIRECTORTO THE GOVERNMENT YEMEN ON
                                                          OF
                     STAKEHOLDER CONSULTATIONS




                                 122

                                                         December5,2006


H.E.Mr.AbdulKjrrimAl-Arhabi
MinisterofPlanning&InternationalCoopmation
MinistryofPlanning&IrrtenrationalCoopcWion
Sana'a Republic of Yemen
        -
(Tmmrnittuiby FWE:011-967-1-250-665)

ExcelLency:

        We would liketo expressour appreciationfor the support andassistance
provided e0 the Wodd BtlnkMissionwhichvisited Yemen to pre-identify elementsof
an institutionalRefomCredit(IRC) for the Governmentof Yemen Inparticular,we
would like to gratefully acknowledgethe leadershipo fyour Mhhtry and the guidance
providedby the ViceMinister,Dr.Y&ya Y. AI Mutawakel.

        As you arc mare,a DevelopmentPoIicyCredit o f$SO millionwas programmed
under the CAS. Themissionwas successfblly ableto developthe outlinesofpotential
compmts ofthis                as described int k attachedAide Memoire.

        We wouldliketopmposeapreparationmission duringthe secondweek of
Decemberwhichwouldais0be ledbythe team leader, Andrew Stone, to work onthe
det&ls ofeach component, the scheduleofactionsassociatedwith the credit, and
relatedactivities.             is acceptableto you, we would also patiy appreciate
the assistanceof               incoordinatingthe counterpartteam as was doneduring
the previousmission.

       Finally,we wanted to informyouthatthe preparationofa DevelopmentPolicy
Creditrequirescons&       nswithkeystakeholdersonthe designoftheoperation. We
are planningto utilize     Stone's proposedDecembermissionto conduct such
consultations.

       1look forwardto our continuingcooperation.

                                    SincereIyyours,



                                        baiv Tata
                                    ActingDiTector
                    Eg;)ipt, YemenandD'jihutiCorntryDepartment
                          MiddleEastandtNorthAfrica Region



                                      123

                        ANNEX 6
GOVERNMENTOFYEMEN'S LETTER DEVELOPMENT
                        OF          POLICY FORTHE I D P G




                          124

 Mr. Andrew H. W. Stone
 Senior PSD Specialist
 World Bank



 Dear Mr. Sotne


 Pleasefind attached the LDP signed by the Prime Minister.
 We will send the original copy to the WB Office in Sana'a.

 Lookingforward hearingfrom and hope will see during the
 Annual Meeting.

 Best rgards


 Dr. Mutahar AI-A
 Deputy Mihister,
 Sanaa, Yemen

 Tel: 00967 1 250 114
 Fax: 00967 1 250 I20
 Mobile: 00967 777 000 127



Cc.. Dr. M n a H.Hasan Ph.d, Executive Director, the World Bank




                                       125

..................................... ..e9 W I
6..o4...2c2a.'iZ,.*~lpsl



                                                   Letter of DevelopmentPolicy
                   Mr. Robert Zoellick
                   The President -The World Bank
                    Washington, D.C., USA

                   Dear Mr. Zoellick

                   Since 1995, Yemen has been implementinga comprehensive macroeconomic and structural
                   reform program with support from the World Bank and the InternationalMonetary Fund, to
                   strengthenfiscal discipline and create a marketeconomy conduciveto investment and growth.
                  The proposed Institutional Reform Development Policy Credit (IRDPC) is another
                   instance where the Bank's support could play an instrumental role in ensuring the continuity
                  and success of our structural reformsprogram.

                  Structural ReformProgram: Objectivesand Progress

                  Following a period of slow-down caused by internal and external security challenges, our
                  reform efforts accelerated beginning in late 2005, as underscored by the adoption of the
                  Third Socio-Economic Development Plan for Poverty Reduction (DPPR) for 2006-10
                  (which is also our PRSP). The government's reform program, as articulated by the DPPR,
                  focuses on six core areas: bringing steady improvement in economic growth; reducing
                  poverty and raising the quality of life; promoting good governance; reducing regional and
                  gender disparities; enhancing decentralization; and broadening the participation of civil
                  society. In addition, it emphasizes efficient mobilization of resources; stressing the need for
                 the completion of the Economic, Financial, and Administrative Reform Program (EFARP);
                  combating corruption; limiting the role of the state; and enhancing the regulatoryenvironment
                  for the private sector to take a lead. In the financial sector, it sets focus on promoting open
                  market policies and strengthening the intermediatingrole of the financial institutions. It also
                  intends to support and modernize the banking sector and financial institutions at central and
                  local levels.

                 To tackle poverty, the DPPR identifies a number of reforms in the areas of macroeconomic
                 policy, governance practices, trade policy, and sectoral policies. It also lays out an ambitious
                 agenda for human resource development, including measures to improve education and
                 health, improve and augment public services, and strengthen social protection. Finally, the
                 DPPR broadly lays out measures to improve and conserve water supply, protect the
                 environment and strengthen basic infrastructure.

                To attain our growth and poverty reduction goals in the short-run, in early 2006 the
                Government (with strong support from donors) put into place its National Reform Agenda
                (NRA), an ambitious reform program aimed to address a number of the key development




                                                                  126

....................................... Q-481
....................................... +hWl
..._..........-.......................   I a . 4




                       challenges. The stated overall objective of this agenda is to improve Yemen's investment
                       climate and strengthen its governance and democratic institutions.

                       The NRA encompasses concrete measuresdesigned to improvepublic financial management
                      and reform procurement, public audit, governance, debt management, fiscal policy, and the
                       business regulatory environment. Since the adoption of the NRA, we have embarked on and
                      accomplished reforms in the many areas, some of which have been directly supported by the
                      Institutional Reform Development Policy Credit (IRDPC). These reforms include:

                                       Simplificationand reductionoftariffs, and the introductionofASYCUDA.
                                       Simplificationof the tax system and introductionof a General Sales Tax.
                                       Separation ofthejudiciary from the executive branch
                                       Introductiono f various anti-corruption measures, including an anti-corruption law, a
                                       national anticorruption authority (Supreme National Authority to Combat Corruption-
                                       SNACC), and a financial disclosure bill for public officials.
                                       Introduction of a national procurement manual, standard bidding documents
                                       governing public tenders, and a new public procurement law consistent with
                                       internationalstandards.
                                       Strengthening our Public Financial Management through the launch of a
                                       comprehensive strategy (PFM Action Plan) and Partnership Agreement with donors.
                                       Initiating a Public Administrative Reform program, including a re-engineering
                                       program in pilot Ministries, a strategy to rationalize wages and link them to
                                       institutional reforms and a biometric identificationprogram aimed to eliminate ghost
                                       workers and doubledippers.
                                       Strengtheningof electoral democracy and press freedom.
                                       Accession to the ExtractiveIndustriesTransparency Initiative.

                      Iampleasedtosaythatoureffortshavebeensuccessfulinaddressingeitherfullyorpartially
                      some of the most difficult and unpopularissues, particularlywith regards to implementingthe
                      new sales tax system, reducingfuel subsidies, reformingtrade tariffs, and moving ahead with
                      the biometric identificationsystem of civil servants, which can ensure a smooth transitionto a
                      sustainable development path. A significant number of the items on the NRA agenda have
                      been completed, while others are progressing satisfactorily. The annex table highlights our
                      current reform program, covering measures completed over the last two years, and those
                      planned over the next twelve months

                     The IRDPC will come at a critical time by providing the government with the resources and
                      flexibility neededto ensure that the momentum for reform is sustained and rapid progress can
                     continue. It will signal the World Bank's confidence in our reform program to investors,
                     donors and our citizens.



                                                                            127

.... .................................
   -                                          :+!l

.............................           ......*pl
........................................      :caw'


                       MacroeconomicFramework

                       The Government's PRSP establishes ambitiousgoals for macroeconomic policy, including:
                                    L      An annual average rate of economic growth of 7.1% (10.1% for the non-oil GDP).
                                           Maintaining monetary stability with the annual inflation rate below 13.8% and the
                                           broad money supply growth below22% on average.
                                           Maintainingthe fiscal deficit at less than 3% ofthe GDP; while raisingpublic non-oil
                                           revenues on the order of 40-45% of total revenues; and increasing investment
                                           spendingto reach 30% of total public expenditure.
                                           Reducing poverty rates at the end of the planning period to about 19.8%, lowering
                                           unemploymentto 12%, and increasingthe share of female laborto 15% of the total.

                       Macroeconomic performancein 2006, the first year of the Plan, fell short of these objectives.
                       Several factors negatively influenced performance, including a sharper-than-expecteddecline
                       in domestic oil production, continued geopolitical tensions in the region, regional drought
                      conditions that drove up the price of some agricultural commodities, and continued internal
                      conflicts in the North of Yemen. As a result, GDP grew by a moderate 4% during 2006,
                      while inflation increased unexpectedly well beyond our target. On the other hand, the year
                      2006 witnessed an improvement in our overall fiscal position, where we realized a small
                      surplus for the first time since 2001. In addition, the balance of payments recorded a surplus
                      of about 1 percent of GDP, despite a surge in imports of capital goods.

                      In2007, we expect real GDP growthto slow to 3.3 percent, owing to a sharp fall in oil
                      productionof more than 12percent. Despite the overall moderationin growth, the non-oil
                      sector will maintain its strength at about a 5.5 percentgrowth rate, reflectingthe sustained
                      increase in capital spending, both from privateand public sources. Meanwhile, inflation is
                      expectedto ease to less than 13 percent, which despite the improvement, remains abovethe
                      average for the years 2000-2005 of 10.6 percent and raises concerns over its negative
                      implicationsfor growth and the standards of living ofthe poor. The fiscal balance for 2007 is
                      expected to show a deficit of around 5 percentof GDP, primarily reflectingthe continued
                      decline in oil productionand the risingcost of remainingfuel subsidies.

                      Controlling inflation and improvingfiscal sustainability. Macroeconomicstability is
                     critical to reapingthe benefits of the Government's ongoing reform program. With inflation
                      in 2006 and 2007 climbing well above our targeted level, and the primary non-oildeficit
                     exceeding 25 percent of GDP, the Government agrees with the Bank and Fundthat Yemen
                     today faces two key macroeconomic challenges:

                                                  Controlling inflation;
                                         e        Ensuringfiscal sustainability.




                                                                                 128

.........................       ............+J'
                             I



....................................... WAWl
......................................      awl
                         I




                         The Government is committed to tackle these challenges through tighter fiscal and monetary
                         policies. On the monetary side, this will require more active policies and with more diverse
                          instruments. On the fiscal side, it will necessitate prudence in expenditures policies,
                         particularly subsidies and wages, and increasenon-oil revenues.

                         To control inflation, and in consultationwith the IMF Article IV mission of June 2007, the
                         Government will take the following steps:
                                             Resume the issuance of T-bills, beyond the needs to finance the government's
                                             budget deficit, in order to absorb excess liquidity. This will help to moderate
                                             money supply growth.
                                             Continue to issue Central Bank CDs, as an additional measure, to control money
                                             supply growth.
                                             Adhere strictly to the National Wage Strategy Phase 11, which requires completion
                                             of specified public administrative reforms as a prerequisite to the next round of
                                             salary increases.
                                             Exploreoptionsto streamline budgetedcapital spending following the start of (off-
                                             budget) development projects financed from last year's CG donors' pledges.
                                             Finally, the Central Bank will review internationalexperience and consider the use
                                             of foreign exchange interventions as an instrument to curb inflation while
                                             preservinglong-termcompetitiveness and building reserves.

                         To meet the challenge of fiscal sustainability and prepare for the impending depletion of our
                         oil reserves, we will need to make large adjustments in terms of both expenditures and
                         revenues, includingthe following steps:
                                             Re-engineer and reform the Social Welfare Fund, and merge other funds with
                                             similar mandates, to improve its targetingofthe poor.  .
                                             Once the redesign of the social safety net is completed, gradually move to
                                             eliminatethe petroleumsubsidy.
                                             Modernizetax administrationto improvecomplianceand efficiency.
                                             Use tax policy to increase non-oil revenues substantially, including through the
                                             gradual increase of the GST in the mediumterm.
                                             Substantially reduce exemptions and tax holidays from the corporate income tax,
                                             while lowering the rate to 20 percent, so that it could be made broader and more
                                             equitable.

                         With these measures, we will establish a stable and sustainable basis for growth and poverty
                         alleviation. Additional measures, supported by the IRDPC, will further enhance conditions
                         for growth through investment climate reforms, public administrative reforms and
                         strengthened public financial management.




                                                                               129

.."...................................   :+!1

.......................................  *$it'
............................ .....r
                I I._                      * l d l




                       Commitments under the proposed InstitutionalReform Credit

                       In specific relation to our current dialogue with the Bank, we would like to confirm that we
                      will be undertaking measures aimed at improving public administration and enhancing the
                      climate for private sector development, by pursuing following reforms:

                      Public financial management and public procurement. We have given central priority to
                      the modernization o f public financial management (PFM). In this area, we will undertake
                      reforms to improve budget preparation and implementation, with related actions that will
                      bring a new Financial Law and restructure the Ministry of Finance in line with international
                      standards. We will also seek to strengthen the budgetary control through more effective
                      internal and external auditing functions, with related actions including the establishmentof a
                      road map to implement internal audit in the GOY, and the passing of a new legislation to
                      improve the governanceand transparencyof COCA, the external audit body.

                      We recognize the continued reform of budget management and information systems is vital to
                      reducing fiduciary risk and strengtheningperformance. New planning and managementtools,
                      including our first ever Public Investment Program (PIP) and the planned Medium-Term
                      Expenditure Framework (MTEF), will strengthen coherence and discipline in the use of
                      public resources. We will continue to strengthen the capacity o f the Ministry of Finance's
                      budget functions, as well as the institutional basis and functioning of external and internal
                      audit functions.

                      In addition to the foregoing, we will undertake reforms to enhance the public procurement
                      system in the following areas:

                                        a. The Minister of Finance has already issued a directive requiring key spending
                                              ministries to use o f the National Procurement Manual and Standard Bidding
                                              Documents (SBDs) for all public tenders. This will subsequently be extended to
                                              all public agencies.
                                        b. Consistent with the Government's commitment, a new procurement law that
                                              conforms to international standards has been approved by Parliament in July 2007,
                                              and efforts are currently underway to draw and implement its executive by-laws.
                                       c. To implement the provisions o f the new procurement law, Government will
                                             restructurethe High Tender Board (HTB) to assure its independenceas a technical
                                             body overseeing government contracts above a defined threshold. In parallel,
                                             under the new law, we will create a separate procurement policy and monitoring
                                             board to address policy, monitoring, dispute resolution, and capacity building
                                             issues.    I t will utilize the new procurement tracking system (PMIS) as a
                                             monitoring tool. All these reforms are to be in place by Nov. 30,2008




                                                                               130

.......................................      l+!l
..........................       "  ........"&!!I31
......................................
   I                                         l&bldl




                         Public Administration Reform. Strengthening public administration, improving service
                         delivery, and reducing corruption and waste form an integral part o f our program. Under the
                         Civil Service Modernization Program, good progress has been achieved. However, further
                         reform and re-engineering of institutions, incentives, staffing and oversight systems will be
                         required, both to motivate better performance and attract skilled workers, and to maintain
                         fiscal restraint. Our agenda in this area will focus on the following issues:
                                  a. Enact a civil service program, with adequate budget allocations to support the Civil
                                          Services Fund (CSF) over the period 2008-2010.             This step has already been
                                          completed in July 2007, with the Cabinet approving the Civil Service Fund program
                                          and its necessary budget allocation.
                                  b. Continue to implement, throughout the period to Nov. 30, 2008, the CSF work
                                          program, that includes the transfer of the programmed number of staff from selected
                                          line ministries to the Fund.
                                  c. Continue rigorous adherenceto the National Wage Strategy (under the Wage Law of
                                          2005), that requires agencies to meet defined institutional reform criteria before
                                          making future salary increases.
                                 d. Continue efforts to build a comprehensive and operational computerized database for
                                          public sector employees based on the biometric civil servant identification system, by
                                          December2007.

                        Hydrocarbon revenue transparency. Given the significance of hydrocarbon revenue to the
                        budget, transparency in this area is a vital to achieving better governance and accountability
                        and improving the general performance of public financial management. In this regard, we
                        will seek to implement international standardsthrough the following sequenceof measures:

                                 a. Join the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), which we have already
                                          announced our commitment to its principles, through a public letter to its
                                          management.

                                 b. Achieve, with the support from international donors, the institutional and procedural
                                          measuresprescribed by EITI that include:
                                                   Publishing, in publicly accessible, comprehensive, and understandable manner
                                                   independently audited accounts that document all significant revenues and
                                                   payments to the Government or State enteritis from oil, gas, and mining
                                                   companies operating in Yemen.
                                                    Establishing, in consultation with the oil and gas companies and civil society
                                                   organizations, an ongoing process for full verification and publication of
                                                   paymentsand revenues relatedto extractive industries.
                                                   Reconciling payments and revenues data for extractive industriesby a credible
                                                   independent administrator that uses international audit standards, and
                                                   subsequently publishing the reconciliation report, with any discrepancies
                                                   identified.


                                                                                  131

.......................................  vJ!!l
.................. ....-.............+~Wl
                     ~




........................................ ~SlW




                     Income tax and incentive reform. The Government o f Yemen is committed to reforming
                     the taxation system in order to create a better investment climate and strengthennon-oil fiscal,
                      revenues. We have already introduced a modern General Sales Tax (VAT), which is being
                     phased in. We will now reform the corporate income tax system to lower rates and eliminate
                     most exemptions; to apply international norms in the treatment of income, expenses, and
                      investments; and to introduce self-assessment and risk-based auditing. To achieve these
                     objectives, we are adopting a strategy that has three major components:
                                 a. We have conducted, with the technical support of FIAS, a comprehensive review of
                                        our current tax and incentive system. This will improve tax efficiency and equity, and
                                        strengthen incentivesfor investment.
                                 b. The Ministry of Finance has drafted and submitted to Cabinet a new Corporate
                                        Income Tax (CIT) Law that reflects international norms of treatment of income,
                                        investment,and expenses.
                                 C.     Upon its enactment, we will subsequently implement the CIT Law by Nov. 30, 2008,
                                        as evidence by issuanceof its executive regulations. We plan to accompany this with
                                        a comprehensive review of investment incentives following the recommendationsof
                                        the tax and incentive study.
                                 d. We will continue to work to strengthen the capacity o f the tax administration, in order
                                        to reducediscretion and abuse, and enhance revenuecollection.

                     Land titling and registration reform. The weakness of property rights in Yemen is one of
                     the most critical challenges to a better investment climate. We intend to create a system of
                     secure and enforceable property rights, and remove ambiguity in titling which has led to
                     investor uncertainty and legal conflict. Our efforts will target the following issues:

                                 a. The Council of Ministers has approved and submitted to Parliament a new land
                                        registration law reflecting the recommendations of the Land Policy Task Force, by
                                        September 2007.
                                 b. Pending Parliamentary approval o f the Law, we expect to finalize the design and
                                        implementationof the executive by-laws by Nov. 30,2008.
                                c. Next, we will appoint an independentRegistrar of Land.
                                d. Finally, the Council of Ministers will issue an organizational decree defining the
                                        mandate and functions of the General Authority for Lands, Survey and Urban Plan
                                        (GALSUP).

                    Social and Environmental Safeguards

                    As we pursue the reforms described above, we recognize the importance o f taking proper
                    safeguards against any associated negative environmental and social consequences. Any
                    negative impacts will be carefully monitored and further mitigating measures considered if
                    results suggest the need for them.


                                                                            132

       ................................ vJ??l
.-..I




....................................... *tWI
........................................@&I




                      For example, concerning land titling, we recognizethat while a better land registration law
                      will reducethe haphazardoccupationof land, it could also bringsome negativeenvironmental
                      impacts from more intensive land development or the conversion of agricultural and/or
                      environmentallysensitive land. To this effect, we will seek to improve landuse planningand
                      regulations,            We will protect environmentally sensitive land by undertaking,a clear
                      classification, demarcation and registrationof these areas as communal landresources (where
                      appropriate such as pastures or wetlands) or as part of the State's public domain that is
                      inalienable, on the basis of environmentalassessmentprocedures. We will also take measures
                     to mitigatethe impact of the new landtitling system on vulnerable groups, includingthe poor,
                      those with informal perspective acquisition, occupancy-based rights to public land, and
                      women in particular, who may not possessthe adequate means and resourcesto access formal
                      registration. For this, we will facilitate their registrationand will amend the State Land and
                      Real Estate Law and other laws the extent that it is necessary to eliminate any disadvantages
                     to this segment o f the society. In addition, we will monitor the impact of changes in land
                     registration on vulnerable groups, and, as required, take remedial measures to ensure their
                     welfare. The executiveregulationsof the land registrationlaw will includea requirementthat
                     any systematic registrationeffort be precededby:
                                  an analysis of the social and environmental impacts  --including base line surveys as
                                  appropriate,
                     0            an identificationof environmentallysensitiveareas, and
                                  an identification of land occupancy patterns and vulnerable and affected populations
                                  within those areas.
                     Then mitigation measures would be designed to protect environmentally sensitive areas and
                     vulnerable and affectedgroups.

                     Similar considerations will be given to the design of income tax reform, whereby we intendto
                     ensure that the new system will not provide incentives for the rapid development of
                     environmentally harmful projects. We plan, in this respect, to carefully monitor the effect of
                     tax reform on the pattern of investmentand its environmentalconsequences, and, if required,
                     take remedialmeasures to addressany negativeconsequences.

                     Finally,concerningcivil services reform, we will maintainthe severance payments at levels
                     that will ensure adequatecompensationto retrenched employeesand establisha monitoring
                     system to follow up on their status afterwards. Already, the first phaseof the implementation
                     of the wage strategy has increasedcivil servant's minimumwages dramatically, lifting many
                     out of poverty.




                                                                        133

.......................................     *+!I
.......................................     +dWl

..".......".."      ....................... *a'W


                      Conclusion

                      In conclusion, we would like to note that there is a new spirit in Yemen with a clear
                      commitment to economic and institutional reforms that are necessary to achieve our
                      development goals. In this respect, a new Cabinet was formed in April 2007 with the aim of
           .          acceleratingand deepeningreforms.

                      Overall, and as shown in the annex table, our efforts over the next two years will aim to
                      achieve the following objectives:
                                           Monitoring the implementation of new laws that were passed, as well as expediting
                                           the ratification of laws under review.
                                           Continuing to deepen structural reforms, particularly in the areas of public financial
                                           management, regulatory business environment and competition, civil services and
                                           fiscal policy.
                                           Continuingto strengthen anti-corruptioninstitutionsand raiseawarenesson ethics and
                                           corruptionissues amongst publicofficials and citizens as a whole.
                                           Improving political participation and public accountability by enacting elections of
                                           governors as well as memberso fthe second chamber o fthe legislativebranch.

                      In this regard, we remain firmly committedto implement the measures spelled out in the main
                       body of this document                - and in the attached policy matrix by the specified dates. We also
                                                                                               -
                       remain committed to maintain macroeconomic stability and fiscal sustainability over the
                      medium-term through prudent fiscal and monetary management of the economy. Our
                      commitment also means that we will not reverse policy reforms already achieved under the
                      National Reform Agenda. We would like to ask the Bank's support, through this first
                      development policy credit and beyond, so that our efforts continue and that the benefits of
                      growth and good governance are shared by all the citizensof Yemen.

                       Yours sincerely,


                      Dr.Ali MohamedMojawar           -    t    \   L
     7 PrimeMinister




                                                                                134


                Annex 1. Current ReformPrograminYemen: Objectivesand Progress

 Reform      Structural reforms that were done/ will                Status of implementation             Link to
    Area                      be done                                                                      IRC



procurementand the legalsystem, is expectedto improvethe investment climate and promote growth.
           .Conducting a national anti-corruption           Done. Campaignundertakenin June 06.
            awareness campaign.


                                                           established in June 07 following the
 e."4
 .-aa::    .Establishing an autonomous anti-corruption      Done.    Supreme National Author@ to
 E:
 0          commission with broad mandates.                Combat      Corruption     (SNACC)      was
 Y

                                                           selection of its membersby Parliament
           .Adopting a new disclosurepolicy to address      Done. Parliament passed a DisclosureLaw

 Y          the perceptionof conflict o f interest(COI)    in July 2006, but application has been
            in the handlingof public procurement inthe     delayed pending the formation of SNACC.
            country                                        The law, though a step in the right
                                                           direction, requires further revision to meet
                                                           international GAC standards
           .Joining     the   Extractive       Industries Done. GOY has formally joined the EITI in 'rigger /TR1
            Transparency Initiative (EITI), through August 2007, and started to implement the
            the establishment of firm commitments initial requiredmeasures.
            for adherenee to its principles.

          Adherenceto the EIT principles, including:
           .Publishing an independently reconciled Ongoing. Ministry of Oil and Minerals has 'rigger /TR2
 P2         report of all significant revenues and beendesignatedto leadthe EITIeffort anda
            payments transactions from oil and gas consultant has been appointed to help with

 @          between the government and companies, the implementation issues. The publishing

 v1         and      in   a     publicly       accessible, the first EITI Report is expected by Nov.
 C
 a
 E          comprehensive,     and      comprehensible 2008,
            manner.
 QI
 3         a Establishing, in consultation with the oil     Ongoing. Process is under development by d o n/TR2

 2          and gas companies and civil society the newly formed multi-stakeholder group
 0)
 E          organization, an ongoing process for full for Yemen EITI.
            verification and publication of payments
            and revenuesrelatedto extractive industries.
          .Reconciling payments and revenues data by Ongoing.             A sustainable reconciliation ,ction/TR2
                                                                            ,
            a credible independent administrator, and process will be established by the Yemen
            using international standards.          This EITI group.
            approach to be extended to significant
            payments from all oil and gas companies
            includingSOEs.




Oct. 6,07                                                 135

            .Eliminating the influence of the Executive Done. Amendments passed in June 2006
                                                        .
             Branch from the Supreme Judicial Council
             (SJC), and creating the Judicial Inspection
             Authority.                                 . Ongoing, SJC broughtseveral disciplinary
                                                        actions against corrupt judges in 2006 and
 TT)
  -RU       .Strengthening the oversightrole SJC.


    m                                                   2007.
  .3V       .Improving the capacityof thejudges         .Done. Revisedthe law o f the High Judicial
 BB                                                      Institute,and updated its curricula in 2006.
 c,

            .Improving court administration     through nOngoing,        Phased     introduction    o f
             automation                                  computerized court management system is
                                                         underway.




                     . .                                           -
           .Establishing a Civil Services Fund(CSF)      Done. Fundwas establishedin2005.
           .Establishing for the Civil Service Fund Done. Completed and approved by Cabinet rrigger /TRl
             (CSF) a program for 2007-2010, and inJune 2007.
             aligning the budgetary allocation for
             2008 to the proposed program.
           *Establishing a computerized employee Ongoing. Work on track with 80% percent               rrigger /TR2

 Y  R
    E        database      including    a    biometric already covered. Completion expected by
 n           identification system, that covers all end o f2007.
             employees on the state payroll in all

 8 -
   32        sectors
           .Continuing to implement the CSF by Ongoing. Plannedto continue                             rrigger /TR2
 %jr         transferring of the programmed number implementationthroughout 2007-2008
 3
 s           of staff from selected line ministries to
             CSF, in accordance with existing studies
            on this issue.
           .Continuing to adhere to the 2005 Wage Ongoing. Plannedto continue                          rrigger/TR2
            Law requiring agencies to meet defined implementationthroughout 2007- 2008
            reform criteria before malting any future
            salary increases.
           .Improving the governance of the Central Ongoing.          A proposal was made for ictionRR2.

 t:         Office o f Control and Auditing (COCA) in changes in COCA's law to comply with
 g
 U          accordancewith the INTOSAI guidelines.
 1                                                      PJTOSAI, including its reporting to
                                                        Parliament and the terms o f its president. A
                                                        new law is expected to pass by Nov, 2008.
 f 6       .Making COCA's audit reports publicly Done.
 3          available.
           .Exposing     COCA to peer reviews by PInnned Review is expected to take place iction/TR2
            reputable SA1                               byNov. 2008.




Oct. 6, 07                                             136

           .Establishing      a     Public     Financial Done.
            ManagementAdvisory Unit at MOF.
           lIssuing Budget Implementation guidelines Done. Guidelinesissuedin early 2007.              iction/TR1
            for 2007 budget.
           #Monitoringthe implementation of budget Planned, A progress report will be issued rction/TR2
            guidelines.                                   by Nov. 2008.
           WReviewing      current   budget    practices, Ongoing. Work have commenced, and is
            utilizing a public expenditure and financial expectedto be completed by October 2007.
            accountability (PEFA) framework
           BImproving      budget   classification and Ongoing. GFS2001 system adopted for
            preparation     and   introducing forward economic classification.
            estimates
           IConsolidating the Extra Budgetary Funds Ongoing. Draft a law is expected to be d o n /TR2
            in the State Public Budget.                   approved by Nov. 2008.
           #Establishing a treasury function in the Ongoing. The IMF and US Treasury are
            Ministry of Finance                           providing technical assistanceon this issue.
           llntroducing a new Financial Law to Ongoing. Draft Law was prepared, and
            Parliament     designed    to   set   broad expected to be ratified in early2008.
            regulations for preparingand implementing
            the budget.
           IReviewing the Public Investment Plan Done. MOPIC revised PIP in Aug. 2007, iction/TR
            (PIP), and linking its process to the fiscal  ensuring fuller reflection of the DPPR and
            budge, in order to improve resources establishing a systematic process for the
            allocation.                                   regular updatingofthe rolling4-year PIP.

           'Preparing a Medium Term Expenditure Ongoing. MOF is planning to introduce iction/TR2
            Framework (MTEF) to strengthen the MTEF by Nov. 2008.
            allocation o f resources in line with DPPR
            objectives.
           ~lmprovingpublic internal financial control Ongoing. The government is expected to
            and automation                                roll out AFMIS in the first quarter of 2008.
           IImproving internal audit functions            Ongoing.     GOY is expected to finalize
                                                          plans to implement the new arrangements
                                                          for internalaudits function before the end of
                                                          2007.
           IRestriicturing    MOF      in   line   with Ongoing. MOF has initiated a process to d o n/TR2
            internationalnorms.                           engage with the Ministry of Civil Serviceto
                                                          restructure in line with international norms.
                                                          Restructuringplans expected to be finalized
                                                          by Nov. 2008.




Oct. 6,07                                                137

            Enacting     a   new     procurement      law .Done. Completed. Revised law was passed rrigger RRl
            consistentwith international standards.        by Parliament inJuly 2007.
            Implementing the National Procurement .Done. Completed. Manual and SBDs were Iction/TR 1
            Manual and standard bidding documents approved in April 2006. Training was held
            (SBDs), first on pilot level, and then by all in July 2006 in pilot ministries. In Feb.
            government agencies.                           2007, HTB circulated instructions for
                                                           compliance to spending ministries. MOF
                                                           has issued similar circular for contracts
                                                           below HTB threshold.
            Establishing executive regulations for the mongoing.         Completion expected by Nov. ktion /TR2
            new procurement law.                           2008.
            Restructuring the High Tender Board           . Ongoing. Restructuring plans have been ktion /TR2
            (HTB) by redefining its role as an provided for in the new Law.                       Full
            independent institution with an oversight implementation is expected before Nov.
            role over all government contracts,            2008
            Establishing the procurement and tracking 'Ongoing.           Feasibility heeds assessment
            system (PMIS) for transactions in the High study completed. Next phase requirements
            Tender Board(HTB) and line ministries          analysis on selected IT option to be
                                                           completed by Nov.2007. Donors' funding
                                                           for IT packageearmarked
            Establishing       Procurement         Policy 'Ongoing.      Restructuring plans have been rrigger /TR2
            Monitoring Board to address policy, provided for in the new Law.                      Full
            regulatory and capacity building issues, implementationis expectedby Nov. 2008.
            and apply and utilize the procurement
            tracking system (PMIS) for monitoring.
            Initiating online disclosure o f procurement- .Ongoing. Website is under construction.
            related information




           .Reducing fuel subsidies                       IPfnnned       Domestic fuel subsidies were
                                                           reduced once in July 2005. Further


   .I
   Ic                                                      reductions     are  awaiting    reforms  to
                                                           strengthensocialprotectionschemes
   2       .Introducing a transparent formula for .Plnnned.
            regular price adjustment of petroleum
    ::
   Im
   .a       product and LPG.
           .Setting up a clear goal to save on oil and gas  Pinnned.
            revenues with the aim of controlling the
            primary non-oil deficit
           .Replacing the sales tax system with a VAT .Done.         The GST Law was passed in July
   m
   3        system that lowersthe rate to 5% and limits 2005. Implementationhas been gradual, but
            exemptions to a few basic consumption expected to be fully deployed by end of
   G        items.                                         2008.
   2       .Strengthening the tax authority.              'Ongoing. Increased staffing and training
   '                                                       for tax authoritywas undertaken in 2006.
  -z       .Simplifying and reducing custom tariffs to .Done.         Changes made in July, 2005,
            bring the averagedown to less than 7 %.        reducing the bands from 4 to 3, with 71
   m                                                       percent of the commodities attracting only
  (I)                                                      5% tariff rate, and the un-weighted tariff
                                                           rate falling to 6.6%



Oct. 6, 07                                                 138

          .Conducting a comprehensive review of Done. Completed in May 2007                           ction/TRI
            current corporate income tax with the aim
            o f improving      efficiency    of   revenue
            generation and strengthening incentives for
   *n       investment
          .Formulating a new CIT Law that reflects Done.             Completed in May 2007, and Trigger/TRl
           international norms of treatment of currently before Cabinet for approval.
   0
   E        income, investment, and expenses.
          .Strengthening      the    capacity     o f  tax Ongoing.                                  Action/TR2
   w
   $        administration to reduce discretion and
           corruption
          .Implementing the new CIT law, through
            the issuance of executive by-laws that Ongoing.             Expected completion by Nov. Trigger /TR2
            meet international standards.                   2008.

      8   .Introducing a new debt policy that sets Plnnned.
           ceilings for public external and internal
   c3 2    debt.


 The government continues to dominateeconomic activity in Yemen. There is a need to create a better enabling
 mvironment in order to allow the private sector to lead growthand employmentcreation.
          .Enacting a new land registration law that .Done.         Law approved by Parliament in
           takes into account the recommendations September07.
   *       of the Land Policy Task Force.
   -.-
   M      .Appointing an independent registrar             1Ongoing.         Expected  to    finalize
   E                                                        implementationby Nov. 2008.
   Y
 i;       .Implementing the executive regulations o f .Ongoing.              Expected  to    finalize
   FI      the Land Registration Law                        implementationby Nov. 2008.
   3E     .Establishing an organizational structure 'Ongoing.           An organizational decree is
           for the authority that sets up its mandate expectedto be issued by Nov. 2008.
           and functions vis-&vis other authorities
           and agencies.
          .Improving the licensing and registration .Ongoing.           An action plan based on the
   P
   0       system of business establishments.               findings o f the ICA study has been
   Y Y
 I (Pel
          .Establishing a clear, consistent, fair system 'Ongoing.
 5$ .g&
   ''                                                       developed, Several measure were taken
   3  w
           of inspectionso f business establishments.

          .Reducing costs and delays o f customs 'Ongoing.               Introduced phased customs
 *:a  I4   processing,through automation                    automation in May 2006
 Fp

          .Enforcing compliance of Basel prudential =Ongoing.
 I m *     standards
 .I   Ir
   E O5   .Establishing the Securities Market along 'Ongoing. Expectedto finalize in 2008
           with its legislative, institutional, regulatory,
           and technical requirement




Oct.6,07                                                   139


                                                 ANNEX 7
                      LEGAL   TEXTSONCIVILSOCIETYPARTICIPATION INYEMEN

A.      Procurement Law

Through the IRDPG, the Bank Group supported the Government's efforts to draft a new procurement law
in line with international good practice. Followingis an excerpt of Law 23 of 2007 on Tenders, Bidding
& Government Storehouses,ratifiedby Yemen's Parliament on July 24, 2007. Article 43 (a) provides for
civil society participation in the Board of the Higher Authority for Tender Control, the procurement
policy and monitoring board). This law calls for two of the Board's seven members to be from civil
society together with a third member from the Judiciary. As of May 2009, a shortlist has been provided to
the President and Board appointments are expected to be announced shortly. The relevant text i s
highlightedin boldtypeface.

                                                Chapter Three

                                     HighAuthority for Tender Control

Article 42:
            4   By force of this law, a highindependent body, called High Authority for Tender Control,
                shall be established as a legal identity that shall be financially and administratively
                independent and subject to the supervision of the President of the Republic.
                The authority shall be domiciled in the Capital, Sana'a. It may establish branches in
                governorates upon a decision by the authority's chairman after obtaining approval from
                the Board.

Article 43:
            4   The High Authority shall be run by a Board, composed of a chairperson and six
                members, who are appointed by a Presidential Decree upon nomination by the
                Shura Council of a 14-person list. The list shall include representatives of the
                business and industrial sectors, the civil society and the Judicial Services. The
                Executive Regulations shall define the executive procedures, while the Shura Council
                Presidency shall specify controls and procedures governing the nomination process.
                Without prejudice to section (A) of this Article, the President shall appoint a nominee
                from the list, referred by the Shura Council, inreplacement of a Board member incase his
                or her seat becomes vacant.




                                                     140

B.         Extractive IndustriesTransparency Initiative

On March 13, 2007, Yemen's Cabinet issued Cabinet Decree No. 111 affirming the country's decision to
adhere to EITI principles. The Bank Group .has supported the Government's efforts toward EITI
accession.

The EITI principles are as follows:*

        1.    We share a belief that the prudent use of natural resource wealth should be an important
              engine for sustainable economic growth that contributes to sustainable development and
              poverty reduction, but if not managed properly, can create negative economic and social
              impacts.
       2.     We affirm that management of natural resource wealth for the benefit of a country's citizens
              i s in the domain of sovereign governments to be exercised in the interests of their national
              development.
       3.     We recognise that the benefits of resource extraction occur as revenue streams over many
              years and can be highly price dependent.
       4.     We recognise that a public understanding of government revenues and expenditure
              over time could help public debate and inform choice of appropriate and realistic
              options for sustainable development.
       5.     We underline the importance of transparency by governments and companies in the
              extractive industries and the need to enhance public financial management and
              accountability.
       6.     We recognise that achievement of greater transparency must be set in the context of respect
              for contracts and laws.
       7.     We recognise the enhanced environment for domestic and foreign direct investment that
              financial transparency may bring.
       8.     We believe in the principle and practice of accountability by government to all citizens for
              the stewardship of revenue streams andpublic expenditure.
       9.     We are committed to encouraging high standards of transparency and accountability inpublic
              life, government operations and inbusiness.
       10.    We believe that a broadly consistent and workable approach to the disclosure of payments
              and revenuesi s required, which i s simple to undertake and to use.
       11.    We believe that payments' disclosure ina given country should involve all extractive industry
              companies operating inthat country.
       12.      In seeking solutions, we believe that all stakeholders have important and relevant
              contributions to make including governments and their agencies, extractive industry
                                        -
              companies, service companies, multilateral organisations, financial organisations,
              investors and non-governmental organisations.




 ExtractiveIndustriesTransparencyInitiative. EITI SourceBook. March2005.p. 8.
http://eitransparency.org/document/sourcebook

                                                     141

The EITI Criteria, endorsedby participants at the 2005 EITIConference inLondon, are listed below:

    1.    Regular publication of all material oil, gas and mining payments by companies to
          governments ("payments") and all material revenues received by governments from oil, gas
          and mining companies ("revenues")         to a wide audience in a publicly accessible,
          comprehensive and comprehensible manner.
    2.    Where such audits do not already exist, payments and revenues are the subject of a credible,
          independent audit, applyinginternational auditing standards.
    3.    Payments and revenues are reconciled by a credible, independent administrator, applying
          internationalauditing standards and with publication of the administrator's opinion regarding
          that reconciliation including discrepancies, should any be identified.
    4.    This approachis extendedto all companies including state-ownedenterprises.
    5.    Civil society is actively engaged as a participant in the design, monitoring and
          evaluation of this processand contributes towards publicdebate.
    6.    A public, financially sustainable work plan for all the above i s developed by the host
          government, with assistance from the international financial institutions where required,
          including measurable targets, a timetable for implementation, and an assessment of potential
          capacity constraints.




                                                  142


                                                    ANNEX 8
        ENGLISH ARABIC VERSIONSOFTHEIWPGPROGRAMINFORMATIONDOCUMENT
                  AND

                            PROGRAMINFORMATION DOCUMENT(PID)
                                             CONCEPT STAGE

  Operation Name                    RY-INSTITUTIONALREFORMDEVELOPMENT POLICY CREDIT
  Region                            MIDDLEEASTAND NORTHAFRICA
  Sector                            General industry and trade sector (51%);General public administration
                                    sector (49%)
  Project ID                        P101453
  Borrower(s)                       GOVERNMENT OF REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
  Implementing Agency               BD.
  Date PID Prepared                 February 26,2007
  Date of Appraisal                 March 19,2007
  Authorization
  EstimatedDate of Board            June 28,2007
  Approval

1. Keydevelopmentissuesand rationalefor Bank involvement

1.       Yemen is a World Bank Group IDA recipient country, with per capita GDP of under US$600. It
has a population of 21 million, with nearly half age 15 or below. The Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
(PRSP) classifies 35.5 percent of the population as living in poverty, sharply divided between an urban
rate of 19 percent and a rural rate of 41 percent.9 Yet growth has been slow, barely outpacing population.
The investment climate remains constrained, while the economy remains vulnerable to energy prices and
regional political insecurity. The economy i s highly dependent on a dwindling oil sector that i s weakly
linked to local industry and capacities, yet accounts for almost 93 percent of all exports. Unemploymenti s
estimated to be 17 (and 34 percent for youth), while agriculture (while comprising only 13 percent of
formal GDP) continues as the main source of income for the vast majority of the population. At the same
time, Yemen, one of the most water-scarce countries in the world, continues to rapidly deplete its
groundwater.

2.       The Government, in recognition of the urgency of reform, launched an active program with the
third five year plan (PRSP) and subsequent National Reform Agenda. The Government's medium-term
strategy i s embodied in the Yemen Third Socio-economic Development Plan for Poverty Reduction
(2006-10) (DPPR), which also serves as its PRSP. In this document, the Government identifies its
strategic goals (or "pillars"), namely to:

             achieve a steady improvement in economic growth;
             reducepoverty and raise the quality of life;
             promote good governance;
             reduceregional and gender disparities;
             enhance decentralization; and
             broadenthe participation of civil society



  Republic of Yemen, Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation. The Socio-Economic Development Plan
for Poverty Reduction (2006-2010) October 2006. The CAS refers to the results of the 1998 household budget
survey, which placedthe poverty rate at 42% of the population.

                                                      143

Beginning in July 2005, the Government started implementing long delayed governance and economic
reforms. Donor support i s critical to the success of these reforms. Neighboring countries are offering
Yemen the long-termprospect of regional integration and, during the transition period, funding to develop
institutions, infrastructure and human capacities. Yemen's success in the reform process i s crucial and
must be both closely watched and supported by all development partners. One reflection of donor's
growing confidence in the country's reform program came in November 2006, when Yemen's
development partners pledged approximately US$4.7 billion in aid for the four year period of 2007-2010,
a significant increase over prior levels. The Institutional Reform Development Credit (IRDPC) forms one
part of the Bank's overall strategy to support poverty reduction, specifically by stimulating non-oil
growth and strenthening governance.

2. Proposed objective(s)

The IRDPC encourages and rewards actions associated with this recently initiated and dynamic reform
effort. The project should contribute to accelerating growth, poverty alleviation and improved governance
through its provisions, which comprise key parts of the Government's overall growth strategy. The
Institutional Reform Credit (IRDPC) also contributes to Bank's overall strategy to support poverty
reduction, specifically by stimulating non-oil growth and strenthening governance. It i s specifically linked
to two pillars of the CAS:

                  diversifying growth through better governance and better delivery of public services;
                  increasing fiscal sustainability through improved public expenditure management.

Thus the IRDPC is organized in two pillars: the first one comprises two components that address key
challenges to private investment and non-oil growth. The structure of incentives confronting investors and
the security of property rightsunderpinning markets are each critical to a sound investment climate.
The second pillar comprises three components address governance and public financial management
challenges. A number of analyses have concluded that Government cannot deliver the economic reforms
and social services required to fulfill its Poverty Reduction Strategy without substantial public sector
reform. International and national indicators suggest governance quality in Yemen i s low. Two central
components of this are strengthening public financial management and conducting broad-based public
administration reform. The measures supported by the IRDPC are designed to reinforce ongoing
Government reform efforts and complement the support of other donors.

3. Preliminary description

Pillar 1: Strengthening Property Rights and the Incentive Framework to Encourage Non-Oil
Growth

The first two components of the IRDPC address key challenges to private investment and non-oil growth.
The structure of incentives confronting investors and the security of property rightsunderpinningmirkets
are eachcritical to a sound investment climate.

Component 1: Income Tax Reform
Objective:
To rationalize incentives facing private investors through standard treatment of income, investment and
expenses, and a sharp reduction in the discretionary implementation which mars the incentives and adds
uncertainty for firms operating in Yemen.

MainActions Supported:



                                                       144

e        Preparation and Cabinet approval of a new tax law, reflecting international norms of treatment of
         income, investments and expenses. (FirstTranche)
e        Implementationof the new corporate income tax law (SecondTranche).

Component 2: Land Titling and Registration Reform.
Objective:
To create system of secure and enforceableproperty rights, with unambiguous title.

Main Actions Supported:
e        Presentation to Parliament of a new land registration law that takes into account the
         recommendations of the Land Policy Task Force (LPTF), as detailed in the World Bank's
         "Yemen Urban Land Policy and Administration Policy Note". (FirstTranche)
e        Completion and endorsement by Cabinet of an organizational decree for the authority that
         organizes its mandate and functions vis-&-vis other authorities and agencies. (SecondTranche)

Pillar 2: Strengthening Governance Through Improved Public Financial Management And Civil
Service Reform.

The next three components complement ongoing Government strategy and donor support to strengthen
public financial management and public administrative (civil service) performance.

Component 3: Strengthening PublicProcurement
Objective:
To strengthen public financial management and governance with regard to public expenditure through
procurement reform. As a first step, Government has approved a standard procurement manual and
procurement documents to be used in public sector transactions. Proposed legislation would
professionalize (de-politicize) the high tender board and create a separate Procurement Policy Monitoring
Board with a procurement tracking system under its authority. This would give the Government a
systematic means of overseeing and regulating procurement, and a dedicated body handling policy and
monitoring.

Main Actions Supported:
   Cabinet approval and submission to Parliament of a new Procurement draft law consistent with
   international standards. (FirstTranche)
   Establishment of a separate Procurement Policy Monitoring Board to address policy and regulatory
   functions with a procurement tracking system under its authority.

Component 4: ImprovingRevenue Transparency
Objective: Government should commit to and achieve transparency with regard to revenues from oil and
natural gas, which provide the largest share of the Government's income, though accession to and
adherence to Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), an international compact of resource-
exporting nations willing to abide by agreed international standards for the full publication and
verification of company payments and government revenues from oil, gas and mining.

MainActions Supported:
   Through a Presidential Decree, the Government should make a clear and well-publicized statement of
   commitment to EITIprinciples stating explicit measures that will be taken to conform to its principles.
         (FirstTranche)




                                                    145

    Adherence to EITI principles, including publication of independently audited accounts documenting
    all material oil, gas and mining payments by companies to governments ("payments") and all material
    revenues received by governments from oil, gas and mining companies ("revenues") in a publicly
    accessible, comprehensive and comprehensible manner. (SecondTranche)

Component 5: Reforming Central Government Civil Service Reform
                                                     -
Objective:
To reform the civil service, both as a fiscal necessity (due to the huge burden of the wage bill and related
obligations) and as a vital component of public administrative reforms to promote good governance and
effective service delivery.

Main Actions Supported

    Approval, by the Council of Ministers, of a Civil Service Fund (CSF) program for 2007-2010 and
    alignment of the budgetary allocation for 2008 to that program. (FirstTranche)
    Consistent with government mandate studies, reengineering studies, and other analyses, continue
    implementation of Civil Service Fund program by transferring of the programmed number of staff
    from selected line departments to the CSF. (Second Tranche)
    Continue adherence, throughout 2007 and 2008 (until the release of the second tranche) to the 2005
    Wage Law requiring agencies to meet defined reform criteria before making any future salary
    increases. (Second Tranche)
    The completion of the biometric identification system and computerized employee databases, so that
    they are fully populated and functioning, with coverage extended to all civil servants, military, police
    andjudiciary employees. (Second Tranche)
4. EnvironmentAspects
This project is classified as Category C: it is likely to have minimal or no adverse environmental impacts.
Land development under a more secure titling regime may carry some environmental consequences, and
it will be important to monitor this. Economic growth more generally i s often associated with
consumption of natural resources and some negative environmental externalities. At the same time, the
component to secure property rights may enhance stewardship of land resources. In general, measures to
enhance governance and align the functioning of the economy with market forces may work to reduce a
number of negative externalities currently observed from the separation of economic costs from benefits
and rents.

5. Tentative financing
Source:
BORROWEFURECIPIENT
International Development Association (IDA)
        Total

6. Contact point
Contact: Andrew H.W. Stone
Title: Sr Private Sector DevelopmentSpec.
Tel: (202) 473-7651
Fax:
Email: astone@worldbank.org




                                                      146

147

148

    3t&Yl&k&      ,8
Contact: Andrew H.W. Stone
Title: Sr Private Sector Development Spec.
Tel: (202) 473-765 1
Fax:
Email: astone@worldbank.org




                                             149

