                                                                                     50362
                  Yemen - Institutional Reform Development Policy Grant 

                                 Inspection Panel Request 

                          Action Plan: Status and Way Forward 



Background

Yemen Institutional Refonn Development Policy Grant (IRDPG) is an integral part of the
broader economic and governance program launched by the Government as a part of its Third
National Development Plan for Poverty Reduction and Refonn (DPPR). The DPPR was
developed through an intensive consultation process, engaging a large group of stakeholders
including in provinces, from late 2004 to mid-2006. In this context, the IRDPG aims to help
carry forward selected priority refonns emerging from the DPPR, some of which are building on
processes launched as early as the late 1990s. The IRDPG is also building on an extensive
earlier program of analytical work and other Bank assistance, which has benefited from
extensive consultations with a variety of stakeholders.

This Note aims to: (i) take stock of progress to date in implementing the Action Plan outlined in
the Management Response to the Inspection Panel for the IRDPG; and (ii) specifY further actions
that Management aims to take in the coming period in this context. This Action Plan is a part of
the broader Bank-wide effort to further strengthen the effectiveness of the Bank's engagement in
fragile States such as Yemen. This effort aims to help accelerate economic and social progress
in the poorest country in the Middle East and North Africa Region (MNA) Region and in a
fragile State with a complex socio-political environment. The proposed actions also draw on the
findings of a visit to Yemen by Executive Directors in 2008.

These actions are rooted in the understanding that adequate and effective consultations with, and
participation of, relevant stakeholders are critical to achieving improved development outcomes
in a country like Yemen (with appropriate management of expectations). They draw on the
"Good Practice Note on Supporting Participation in Development Policy Operations" published
by OPCS in October 2004. They also reflect lessons learned in other Regions, including from
Inspection Panel cases and including those detailed in "Rights and Participation: Citizens
involvement in projects supported by the World Bank", published in August 2008 by the LAC
Region, as well as the findings of the 2009 Development Policy Loan (DPL) Retrospective.

Like in any country, but more so in Yemen, the challenge is to manage a series of dilemmas and
constraints, including: (i) distinguishing between consultations that should be led by the
Government and those that can be led by an international organization such as the World Bank
and appropriately respecting that the ownership of the Government is not undennined; (ii)
ensuring that consultations processes are an effective complement to, rather than a substitute for
internal constitutional processes, and in particular for Parliamentary processes; (iii) balancing the
participation of various types of stakeholders (e.g., private sector, communities, NGOs,
academia) based on their effective ability to contribute to improved outcomes under Bank
supported activities; (iv) selecting among the many credible and relevant Civil Society
Organization (CSOs) a manageable number of counterparts with whom to engage to ensure the
refonns benefit from such engagements and results in meaningful dialogue although it may


                                                                                                    1
cause frustrations among those that are not involved; and (v) managing expectations of those that
are consulted, to avoid a perception that consultations provide a de facto veto authority.

In line with the Eligibility Phase Management Response (Management Response) to the
Inspection Panel of May 19, 2009, sequentially a number of steps have been taken. A translation
of the Program Document was provided to the Requesters and other interested stakeholders in
June 2009 and the Requesters acknowledged receipt of this translation. A meeting with the
Requesters was held on May 30, 2009 (during which the Requesters expressed their concerns
and discussed ways to strengthen communications with the Bank). A further meeting took place
on September 6,2009, during which progress in implementing the IRDPG was discussed in
detail. Discussions revealed considerable distrust by the Requesters of the Government and of
the overall direction of the reform program, as well as a positive desire to be engaged and
consulted in programs and projects supported by the Bank.

This Note hence focuses on actions aimed at further strengthening consultations and participation
of stakeholders, which have been regrouped under three categories: (i) further strengthening
MNA Region's policy and praCtices for stakeholders participation, including through disclosure,
translation, outreach, and capacity building activities; (ii) consolidating the partnership with
stakeholders to continue to monitor the risks associated with the IRDPG implementation; and
(iii) broadening and deepening consultations across the Bank-supported programs in Yemen.

Development of MNA Action Plan and Institutional Mechanism

The Management Response included commitments to review, by December 2009, translation
practices and to enhance the systems to monitor effective compliance with the disclosure policy
of Project and Program Information Documents (PIDs), Project Appraisal Documents (PADs),
and Program Documents (PDs) within the MNA Region. The following steps have been or are
being undertaken:

(i)     The review has been completed and MNA Vice President has assigned the Development
        Effectiveness Unit the responsibility for monitoring PID disclosure and updates at the
        appraisal stage; following up with concerned task teams as necessary; and conducting ex
        post monitoring of timely disclosure of PAD, PD, Letter of Development Policy, and
        Tranche Release Document. This Unit will submit to Regional Management a monthly
        report on progress made and specific recommendations for addressing any potential
        problems emerging. Detailed instructions to that effect will be communicated to MNA
        staff by October 31, 2009.

(ii)    In line with good practices outlined in the World Bank Translation Framework, as a part
        of the commitment to enhance the framework for consultations, MNA will translate into
        Arabic at least: (i) all PIDs; and (ii) all P ADs/PDs. This will extend to Arabic the
        translation practices that are currently in use for French for the Maghreb countries.
        Detailed instructions in that respect will be communicated to MNA staffby October 31,
        2009. This will require significantly expanding the Bank's translation capacity, which
        has budgetary implications and will take time (e.g., for recruiting staff, etc.). MNA has
        requested GSD to at least double the Arabic Translation Unit capacity in order to respond


                                                                                                  2
         to the anticipated increase in the volume of documents to be translated into Arabic. This
         process is expected to be gradual, with clear progress by June 2010 and a steady state
         operation in place by the end of 20 1O. The translation of a PAD typically takes about 8
         to 10 weeks.

(iii)    In addition, a review ofMNA web sites has been conducted and a major revamp of Arabic
         web sites is being undertaken to facilitate access in Arabic to relevant Bank materials,
         including project documentation and analytical work. This includes: (a) ensuring that
         content is aligned with the English website and regularly refreshed and updated; (b)
         recruiting a specialized web editor and upgrading the skills of existing staff who post
         content on the websites; and (c) clarifying responsibilities for the governance of these
         websites. This exercise (including revamping and a first round of regular updates) is
         expected to be completed by June 2010.

More broadly, MNA has also set for itself the objective of stepping up its consultation and
participation practices. The Region will aim to go beyond what is required in that respect under
applicable operational policies, to learn from experience in other Regions, and to gradually
adjust the modalities of its engagement with stakeholders, including but not limited to CSOs, in
order to achieve enhanced development outcomes. To that effect, MNA is considering the
following framework for approaching this challenge in a strategic and systematic manner:

(i)      In each country, the Country Office will develop a directory of CSOs, specifying their
         special niche and sector interest, which shall be targeted for consultation. This list will
         be shared with the Government as may be appropriate. This will be accompanied by a
         mechanism for CSOs to "appeal" in case they believe they are to be consulted on specific
         matters (although, in order to remain practical, the appeal would not always lead to
         inclusion). The directories should be finalized by June 30, 2010.

(ii)     In each country, the Country Director and Country Manager will be required to launch a
         systematic effort aimed at strengthening outreach to relevant stakeholders where it is
         necessary and to report to Senior Management on a regular basis. Instructions to that
         effect will be communicated to relevant managerial staff by October 31,2009.

(iii)    The MNA Vice President will issue an instruction by October 31, 2009 to all regional
         staff to further raise awareness and disseminate good practices on consultations. This
         instruction is expected to be followed by training sessions to relevant Task Team Leaders
         and Task Team members.

(iv)     In parallel, MNA will develop, together with World Bank Institute and other relevant
         parts of the World Bank Group, and in consultation with stakeholders (including CSOs),
         a series of training programs for stakeholders across the MNA Region (including CSOs)
         to improve their understanding of the reform and investment programs and of their
         potential benefits, and of the role of the Bank and other agencies. The first training
         session will be delivered by June 30, 2010.




                                                                                                     3
Implementation of the IRDPG

The Management Response included a commitment to continue to monitor the risks associated
with the IRDPG, in consultation with stakeholders. In practical terms, this is expected to be
achieved through the following set of actions:

(i)      During each supervision mission, the Task Team will meet with a cross-section of CSOs,
         which are representative of the main viewpoints within civil society, to discuss progress
         in implementing the measures supported under the IRDPG and concerns CSOs may have
         on the impact of these measures on the poor. An invitation will be systematically
         extended to the Requesters to participate in these meetings (as was the case for the
         meeting held on September 6, 2009).

(ii)     Following each supervision mission, the Task Team will issue an update note in Arabic
         and English (one- to two-page) on the status and progress of implementation of the
         reforms supported under the IRDPG. These notes will be broadly disseminated by the
         Country Office and posted on the internet.

(iii)    Throughout supervision, the Task Team will work closely with those CSOs which are
         directly involved, as actors, in the implementation of some of the measures supported
         under the IRDPG with a view to facilitating implementation of the operation. This is
         expected to be especially relevant for the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative
         (EITI) component.

(iv)     Throughout supervision, the Task Team will make particular efforts to reach out to
         entities which are representative of the parties that may be affected by the measures
         supported under the IRDPG, in order to discuss concerns they may have on these
         measures. This is expected to be especially relevant for the land titling and civil service
         reform components.

Bank program in YemeD

The Management Response included a commitment to pursue and further strengthen relevant
participation processes in support of reforms in Yemen. This is a process that will have to be
developed gradually and sustained over years in order to bring concrete results as it requires
building trust with a broadened set of counterparts within civil society in an environment where
this has traditionally been challenging. In the coming period, Management will focus on five
sets of actions:

(i)      The Country Office will continue to hold regular meetings, on a quarterly basis, with a
         cross-section of CSOs in Yemen, which are deemed to be representative of the main
         viewpoints within civil society, to discuss Bank activities in the country.

(ii)     Regional Management will emphasize with the Government the importance of ensuring
         adequate consultations with stakeholders in the formulation of the country's development
         program and in the design and implementation of critical reforms. This will be done in

                                                                                                       4
         the first instance during the 2009 Annual Meetings and is expected to remain an essential
         part of the country dialogue in the coming future. The Country Office will also offer
         support to the Government to facilitate consultations, including training and institutional
         strengthening as may be requested.

(iii)    Management will prepare a paper on the stakeholders landscape and consultations for the
         Bank in Yemen by June 2010. This paper will include an analysis of the key segments of
         civil society, with a view to helping refine the Bank's understanding of relevant
         stakeholders and their constituencies. The paper will include recommendations inter alia
         on: (i) mechanisms to further broaden and deepen interactions between the Bank and civil
         society; and (ii) mechanisms for the Bank to further support and monitor Government-led
         consultations processes during project preparation and implementation. It will also
         include recommendations on establishing a system for proactive and time-bound
         responses to relevant complaints from communities, civil society, and the private sector.

(iv)     Within the broader context of the overall MNA effort described above, Management will
         develop a training program for CSOs in Yemen on economic reforms and Bank activities,
         in order to help strengthen the capacity of these entities to effectively participate in
         consultations. It is expected that the first session of this training program will be held by
         June 30, 2010.

Institutional arrangements for implementation of the Action Plan

Implementation of this Action Plan will require significant efforts on a number of parallel fronts.
To ensure adequate and effective follow up, MNA has assigned the MNA Development
Effectiveness Unit the overall responsibility for oversight and a full-time, GG-Ievel staff is being
appointed for the coordination of the implementation of the proposed action plan and for
providing bi-monthly status reports.




                                                                                                     5
                                          Annex: Summary Matrix




                                      Table  Summary Updated Action Plan                                                 .

                                                                                                                         !
Proposed Actions                                                              Status I Timeline
DIALOGUE WITH THE REQUESTERS

Provide translation of the PD to the Requesters and other interested          Completed (June 2009)
stakeholders


Invite the Requesters to meet at their convenience with Bank                  Completed (May 30,2009; September
representatives to inform them about plans for the translation and again,     6,2009)
once the translation is ready, to discuss their concerns


, PARTICIPATION AND CONSULTATION IN MNA

                                                                              Review completed.
Review the system to monitor effective compliance with the disclosure
policy of PIDs, PADs, and PDs within the MNA Region                           Detailed instructions to implement
                                                                              recommendations by 31 October 2009.

                                                                              Review completed.

                                                                              Detailed instructions to implement
Review translation practices in MNA for PIDs, PADs, and PDs with a view       recommendations by 31 October 2009
to gradually expanding the number of translated documents in a realistic      Clear progress in strengthening GSD
manner                                                                        Arabic Translation Unit capacity by
                                                                              March 31, 2010.

                                                                              Steady state operation of the
                                                                              strengthened GSD Arabic Translation
                                                                              Unit capacity by end 2010.                 I

Review MNA websites and revamp Arabic websites, to facilitate access in       Revamping and first round of updates
Arabic to relevant Bank materials.                                            completed by June 30, 2010


Develop in each country a directory of CSOs, specifying their special niche   March 31,2010
and sector interest, which shall be targeted for consultation.
  Issue an instruction by the RVP to MNA Country Directors I Country          Instructions to be issued by October
  Managers to engage in a systematic effort aimed at strengthening outreach   31,2009
, with relevant stakeholders where necessary and to report to Regional
. Management on a regular basis.
 Issue an instruction by the RVP to MNA staff to further raise awareness      October 31,2009
 and disseminate good practices on consultations. Provide training to
 relevant Task Team Leaders and Task Team members as needed.
 Develop in consultation with stakeholders (induding CSOs), a series of       First training session delivered by June
 training programs for stakeholders throughout the MNA Region (including      30,2010.
 CSOs) to improve their understanding of the reform programs and of their
 potential benefits, and ofthe role of the Bank and other agencies.



                                                                                                                     6
                                       Table  Summary Updated Action Plan
Proposed Actions                                                                 Status I Timeline
IMPLEMENTATION OF THE IRDPG
Organize'meetings between the Task Team and a cross-section of CSOs              During each supervision mission,
to discuss progress in implementing the measures supported under the
IRDPG.                                                                                                                         i


Issue, disseminate in Yemen, and post on the internet a 1- to 2-page             Following each supervision mission
update note (in Arabic) on the status and progress of implementation.
Work closely with CSOs which are directly involved, as actors, in the            Throughout supervision
implementation of some of the measures supported under the IRDPG with
a view to facilitating implementation of the operation.
Make particular efforts to reach out to entities which are representative of     Throughout supervision
the parties that may be affected by the measures supported under the
IRDPG.
BANK PROGRAM IN YEMEN
Continue to hold bi-monthly meetings between the Country Office and a            Continuous
cross-section of CSOs to discuss Bank activities in Yemen.
                                                                                 Importance of consultations to be
Emphasize with the Govemment (at Senior Management level) the
                                                                                 highlighted during Annual Meetings
importance of adequate consultation processes. Offer support to the
                                                                                 2009;
Government in that process, including training and institutional
strengthening as may be requested.
                                                                                 Continuous afterwards.
Prepare a white paper on the stakeholders landscape and consultations for June 30,2010
the Bank in Yemen, including: (i) mechanisms to further broaden and
deepen interactions between the Bank and civil society; (ii) mechanisms for
the Bank to further support and monitor Government-led consultations
processes during project preparation and implementation; and (iii) a system
for proactive and time-bound responses to complaints from communities,
civil society and the private sector.


Develop a training program for CSOs in Yemen on economic reforms and             First sessions of this training program
Bank activities, in order to help strengthen the capacity of these entities to   held by June 30, 2010.
effectively participate in consuHations.




                                                                                                                           7
