F'ILE COPY.
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Not For Public Use
Report No. P-1528a-BR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
December 30, 1974.
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy qr completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of December 19, 197h)
Currency Unit                        Cruzeiro (Cr$)
US$1.00                              Cr$7.L25
Cr$1                                 US$0.13h7
Cr$1 million                         US$13h,680



IMTERNATICKAI BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DhVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE
PRESIDENT TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTCRS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
TXE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIG OF BRAZIL FOR
A FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Federative Republic of Brazil for the equivalent of US$110
million to help finance a fifth highway project. The loan would have a
term of 20 years, including five years of grace, with interest at 8% per
annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report, entitled Economic Position and Prospects of
Brazil" (355a-BR), dated June 20, 1974, was distributed to the Executive
Directors on July 3, 1974.  Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
An economic mission visited the country in October/November 1974 and its
report is in preparation.
3.        The Brazilian economy so far has continued to grow at the rapid
pace which began in 1968, with an estimated increase in GDP of about 10.5%
in 1974. The average rate of growth of 10.4% over the period 1967-74 has
resulted in a 6C% increase in per capita income, a 130% increase in
manufacturing output and 350C increase in the value of exports. During
much of this period, with carefully designed fiscal and monetary policies,
the Government was successful in gradually reducing the rate of domestic
inflation.  In 1973, however, overheating developed, which was temporarily
contained, but which led to a fairly sharp increase in prices during the
first half of 1974, reflecting a very rapid increase in import prices and
a relaxation of price controls. The level of inflation in 1974 is likely
to be about 33%, compared to under 20% per year in 1970-73.
4.        Recent international economic developments, rather than leading
to a decline in the rate of GDP growth, have caused a sharp deterioration
of Brazil's balance of payments performance. The fourfold increase in the
price of crude oil (adding some US$2 billion to the import bill), the steep
rise in the price of most imported raw materials, as well as the reduced
availability of external financial credits, have made management of the
external sector very difficult in 1974. Further, these external factors
caught Brazil at the time when its economry was overheated and, thus,
growth of import demand was very high because of limitations on domestic
capacity in key sectors coupled with speculative stockpiling.  In contrast
to the 1969-73 period when the current account deficit averaged US$1 billion,



- 2 -
or about 2% of GDP, the current account deficit widened to about US$7.3
billion, or about 7% of GDP, in 1974, as a result of the sizeable differen-
tial between import growth (about lOc%) and export growth (roughly 20%).
The bulk of the deficit was financed by a large increase in the inflow of
external financial credits (about US$3.7 billion on a net basis) coupled
with a relatively modest drawdown of foreign exchange reserves (about
US$1 billion). Starting in September 197h, however, the tight international
financial market for long-term funds brought about a slowdown in the flow of
financial credits.
5.        Measures to cope with the new external situation were intensified
in March 197h, when a new government came into office. The first effort of
the new economic team was to cool off the econory by restoring control of
aggregate demand in order to reduce the prospective current account deficit
of the balance of payments to more manageable levels and to restrain
accelerating inflation. The main instruments that were used to achieve
these goals were the implementation of a tight monetary and fiscal program,
the imposition of higher import duties and acceleration of the "crawling
peg" exchange rate adjustments. Indications of a downturn in the rate of
industrial expansion and deceleration of the rate of inflation in the third
quarter of 1974 suggest that the Government policies have begun to succeed
in reducing the overheating of the econony. Although the impact of these
policies had not yet (as of October 197h) been felt on the balance of pay-
ments, the Government remains confident that imports will soon reflect the
slowdown in growth of the industrial sector and of investment.
6.        As for 1975, the Government is committed to substantially reduce
the current account deficit. To this end, it intends to continue to imple-
ment a tight monetary policy, a balanced budget and a realistic exchange
rate policy, coupled with some reduction in imports associated with -the
public investment program. The balance of payments outlook for 1975 also
reflects favorable prospects for most Brazilian exports, an expected slow-
down in import price increase and likely expansion of 20-25% in domestic
oil production, thanks to earlier discoveries of offshore deposits in some
Northeast states. The Government plans to reduce the 1975 trade deficit
to about US$2 billion - or as much as the additional oil import bill - as
compared to roughly US$5 billion in 1974. Export earnings are expected to
increase, and the reduction in the deficit should be attainable if i1nporrs
(which in 1974 included goods imported for inventory accumulation)
are kept at the same level as in 1974. Within the overall import constraint,
however, it may be possible to satisfy an increase in demand for imported
raw matewials and capital goods consistent with a satisfactory economic
growth (7-8%) through some reductions in imports of consumer goods, zero
growth of oil import volumes and depletion of stockpiles. The expected
decline in -the trade deficit in 1975 will be partly offset by a substantial
increase in interest payments as a result of the large external borrowing con-
tracted during 197h. The current account deficit for 1975 would then
amount to about US$5 billion or US$2 billion less than in 1974. If condi-
tions in the international financial markets do not deteriorate further,
financing of such a deficit should not require a drawdown of foreign exchange
reserves.



-3-
7.        In recent years, Brazil has become more closely integrated into
the world economy and its growth has become more dependent upon and vul-
nerable to changes in the world economic situation. The slowdown in the
rate of growth of the world economy could have an adverse impact on prices
of Brazilian primary exports and on the rate of growth of its exports of
manufactures. In addition, disruption of world capital markets could affect
the flow of loans and direct investment to Brazil. Although the country's
economic prospects are favorable, these uncertainties call for some reduc-
tion from the very high rate of growth achieved in the past. The authorities
have stated that they are ready to lower the growth target if external factors
compel them to do so. A growth path in the 7-8% range seems feasible for the
rest of the decade0 This would result in an annual average current account
deficit of US$5.3 billion (US$307 billion in 1974 prices) over the 1975-79
period. In financing this deficit, Brazil is likely to count more than ever
on the help of multilateral lenders, not only because the availability of
loans from other sources on good terms may_be somewhat less ample than in the Dast
but also because multilateral lenders can act as catalysts to help mobilize
other sources of financing and because the level of their activity is taken
by the financial community as a measure of the confidence these agencies
have in the economic management of the country. It is estimated that the
average annual net inflow of medium- and long-term capital (that is, capital
other than direct investments and financial credits) required for the 1975-79
period will be about US$1.6 billion, or three times the average for the
1970-74 period. It thus appears that the official loan capital needed to
support Brazil's growth targets is substantial. On the other hand, the
direct import needs of most public investment projects are relatively low,
reflecting the ability of the domestic capital goods industry to compete
successfully under international competitive bidding and the low direct
foreign exchange component of many projects with strong social impact.
Hence, an appreciable part of official external financing would have to
be made available to cover domestic expenditures if Brazil is to achieve
its targets for external capital inflow.
8.        By the end of 1973, Brazil's total external debt (public and
private) reached US$12.6 billion, of which over 60% or US$7.8 billion
was in the form of financial credits. By the end of 1974, total debt may
reach US$17 billion (and financial credits outstanding US$11.6 billion).
Despite the large increases in the level of indebtedness, Brazil's ex-
ternal liquidity profile steadily improved over the past few yearsp except for a
small deterioration in 19740  Extension of the average tIem of financial credits
and virtual elizination of short-term credits has had a favorable impact on
debt structure. While the debt service ratio declined, the reserve level in
terms of number of month8 of imports increased. The present level of
reserves (US$509 billion) is equivalent to about five months of the
expected 1975 imports of goods and services. If an export growth rate of
around 20% per year in dollar terms (compared to 28% in 1970-74) can be
maintained over the 1975-79 period and if average maturities on new finan-
cial credits do not fall below six years, the total debt service ratio in 1979
can be expected not to exceed the 1973 level of 34%, which is below the
level prevailing in the 1969-72 period (about 40%). It should be noted
that this debt service ratio includes service on all public and private
debt; the ratio for public and publicly guaranteed debt alone, a figure
which is not available, must be very much lower. Nonetheless, the fact



remains that Brazil's external debt service obligations are high. However,
the large foreign exchange reserves accumulated over the past several years
ensure that Brazil will have the liquidity to meet its debt service obliga-
tions in the short term, while the country's record of high caliber finan-
cial management provides grounds for confidence in the maintenance of
creditworthiness over the longer run. If recent reports of major new
discoveries of offshore oil deposits prove to be accurate, oil import
dependence may be substantially reduced by the end of the decade and the
country's external position improved.
9.        There has been a remarkable broadening and deepening of the
countryts productive base and of its infrastructure in recent years, as
well as a considerable strengthening of its external sector. However,
despite its recent growth and vast potential, Brazil is still a country
with a modest per capita income, about US$630 (for 1973), a very
unequal distribution of income, and extensive absolute poverty. The
Brazilian Government believes that the poverty and dualism which afflict
the country can be ameliorated only if high rates of economic growth are
sustained, permitting absorption of the economically marginal population
into the expanding modern sector. Within the context of rapid growth, the
Government has mounted many socially oriented programs which transfer
resources from the more developed to the less developed regions of the
country. The programs fall into two broad categories: regional develop-
ment programs for the Northeast, Amazon and Center-West designed to bring
about a fuller utilization of the country's land and natural resources,
encourage expansion of the agricultural frontier and promote industrializa-
tion of less developed areas; and social development programs in public
health and nutrition, water and sewerage, low-income housing, education
and social welfare, instituted to broaden the distribution of and improve
access to the benefits of economic growth.
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZTL
Bank Operations
10.       By November 30, 1974, Brazil had received 49 loans from the Bank
amounting to US$1,856.0 million, of which 31 have not been fully disbursed.
An additional loan of US$23.5 million for a second education project was
signed on December 27, 197h. During FY65-69, disbursements averaged only
US$10 million per year, increasing to an average of US$136 million per year
during FY70-74, and reaching US$225 million in FY74. Disbursements will
continue to increase during the next few years. Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans as of November 30, 1974 and notes on the execution
of ongoing projects.



11.       Bank lending to Brazil was very active in FY72, when seven loans
were approved totalling US$437 million (including three large loans to the
steel industry), In FY73, six loans amounting to US$187.7 million and, in
FY74, three loans totalling US$242 million were approved. The loan for
the second education project is the only loan to Brazil approved thus far in
FY75. A proposed loan of US$175 million for a second railway project is
being presented to the Executive Directors simultaneously with this proposed
highway loan. At an advanced stage of preparation are a polder irrigation
and agricultural development project in the lower Sao Francisco Valley and
two projects in the next phase of the Government's program for expanding the
flat steel industry. We hope to present these projects to the Executive
Directors for consideration during the current fiscal yearo We are also
working with the Brazilians on the preparation of an integrated rural
development project in the Northeast state of Rio Grande do Norte, an
agricultural research program, a nutrition project, second grain storage
and agro-industries projects, a small- and medium-sized industry credit
project, a secondary and feeder road project, a project to rehabilitate and
expand the Sao Paulo state railway enterprise and a power distribution
project in the Northeasto
12.       Brazil's medium- and long-term external debt (excluding
financial credits) outstanding and disbursed at the end of 1973 totalled
US$4.7 billion, and of this amount the Bank held 13,8%* The Bank's share
of the service on this debt was about 6.0%. If present trends continue
as expected, the Bank's share in total medium- and long-term debt out-
standing would increase to about 18% by 1979, while the share in debt
service would increase to about 10%.
IFC Operations
13.       IFC has committed more financial resources to Brazil than to any
other country.  Since 1957, IFC has made 26 commitments to Brazil, totalling
a net amount of US$250.8 mdllion, of which US$13.9 million has been repaid
and iUS$140.5 million sold. Of the balance of Us$96.4 million, US$70.1
million represents loans and US$26.3 million, equity. A summary of IFC's
investment up to November 30, 1974, is given in Annex II.
Lending Strategy
14.       In its lending to Brazil, the Bank has sought to help the Government
achieve important objectives, which are interdependent and complementary.
One is to foster institutional developmenat and policy reform, designed inter
alia to help ensure that public savings asre used economically and and thatan
adequate volume of savings is available for application in the social sector,
The proposed highway project would help support the Government efforts to
strengthen maintenance capacity, avoid duplication of maintenance services
at the federal and state levels, and extend the useful life of existing
road investments.



-6-
15.       A second objective of Bank lending to Brazil is to help provide
necessary long-term external capital. Brazil has needed and will continue
to need a very large volume of medium- and long-term capital inflows to
sustain rapid growth and achieve its employment creation and regional
development objectives.   In some sectors  especially in power and steel,
the Bank seeks to play a complementary roie to that of other lenders,
supplementing their resources in individual operations.
16.       Another important objective of Bank lending to Brazil is the
identification and support of projects designed to increase productivity
and incomes in the lowest income segments of the population, to broaden
the economic opportunities open to those groups and to alleviate human misery.
Project preparation efforts in this area have been intensified, and we hope
to present an increasing number of loans with this objective. We are actively
associated with the preparation of new projects in the fields of water supply
and seweragep sites and services and rural development. A project designed
to assist Brazil in formulating a national nutrition program is being
appraised. A particular effort is being made to help Brazil develop
effective programs to increase the productivity of the small farmer in the
Northeast, the poorest section of the country. A staff member is stationed
in Recife to work with the Government in formulatirng what we hope will be
a series of integrated rural development projects. Efforts in this field
would be reinforced by a project in preparation to support agricultural
research in the Northeast and to strengthen the federal mechanism for
coordinating and supervising agricultural research.
17.       One further lending objective for the Bank has been to help ease
the foreign exchange constraint on Brazilian development, which has become
more critical since the increase in petroleum prices, by supporting projects
designed to increase Brazil's export capacity and, where economical, to
substitute domestic production for imports. Much of the investment in the
transport sector -- railways, ports and highways -- is designed to facilitate
the smooth and economical flow of exports. The grain storage and agro-
industries programs are both export oriented. Support of Brazil s steel
investment program is helping Brazil develop output of a commodity which
can be produced efficiently in Brazil owing to the country's bountiful
supply of high-grade iron ore and the scale of its internal markets, The
growth of agricultural exports, which several of our loans (including
those designed to support in the modernization and extension of the
transportation system) will assist, should help Brazil make a material
contribution to the alleviation of the world food shortage.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
18.       A report entitled "The Transport Sector of Brazil," No. 571a-BR
dated December 20, 1974 is being circulated separately to the Executive
Directors.



Bank Participation in the Transport Sector
19.       The Bank loans for the fifth highway project proposed in this
report and for the proposed second railway project would be the Bank's tenth
and eleventh for the development of Brazil's transport sector. EKcept for
three small loans in the early 1950s (two for railway equipment and one
for highway maintenance equipment), the Bank's association with the Brazilian
transport sector dates from 165. In that year, through a technical assist-
ance grant of US$1l5 million, the Bank helped finance and supervise the first
phase of a nationwide Transport Survey. A second phase of the Survey, partly
financed by the UNDP and the USAID), with the Bank as executing agency, was
subsequently completed. The recommendations arising from the Survey have
provided the general basis for investment projects which the Bank has helped
finance and for the definition of steps to improve transport institutions
and services. During the past seven years, the Bank has made four loans
for highway construction projectss, one loan for a port project (Santos)
and one for a railway project, the latter in conjunction with an iron
ore mining development also partly financed by the Bank0
Sector Background
200       The large size and difficult natural terrain of Brazil, together
with an abundance of agricultural land and mineral resources, has made
transportation a particularly crucial element in the development of the
economy* During the period 1969-73, investments in transport infrastructure
increased by an estimated average of over 16% per year, In 1973, transport
investments (excluding the motor vehicle fleet) reached about US$1.8 billion,
absorbing roughly 16% of gross fixed public and private investment expenditures.
21.       The main transport flows which have developed in Brazil are the
very large movement of industrial products and iron ore within the triangle
formed by the cities of Sao Paulo, Rio de Janeiro and Belo Horizonte, and
the flow of agricultural products in the South and Southeast either to ports
for export or to main consumption poles such as Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo0
Intercity freight movement grew at an average anzual rate of 10% between
1960 and 1972, when it reached an estimated total of 208 billion ton-km.
Of this, 73% was by road, 16% by rail, 11% by coastal shipping and a
negligible amount by airo Intercity passenger transport grew at an
average annual rate of 12% over the same period, and in 1972 totalled
roughly 150 billion passenger-km., of which 95% was by road, 3% by rail and
2% by air.
Energy Policy
220       The increase in petroleum prices in the last year has led the
Government to review its transport investment priorities and policies0
With the substantial increase in the import bill for petroleum (see para-
graph 4 above), efforts have been redoubled to implement development



- 8 -
programs aimed at export promotion and import substitution where Brazil's
comparative advantages make such programs economically justified. Iron
ore, steel and agricultural production are major focal points in this efforto
All involve bulk transport over long distances, for which rail is normally
the most economic transport alternative. Hence, the Government intends to
devote an increasing share of transport investment to the rehabilitation
and expansion of the railways and, as a general target, to provide for the
transport by rail of up to 30% of all intercity freight traffic by the end
of the decade, as compared to about 16% in 1972.
23,       During the past year, the Government has doubled the price of
regular gasoline to the user to a current level of roughly US$1000 per gallon,
Diesel oil and fuel oil prices increases, however, have been held to roughly
50% over the mid-1973 level, mainly through a revision in the structure of
petroleum products taxes. The revised petroleum tax and price structure is
dampening growth in what would otherwise be underpriced passenger car trips,
and will accelerate the shift from less energy-efficient gasoline powered
trucks (now about half the fleet) to more efficient diesel powered vehicles,
Also, since fuel costs per ton-km. are less for  rail than for road transport,
rail transport has become relatively more attractive for certain commodities
on medium- and long-hauls. Nevertheless, one can expect that the shift in
the rail/road allocation of existing traffic will only be gradual because:
(a) the nature, size and characteristics of the existing road and rail net-
works and operations will not allow a quick, significant and economic diversion
from one mode to the other; and (b) the railroad companies will have, in the
next few years, limited capacity for accommodating new traffic, The projected
increase in the rail share of total traffic by the end of the decade will
result mainly from the very substantial new bulk traffic foreseen in agricul-
ture and iron and steel-related transport requirements, toward which much of
the rail investment program will be directed.
24.       The Government also intends to pursue an aggressive role in the
improvement of mass transport in Brazil's major urban areas, including the
rehabilitation of the suburban passenger train serviceso Improvements
are under study for coastal shipping and inland navigationo
Transport Planning and Coordination
250       Responsibility at the federal level, for coordinating and planning
surface transport lies with the Ministry of Transport, Civil aviation falls
within the jurisdiction of a separate Ministry of Aviation. General inter-
ministerial coordination of national transport policy is carried out by the
National Transport Councilo However, the main governmental entity within
the Ministry of Transport in charge of transport planning and coordination
is GEIPOT - the Brazilian transport planning agency, GEIPOT was formed in
1965 as the Government's counterpart agency for the execution and super-
vision of the Transport Survey. For the first few years after completion
of the Survey, GEIPOT failed to exert decisive influence in the coordination



- 9 -
of planning by the individual modal agencies. However, in mid-1972, its
management was strengthened and GEIPOT became more active in reviewing modal
plans and commissioning special transport studieso
260       In 1973, GEIPOT was transformed from a government agency to a
government-owned and controlled company, which should allow GEIPOT flexi-
bility in retaining high quality staff. GEIPOT receives government financial
support to give technical assistance to all modal agencies; to help the
government formulate, coordinate and execute its national transport policy;
and to execute and coordinate the preparation of modal master plans and
other studies necessary to achieve these objectives. However, in view of the
complexity and immense size of Brazil's transport system, this improved
capacity for general transport planning and coordination can be expected to
achieve its intended results only if complemented by a continued strengthening
of the planning capacity in the individual modal agencies.
The Railways Subsector
27.       The Brazilian railway network comprises about 32,000 km of lines,
of which 25,000 km are operated by the Federal Railway Company (RFFSA),
5,000 km by the state-owned Sao Paulo State Railways (FEPASA), 935 km
by Estradas de Ferro Vitoria a 1,inas, a department of the Companhia do Vale
do Rio Doce (CVRD), a large government-owned mining company, carrying
mostly iron ore traffic. The remnaining 700 km of railway are owned by
five small private companieso The new federal government which took office
in March, 1974, is undertaking studies with a view to merging the main
railway companies in the medium term.
28.       Until recently, the Government placed relatively low priority,
within the transport sector, on the development of the railways, Over the
period 1969-73, only about 20% of public sector investments were for railways,
whereas highways absorbed about 60% of these investmentso As a result, the
relative share of railways in total intercity freight movements decreased
from 19% in 1960 to 16% in 1972. However, with a substantial increase in the
demand for bulk transport (mainly of agricultural and iron and steel-related
products) and because of the impact of the world energy crisis, the Government
has now given high priority to the development of the railway system, and has
launched a uS$4.5 billion railway investment program, for which Bank financial
assistance is proposed.  It is expected that over the next five years, railway
traffic will increase by about 75%, excluding iron and steel products and by
about 300% including them. The participation of railways in the total inter-
city freight movement is expected to increase from the 1972 level of 16% to
about 30% in 1980.
29.       The major problems of the railway subsector are financial, as both
RFFSA and FEPASA continue to operate with large deficits, thus burdening
public sector finances. Railway service is generally inefficient and substantial
economies remain to be realized through rationalization of the route system,
mechanization of track maintenance and freight handling, centralization of
workshops, and similar measures.  The proposed loan to R.FFSA would support
the implementation of such measures. A similar operation is contemplated for
FEPASA within the next year.



- 10 -
The Ports and Waterways Subsector
30.       There are 36 principal ports in Brazilo In 1972, total port freight
traffic was 110 million tons, Rio de Janeiro accounting for about 20% and
Santos for 12%o The share of waterborne transport in total domestic traffic
has declined over the last decade because waterborne traffic has grown less
rapidly than other traffic categories, despite sizeable increases shipped by
waterways, The Government's program to decentralize and reorganize the
administration of major ports, and to improve management and accounting
practices -- an effort recommended in the Transport Survey and initiated in
conjuntion with the Bank's 1971 Loan (756-BR) for the Santos Port Project --
has proceeded very slowly- However, the National Department of Ports and
Navigable Waterways has now been reorganized0  Also, during the past year,
the dock companies of several major ports have been converted from government
agencies to corporations with majority government ownership, a step which
should strengthen and allow greater flexibility in local port management.
An overall port study, recently completed with Bank financing under the Santos
Port Loan, will lead to the preparation of a five-year investment program
for Brazilian ports0 With few exceptions, the efficiency of port operations
of Brazilian ports requires considerable improvement, particularly if the
Government is to achieve its target of reversing the relative decline in the
use of coastal shipping for general cargo, which coluld be the most economic
alternative in many cases.
The Highway Subsector
31.       Through 1973, the Government placed highest priority, within the
transport sector, on the development of the highway system.   Between 1967 Laid
1972, the combined federal and state paved highway network increased from
36,ooo km to 62,000 k1m, and the relative share of total intercity freight
movement accounted for by road transport increased from 70% to 73%. The
increased emphasis now being given to developing rail capacity will preve-
what would otherwise be a growing imbalance in the transport system, but
large investments will still be required to improve the highway system.
In fact, even assuming the considerable increase in rail traffic over the
next five years mentioned above (paragraph 28), in five years road transport
would have to carry an additional 30% of intercity cargo resulting from the
general development of the Brazilian economy, assuming a rate of growth of
8p in the GNP (paragraph 7). Moreover, to an increasing extent, investments
will be necessary in secondary and feeder roads, improved maintenance, and
road rehabilitation and upgrading.
Highway Planning and Administration
32.       In recent years, federal highway investments have been based on
the National Transport Plan, which has been periodically updatedo The
latest updating of the highway plan for the three southern states was
completed by DNER in 1972 and included both federal and state roadso The



- 11 -
updating of the plan for the other regions of the country was completed
in draft form in July 1974. Investments for specific roads are based on
the conclusions of the plan and when doubt exists, a full feasibility
study is carried out. This procedure has contributed to the soundness of
the Government's investment decisions in highways.
33.       The National Highway Department (Departamento Nacional de Estradas
de Rodagem - DNER), under the Ministry of Transport, administers the federal
highway network. It exercises its responsibilities through 20 district offices
located one in each state, except Acre. In addition, each of the 21 states
has a state highway department (Departamento de Estradas de Rodagem - DER)
responsible for the construction and maintenance of its state highway network.
During the past four years, following the recommendations of the Transport
Survey (paragraph 19), DNER and a number of DERs were reorganized with the
purpose of reducing the centralization of highway activities at DNER and
eliminating the duplication of services between DNER and the DERs. DNER is
now well organized and staffed.
34.       According to available information, the level of road user charges
is adequate, and does not distort the allocation of traffic between the trans-
port modes. However, there is a lack of data to ascertain whether the struc-
ture of the existing road user charges is such as to make the various users
pay an equitable share. To remedy this situation, the Government has given
assurances that it will undertake a comprehensive study of road user charges,
in accordance with terms of reference and timetables acceptable to the Bank
(see Section 4.06 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Highway Engineering, Construction and Maintenance
35.       Highway and bridge engineering for federal roads is the respon-
sibility of DNER and is done efficiently using up-to-date techniques and
design standards that are satisfactory. Moreover, the Government, with the
possible financial assistance of UNDP, is considering an empirical study of
the optimal design standards for highways in Brazil, directed at minimizing
total road transport cost. This study, which was originally suggested by
the Bank, will complement the studies undertaken, with the assistance of
the Bank, in Kenya, since 1971.
36.       With the expansion of the federal and state highway networks, a
corresponding expansion of the maintenance efforts is required. However,
in order to avoid costly duplication of maintenance services -- by DNER for
federal roads and by the DERs for state roads -- the Government decided that
the maintenance of federal roads should be gradually delegated to the states.
In 1971, DNER delegated maintenance of federal roads in six states through
pilot-region programs. These programs, however, have not been fully success-
ful because many DERs lacked appropriate maintenance organization, equipment,
facilities and funds. The strengthening of the DERs, therefore, both insti-
tutionally and with equipment, is a matter of high priority.



- 12 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
370       A report entitled "Appraisal of a Fifth Highway Project" (No. 604-BR
dated December 20, 1974) is being circulated separately to the Executive
Directors. The main features of the proposed project and loan are summarized
in Annex IIIe The project was appraised by the Bank in January/February
1974. Negotiations with the Government were held in Washington from
December 10, 1974 to December 13, 1974o The Government was represented by a
team headed by Col. Stanley Fortes Baptista, Director General of DNER.
Objectives of the Project
38.       The proposed project is an integral part of the proposed Bank
assistance to the development of the transport sector in Brazil which
includes the proposed second railway project, Although the Government is
giving increasing emphasis to developing rail capacity, essential invest-
ments in federal highway construction continue to be large and are planned
to amount to US$1.6 billion in the next three years, of which the proposed
loan would finance a part.  In addition to resource-transfer objectives,
the proposed loan should provide institution-building support to the
highway sector, by aiding the transfer of federal highway maintenance
responsibilities from the Federal Government to the State Governments,
helping to increase maintenance efficiency and reducing duplication of
maintenance service.
390       The proposed project would consist of:
a) construction and upgrading of the following five highways
linking major cities or important industrial or agricul-
tural areas (612 kms.):
State                Length (km.)
1.  Corinto - Pirapora          Minas Gerais                    141
20  Campo Largo - Curitiba      Parana                           22
30  Feira de Santana-Esplanada  Bahia                           131
4. Bingen - Juiz de Fora        Rio de Janeiro/minas Gerais      141
5.  Jatai - Canal Sao Simao     Goias                           177
b)  consulting services to assist DNER to improve its supervision
of construction, including supervision of the works in
(a) above;
c) highway maintenance programs in the states of Minas Gerais
and Rio Grande do Sul;
d)  strengthening of DNERs highway maintenance capability by
technical assistance and by the provision and installation
of weigh bridges on federal highways; and
e) consulting services for feasibility studies and detailed
engineering for construction and rehabilitation of roads,



- 13 -
40.       The detailed engineering for the five roads proposed in this
project for construction and upgrading was included in the Third Highway
Construction 1-roject (Loan 813-BR). The need for four of these roads was
identified by the National Transport Plan and was confirmed by the feasi-
bility studies financed under the Second Highway Construction Project
(Loan 676-BR). The fifth road (Campo Largo-Curitiba), the economic feasi-
bility and high priority of which were established in the updated Highway
Master Plan of 1972, is part of the export corridor in Parana. Details of
the roads proposed for construction and upgrading are given in paragraph 48.
The supervision of the individual highway contracts will be carried out by
the same consultants who undertook the detailed engineering of the roads.
This will assure a continuity of the operation and responsibilities.
41.       In order to meet the shortcomings of the present highway main-
tenance services (paragraph 36) and to encourage a more rapid implementation
of the Government's policy of delegation of maintenance of federal roads
from DNER to state DERs, the proposed project includes comprehensive
maintenance programs in the states of Rio Grande do Sul and Minas Gerais.
These two states were selected because they are now prepared for such a
program, because they contain nearly 30% of the total paved federal high-
way network, and because,due to their relatively advanced stage in highway
maintenance, the program is most likely to succeed, and thus will have the
maximum demonstration effect. The proposed program in each of the two
states includes the restructuring of the maintenance division in the high-
way department; the purchase of maintenance, workshop and office equipment;
the provision and installation of weigh bridges on federal and state roads;
technical assistance for the planning, supervision and control of maintenance
operations; and in-service training of maintenance personnel.
42.       The technical assistance to DNER for highway maintenance is
intended to help DNER to accelerate the delegation of road maintenance to
the states and also to take the necessary steps to ensure a satisfactory
maintenance of federal highways located in the states presently not ready
for receiving delegation of maintenance responsibilities. Two international
experts, a highway maintenance engineer and a cost accounting and budgeting
expert, will each serve for about four years. The project also includes
the installation on federal roads of 95 weigh bridges to better control truck
overloading, and thus, to help in reducing road maintenance expenditures.
The studies and engineering included in the proposed project would consist
of detailed engineering for construction and upgrading of about 830 km of
roads, detailed engineering for rehabilitation of about 1,600 km of paved
roads; and feasibility studies for about 1,200 km of new roads. In line
with the new emphasis on road maintenance and rehabilitation, the proposed
830 km of detailed engineering and 1,200 km of feasibility studies for new
roads included in this project are substantially fewer than those included
in previous Bank highway projects.



- 14 -
Cost Estimates and Financing
43.       The proposed loan of US$110 million would cover about 40% of the
estimated total project cost of US$276.3 million equivalent. Including
contingencies, construction and upgrading expenditures would constitute
63% of the total cost; consulting services for construction supervision,
4%; the maintenance programs in Rio Grande do Sul and Minas Gerais, 25%;
technical assistance to DNER, 3%; and studies and engineering, 5%. Con-
tingencies were estimated at 33% of the basic project cost to cover unfore-
seen physical factors as well as world inflation. Basic cost estimates are
expressed in November 1974 U.S. dollars. The foreign exchange component
of the project has been estimated at roughly US$39 million (about 14% of
the project cost or 35% of the amount of the loan). This estimate is
based on the assumption that all bids for civil work contracts would be
won by local firms, as was the case in the last three highway construction
projects. The proposed loan would, therefore, involve local cost financing
of about US$71 million. As noted in paragraph 7 above, the Bank financing
of local expenditures in Brazil is justified by the fact that external
capital flows required to support Brazil's high rate of economic growth
exceed the capital goods import needs of Brazilian public investment proj-
ects. Detailed cost estimates are given in Annex III.
Project Execution
44.       As in the case of the previous highway construction projects, DNER
would be responsible for the execution of the proposed project, with the
exception of the maintenance programs in Rio Grande do Sul and Minas Gerais.
The execution of these maintenance programs would be the joint responsibility
of DNER and the two DER's concerned. To this end, subsidiary agreements
would be entered into between DNER and the two DER's, setting forth each
party's rights and obligations. The effectiveness of these subsidiary agree-
ments will be a condition of loan disbursement for the corresponding part
of the project. In addition to the loan agreement to be signed with the
Federal Government, the Bank would also sign project agreements with the
two states concerned (see Section 3.01 (b) and paragraph 4 of Schedule 1
of the draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement
45.       Contracts for highway construction and upgrading would be let on
the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's
guidelines. The Brazilian construction industry is strong, well equipped
and well organized, and competition is intense. This situation has dis-
couraged foreign firms from bidding for highway contracts in Brazil. DNER
and its consultants for the detailed engineering of the proposed roads have
already prepared bidding and contract documents and the consultants would
assist DNER in analyzing bids and supervising construction. The Government
completed prequalification procedures in November 1974. Construction would
commence during the first quarter of 1975 and be completed in about 36 months.
46.       For items or groups of items of maintenance equipment, whose value
did not exceed $50,000, procurement would, if the Government so desired, be



- 15 -
based on competitive bidding advertised locally and in accordance with
DNER's standard procedures, which are satisfactory to the Bank; such
purchaseswould not exceed US$1,000,000 equivalent in aggregate. Procure-
ment of the remainder of the equipment would be on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in accordance with the Bank's guidelines.
Domestic manufacturers (whose bids contain components manufactured in
Brazil equal to at least 50% of the value of the bids as defined in accor-
dance with Brazilian law) would be allowed a preferential margin of 15%
of the c.i.f. price, or the prevailing tariff, whichever is lower. Fur-
thermore, the construction of buildings for the maintenance programs,
for weighing stations and their access roads, and other minor construction
items for contracts costing less than US$100,000 equivalent, would be
based on competitive bidding advertised locally and in accordance with
DNEA's standards,provided that the total amount of work contracted under
this procedure would not exceed US$2,000,000 equivalent (see paragraphs
A.5 and A.6 of Schedule 4 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Disbursements
47.       The proceeds of the proposed loan would be disbursed to cover
40% of total expenditures for each category of the project. The Bank's
funds would be used to replenish a revolving fund to be established at the
outset by DNER, similar to the practice used satisfactorily in previous
highway projects. The Government would make its contributions regularly
into the same fund. Establishment of the revolving fund with an initial
deposit by the Government of US$3.0 million equivalent will be a condition
of loan effectiveness (see Sections 3.05 and 6.01 (a) of the drat Loan
Agreement). Any surplus of funds remaining in the loan account on comple-
tion of the project would be used to finance items related to the project,
as agreed between the Government and the Bank.
Economic Evaluation
48.       The estimated overall economic rate of return for the road construction
and maintenance investments in the project is about 28%. The economic rate of
return on individual roads ranges from 17% to 39%. The proposed new road section
Feira de Santana-Esplanada in the state of Bahia is the last link to complete the
coastal highway between Rio de Janeiro and Fortaleza in the Northeast. The pres-
ent route is about 170 km, most of it on poor gravel roads. The proposed new
road will offer a good paved connection, reducing the transit distance by about
40 km. Its economic rate of return, computed over 20 years, is 24%. The road
Bingen - Juiz de Fora is part of the main highway between Rio de Janeiro,
-Belo Horizonte, and Brasilia. It includes 103 km of widening from two to
four lanes of the existing roads between Bingen (40 km from Rio de Janeiro)
and Matias Barbosa (near Juiz de Fora) and 38 km of construction of a two-
lane highway as bypass around Juiz de Fora. The economic rate of return of
this road is 32%. Much of the highway traffic originating in the west and
central part of Parana, one of the most important agricultural areas of
Brazil, must pass the 23-km road Campo Largo - Curitiba. The proposed widen-
ing of this existing road from two to four lanes is urgently needed to avoid
creating a bottleneck for the export of agricultural products. The economic
rate of return of this road project is 39%. The proposed paved road Corinto -
Pirapora in the state of Minas Gerais will mainly follow a new alignment in



- 16 -
rolling terrain and with better and shorter alignment than the existing
gravel road.  The proposed road will provide a more effective connection
of the growing industrial center of Pirapora with the main trunk highway
network. The economic rate of return of the proposed road is 21%. The
road section Jatai - Canal Sao Simao is the last link to complete the paving
of the connection between Sao Paulo and Cuiaba (capital city of the rapidly
developing state of Mato Grosso), paving of which was partially financed
under a previous Bank project (Loan 676-BR). The economic rate of return
for this project component is 17k.
49.       Road freight prices and profits are at competitive levels, and,
consequently, a large share of the benefits of road improvement are expected
to accrue to non-users (producers and consumers) through reduction in road
transport prices. During the past years, relative road transport tariffs
have declined, following reductions in road transport costs due to the
rapid expansion and improvement of the road network.
50.       The proposed maintenance programs are expected to yield an economic
rate of return of 28%. The benefits include the reduction of the total
maintenance costs due to the reduction of dual maintenance organizations of
DNER and the two DER's; the avoidance of increases in future vehicle
operating costs if the roads were not adequately maintained, and savings of
costs resulting from lengthening the useful life of the roads. The instal-
lation of weigh bridges, by reducing the overloading of trucks, is expected
to reduce maintenance expenditures, ceteris paribus, by about 4.2%, resulting
in a first year benefit of nearly 100% of the cost of the weigh bridges.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
51.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Federative Republic of
Brazil and the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the states of
Rio Grande do Sul and Minas Gerais and the Bank, the Report of the
Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of
Agreement and the text of a draft resolution approving the proposed loan
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. Features of
the draft Loan and Guarantee Agreements of special interest are referred
to in paragraphs 34, 44, 46 and 47.
52.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
53.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
December  30, 1974                             (by J. Burke Knapp)



ANNEX I
Page 1 of3
coIR1 If - BRAZIL
5,SIlooS on.-                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~98.2  amion (mid-1972)                     Pmr ko2of arable land
9DCIAL ID!CA?OR
Ow Fil CAFV?A US$ (ATlA    BASIS) A                                             530 /b           750 /'b       760 /b      2,130 /a
DENOGRAP1lIC
ERM-Wrth re    t.(PC, tbouemn                                      42          38/rIf           4.3/b         23 /a         19
Cr.d. death eats (p.r thouaamd                                    1272                    ~     1                71017
Infant mortoitty emts (per tln,.mnd live birth.)                 180          110               58 /b."      1.0 7j-       1
Lif. .p-.motno  at blibt (Years)                                  50           61 /f.mm         61.7i.        70 /~         72
AOr   eedeto-         .. 22.6                                                 2.6,             3.1           1.1.          1.0
Popoletto    01    e.                                            3.0          2.9 /0           3.5 Ic        1.3 In        1.
Population groth eats - orbam                                      6/d          57a              57-e          2Ml
Age .t-cte. (proret)
0-li                                                           4.3         1.2               46            28/If         24.
I566.                                                          54.          53 /.            50            63 7?         69
65 ard O..r                                                       3           57               I.            97f           7
Deoende,   ratio                                                 1.1. Li      1.5              1.9 A ,       1.0 7        0.6L/i
Orb., popalotlonm    p-ro.et of 101.1                             4.6 /d       56 /d            59 /e         78 LfE1       72 /h
P.m-i1y planning.  Wo. of ..-ePto... omlstve. (tb..)       ..                 250
No. of usee- (% of m-idA       n).                          1.6
*TEZbor       for0. (thmosands)                                22,700       29,500 /i        l3,00          1,10X) /f    52,8oo
Paorontge employed Ain ari-.tr.er                               54.          1.               39            17 7?        19
P-coontage OOpl.yOd                                                           2If2             4             8 7?       1.2
"ti,lL             -  rwre        yhget5                     28/b         33/1             36 /I.,      21/b
Nro-t of .tlo,.el loon. r:o.lvd by higbent 201                    51. 7;       62 7?            61. 4( 17
PNo_.ot of oti"',l 100.. e,    eived by lwoeset 20%                1.7;    7    i7?              4. 79 
Poroent ofnational 1000. --ci-d by lonmat 1.0%                    12 7;        10 7?            11            1 4
DSISRIOJf ION OF LAND OWHRRSNIP
I .ood by top 10 oT     or,X e..                                               .
8Oed by ne.1loet 101 of osnen                                  .            .
HEA711 AND NUTRITION                                                                           ,12,           9.088
oPeloItfoc  o ph,_FYoloino                                     2.110        1,950                            9400
PopeLaIco P.r    or-te1 P-rnc                                               3,300            I ,7          3,560          710
PopobollIn pen boopit.1 bad                                      275          260              930           160            60
Per:P t 0,7-1.caoo npply -~ % of(rnqoirae.ete~ /5                             106              107 I'        110         I106
P0,~ epit. protein oepply, tot.2 (go.s p., d        6T            W0           07               60 I.         91            7.'
Of ohioh, onisl cod pol1.                                       36           39               28 7;         61.          15
Death   t. 1-1. ye... /7                                          .                             11            .           1.0)
Ad3oe,ted /8 pr,or    ooo    nolost ratio                        100 e        13(0 /a..       011 /ob        116 I     a  100
AdjoetodL7 ono-ndory    oh-l eool.         tirlo                  11 /ob      277 /o..           3            5o,           90
Ioreof    obollo    p-oided, fir.t sod -.o,d le-el                13           17               12            17           12
v            _I oolo,olb te a,. % of so.. -ohool .... lsnnt       19           1,               2o.I,         22 /          20
AOholtlit--y.0  mt, %                                             61              /5,           IL 7q         91            09 I,,.d
AOOOog No.of porvon,per room (orbba.)                       ..          1.0 /I           2.5            .           1.0 If
Peoeo  foc~ld 0.1t, .thltbl piped 0.t,1,5                    /o        1 771            61  .         .57
ACC... 1,, elO-brIcIty(m     of 1o1.1 popo1.t10e)                 f.           1  71            I
P.-.ot of Oo-1o pPo.11o.t    CooOOOtd to   lOool . .1-t,i                            u
Rad27  ec       Pe,pr 1000 popul.lloe                            D6            O              276           3L6          So8 Io
Per~ooge_ coeP., 1000 PoPelatio                                    7           25               25           4.2 If       101 
El-t,ir    P.on, oo-eoeptl.n (kWb p.o)                           328         4.77              5B6           762        3,391
N-.Ospi,t -000,pti- P.-. kg P., year                             3.3          2.9              3.1           7.2         19.1
No1t-   Pig-r     ef-r eibher to tb. 1.t0.t priod, or to             Ococot of a    trownental twnportoom, boY V0gta, and
lb  lo1.teet yer.-  Ictest periods refer 10 prioolple 10             di.tributllon by age aod D" of national Ppoplatlons.
th'.beyern1956-60 or 1966-70; lb. lntent yearn io prio..         A   Potei.A standarde (roqolrmneto) for .11 oountri.. me .5tb-
lie 1196.0 sod 1970.                                                 lihbd by USDA Eoo.oonl Reaeeob Servic. provide for m ebbs.
/I  The Per Copie4 GNP estimate 1. at ookot prlona for               alle,n.so  of 60 gras  of total prootein par day, mnd 20 ges. of
o-o   t1cr tbh.  196O0,caa.o.lot.d by lb. a.. osorareo.         .010.2 and pal.. p0.t1, of ebio     10 vmsa .ueold b. .0mm]I
eooo. eM     _ h  9?   lrdRokAln                                 potl.,,.  The.. utmodarde mom   o.hatool oor thm.. th... of 75
9 er1     ,obrof d-oghtero per oens   of ropredoctire            gram. of 101.1 proteAn and 23 g.m. of -o.-m. protein me so
ego.                                                             averag, for tOe eorld, proposd by FAD 10 th.. Third World Food
Z,  'bPo1.i-oo  grooti   t.a o-  for tb. dn,-d.     enoding ino.-
1960 moo 1970.                                                7 Son.~ atdle bhv" e9ggoted th.t rode demth rots, of ob1dren,
A   Rol,o o.f  ndor 15 sod 65 sod over age bracket. 10                age. 1 through 4. -y be o-ad a. m fir.t approlmati-on od.o~ of
th00. 10 1nbor foroo benok.t of age. 19 through 61..              m.notriti-..
PAO refervnon otood-de repre. nnet pk7eilogoica3 om-         /   Percnotage enrolled of o-r.opodiog population of schbool M.o
qoirnonet, for normal motivity sod healtb, ta.king                me defined for eoh oWstry.
I.    971;    A   1972;   Le  1960-71j    Id  Urba  n md m.buoobn mon.. of dmdnstbtrmtive etoar       of moeicip.nlloie. and di.-
t010t.;   I.   ln.oilti.. of 2,500 or mor~ej   Lf   Estimat.e;  a     fLtu..;  A        1.11. (abi) having 30,000 or m.r.
1.hbaitont_a    Il  Rati  of popu.lation uoder 13 and 65 sod ovw to total labor fore.        Z   Bheed on 1.3 porvant "malo
t.bolatioc of canno.a rt.toma, soeledlog Indian Jungle population;      /b  E.onomically aot8in populotloo;    /1   Houaeholdo;
/m 169;  In   1967;   /o  Hospital p.-ronel;     Is1968,       j Dmfinitln un)ene;        Ir  Urban;   Z.* lat.la,     based on
nonopi. rbu]ation oroa.n.o   retorce.   Iia  raelr to dseoflngu;   /t   Ieaid. or outsRe;     ,Im.Tuding aami-pwarmn.nt
dool11oge;    /r  1966-66;   Ic   Registered only;    /x  15-59;   d      60 end over;  /   R h116  of population under 15 mcd
oO and over tT'tota1 labo7fr-fo       /ao    1965-70;  /-b  rO-c  -nrolmet hblob inld.o over.ge etdeeto;           /on  ?ho
eet -noletmtto, in 1971 ,ere 81.%r8% for baai. and soec.dr            eduomtloc rsspfttlv1y;      /ad  15 yeaes sorn.r;
!..Ifodn oray.
Jmp   ..olo   bee   eulenmtd  .e  objective soctry el,. the BrmolliAn DOvertoment ba. obshm     prtioolmr ntrotrat in
J:pso '  d.e1veao.otal .op*rienc*; alao, th. twn g.orverents bave oond.otted J.ot     at.sd].. to idwotlfy po.ibl. ftuore
eooooic problem. of Brasil o. tb. koala of the ampsri.nc. of Japan.
U Augnwt 28, 1974.



ANNEX I
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA                                               Page 2F of 3
(Amouln-ts i-n-mil ions of U-.S.d-ollars,
Actual  Estimated  Projecred~~~~~~~~~'  1965-   1970 -   1973 -    1974 -   197      1974    1979
NATIODZALACCOUNTS197                1972      19 73     1974       1975     1979      1970     1973     1974      1979        ___2_
Amounts in 1968              Prices, & ExchagRte            Average Annual Growth Rates         As Percent of 0DY
Gross Domestic Product            3915     4,0       415/       5362       1,2     /8Iz          11     .          .        .5      nn      9.        n.
Gisfrom Terms of Trade_(,.)       362      608     1,196        199       419      920                                          1.4       0.4      1.2
Gross DomestiC Tncome             3 9,.467  44,fl!5  4 977SM    53X7f     57T, B   757l          7.6   11.8       82       80     10W        OW     1U
Jmport (incl. NFS)                 3,8 73   4,775     3,654      6,734     6,227    9 ,89 7    15.9    21.0      19.1      8.0     10.8     12.5     12.5
Expo-r-ts     (i- mpOrt casacity)  3,0O53   3,920     4 922      3,730     4,619    8,363       10.2   18.1     -24.2     17.5      8.9      6.9     10.5
Resouirce Gap                        820      855       79       33)09r    f71      1370                                            TT       -TC      7
Consumption Excpenditures         31,801   35,321    39,474     42,949    44,834   62,366        8.1   10.4       8.8      7. 7    80.2     79.7     78.6
investment    1  (inel. stocks)    8,488    9,549    11,026     13,926    04,622   18,470       8.9    19.6      26.3      5.8     21.7     25.8     23,3
Domestic Savings                   7,666    8,694    10,294     10,922    13,014   06,936        9.8   18.0       6.1      9.0     19.8     20.3     21.4
National Savings                   7 ,229   8,184     9,766     10,547    12,405   06,092        5.1   18.4       8.0      8.8     08.6      19.6    20.3
MERCHIANDISE TRADE                           Annual. Data at Current Prices                                                         As Percent of Total
Tmports
Capitall goods                   1,241    1,734     2,142      2,941     3,587    7 ,22 7     36.0   26.0      37.3     19.7     40.9     23.9     35.5
Intermediate goods (m1.fuels) 1,140       1,359     2,024      4,624     3,973    6,019       18.8   36.0     128.5      5.5     32.1     3 7. 6   29.6
Fuels and related materials        327      506       817      3,090     3.350    5,038        8.9   50.0     278.2     10.3     11.9      25.1    24.7
of which:   Petroleum            251      344       606      2,600     2,930    4,947        7.5   50.0    329.0      13.7      8.1     21.1     24.3
Consumption goods                  507     -591     1~7        1,569     1 400    1 905       12.3   42.0     46.1       4.0     14.0     12.7      9.4
Totel Merch. Imports (fob)       3T,245   4,235     6,192     12,314   1iItWit   20,356       22.0   35.0      98.9     10.6    100(. 0  100o .0  100.0-
Ex-oorts
Primary products (escl. fuain)   2 ,271   3,086     4,656      5,109     7,211   11,807       10.2   26.0       9.7     18.2     7 7. 3   69.2     60.7
Puels and related materials         19       36        52         63         65     100         .    31.0      25.0      9.0      0.9      0.9      0.5
of w,hich:  petroleum              8       16        16         30        30       40         -    17.0     87.5       5.9      0.4      0.4      0.2
Manufactured goods                 520       824    1,330      2,015      2,600   7,384       23.0   54.0      51.5     29.5     20.6      27.3    38.0
[Tstal Merch. Exnorts (fob)      2,904    3, 991    6-,199     7-,385   10-,0-86  i1 9ZWo5-  114     3.         9.1     21.5    ooST     1=7     l15079
Merchandise Trade Indices                      Average 1968-    -100
Export Price Index                 118      129       1 77       225       2568                5.4   13.5      27.1
Import Price- Index                104      109       134        212       233      ..        3.9    10.3     58.4
Terms of' Trade Index              113      118       132        106       11III       
Exports Volume Index               130      165       186        114       205      .         5.7    15.8     - 6.4
VALVJE ADDED BY SECTOR             Annual Data at 1968-     Prices and. Exchange Eaten           Average Annual Growth Rates         As Percent of Total
Agriculture                      5,093    5,302     5,486      6,201     6,511    8,298        3.0    6.3      13.0     6.0      15.6      14.7    13.5
Industry and Mining             8,987    10,227    11,762    12,879     13,909   19,478      10.3    13.3       9.5     8.5               39.6     3.
Service                        16_73    18_496    20_824    2 Lal2    ZLu..26   3.3.L,A0      7.7   11.9     10.4      7.8              -..'a.6   5   
Total                          30,653    34,025    38,074    42,071     45,016   61,246      -7. 5   1-1.5    170.5     7-.8    100.0    100.0    100.0
PURLIC PENANCE                     Annual Data at 1968 Prices and Exchange Rates                                                       As Percent of GDP
TCentral Government)
Current Receipts                3,830     4,834     5,524     6,000      6,503                .      18.3      8.6      .        11.1     11.2
Current Expenditures            2.795    2Z.96      341       3,682      3 ., 9 .77                  11.9       8.0     ..        6.8      6.9
Budgetary Savings               1,035     1,866     2,114     2,318      2,526                .      38.5      9.6      ..       4.3       4.3
Other Public Sector               .          .        .          .         .                   .      .         .       .
Public Sector Investment        1,147     1,939    2,173      2,330      2,526                ..     32.:0     7.2      .        4'5       4'3
--             ~~~~US $ milli-on
DETAIL ON                               At    1if 68 P and ER
PUBLIC SECTOR                                     %o     oa
INVESTMENT PROGRAM                    19 6 9  73  19 69 473
Rectal Sectors                      2,145        8.6
Agricuilture                          133        0.5
Industry and Mining                 2,948       11.9
Power                               3,963       16.0
Transport and communications        5,092       20.5
Other                              10,545       42.5
Total Expendlttues                 24,826      100.0
SELECTED iNDICATORS                                 196o-     1965-     1970-    1973-       PINANCING
1965       1970     1973     1974
Average TCOGS                                        4.3        2.7      1.8      2.1i           Public S-clot Savings           21,480      86.5
Imrport Elasticity                                  flg.       2.1       1.8     1.8            Eoreige Borrowing                1,853        7.5
Ma.rginal Domestic Savings Rate                       .34       .14       .30      .12          Domestic Borrowing               1,492.       6.0
Marginal National Savings Rate                        .35        .12      .29      .15          Total Financing                  24,826     100.0
IABOR FORCE AND                                 Total Labor Fri 2/                                 Value Added Per Worker (19 68 -     Prices & Exc. Rates)
OUTPUT PE-P WORKRD                In Millions          % of Total          1960 -70          In U.S.Dollars       Percent of Average        19 60 -  70
lj60        1970    1960       19 70     Growth Rate         1960       19 70      1960       19 70      Growth Rate
Agriculture                       12.2       13.1     54.0     44.4          0.7               244      349         77.5      8 3. 7          3.6
Industry                           3.0       5.3      13.3     19.0         5.8              1,376    1,525        336.8    265.7             1.1
Service                            2.4      11.1      32.7     37.6         4.1              1,11l3   1,~339       2.53.3   221,1            0.9
Total                             22.6       29.5    100.0    100.0          3.1               315      417        100.0     100.0            2.9
niot applicable        - nil or negligible        I/  Projected values for the 1976-79 period Are the same as the last Economic Report.        The ne.
not available         --lens than half the            set of projections arc in the process of being prepared for the nest Report.
smallest unit shown      2/  Economically active popsiatien.Dembr1,97



ANNED I
BALANED OP PAYMNTSEXTERNIAL ASSISTANC     ADD DEBT
(asct. in m1iin        f,o  U.1. doll1a.Yo. otx    rc.
-Actul                          Et.iot.od                                    Pro-leoteC                                   rGnbh Rat
1970        1971         1972        1973          1974          1975        1976        1977         1978        197F9                    1974-1979
SUMMARY0 BALANCE OF PAYMIENTS
Enports (l-I. NCS)                           2,993        3,175       4,272      .6,596         7,945         19,935     11,i81      13,789       16,726      20,649                       21.0
ImporYts (c-l. NSF)                          312    ~    4jQ2         5.205        7 . 7       14.344        1430        15 11"7I        8        20750       145,4211.
Beocuron lolonce (0-0)  -  179     -   853      -  933      -  981        -6,399         ifl5        tfl5       -3,895      -4,i981Di3   -34.787-3,78
Internet (cot)                  - ~~~~      ~~~~~~~~234  -302  -359   -514         -560          -1,160      -763        -,3           133        -,5
Direct lncosoo,nno lneoett      -  1~~~~        ~~~70  -  66  -2'02  -   220       - 240         -  275      -313        -  352       -  396      -  446
Cuccet Tr-nefere (nell                          21            4           5           27           -40                       20          29           20          20
Baac  cCurren  Acconc-ta                 562                                                                       -4 37 -l49616092__  -5.260  -5 735   -5,869
Private Direct Icceonmene          ~~~~        ~~~~~132  168  318        940          975          1,200      1,219        1.331       1,464       1,610                        10.5
MOLT Lasn
_illebren    o5 7 1                                       835       1,099        1,376        1,350          1,544      1,899        2,171       2,410        2,743
Reray,cecto                    - ~~~~     ~~~~~~       ~~~~434 -  441  -525 -  670  - 528       - 544       -538        -  536      -  563       -   11
Se~t Dlieburo-tn                               1 37         39 74                    706         -842          1,000      1,361        165         1,847       2,132
clburcoc1,122                                         1,442       3,396        3.151        5,342          3,800      4,294        3,097       5,888        6,344
DaRapenonct                                  495          641      -860         -_15          j1f31         -1.280   ~   J2 173      2,802                    4 S2.3!
Set Diobcr---nc                                627          801       2,536        2,093        3,732          2,520      2,122       2,2935        ,2         2,126
Annul                       E.stle-d
1970       1971         1972     1973          1974
Capital Tran...cci-c  cc.184                                504         626          377          550            350
Cbacgo is Net Bsrvn-. (-..in-r....             518       -560        -2,563       -2,428        1,100
DEBT AND DEBT 10001CE
Offircol Ir-et   4 Grce-,like                                                                                   Dl.bur...d                3,349      3,443       4,017     4,723        5,565
MOLT Laun                                                                                                       Icte-et Do 884,7 Debt       164        1 75        239       290          300
109                                          205          256         455         199           141          RaPsYmsnt. aa MALT Debi     434        441          325      670           508
ITF                                            4            7          110         10            ..          Tonal KILT    DaSn-I..eena  598         6616        764      950           800
1DB                                          40          133          19          250         -.             OherDb     Sernco(nt)       56         76           98     1,9157
Ccvornc,oets                     ~~~~         ~~~~        ~~~     ~    ~~115  199  249  270  ..   Tona  Debt Service (net) 1,163        1,384       1,744    2,242         2 ,3 78
.SupplIer                                    602          324         350          775
Burden on Export Earnig. C,
lands                                         -           -            -            00
public .aBoo n.c...                           67          114          90         100            ..          HU1T    Debt OS.-tee         20.0        19.4        17.9      14.4         10.2
T-1o Public DOLT Loan                        1,033        1,033       1,334        1,684           .           Tona   Bebt OSr-tn            38.8       43.6        40.0      34.0         29.9
TDS+Di--c Ic-ee I,...        44.5        48.8        45.6     37.3          33.0
Antuol Debt Dut.tandino a   Dec. 31,1973
EXTERNAL DEBT                                         Disbursd Only                  Percet                    Av-cg    Term  of MOLT   Debt
lOR                                                         651                       13.8
iFC                                                         47                         1.0                     In.   s    PelBe Yea... 1     5.6         5.7         6,9       7.0          6.4
IDB                                                         293                        6.2                     A- r. a t Pra     OYer   D6 14.9         14.5        15.0      16.7         10.8
Oavetmcvns                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1,885  39.9
Supplier                                                  1,632                       34.6                   BIBSD DetOt     6 DIsbursd    258         34 7        404       651
Bond                                                        142                        3.C                        as    MOLT   Debt DOD      8.5        10.         12.       13.8
Pebile Dinbnace                                              73                        1.5                         as   M BLT  Debc Se-it    4.5         0.6          6.3      6.0
Tocc  MONLT Dolt                                         4,723                       100.0
IDA De:bt Do. 0i DIsbursd        .
Fica.c.e   Crdt%,4                                                                                                sT Publi    Debt 060 i_
Tota  DeAc   actoodi1,3781                                                                                        asT,Public Debt Se-t 
vc ipplich                                         asatbenato1                                           Praisoced veIn-   Ear the 1976-79 period arth.aeasteia              ccel      eot
no  avial                                            i   rngiil                                         The  -  sat of p-oloctio...one in nba pRoca f.       en.peaedEr..           et   eo
cat availble separatey                            -ls      ta    al   b                               21  Public cdpelivat, e-tladig Elnn-e         -rdit ..
hut included iIn-oalal -lest ant                                     hbcn 
Deceber 18, 1974



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 9
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS
(As of November 30, 1974)
Loan                                                        Amount Less
No.    Year          Borrower                    Purpose   Cancellations   Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
Eighteen     Loans fully disbursed                             373.2
h03    1965   Centrais Eletricas de Furnas -
Estreito I                       Power          57.0            0.3
404    1965   Centrais Eletricas de Sao
Paulo - Xavantes                 Power          19.8            1.3
442    1966   Centrais Eletricas de Minas
Gerais - Jaguara                 Power          49.0            0.2
4741/ 1966    Centrais Eletricas de Furnas -
Estreito II                      Power          39.0            1.5
516    1967   Brazil                             Livestock      40.0            1.0
565    1968   Centrais Eletricas de Furnas -
Porto Colombia                   Power          22.3            3.5
566    1968   Centrais Eletricas de Minas
Gerais - Volta Grande            Power          26.6            2.8
656    1970   Banco do Nordeste do Brasil        Industry       25.0             7.3
676    1970   Brazil                             Roads         100.0             5.6
677    1970   Centrais Eletricas de Furnas -
Marimbondo                       Power          80.0           32.4
728    1971   Centrais Eletricas do Sul do
Brasil, S.A.                     Power          70.0           46.1
755    1971   Brazil                             Education       8.4            6.3
756    1971   Brazil                             Ports          45.0           h0.4
757    1971   Superintendencia de Agua e         Water
Esgotos da Capital               Supply         22.0           17.5
758    1971   Companhia Metropolitana de         Pollution
Saneamento de Sao Paulo          Control        12.0           10.3
./ In two tranches.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 9
Loan                                                        Amount Less
No.    Year          Borrower                    Purpose   Cancellations   Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
786    1971   Rede Ferroviaria Federal           Railways       46.0            7.2
787    1971   Mineracoes Brasileiras Reunidas    Industry       50.0            2.4
797    1972   Companhia Siderurgica Nacional     Industry       64.5           33.1
812    1972   Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas
Gerais                           Industry       63.0           28.7
813    1972   Brazil                             Roads          89.0           25.9
828    1972   Companhia Siderurgica Paulista     Industry       64.5           48.5
829    1972   Centrais Eletricas de Minas
Gerais, S.A. - Sao Simao         Power          60.0           48,8
853    1972   Brazil                             Land Settlement 6.7            6.6
854    1972   Brazil                             Roads          51.0           28.5
857    1972   Banco do Brasil, S.A.              Grain Storage  30.0           21 .4
868    1972   Brazil                             Livestock      26.0           11,8
887    1973   Light - Servicos de Eletricidade   Power          20.0           20.0
923    1973   Centrais Eletricas de Furnas -
Itumbiara                        Power         125.0          125.0
924    1973   Brazil                             Agro-Industries 54.0          51 .9
100Q/ 1974   Cia. Hidro Eletrica do Sao
Francisco                        Power          81.0          81.0
10091! 1974   Banco Nacional de Habitacao        Water Supply   36.0          36.0
Total                                          1,856.0 2/      753.3
of which has been repaid to Bank and others:   254.2
Total now outstanding                          1,601.8
Amount sold                         36.0
of which has been repaid          10.3          25.7.
Total now held by Bank                         1,576.1
Total undisbursed                                              753.3
No IDA credits have been made to Brazil.
1/ Not yet effective.
7/ In addition, a loan of $23.5 million for education was signed on December 27, 1974.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 9
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (AS OF   NOVEMBER 30, 1974)
Year                          Obligor                            Type of Business               Amjount in US$ million
Loans    Equity    Total
1957           Siemens to Brasil Cia. de Eletricidade            Electrical Equipment           2.00         -     2.00
1958           Olinkraft, S.A. Celulose e Papel                 Pulp and Paper                  1.20         -     1.20
1958           D.L.R. Plasticos do Brasil, S.A.                 Automotive Parts                0.45         -     O.45
1958           Willys-Overland do Brasil, S.A.
Ind6stria e Comercio                           Motor Vehicles                 2.45         -     2.45
1959           Companhia Mineira de Cimento Portland, S.A.       Cement                         1.20         -     1.20
1959           Champion Celulose, S.A.                          Pulp                            4.00         -     4.00
1966/1968/
1972           Acos Villares, S.A.                              Steel                           8.00      1.93     9.93
1966/1969      Papel e Celulose Catarinense, S.A.                Pulp and Paper                 4.06      3.13     7.19
1967/1972      Ultrafertil, S.A. - Ind6stria e Com6rcio de
Fertilizantes                                  Fertilizers                     8.22      3.03    11.25
1969           Petroquimica Uniao, S.A.                          Petrochemicals                 5.50      2.88     8.38
1970           Poliolefinas, S.A. Industria e Comercio           Petrochemicals                 5.50      2.88     8.38
1971           Oxiteno, S.A. Ind6stria e Com6rcio                Petrochemicals                 4.60      1.44     6.04
1971           Industria de Celulose Borregaard, S.A.            Pulp                           4.90         -     4.90
1972/1975      Companhia de Cimento Nacional de Minas            Cement                        29.13      3.20    32.33
1973/1974      Companhia Siderurgica da Guanabara - COSIGUA      Steel                         67.oo      6.50    73.50
1973           Capital Market Development Fund - FUMGAP          Capital Market Development     5.00         -     5.00
1973          E1mpresa de Desenvolvimento de Recursos            Nickel Mining and
Minerais - CODEMIN, S.A.                          Refining                    26.00      4.40    30.40
1974           Industrias Villares, S.A.                         Elevators and Industrial
Equipment                    6.00         -     6.oo
1974           Fabrica de Tecidos Tatuape, S.A.                  Textiles                      31.00              31.00
1975           Capuava Carbonos Industriais Ltd.                                                6.16     1.08     7.26
Total Gross Commitments                                                        222.39    30.47   2,c.86
Less Cancellations, Terminations, Repayments and Sales                         152.'     14.17   1So.u4
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                                               70.12    26.29    96.42
Total Undisbursed                                                              102.36     8.58   110.94



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 9
1/
C.  PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
(As of November 30, 1974)
There are now 29 effective Bank loans under disbursement:
Loan No.
403/474   Estreito Hydroelectric Project:   US$57 and US$39 million loans
of February 26, 1965 and December 19, 1966; Closing Date:
December 31, 1976. The project is almost completed. Equipment
costs were substantially below estimates, so disbursements pro-
ceeded more slowly than forecast. The original Closing Date
was April 1, 1971.
404       Xavantes Hydroelectric Project:   US$22.5 million loan of
February 27, 1965; Closing Date: June 30, 1975. The project
was completed in early 1971 (after a delay of about 18 months)
except for the installation of equipment for an associated trans-
mission line. In March 1972, US$2.7 million was cancelled from
the remainder of the loan. Ordering and the proposed delivery
of this equipment have been delayed, but the loan is now expected
to be fully disbursed by April 30, 1975. The original Closing
Date was December 31, 1969.
442       Jaguara Hydroelectric Project:   US$49 million loan of March 15,
1966; Closing Date: December 31, 1974. All the generators were
commissioned during 1971 and the project has been completed. Dis-
bursements will extend up to the end of 1974 primarily because
equipment originally defective necessitated a postponement of the
last payments to suppliers. The original Closing Date was April
30, 1971.
516       Livestock Project: US$40 million loan of September 23, 1967;
Closing Date: December 31, 1974. After initial delays due to
marketing and organizational difficulties, the livestock credit
program has been proceeding at a satisfactory rate. Loan funds
have now been completely committed, and the remaining balance of
US$10 million is expected to be disbursed by the revised Closing
Date of December 31, 1974. The original Closing Date was Decem-
ber 31, 1973.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any pro-
blems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weakness in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 9
Loan No.
565       Porto Colombia Hydroelectric Project:  US$22.3 million loan of
October 23, 1968; Closing Date: March 31, 1975. Changes in the
project layout and design have increased substantially the local
cost, which will be covered by ELETROBRAS, without, however,
significantly affecting the economic justification for the pro-
ject. Construction work is on schedule and the last unit was
placed in service in early 1974.
566       Volta Grande Hydroelectric Project:   US$26.6 million loan of
October 23, 1968; Closing Date: January 31, 1975. The project
was delayed six months by spillway foundation difficulties.
This problem and price escalation greater than estimated increased
powerhouse construction cost by 72%, but, as the original cost
was very low, the resulting cost per kW of generating capacity
is still attractive. No financial difficulty is expected for
the company as a result of the overruns. The project is now
90% completed and the first generating unit was tested in March
1974. The first three generating units are expected to be in com-
mercial operation by the end of 1974 and the fourth unit by March
1975.
656       Industry: US$25 million loan of February 16, 1970 to Banco do
Nordeste do Brasil BNB ; Closing Date: June 30, 197E. The
loan has been fully committed. The Terminal Date for submission
of subprojects, originally June 30, 1972 and postponed to June
30, 1973, was postponed a second time to June 30, 1974 to give
BNB an opportunity to submit subprojects in an advanced stage of
preparation. Slow utilization of the Loan was due mainly to
BNB's unusually burdensome security conditions on subloans and
its emphasis on larger-scale projects, for which financing from
other than World Bank funds has been available.
676       Second Highway Construction Project:   US$100 million loan of May
25, 1970; Closing Date: July 31, 1975. Construction works are
underway and the overall quality of construction and supervision
is satisfactory. There have, however, been substantial cost in-
creases on some contracts, so that the total construction cost
of the project is now estimated to be above the appraisal estimate,
excluding contingencies, but still within the appraisal estimate
including contingencies. The execution of some contracts has
been seriously delayed by inclement weather conditions and pro-
ject changes. Disbursements under the loan are behind the ap-
praisal schedule, due to a late start of the project, but have
improved during the last two years. The original Closing Date
was July 31, 1974.
677       Marimbondo Hydroelectric Project:   US$70 million loan of May 25,
1970; Closing Date: May 31, 1977. Construction work is pro-
ceeding on schedule. The cost of increased excavation and con-
crete work resulting from poor rock foundation is expected to be
mostly offset by a reduction in earth fill work. A US$26 million



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 9
Loan No.
overrun, caused by equipment prices higher than estimated and
additional transmission facilities, was covered by a loan from
a commercial bank, but did not significantly affect the econo-
mic justification for the project.
728       Salto Osorio Hydroelectric Project:   US$70 million loan of April
5, 1971; Closing Date: May 31, 1977. The construction of the
Salto Osorio hydroelectric plant is progressing satisfactorily.
A cost overrun of about US$8 million due to increased equipment
cost is foreseen but this does not significantly affect the eco-
nomic justification of the project. The construction of the trans-
mission system, delayed to allow a reexamination of ELETROSUL's
market, is proceeding as originally defined.
755       Education Project:  US$8.4 million loan of June 21, 1971; Closing
Date: December 31, 1975. Progress on the construction and equip-
ment of the project schools is now proceeding satisfactorily. Al-
though the project implementation is behind the original schedule
due to initial delays, disbursements under the loan are expected
to be completed by the Closing Date.
756       Santos Port Project:  US$h5 million loan of June 21, 1971; Closing
Date: June 30, 1979. Because of other investments in the Port
of Santos and an increase in the cost estimate of the Bank-finan-
ced project there, the execution of the Bank-financed project
has been delayed and its scope has been reviewed. The Bank and
the Borrower have now agreed to postpone construction of part of
the container terminal, exclude-from the project the corn storage
silo, simplify the rail access to the left bank of the project,
and reallocate the remaining loan amount to a larger dredger and
more extensive consultants' services and training. The Closing
Date of the loan has been postponed from September 30, 1976 to
June 30, 1979, in accordance with the new schedule for completion
of the project. With the assistance of management consultants,
satisfactory progress has been made in improving port operations
in Santos.
757       Sao Paulo Water Supply Project:  US$22 million loan of June 21,
1971; Closing Date: June 30, 1976. The project suffered initial
delays caused by the State of Sao Paulo not furnishing the re-
quired counterpart funds. The required funds are now included
in the state budget. The Government has consolidated all the
water and sewerage companies in the state into a single company,
SABESP, and a loan assumption agreement with the new company
was concluded December 18, 1974. The original Closing Date was
June 30, 1975.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 9
Loan No.
758       Sao Paulo Pollution Control Project:   US$15 million loan
of June 21, 1971; Closing Date: June 30, 1976. The original
project design included the pumping of untreated sewage into
an area reservoir representing a major source of water and
serving as an important recreational facility for the Sao
Paulo area. Earlier studies had shown that the reservoir
could absorb the organic pollution without damage for some
time. Area residents, however, objected to this solution and
subsequent technical review questioned the initial judgment
that no ecological harm would be caused. As a result, the
original design has been modified to exclude the discharge
of raw sewage and include a treatment facility. Bidding
procedures are in progress for other portions of the proj-
ect. As a result of the modifications in the project,
the loan amount has been reduced to US$12 million. The
Government has consolidated all the water and sewerage com-
panies in the state into a single company, SABESP, and a loan
assumption agreement with the new company was concluded
December 18, 197h. The original Closing Date was June 30,
1975.
786       Railway Project - MBR:   US$46 million loan of August 25, 1971;
Closing Date: September 30, 1975. Implementation of the
project is generally satisfactory but behind schedule. Iron
ore traffic between the Aguas Claras mine and the Sepetiba
terminal has reached only about 60% of the expected target to
date. Derailments on the central line and technical problems
at the MBR loading and unloading sites have curtailed some
traffic flows, but the major cause of the backlog is the
collapse of a bridge, interrupting MBR traffic for a month,
This accident was apparently triggered by an overload of the
freight cars. With improvements under way in track rehabili-
tation, bridge strengthening and siding lengthening, traffic
is expected to reach the monthly target level by the end of
1974.
787       MBR Iron Ore Project:  US$50 million loan of August 25, 1971;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976. The estimated cost of the
project has increased due to major design changes for the port
terminal and several investment additions to the project.
Target completion dates at the mine and terminal were met and
the first ship left Sepetiba Bay on November 26, 1973.
797       CSN Steel Expansion Project:  us$64.5 million loan of February 8,
1972; Closing Date: July 1, 1976. The estimated cost is now
US$560 million, an increase of about 32% from the appraisal
estimate due to design evolution and increases in local construc-
tion costs. The project is now 65% complete and is about three
months behind the appraisal schedule.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 9
Loan No.
812       USIMINAS Steel Expansion Project:   Us$63 million loan of
April 11, 1972; Closing Date: June 1, 1976. The estimated
total project cost is now US$784 million, an increase of
about 37% from the appraisal estimate due primarily to
increases in equipment and local construction costs. The
project is 70% complete and may be about six months behind
the original estimate.
813       Third Highway Construction Project:   US$89 million loan of
April 11, 1972; Closing Date: June 30, 1976. Construction
works are more than three-quarters completed, but are slightly
behind schedule; the estimated total contract cost is slightly
above the appraisal estimate. The feasibility studies and
detailed engineering financed under the loan were started later
than planned, but are now completed at a cost substantially
below the appraisal estimate. Disbursements are lagging
behind the appraisal forecast, but have improved during the
last year and are now expected to be completed by the original
Closing Date of the loan.
828       COSIPA Steel Expansion Project:   US$6h.5 million loan of
June 1h, 1972; Closing Date: January 15, 1977. The estimated
cost is now US$568 million, an increase of about 20% over the
appraisal estimate due primarily to increased local con-
struction costs. This will not significantly affect the
economic justification of the project. The project is now
60% completeand proceeding according to schedule.
829       Sao Simao Hydroelectric Project:   US$60 million loan of June 1,
1972; Closing Date: September 30, 1979. The contract for the
civil works was awarded to an italian-Brazilian consortium in
May 1973, and the project is proceeding according to schedule.
853       Alto Turi Land Settlement Project:   US$6.7 million loan of
July 24, 1972; Closing Date: December 1, 1978. CCLONE has
prepared revised farm development plans whose credit com-
ponent, to be financed by public financial institutions, will
be significantly higher than originally estimated, although
still low in comparison to other settlement projects. Admin-
istrative delays in the release of public funds for farm
credit and COLONE working capital requirements and difficulties
in recruiting project staff have slowed project execution.
Settlement, however, has now begun and the project should be
completed in 1978 as envisaged.
85L       Fourth Highway Construction Project:   US$51 million loan of
August 4, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1976. Construction
works are more than half completed but behind schedule; the
estimated total contract cost is slightly above the appraisal
estimate.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 9
Loan No.
857       Grain Storage Project:  US$30 million loan of September 27,
1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1979. After some initial
difficulties with the appraisal of subprojects, the project
is now well underway. As of September 30, 1974, 367 sub-
projects (totalling US$23 million) were approved and another
12 (totalling US$24 million) were in the pipeline. The Bank
and the Borrower have agreed on a revised indexing system to
ensure with greater certainty that sub-borrowers are charged
a positive real interest rate.
868       Interim Second Livestock Project:   US$26 million loan of
December 19, 1972; Closing Date: June 30, 1977. The project
is proceeding normally. The loan has been fully committed
and is expected to be disbursed as scheduled.
887       Power Distribution Project:  US$20 million loan of April 16,
1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1976. Principally due to dif-
ficulties encountered in preparing bidding documents and delays
in deliveries of equipment and materials, the project is behind
schedule. The borrower intends to accelerate procurement
significantly this year and disbursements are expected to be
completed by the Closing Date.
923       Itumbiara Hydroelectric Project:   US$125 million loan of
August 1, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1982. Bids for
the concrete works were opened on August b, 1974, and bid
evaluation has been completed. A contract award is expected
shortly. The project is proceeding according to schedule.
924       Agro-Industries Credit Project:   US$54 million loan of
August 1, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1976. The loan
became effective on March 11, 1974. The demand for credit is
strong and the participating banks are expected to commit
project funds by October 1975.
There were two Bank loans not yet effective as of November 30, 1974:
1008      Paulo Afonso IV Hydroelectric Power Project:   US$81 million
loan of June 17, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1975. The
deadline for the loan documents to become effective has been
postponed from December 16, 1974, to March 16, 1975, to allow
the Borrower additional time to meet effectiveness conditions of
its loan from the Inter-American Development Bank.
1009      Minas Gerais Water Supply Project:   US$36 million loan of
June 17, 1974: Closing Date:   August 15, 1977. The Loan
Agreement was signed last June. The deadline for effective-
ness has been postponed from September 23, 1974, the original
date, to January 31, 1975, to allow the Borrower additional
time to meet its project staffing requirements.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
Fifth Highway Project
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower   : The Federative Republic of Brazil
Amount     : US$110.0 million
Terms      : Payable in 20 years including 5 years of grace at 8% interest
per annum
Project
Description:  1)  Construction and upgrading of the following five highways
linking major cities or important industrial or agricultural
areas (612 km):
Highway                      State            Length (km)
1. Corinto-Pirapora            Minas Gerais                  141
2. Campo Largo-Curitiba        Parana                         22
3. Feira de Santana-Esplanada  Bahia                         131
4. Bingen -Juiz de Fora        Rio de Janeiro/Minas Gerais   141
5. Jatai-Canal Sao Simao       Goias                         177
2) consulting services to assist DNER to improve its supervision of
construction, including supervision of the works in (1) above;
3) highway maintenance programs in the states of Minas Gerais
and Rio Grande do Sul;
4) strengthening of DNER's highway maintenance capability by
technical assistance and by the provision and installation of
weigh bridges and federal highway; and
5) consulting services for feasibility studies and detailed
engineering for construction and reconstruction of roads.
Foreign
Estimated                                         Local   (US$ million)  Total
Cost          Construction and upgrading of roads 110.0      16.4       126.4
Consulting services for supervision
of civil works                        7.1       1.5          8.6
Maintenance Program in Rio Grande
do Sul                               12.3       1.8        14.1
Maintenance Program for Minas Gerais 33.8       5.1         38.9
Technical Assistance to DNER          4.4       2.2          6.6
Studies and engineering              10.8       2.7        13.5
Sub-totals                          178.4      29.7        208.1
Physical and Price Contingencies     58.9        9.3       68.2
Total Project Cost                                        276.3



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
US$ Million
Financing    : Bank                                   110.0
Federal and State Governments         166
Total
Estimated
Disbursements:          US$ Million by IBRD Fiscal Year
FY75   FY76   FY77   FY78   FY79
Annually   10.0   40.0   43.0   15.0     2.0
Cumulative 10.0   50.0   93.0 108.0    110.0
Procurement
Arrangements : Contracts for highway construction would be let on the basis
of international competitive bidding. For items or groups of
items of maintenance equipment, whose value did not exceed
US$50,000, procurement would be based on competitive bidding
advertised locally and in accordance with DNER's standard
procedure; such purchases would not exceed US$1,000,000 in
aggregate. Domestic bidders would be granted a margin of
preference of 15% of the C.I.F. price or the prevailing
tariff, whichever is lower. The construction of buildings
for the maintenance programs, for weighing stations and
their access roads, and other minor construction items cost-
ing less than $100,000 equivalent, would be based on com-
petitive bidding advertised locally and in accordance with
DNER's standard procedures; such purchases would not exceed
US$2,000,000 in aggregate.
Technical
Assistance    : Consultants would be engaged to provide technical assistance
in the fields of supervision of civil works; improvement
of DNER's maintenance activities; planning, supervision and
control of maintenance operations of the state highway
feasibility and detailed engineering studies. Consultants
will be contracted according to the Guidelines for Use of
Consultants by the World Bank and its Borrowers.
Rate of
Return       : The estimated economic rate of return is about 28%.
Appraisal
Report        : Report No. 604-BR, dated December 20, 1974.



V   E N   E Z U E L     ' " 
'\   ~ ~ ~ ~     t*  ~~~~~ '  ' % ~~  h ,6 o# o
C  0  L 0   M   B I A
1*  0    ~~~BOA VISTA 
1:ucul
MITUO i. 0oe        U        /\O                   *>
r   ICANA,                 l   W
po0oIpo~~~~~~~~ -_  *.eJ-.-e EI O
0~~~~5
k~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RR                CANUM
STROD  ,EQUDNf  JAMIM CONSTANiT // 
... o,."ZIR 00 SUL. ""'
\ , # /BOC; DO AC~~~~~~~~~~~RE,TO VELHO ~> 
*} TAUMATURGO   A D R    __ /
\  /         10  ANX     /       4OANTA  
O RS     -                 UJARA- MIRIM  <  \oA   __ 
* >s      ~~~~~VILHENA
j       O           *           / \~~~






;      ZZ~~~~~OIAPOQUl
_  *-e  J   ~ ~ ~~~/ LOURENd
\ \ J x * _ X R~~~~~~~~~~LCOENE
AM. P
; _  A M A P
g          >s / E~~~~ERR/rORY) T 
MACAPA
IA   /  .  t  *     H       *  TUCURUIO\   |   /    STA INEV-
ITA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~' I ,  A.UhE .,1~  SA   LUIS
o o  ,*/    .                        , .RocaRA...   8  A  RA
O   /~ j.                                  .  )  IMPERATRIZ   O CRA(
.0  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
*1.ACANGA     .                                        G <  .  \  S   _  ARAJAU O J
1JAC RE AC A NGA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AR 
*  .        * g          X              { g  .  i  r$ORTO FRANCO
* ..* .   0,  AAUIPASTOS SONs
-  -             ( -) /l 0         *       \   a ALSA.    . 8ERTOLINIA
ORANGArU *~~~~~~~~", 
\   . ' CACHIMBO     AR U E .2L / oS5o\5
s \ X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oS W ~~~~~~~1  g v  +o ,  2MX, .......  i ol
T   0  R   0   S   S  C)~~~~RttxPA NA Otz 4/
*/        Ye/  lgZ     v~~                  ~~~~~~~~RANGATU  g,At






IBRD   11010 R
NOVEMBER 1974
5NDES
FERNANDO DE NVORONHA--
1.14  c     U~~~ IRAO                 OS  S  IP
* @o      *                                        A
SRACMUME.   0                I            0 S A OESARI
N  ':. BR, 40  -eAEuUMRS ,-e 
PRES D    9RC APEUS SALE                     a      RA8          S
L                 .4
ARAO CRD   80 6p  E\S _                  . 9 P   NASAp     fg 4g 
I  oTAIJAAASO  A
\ 1 ~~~~~~~*    I,\;* ."omdtg>.,........,NTALEA
4<bt/7~~~~~C                            22        *IUT  *_-;**SJOSE OE MIPIBU
.~~~' ~~~~  ***     B~~~0 r                              u
sRIA 2 30LIND*O   D                                                  A ME; DELO\ 
5 AA . . . E"                     CAMPOS AE  A 'CBDO
"P                  O    - *  ) 5LO t/ S) *@e o-X> fARSO7          PESSOA
f~~~~BROINI     S MENDES o- "  -...p 
BJDALIP  *G *                      .ECIFE
*         -   RMAS7 CORENtN               S ALV wADOR O
/*.  4   0* . * CA ~    cER,AM
e+-    /, ~~~.O S RA               r      t    R C J
e .. A ( .E ........ . / \ 1 tr ;>t~~~~~~~
BR2 4q-%A$                                      ADA_; _   7 ; G o A 
v   /   * - / *. I~~~~~TAB  j9       /
* aJ DAtP ....-.-*3 ^709/LVAD
9t t t - - CORRENTINAV   e-   *  {LVA"






//                         1.
|    MATO GROSSO
BRAZIL
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
NATIONAL     HIGHWAY    NETWORK *
1974
Paved roads(4 lanes)
Paved roads
Roads grade constructed to final engineering standards or unpaved
. .......Roads planned for improvement and/or construction
HIGHWAYS INCLUDED IN PREVIOUS PROJECTS
For construction and /or paving
HIGHWAYS INCLUDED IN THE FIFTH PROJECT
For construction and/or upgrading
------        For detailed engineering
State boundaries
International boundaries
* First, Second,Third,Fourth and Fifth Highway projects,
also include some state roads
BARRA
O           100         200         300
MILES
0      100    200     300    400     500
KILOMETERS                                                                             (9






A   T O 0       G  R O   S  S O    / *  J                                  DALAPA 
4            /    *14 eO   02~~~~~~~~ ~   ~~~~~    ~~~~~~ANGATU  R N IN5...f;;7 e
-9 g~~~~~~~STIVADO  ,          !VA N T I NA f ..........UUC  /, AARNAH
\   \      3R-.25! .- - -   _<J .e;e5   2  j     Ao o~ .. . .  o.o.  .  . .( @ . UAUAM
p      \         a~~~~ ~  ~   ~   ~   ~~~~~~R 070  f   E E f 6 * 5*,   JAI   B@  -
t~~~~~~~ 7                                     -.- .            .... -  ,LIA .......... At. 
, >,9e PO~~~CONE     PNOOPOLIS I2 *.*-.- \ 
IA      POAPOLISA     E  . (te      P    -  e e.  E
j   ,  1   Z   5    FRA4CISCO DO SUL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  '
qs~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I$  4 TALIAI         sf
jt-NTo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MN ANEO          OZTE;CLAROSR: 
}  URUGUARETE   \  TAfFn  _   SC;OR10~~RI  POE 
ll   ARROIO GRANDES* . .25rR'O GRANDE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O D  2
0(  R BA  G  AYCURL ,
) }  CHU2t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ut






/JAA  ..*      .    ,         ARGOIN *.g    @ 
B J DALAP% .*     .        *3        /           SAVDOR
CORRENTINA       e.                .ALVADOR
.,  JEOUIEQ h
SR 00
CARIN ANHA *BRUMAD  BR                 CAMPINHO
*                     B~~~~~~~~~~ITABA
)        *./_VITORIA DA CONOUISTA        T UIPE
*      ..                        . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ILHEuS
tJ   A R IA RIA  .L
\ .st_  - 2.AM CA
SALINAS0       POAAU
MONTES CLAROS    . * -       - -          SEGURO
C.    ,;g  *9, -,e    * |a  \\0 .52\ *. *  PRADO
5a0    t.  t *          .C! vARAVELAS
VALAq4         AO MATEUS
262PATINO     / . .*   COLATs *  IX HARES
*                   aee ;   O[pi O NEIVA
ITORIA
BR 'o"4bo,x\t,,.\,O /IRO /
S                  ~~~~~~~~JOAO DA BARRA
a0             60.           4o.
\GU Y A  NELA~ GUYANA
O5iLOMSIk'    .    < GUIANA
Pasc   N#aOIv^ 
E20U                GAVR20.
Oceon    1A l A             nt/ic
PEARUEN% N-..RUGUAY
Ocean  (          AOceanfi
-40-                                4 1  0' eoz
The boundaries shown1 Onl f/lis map do not
imply endorsement or acceptance by the      C.
World Bank and Its affiliates           80a       60'      40      20



