CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1075 BR
Project Agreement
(Fifth Highway Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
THE STATE OF RIO GRANDE DO SUL
DATED JANUARY 17, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1075 BR
Project Agreement
(Fifth Highway Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
THE STATE OF RIO GRANDE DO SUL
DATED JANUARY 17, 1975


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 17, 1975, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and THE STATE OF RIO GRANDE DO SUL (hereinafter called the State).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the
Federative Republic of Brazil (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Bank, the
Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies
equivalent to one hundred and ten million dollars ($110,000,000), on the terms
and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, a portion of which is to be made
available to the State's Highway Department pursuant to the provisions of the
Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the State agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Bank as hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS the State, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Loan Agreement and in the
General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the term "DER" means the State's Highway Department, which has been
designated by the State to act on its behalf as the agency charged with the execution
of Part D.2 of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement
(hereinafter called the State Project) which is to be executed by the State as in
the Loan -,Agreement and hereinafter provided.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) The State shall carry out the State Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and
engineering practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.


﻿4
(b)   The State Project shall be carried out in accordance with the plan
set forth in Estudo para Conservageao da Rede Rodovidria Federal no Rio Grande
do Sud pelo DAERIRS dated March 1974, as amended with regard to its schedule
for delegating responsibility to the State for the maintenance of federal roads,
or as shall be agreed among the Borrower, the State, and the Bank.
Section 2.02. In order to assist the State in carrying out the State Project,
the State shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank, all in accordance with
the provisions set forth or referred to in Section 3.04 of the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the goods, works
and services (other than consultants' services) for the State Project to be financed
out of the portion of the proceeds of the Loan made available by the Borrower
to the DER, shall be procured in accordance with the provisions set forth or referred
to in Section 2.03 of the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) The State undertakes to insure, or make adequate provision
for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the portion of
the proceeds of the Loan made available to the DER by the Borrower against
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place
of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in
a currency freely usable by the State to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the State shall cause all goods
and services financed out of the portion of the proceeds of the Loan made available
to the DER by the Borrower to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) The State shall cause to be furnished to the Bank, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and
procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b)   The State: (i) shall cause to be maintained records adequate to record
the progress of the State Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the
goods and services financed out of the portion of the proceeds of the Loan made
available to the DER by the Borrower, and to disclose the use thereof in the
State Project; (ii) shall, without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (c)
of this Section, enable the Bank's representatives to visit the State Project and
to examine the goods financed out of such portion of the proceeds and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank all such information
as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the State Project, the expenditure


﻿5
of the proceeds of the Loan so made available to the DER and the goods and
services financed out of such portion of the proceeds, and the operations,
administration and financial condition of the DER.
(c)   The State shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine all plants,
installations, sites, works, buildings, property and equipment of the DER and any
relevant records and documents.
Section 2.06. The State shall cause the DER to duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
State shall not allow the DER to take or concur in any action which would have
the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Agreement
or any provision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) The State shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views
with the Bank with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its
obligations under this Agreement and DER's performance under the Subsidiary
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)   The State shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which
interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress of the State Project, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by the State
of its obligations under this Agreement or DER's performance under the Subsidiary
Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Highway Administration
and Maintenance
Section 3.01. The State shall take appropriate measures to ensure that the
provisions of the Borrower's Decreto-Lei No. i 17 of January 31, 1967, regarding
the limitation of the size and weight of vehicles using the state highway networks
located in the territories of the State are fully enforced.
Section 3.02. The State shall cause to be adequately maintained:
(a)   the highways included in its state highway network; and
(b)   the highways included in the federal highway network located in its
territories, the maintenance of which (A) has been delegated to the State by DNER,
or (B) may be delegated to the State pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.09
of the Loan Agreement;


﻿6
and shall cause all necessary repairs of the highways referred to under (a) and
(b) above to be made promptly, all in accordance with sound engineering practice.
The State shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of the
State thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with, its terms.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Loan
Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such equest. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
0


﻿7
For the State:
Departamento Aut6nomo
de Estradas de Rodagem-DAER
Av. Borges de Medeiros, No. 1555
Porto Alegre, Rio Grande do Sul
Brazil
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of the State may be taken or executed by the General Director of the DER or
such other person or persons as he shall designate in writing.
Section 5.03. The State shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons who
will, on behalf of the State, take any action or execute any documents required
or permitted to be taken or executed by the State pursuant to any of the provisions
of this Agreement.
Section 5.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Colnbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s / Gerald Alter
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
THE STATE OF RIO GRANDE DO SUL
By   /s / Ary dos Santos Pinto
Authorized Representative


