CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1075 BR
Loan Agreement
(Fifth Highway Project)
BETWEEN
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED JANUARY 17, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1075 BR
Loan Agreement
(Fifth Highway Project)
BETWEEN
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED JANUARY 17, 1975


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 17, 1975, between FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC
OF BRAZIL (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by making
the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Project will be carried out partly by the Borrower and partly,
with the Borrower's assistance, by the States of Minas Gerais and Rio Grande do
Sul, and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to such states
certain portions of the proceeds of the Loan, all as hereinafter provided; and
(C)   The Bank is willing to make the Loan available upon the terms and
conditions set forth hereinafter and in two project agreements of even date herewith
between the Bank and respectively the States of Minas Gerais and Rio Grande
do Sul;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank,
dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were fully set
forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements
of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Project Agreement" means either of the two agreements between the
Bank and, respectively, the States of Minas Gerais and Rio Grande do Sil, as the
same may be amended from time to time;


﻿4
(b)   "Subsidiary Agreement" means either of the two agreements to be
entered into pursuant to Section 3.01(c) of this Agreement between the Borrower
and respectively each DER of the States of Minas Gerais and Rio Grande do Sul,
acting on behalf of its respective State, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Agreement;
(c)   "States" means the States of Minas Gerais and Rio Grande do Sul,
and includes any successor or successors thereto;
(d)   "DNER" means Departamento Nacional de Estradas de Rodagem, an
autarquia of the Borrower's Ministry of Transport designated by the Borrower to
act on its behalf as the agency charged with the execution of the Project; and
(e)   "DER" used with respect to either of the States, means the State
Highway Department of such State.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
curren cies equivalent to one hundred and ten million dollars (SI 10,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, contracts for the
purchase of goods or for the carrying out of works or services (other than
consultants' services) for the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, shall be awarded in accordance with the provisions set forth or referred
to in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1979 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths -f one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
0


﻿5
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of eight per cent
(8%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on
March I and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal of the Loan in
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Parts A, B and C of the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound engineering
and financial practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as
*       needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations
under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall cause the States to perform in
accordance with the provisions of their respective Project Agreement all the
obligations therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including
the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable the States to perform such obligations, and shall not take
or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
perforance.
(c)   The Borrower shall make available to each of the DERs such portion
of the Loan as shall be disbursed by the Bank in respect of the Part of the Project
to be carried out by such DER, acting on behalf of its respective State, pursuant
to the provisions of this Agreement and of the respective Project Agreement, all
under a Subsidiary Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and such
DER, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank.
(d)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each Subsidiary Agreement
in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall neither amend nor abrogate or waive either Subsidiary
Agreement or any provision thereof.


﻿6
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation,
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the general design
standards for the highways included in the Project shall be the ones set forth in
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.04. In. carrying out, or causing to be carried out, the Project, the
Borrower shall employ, or cause to be employed, consultants acceptable to, and
upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, in accordance with such
provisions as are set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement or as shall be agreed
between the Borrower and the Bank, or, where applicable, among the Borrower,
the Bank and the States.
Section 3.05. (a) Without restriction or limitation upon the provisions of
paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall
establish a Fund (hereinafter called the Project Revolving Fund) to be used
exclusively to make payments for the cost of the goods and services required to
carry out the Project. The Borrower shall deposit in the Project Revolving Fund
all such amounts as shall be from time to time required to permit the payments
heretofore specified to be made, promptly as needed, out of the Project Revolving
Fund, and the Project Revolving Fund shall be maintained until all such payments
shall have been made. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained
records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound
accounting practices the operations and financial condition of the Project Revolving
Fund.
(b)   Without restriction or limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, the Borrower shall make an initial deposit in the Project Revolving
Fund in the amount of twenty-two million Cruzeiros (Cr22,000,000), and thereafter
shall make such deposits in the Project Revolving Fund as are required so that
on the first day of each calendar month there shall be available in such Fund
amounts sufficient to meet payments for total Project expenditures expected to
be made during such month in accordance with the contractual work schedules


﻿7
and the schedules for equipment purchases, as such schedules may be modified
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, or, where
applicable, among the Borrower, the Bank and the States.
Section 3.06. In carrying out, or causing to be carried out, the Project, the
Borrower shall employ, or cause to be employed, contractors acceptable to the
Bank upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall cause to be furnished to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, contract documents and
work schedules, for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall cause to be maintained records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the
use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's representatives to inspect
the Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall cause to be furnished to the Bank all such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed out
of such proceeds.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such action
as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and rights in
respect of land not yet acquired by the Borrower as shall be required for carrying
out the parts of the Project to be carried out by the Borrower and shall not award
any construction, improvement or paving contract relating thereto before (i) such
acquisition shall have been made, and (ii) evidence satisfactory to the Bank shall
have been furnished to the Bank showing that all such land and rights in respect
of land are available for purposes related to such parts of the Project.
Section 3.09. Unless otherwise agreed among the Borrower, the States and
the Bank, the Borrower shall cause DNER to delegate maintenance of federal roads
to the States of Minas Gerais and Rio Grande do Sul, in accordance with their
respective plans set forth in the documents Estudo para Conservaabo da Rede
Rodovidria Federal em Minas Gerais pelo DER/MG, dated February 1974, and
Estudo para Conservagao da Rede Rodovidria Federal no Rio Grande do Sul pelo
DAERIRS, dated March 1974, as such documents are amended with regard to
their respective schedules for delegating responsbility to the States for the
maintenance of federal roads.


﻿8
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall cause DNER to reinforce the staff of its
highway maintenance directorate by the employment of at least four qualified and
experienced professionals, who shall work with the experts to be provided in Part
C.1 of the Project, during the four years of service of such experts.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making loans to, or with
the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in normal circumstances, special security
from the member concerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of foreign
exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such member. To that end,
if any lien shall be created on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security
for any external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit
of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization or distribution
of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso
facto and at no cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in creating or
permitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provision to that effect;
provided, however, that, if for any constitutional or other legal reason such
provision cannot be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall promptly and at no
cost to the Bank secure the princip4l of, and interest and other charges on, the
Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)   The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any lien created on
property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as security for payment of the
purchase price of such property; (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date; and (iii) any lien on commercial goods to secure debt maturing not more
than one year after the date on which it is originally incurred and to be paid
out of the proceeds of sale of such commercial goods.
(c)   As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means assets of the
Borrower, of any political or administrative subdivision thereof and of any entity
owned or controlled by, or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower
or any such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or exchange stabilization
fund, or similar functions, for the Borrower.


﻿9
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall continue to take appropriate measures to
ensure that the provisions of the Borrower's Decreto-Lei No. 117 of January 3 1,
1967, regarding the limitation of the size and weight of vehicles using the Borrower's
federal highway network are fully enforced.
Section 4.04. (a) The Borrower shall cause the highways included in its federal
highway network to be adequately maintained and all necessary repairs thereof
to be made promptly, all in accordance with sound engineering practice. The
Borrower shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   Without limiting the generality of the foregoing the Borrower shall
*        cause DNER (i) to continue to make available to the States of Minas Gerais and
Rio Grande do Sul the funds required for maintaining the delegated federal highway
network located in their respective territories, and (ii) to delegate the responsibility
of maintaining the federal highway network located in its respective territory to
any such additional State of the Borrower as is capable of assuming such
responsibility, and to make available to such State the funds required for such
purpose.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall continue to maintain facilities to collect
and record systematically such data as are required to assess the technical, economic
and financial aspects of the highway system included in the Borrower's territories.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall execute or cause to be executed, a study
on road user charges, in accordance with terms of reference and a timetable
satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall take, or cause to be taken, all reasonable
action required for the prompt issuance of such import and other permits and
licenses as shall be necessary for the acquisition and importation of goods and
services required for the carrying out of the Project.


﻿10
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified:
Either of the States or either of the States' DERs shall have failed to perform
any covenant, agreement or obligation of such State or of such DER under its
respective Project Agreement or under its respective Subsidiary Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified:
The event specified in Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall
continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by
the Bank to the Borrower and the respective State or the respective DER.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c)
of the General Conditions:
(a)   Arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, have been made to create the
Project Revolving Fund and the initial deposit specified in paragraph (b) of Section
3.05 of this Agreement has been made.
(b)   The Loan Agreement has been duly registered by Banco Central do
Brasil.
(c)   Subject only to the occurrence of the events referred to in paragraph
4 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, all necessary acts, consents and approvals to
be performed or given by the Borrower, the States, its or their political subdivisions
or agencies or by any agency of any political subdivision or otherwise to be
performed or given in order to authorize the carrying out of the Project and to
enable the Borrower to perform all of the covenants, agreements and obligations
of the Borrower in this Agreement contained (including the obligations thereof
relating to procurement of goods and services for the Project) together with all
necessary powers and rights in connection therewith, shall have been performed
or given.


﻿11
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)   that the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by Banco Central
do Brasil; and
(b)   that all acts, consents and approvals referred to in paragraph (c) of
Section 6.01 of this Agreement, together with all necessary powers and rights in
connection therewith, have been duly and validly performed or given and that
no other such acts, consents or approvals are required in order to authorize the
carrying out of the Project and to enable the Borrower to  .form all of the
covenants, agreements and obligations of the Borrower in the Loan Agreement
contained (including the obligations thereof relating to procurement of goods and
services for the Project).
Section 6.03. The date April 17, 1975 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Director General of DNER is designated as representative
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Departamento Nacional de
Estradas de Rodagem
Avenida Presidente Vargas 522
Rio de Janeiro, Brasil
Cable address:
DENERVIA
Rio de Janeiro


﻿12
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
By /s / Mario Henrique Simonsen
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s / Gerald Alter
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿13
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of Total
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                    Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)   Construction and               50,500,000               40%
upgrading of the
highways included
in Part A of the
Project
(2)   Consulting serv-                3,400,000               40%
ices for super-
vision of Part A
of the Project
(3)   Consulting serv-                5,400,000               40%
ices for the studies
in Part B of the
Project
(4)   Assistance to DNER
in Part C of the
Project
(a)  Technical                    300,000                40%
Assistance and
Training
(b)   Weighing                  2,400,000                40%
Stations
(5)   Highway Maintenance
program in the State
of Minas Gerais
Part D.1. of the
Project
(a)   Civil Works               1 ,50&,b000              40%


﻿14
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of Total
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(b)   Machinery,               11,900,000              40%
equipment, mobile
weigh bridges
and weighing
stations
(c)  Technical                  2,200,000              40%
Assistance
and Training
(6)   Highway Maintenance
program in the state
of Rio Grande do Sul,
Part D.2. of the
Project
(a)  Civil Works                 600,000               40%
(b)  Machinery,                3,600,000               40%
equipment, mobile
weigh bridges and
weighing stations
(c)  Technical                  1,400,000              40%
Assistance
and Training
(7)  Unallocated                    26,800,000
TOTAL        110,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "total expenditures" means the
aggregate of the Borrower's expenditures for goods produced in, or services supplied
from, the territories, and in the currency, of any country other than the Borrower,
and expenditures in the currency of the Borrower, or for goods produced in, or
services supplied from, the territories of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan shall be disbursed on account


﻿15
of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods
or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if any such taxes shall be included in the cost of any item to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
correspondingly adjust the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals under
Part D of the Project shall be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures for the Project in either of the States until (i) the
execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of such State have
been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary action thereof; and (ii) the
Borrower and the DER of such State have entered into the Subsidiary Agreement
required under paragraph (c) of Section 3.01 of this Agreement and the execution
and delivery of such Subsidiary Agreement on behalf of the Borrower and such
DER shall have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary action of the
Borrower and such DER;
(b)   expenditures for the Project in either of the States until such State
and its consultants have duly executed and delivered a contract providing for
consulting services as required by the provisions of Section 3.04 of this Agreement
and Section 2.02 of the respective Project Agreement, and, to the extent that
any such contract is executed with a non-Brazilian firm, until it has been duly
registered by Banco Central do Brasil;
(c)   expenditures for the Project in either of the States until the contracts
between the Borrower and its consultants for Part C. I of the Project have been
signed as required by the provisions of Section 3.04 of this Agreement; and, to
the extent any such contract is executed with non-Brazilian persons or firm, until
it has been duly registered by Banco Central do Brasil.
5.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or the disbursement
percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the Bank has reasonably
estimated that the amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category to the
extent required to meet the estimated shortfall proceeds of the Loan which are
then allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are
not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully
meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿16
6.    If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the procurement of any
item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to
in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting
any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as in the Bank's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.
0


﻿17
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of:
Part A:    Highway Construction and Upgrading
1.   Highway BR-496 (State of Minas Gerias). Construction of the
141.1 km section between Corinto and Pirapora, in accordance
with Class 1 design standards.
2.   Highway BR-277 (State of Parand). Construction and upgrading
of the 22.4 km section between Curitiba and Campo Largo in
accordance with Class 0 design standards (two separated
carriageways).
3.   Highway BR-101 (State of Bahia). Construction of the 130.9 km
section between Feira de Santana and Esplanada in accordance
with Class I design standards.
4.   Highway BR-040 (States of Rio de Janeiro and Minas Gerais).
Construction and upgrading of the 103.2 km section between
Bingen (near Petr6polis) and Matias Barbosa (near Juiz de Fora)
in accordance with Class 0 design standards (two separated
carriageways), and construction of the 38 km Juiz de Fora
bypass (between Matias Barbosa and Barreira do Triunfo) in
accordance with Class I design standards.
5.   HighwaY BR-364 (State of Goids). Construction of the 177.1 km
section between Jataf and Canal do Sao Simao, in accordance
with Class 1 design standards.
Such highway construction and upgrading shall be divided into lots
as specified in the Annex to this Schedule.
Part B:    Detailed Engineering Studies and Feasibility Studies
1.   Detailed engineering studies for the construction of the following
highways, totalling 832 km:


﻿18
Road            Length
Road Section                     No.               Km          State
Porto Franco-Grajau             BR-226           156      Maranhao
Petrolandia-Ribeira do
Pombal                    BR-1 10          224       Pernambuco/Bahfa
Campo Largo-Ponta Grossa        BR-277/316       102      Parand
Toledo-Guafra                   BR-163/467       101      Parand
Jandaia do Sul-Fenix            BR-369            61      Parand
Cel.Vivida-Jct. BR-282          BR-1 58          143      Parand/Sta. Catarina
Encr.do Sul-Jct. BR-290         BR-471            45      Rio Grande do Sul
2.    Detailed engineering studies for the rehabilitation of about
1,600 km   of highways, selected on the basis of studies made
by DNER so as to determine priorities.
3.    Feasibility studies for about 1,200 km of highways as follows:
Road            Length
Road Section                     No.               Km          State
Santos-Guaruva                  BR-101          416       Sao Paulo/Parand
Border Sao Paulo/Ponta
Grossa-Campo Grande       BR-262           352       Mato Grosso
Goidnia/Cristalina-Patos        BR-352/354       464      Goids/Minas Gerais
de Minas
Part C: Improvement of DNER 's Services
Improvement of DNER's highway maintenance capability by:
1.    Technical assistance by   one maintenance expert and       one
cost accounting expert for at least four years each; and
2.    Procurement and installation of 95 weigh bridges on federal
highways (the locations of such weigh bridges to be satisfactory
to the Bank).
Part D:     State Highway Maintenance Improvement Programs
1.    The carrying out, by the DER of the State of Minas Gerais,
of a program designed to improve its highway maintenance
capability, such program to include inter alia (a) the restructuring
of the DER's maintenance division, (b) procurement of
maintenance, workshop and office equipment, (c) procurement


﻿19
of twenty-six weigh bridges, of which eleven will be installed
as components of eleven permanent weighing stations, and (d)
the carrying out of a training program for such DER's staff,
all as set forth in "Estudo para ConservaVdo da Rede Rodoviaria
Federal em Minas Gerais pelo DER/MG" dated February 1974,
as amended with regard to its schedule for delegating
responsibility to the State for the maintenance of federal roads,
or as shall be agreed among the Borrower, the State of Minas
Gerais and the Bank.
2.    The carrying out, by the DER of the State of Rio Grande do
Sul, of a program designed to improve its highway maintenance
capability, such program to include inter alia (a) the restructuring
of the DER's maintenance division, (b) procurement of
maintenance, workshop and office equipment, (c) procurement
of eleven weigh bridges, of which three will be installed as
components of three permanent weighing stations, and (d) the
carrying out of a training program for such DER's staff, all as
set forth in "Estudo para ConservaCao da Rede Rodoviaria
Federal no Rio Grande do Sul pelo DAERIRS" dated March
1974, as amended with regard to its schedule for delegating
responsibility to the State for the maintenance of federal roads,
or as shall be agreed among the Borrower, the State of Rio
Grande do Sul and the Bank.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1979.


﻿20
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
Lot No.              Section                         Length, km      Type of Works
Highway BR-496, Corinto-Pirapora
01       Km 0-km 45,2                                    45.2    Highway construction
02       Km 45,2-km 92,9                                 47.7       t         t
03       Km 92,9-km 141,1                                48.2       t         t
04       Km 0-km 65,0   '                                 0.3    Bridge construction
05       Km 65,0-km 141,1                                 0.2                 t t
Highway BR-277, Curitiba-Campo Largo
250.1     Curitiba-Campo Largo                            22.4    Highway construction
250.2     Curitiba-Campo Largo                             0. i   Bridge construction
Highway BR-101, Feira de Santana-Esplanada
302.1     Jct. BR-324-Inhambupe Cipo                      68.7    Highway construction
302.2     Inhambupe Cipo-Esplanada                        62.2                 t
302.3     Jct. BR-324-Esplanada                            0.8    Bridge construction
Highway BR-040, Bingen-Barreira do Triunfo
306.3     Bingen (km 41,6)-Bonsucesso (km 59,0)           17.4    Highway construction
306.4     Bonsucesso (km 59,0)-Areal (km 85,0)            26.0       t         t
306.5     Areal (km 85,0)-Moura Brasil (km 104,0)         19.0       t         t
306.6     Moura Brasil (km 104,0)-km 125,2                21.2                 t
306.7     Km 125,2-Matias Barbosa (km 144,8)              19.6       t         t
306.8     Matias Barbosa (km 144,8)-km 162,8              18.0       t          t
306.9     Km 162,8-B. do Triunfo (km 182,8)               20.0                 t
Highway BR-364, Jatai-Canal Sao Sina
307.1     Jataf (km 0)-km 39,9                            39.9    Highway construction
307.2     Km 39,9-Rio Doce (km 85,0)                      45.1       t         t
307.3     Rio Doce-km 129,9                               44.9       t         t
307.4     Km 129,9-km 177,1                               47.2                  t t


﻿21
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                                 (expressed in dollars)*
March 1, 1980                                           1,960,000
September 1, 1980                                       2,040,000
March 1, 1981                                           2,120,000
September 1, 1981                                       2,205,000
March 1, 1982                                           2,295,000
September 1, 1982                                       2,385,000
March 1, 1983                                           2,480,000
September 1, 1983                                       2,580,000
March 1, 1984                                           2,685,000
September 1, 1984                                       2,790,000
March 1, 1985                                           2,905,000
September 1, 1985                                       3,020,000
March 1, 1986                                           3,140,000
September 1, 1986                                       3,265,000
March 1, 1987                                           3,395,000
September 1, 1987                                       3,530,000
March 1, 1988                                           3,675,000
September 1, 1988                                       3,820,000
March 1, 1989                                           3,975,000
September 1, 1989                                       4,130,000
March 1, 1990                                           4,290,000
September 1, 1990                                       4,470,000
March 1, 1991                                           4,650,000
September 1, 1991                                       4,835,000
March 1, 1992                                           5,025,000
September 1, 1992                                       5,230,000
March 1, 1993                                           5,440,000
September 1, 1993                                       5,655,000
March 1, 1994                                           5,880,000
September 1, 1994                                       6,130,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a currency other
than dollars (see General Conditions, Section 4.02), the figures in this column
represent dollar equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.
I


﻿22
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums payable on
repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the principal amount of the
Loan pursuant to Section 3.05(b) of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                                 Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                 1-1/4%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                           2%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                3-3/4%
More than eleven years but not
more than sixteen years
before maturity                                5-3/4%
More than sixteen years but not
more than eighteen years
before maturity                                    7%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                                    8%


﻿23
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.    Except as provided in paragraphs A.5 and A.6 hereof, contracts shall be
let under procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in April 1972, as revised in October 1972 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding.
2.    With respect to any contract for highway construction, improvement or
paving:
(a)   Bidders shall be prequalified as described in part 2.2 of the Guidelines,
and a period of not less than 45 days shall be given to contractors for presentation
of prequalification documents.
(b)   For bidding purposes, each highway included in the Project shall be
divided into lots as specified in the Annex to Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and
qualified contractors shall be permitted to bid for one or more such lots. Contracts
shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder, such evaluation to take into
account the capacity of such bidder as determined in the prequalification stage.
(c)   Non-Brazilian contractors shall not be required to register in Brazil
as a prerequisite for submitting bids. In the event that registration shall be necessary
after a non-Brazilian contractor has been awarded a contract, the Borrower shall
facilitate the registration.
(d)   Prequalified contractors shall be given a period of not less than 45
days for submission of bids. Bids shall be accompanied by a bid bond or guarantee
of not less than 2% of the bid amount or such other percentage as shall be agreed
betwe;-.n the Borrower and the Bank.
(e)   Contracts shall be on a unit price basis and shall include:
(i)         A price escalation clause, including appropriate formulae
for different work items with the provision that the
corresponding indices will be published periodically by the
Getulio Vargas Foundation.


﻿24
(ii)        An obligation to provide any one of the following
guarantees: (A) a performance guarantee, a bank guarantee
or a deposit in Brazilian Treasury bonds with monetary
correction, any such guarantee to be for an amount
equivalent to 10% of the contract value, or (B) a
performance bond in the amount of 100% of the contract
value. Any such guarantee instrument shall remain in
effect at least until thirty days after the final reception
of the works, which will take place one year after the
provisional reception of the works.
(iii)       A provision of retention money or an equivalent deposit
in Brazilian Treasury bonds with monetary correction, in
the amount of 5% of the contractor's monthly statements.
After the provisional reception of the works covered by
the contractor's contract, or of any portion thereof, such
retention money or such deposit in Brazilian Treasury
bonds shall be returned to the contractor.
(iv)        A provision that non-Brazilian contractors will be entitled
to convert into foreign exchange a reasonable portion of
contract payments.
3.    With respect to the purchase of maintenance and workshop equipment, and
weigh bridges:
(a)   For bidding purposes, the Borrower and the States shall prepare lists
of equipment to be purchased under the Project for each year of the Project,
separately by the Borrower and each of the two States, such lists to be agreed
with the Bank prior to the first purchase.
(b)   The bidding, except for items defined in paragraph 5 hereof, shall be
advertised internationally, as described in paragraph 2.1 of the Guidelines, and the
interval between invitation to bid and opening of bids shall not be less than 45
days. Bids shall be accompanied by a bid bond or guarantee of at least 2% of
the bid amount, or such other percentage as shall be agreed among the Borrower,
the States and the Bank.
(c)   The bid documents shall include provisions requiring that the guarantee
of performance of the contract will be either in the form of: (A) a performance
guarantee, a bank guarantee or a deposit in Brazilian Treasury bonds with monetary
correction, any such guarantee to be for an amount equivalent to 10% of the


﻿25
contract value; or (B) a performance bond in the amount of 100% of the contract
value. Any such guarantee shall be released after the satisfactory expiry of the
period of guarantee specified in the contract.
4.    The Borrower shall use its best efforts to cause any contract with
non-Brazilian firms for civil works or for the supply of goods to be registered
with Banco Central do Brasil no later than 60 days after execution of such contracts
by the parties thereto.
5.    Groups of the same or similar items of maintenance equipment the value
of which is less than the equivalent of $50,000 may, at the Borrower's option,
be procured in accordance with the Borrower's regular procurement procedures.
All such purchases shall not exceed *n the aggregate the equivalent of $1,000,000.
6.    Minor civil works under Parts C.2 and D of the Project, such as construction
of buildings, weighing stations and their access roads, costing less than the equivalent
of $100,000 each contract may, at the Borrower's option, be contracted in
accordance with the Borrower's regular procurement procedures. All such contracts
shall not exceed in the aggregate the equivalent of $2,000,000.
B.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference fbr Domestic
Manufacturers
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry)
price for -mporte6 goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods (including
merchant fleet renewal and port improvement taxes), and sales and similar taxes
on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower
of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.    Goods manufactured in Brazil may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly
indicate any preference which will be granted, the information required to establish
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following two groups:


﻿26
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Brazil if the
bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower
and the Bank that such goods contain components manufactured
in Brazil equal to at least 50% of the value of the complete
goods.
(2)   Group B: bids offering any other goods.
(c)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes (including
merchant fleet renewal and port improvement taxes) on goods to be imported
and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine
the lowest evaluated bid of each group. The lowest evaluated bids of each group
shall then be compared with each other and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
(d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group 3, all group B bids shall be further compared with the
lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding (I) to the c.i.f. bid price of goods
to be imported in each group B bid an amount equal to the smaller of (i) the
amount of customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of goods offered in such group B bid,
or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods, and (II) to the ex-factory bid
price of goods supplied domestically offered in each group B bid an amount equal
to the smaller of (i) the amount of customs duties and other import taxes which
would be levied on the goods offered in such group B bid if they originated from
the same foreign country as the bid included in group B which enjoys the lowest
customs duties and other import taxes, or (ii) 15% of the ex-factory bid price
of such goods. If, as a result of this comparison, the bid from group A is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award; if not, the lowest evaluated bid from
group B, as determined under paragraph (c) above, shall be selected for the award.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review  of prequalification for civil works. The Borrower shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the procedure to be followed
and shall introduce such modifications in said procedure as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of
their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for
prequalification shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Bank for its comments
before the applicants are notified, and the Borrower shall make such additions
to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list as the Bank shall reasonably
request.


﻿27
2.    Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
With respect to all contracts excepting those described in paragraphs A.5
and A.6 of this Schedule:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, for
its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other
bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures to
be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's concurrence before
it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   Promptly after the bids have been received, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the names of the bidders and the respective amounts of the bids.
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is mde, inform the Bank of the name of the bidder
to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the intende.9 ward
and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed ieport,
by the consultants referred to in Schedule 6 to this Agreement, on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, together with the recommendation for award
of the said consultants and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the intended award would be
inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for such determination.
(d)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the Bank's
concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked or
prequalification invited.
(e)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the Bank
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract.
3.    With respecL to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish
.o the Bank, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect
of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis
of bids, recommendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall


﻿28
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the contract
was not consistent with this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for such determination.


﻿29
SCHEDULE 5
Highway Design Standards
Class of Highway
0         I         II        III
Design Speed       flat              120       100        80       60
km/h               rolling           100        80       60.       40
mountainous       80        60        40        30
Minimum            flat              570       380       230       130
Horizontal         rolling           380       230       130       50
Radius, m           mountainous      230       130       50        30
Maximum             flat               3         3        3         4
Grade, %            rolling            4       4.5        5         6
mountainous        5         6         7         8
Sight Distance     flat              210       150       110       75
for Stopping, m     rolling          150       110       75        50
mountainous      110        75        50         -
Sight Distance     flat              730       650      500       350
for Passing, m      rolling          650       500      350       175
mountainous      500       350       175         -
Pavement            flat            7.50      7.20      7.00      7.00
Width, m            rolling         7.50      7.20       to        to
mountainous     7.50      7.20      6.50      6.00
Shoulder            flat            3.50      3.00      2.50      2.00
Width, m            rolling         3.00       to        to        to
mountainous     2.50      2.50      2.00      1.20
very
mountainous      1.00     1.00      1.00      0.80
Right-of-way, m     flat               -       60        30        30
rolling            -        70        40       40
mountainous        -        80        50        50


﻿30
SCHEDULE 6
Employment of Consultants
1.    DNER shall employ consultants for the following:
(a)   To sapervise the carrying out of Part A of the Project. Consultants
responsible for the detailed engineering studies of the highways
included in such Part of the Project are to be employed, except as
the Bank shall otherwise agree, as supervisors of the construction of
such highways. Such consultants shall be given the necessary authority
for the performance of their functions as supervisors and for the
acceptance of full responsibility by such consulting firms for the
satisfactory execution of the Project or any Part thereof;
(b)   For the time required to carry out Part A of the Project, a team of
four engineers to assist DNER in controlling and coordinating the
execution of Part A of the Project;
(c)   To carry out Part B of the Project; and
(d)   For a period of four years each, a highway maintenance engineer and
a cost accounting and budgeting expert to assist DNER in carrying
out -irt C.l of the Project.
2.    Each of the States shall employ consultants to assist it in carrying out its
respective Part of the Project, such consultants to work in the premises of, and
jointly with professional staff of the respective DER. For this purpose, DNER
shall, in consultation with the DER of the respective State, select one consulting
firm with recognized international experience in the highway maintenance field.
Such consulting firm shall establish a joint venture in each State with a Brazilian
consulting firm selected from a list of firms prequalified for this purpose by each
State, such prequalification to be made in consultation with DNER and the Bank.
3.    With respect to any consultant's contract:
(a)   the invitation documents shall be submitted to the Bank for review;
(b)   the selection of the consultants and the draft consultants' contract
shall be submitted to the Bank for approval;
(c)   two conformed copies thereof shall be sent to the Bank promptly after
its execution and prior to sending to the Bank the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract; and


﻿31
(d)   to the extent any of the consultants referred to in this Schedule 6
are non-Brazilian firms or non-Brazilian natural persons, the Borrower shall use
its best efforts to cause the contracts with such consultants to be registered by
Banco Central do Brasil no later than 60 days after execution thereof.


