                                       Document of
                                      The World Bank




                                                             Report No: ICR1644



              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                 (IDA-36640 IDA-36641 IDA-H2640 TF-21819 TF-51228)



                                            ON

                                 CREDITS AND GRANTS

                        IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 16.9 MILLION
                            (US$ 25 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                          TO THE

                               REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN

                                          FOR THE

                         DUSHANBE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT


                                    December 29, 2011




Urban, Water Supply and Sanitation Unit
Central Asia Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   (Exchange Rate Effective November 1, 2011)

                          Currency Unit = Tajik Somoni
                                1.00 = US$ 0.21
                                US$ 1.00 = 4.76

                                FISCAL YEAR
                            January 1 – December 31

                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CBA       Cost-Benefit Analysis
DVK       State Unitary Enterprise Dushanbe Vodokanal (Dushanbe Water Utility)
DWSP      Dushanbe Water Supply Project
EMMP      Environmental Management and Monitoring Plan
ERR       Economic Rate of Return
GOT       Government of the Republic of Tajikistan
IDB       Islamic Development Bank
JSDF      Japan Social Development Fund
NAP WTP   Napornaya Water Treatment Plant
NPV       Net Present Value
PAD       Project Appraisal Document
PCU       Project Coordination Unit
PDO       Project Development Objective
PPP       Public Private Partnership
PO        Private Operator
PRA       Participatory Rapid Appraisal of Water Users
PRSP      Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PSA       Performance Service Appendix of the Service Contract
PSR       Project Status Report
RRF       Repair and Rehabilitation Fund
SAM WTP   Samotechnaya Water Treatment Plant
SC        Service Contract
TOR       Terms of Reference
WB        The World Bank
WSS       Water Supply and Sanitation

                         Vice President: Philippe H. Le Houerou
                       Country Director: Motoo Konishi
                      Country Manager: Marsha Olive
                        Sector Director: Laszlo Lovei
                 Acting Sector Manager: Stephen Karam
                   Project Team Leader: Pier Mantovani
                      ICR Team Leader: Pier Mantovani
                      ICR Main Author: Diego Juan Rodriguez
                                        REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
                                   Dushanbe Water Supply Project (P057883)

                 IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT


                                                          CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ........................................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ........................................................... 4
  3. Assessment of Outcomes ...................................................................................................... 12
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ..................................................................... 16
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance.................................................................. 16
  6. Lessons Learned.................................................................................................................... 19
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ....................... 20
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing ...................................................................................... 21
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component .............................................................................................. 22
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ............................................................................. 24
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ......................... 29
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ....................................................................................... 31
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ............................................................... 35
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ................................. 37
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ................................... 57
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents................................................................................... 58
  Map
A. Basic Information
                                                                         Dushanbe Water
Country:                Tajikistan              Project Name:
                                                                         Supply Project
                                                                         IDA-36640,IDA-
Project ID:             P057883                 L/C/TF Number(s):        36641,IDA-H2640,TF-
                                                                         21819,TF-51228
ICR Date:               12/30/2011              ICR Type:                Core ICR
                                                                         GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIM                     Borrower:
                                                                         TAJIKISTAN
Original Total
                        XDR 13.5M               Disbursed Amount:        XDR 16.8M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 16.9M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 State Unitary Enterprise Dushanbe Vodokanal (DVK)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: Swiss Government (project preparation grant),
Japanese Social Development Fund.

B. Key Dates
                                                                              Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process             Original Date
                                                                                  Date(s)
Concept Review:        09/16/1999    Effectiveness:            10/31/2002       10/31/2002
Appraisal:             10/16/2000    Restructuring(s):                          06/28/2010
Approval:              06/18/2002    Mid-term Review:          05/02/2005       09/19/2005
                                     Closing:                  06/30/2007       06/30/2011

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Substantial
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Unsatisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower                       Ratings
                        Moderately                                      Moderately
Quality at Entry:                          Government:
                        Unsatisfactory                                  Unsatisfactory
                        Moderately         Implementing                 Moderately
Quality of Supervision:
                        Unsatisfactory     Agency/Agencies:             Unsatisfactory
Overall Bank            Moderately         Overall Borrower             Moderately
Performance:            Unsatisfactory     Performance:                 Unsatisfactory
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                             Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                               None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                               None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Water supply                                                          100               100

Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Other urban development                                                100              100

E. Bank Staff
       Positions                          At ICR                              At Approval
Vice President:            Philippe H. Le Houerou               Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:          Motoo Konishi                        Dennis de Tray
Sector Manager:            Stephen Karam                        Motoo Konishi
Project Team Leader:       Pier Francesco Mantovani             Ede Jorge Ijjasz-Vasquez
ICR Team Leader:           Pier Francesco Mantovani             NA
ICR Primary Author:        Diego Rodriguez                      NA


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The Project Development Objective (PDO) was to improve the safety, reliability, efficiency, and
financial viability of the water supply services in Dushanbe.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The PDO was not revised.
(a) PDO Indicator(s)

PDO indicators and target values were designed for the original 5-year project and remained
unchanged for the Additional Financing period. Several indicators were identical to the
performance indicators of the Service Contract (SC) under which DVK‟s operations were
entrusted to a Private Operator (PO), as specified in the Performance Service Annex (PSA) of the
SC. Shortcomings in SC execution impaired monitoring programs for some indicators.

                                                 Original Target                          Actual Value
                                                                        Formally
                                                   Values (from                            Achieved at
   Indicator             Baseline Value                              Revised Target
                                                     approval                            Completion or
                                                                         Values
                                                   documents)                             Target Years
                   Safety: % of samples achieving standard chlorine residual per the Performance Service
Indicator 1 :
                   Appendix (PSA) targets up to 95%
      Value
                   70% as per Base Year Data
 quantitative or                                       95%                 NA               99.93%
                            Report
   qualitative
Date achieved                                                                            06/30/2011
                  Monitoring of this indicator only started in the 3 rd year of the SC (2005) following
Comments
                  DVK‟s failure to provide the sampling program to be implemented by the Private
(incl. %
                  Operator. In 2005, the value of the indicator as measured by a PO developed sampling
achievement)
                  program was already 98.9%.
Indicator 2 :     Reliability: Constancy of supply, as per PSA annual targets, up to 60%
                                                    60% reduction in
       Value
                                                   interruptions to be
  quantitative or     No baseline reported.                                    NA            Not measured
                                                       achieved by
    qualitative
                                                        6/30/2005
Date achieved
                   The program to control and monitor water pressures across DVK‟s network was not
Comments          implemented, and no baseline or data could be measured on continuous supply vs. water
(incl. %          supply schedule. Testimonial evidence, and gains recorded on indicator 3, suggest that
achievement)      reliability of service has substantially improved. However, customer surveys in May
                  2011 do not capture such gains, as 43% of users report less than 12 hours/day of service.
Indicator 3 :     Reliability: Compliance with pumping schedule, as per PSA targets, up to 95%
Value
quantitative or                91.2%             95%                    NA               94.7%
qualitative
Date achieved                                                                            06/30/2011
                  This indicator measures improved availability and pressure of service for the population
Comments          (estimated at 27,000) living at or above the 5 th floor of apartment buildings, and served
(incl. %          by one of 109 booster stations. Despite the improvement, the result suffers from
achievement)      uncertainty due to the continued lack of accurate information on the number of
                  inhabitants served in any DVK service area, and the lack of pressure zones in the system.
                  Efficiency: Energy use reduction as per PSA annual targets (% reduction of electricity
Indicator 4:
                  consumption (kilowatt hours per 1 million m3 of water production) from base year)
Value
quantitative or                   0                   - 25%             NA               + 37.63%
qualitative
Date Achieved                                                                            06/30/2011
                  Substantial uncertainty affects this indicator, due to continued lack of metering of
Comments
                  produced volumes. Despite improvements in energy efficiency measured between 2008
(incl. %
                  and 2009 (-7%) with the installation of new pumps, the energy efficiency objective was
achievement)
                  not achieved over the duration of the project.
                  Efficiency: Reduction in water losses ( m3/day reduction of physical losses measured
Indicator 5:
                  from baselines of individual zones)
                  Baseline numbers to be
Value
                  verified through Private Reduce water losses
quantitative or                                                        NA                21,100m3/day
                  Operator's audited Base by 25,000m3/day
qualitative
                  Year data report.
Date achieved                                                                           06/30/2011
                   The activities on leak detection and reduction were not conducted by the Private
                  Operator. As such, this indicator, as reported, has been estimated by the M&E consultant
Comments
                  and it is based on repair work conducted by DVK on leak reduction in every year starting
(incl. %
                  in 2003. Given the rudimentary estimation, this result is not reliable. Actual water losses
achievement)
                  can be calculated with greater accuracy once macro and micro metering is installed and
                  the network is zoned.
                  Financial viability: Annual ratio of collected revenues/Sum of operational costs,
Indicator 6:
                  adequate maintenance, and project related expenses.
                                                 75% revenue
Value             40% revenue collection as a
                                                 collection as
quantitative or   percentage of operating                              NA                67.7%
                                                 percentage of
qualitative       costs
                                                 operating costs
Date achieved                                                                           2010
Comments           Even though collection rates increased during Project implementation of the Program,
(incl. %          these resources do not cover production costs nor operation and maintenance and DVK is
achievement)      incurring losses every year.


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                             Actual
          Date ISR
 No.                                 DO                              IP                  Disbursements
          Archived
                                                                                         (USD millions)
  1       08/19/2002            Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                              0.00
  2       05/13/2003            Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                              0.26
  3       08/07/2003            Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                              0.56
  4       11/19/2003            Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                              0.72
  5       06/29/2004            Satisfactory                 Unsatisfactory                             1.54
  6       12/02/2004            Satisfactory                 Unsatisfactory                             2.77
  7       12/23/2004            Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                              3.01
  8       02/22/2005            Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                              4.19
  9       11/06/2005            Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                             12.51
 10       09/11/2006            Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                             16.91
 11       12/10/2007            Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                             19.12
 12       06/01/2008      Moderately Unsatisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory                      19.23
 13       12/15/2008      Moderately Unsatisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory                      19.66
 14       05/09/2009       Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory                      20.65
 15       11/29/2009       Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory                      20.82
 16       07/30/2010       Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory                      23.67
 17       10/05/2010       Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory                      24.10
 18       02/05/2011       Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory                      24.81
H. Restructuring (if any)

The Additional Financing (Credit 3664-1-TJ, Grant H264-TJ for SDR 3.4 million) for the Project
included an 18-month extension of the closing date from June 30, 2007 to December 31, 2008 to
scale-up activities and enhance project impact. The Project was further extended in December
2008 by another 18 months to June 30, 2010 in consideration of implementation delays caused by
the extremely cold winter of 2008 and to ensure adequate time for the re-design, re-bid and
execution of a major contract introducing a new pilot water disinfection scheme. With this second
extension, the maximum 3-year cumulative extension limit under OP/BP 13.20 had been reached.
The Project was nevertheless further restructured on June 28, 2010 to extend its closing date to
June 30, 2011. This exceptional extension was granted in response to externally caused delays for
the transit into Tajikistan of foreign materials and equipment needed for two key contracts.

I. Disbursement Profile
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal


1.      Tajikistan became independent in 1991 upon the breakup of the Soviet Union. A civil war broke
out in 1992 and continued until June 1997. A program of economic recovery and political stabilization
ensued, supported by donors, including the Bank and the International Monetary Fund.

2.       At the time of project approval in 2002, Tajikistan was the poorest country of the Commonwealth
of Independent States, with a 2001 per capita Gross National Product of around US$160. Approximately
28 percent of the country‟s 6.3 million inhabitants were living in urban areas. Unofficial unemployment
rate figures were as high as 33 percent and public spending had been severely restricted, with
expenditures in the range of about 17 percent of Gross Domestic Product. Human development indicators
had been declining and in 1997 UNDP ranked Tajikistan 115th out of 174 countries in this regard. The
level of material poverty was very high, with four out of five residents considering themselves „poor‟, a
third „very poor‟, and nearly a fifth „extremely poor.‟

3.       The Dushanbe Water Supply Project (DWSP) was the first donor-funded operation in the urban
water sector in Tajikistan. Water supply service at the hands of the Dushanbe Vodokanal State Unitary
Enterprise (DVK) had suffered accelerated degradation since independence and through the civil war. Its
situation at appraisal can be summarized as follows:

     a. Poor service levels: Although the officially reported coverage of the water supply network was
        90%, only a fraction of the population benefited from permanent service. Most parts of the city
        had intermittent supply about 10 hours a day. Further interruptions of supply were common due
        to equipment failures, lasting from a few hours to several days. Water quality was unsafe, and
        carried one of the highest risks of waterborne diseases in Central Asian cities. Insufficient water
        treatment and cross-contamination by sewage infiltrations were the likely cause of typhoid fever
        outbreaks in previous years, including in the winter of 1997 when 8,900 cases were reported.
        Highly turbid brown water would reach homes in the aftermath of big storms.

     b. Inefficient operations. Water supply was extremely inefficient. In the absence of bulk and retail
        metering, it was estimated that about 60% of produced water was lost through network leaks,
        defective sanitary appliances and waste by consumers. Monitoring completed during Project
        preparation suggested that production levels approached an exceptionally high 1,400
        liters/person/day, close to 10 times that common in Western Europe. Hydraulic losses in the
        network (measured as liters/connection/day per meter of pressure) were about 100 times the UK
        water industry average. With such level of wastage and losses, water production could meet
        demands, and untreated river water had to be pumped into the distribution system. Pumping was
        highly energy inefficient. On the sewerage side, high water consumptions resulted in overloaded
        sewers and wastewater treatment plant with diluted, difficult to treat, sewage.

     c. Disrepair of assets. DVK facilities and networks were in a state of acute disrepair, due to
        inadequate design, low quality of materials and equipment, and, above all, lack of both preventive
        and corrective maintenance. As an example, with chronically out-of-service process units, 57% of
        the production of Dushanbe‟s main Samotechnaya (SAM) water treatment plant (WTP) consisted
        of untreated river water injected directly into the distribution network.



                                                     1
     d. Unviable financial shortfalls. Extremely low tariff levels (US$0.004/m3 for domestic consumers
        in 1998) combined with very low collection rates (20% overall but only 2% from domestic
        consumers and about 40% of collections received in kind) kept DVK into a financial hole. With
        no choice but deferring payment to suppliers, DVK suffered major delays in delivery of supplies
        and had to ration energy consumption.

     e. Lack of human resource capacities. The war had caused the departure of many technical staff in
        charge of utility operations. While DVK staff demonstrated great resourcefulness in coping with
        dilapidated systems, there was an urgent need to rebuild managerial and technical capacity.

4.       The spiraling degradation of water supply in Dushanbe had reached emergency proportions and
had to be reversed. The situation called for urgent and substantial water supply rehabilitation investments,
as well as for drastic institutional capacity building and modernization. It was understood that such
comprehensive upgrades would require multiple phases of financing. In order to accelerate the outcomes
of a first investment operation, the Project was designed around a Public-Private Partnership (PPP). As
strongly advocated by the Bank at the time, PPPs can, under the right conditions, be a preferred option to
rapidly address the management, operational and financing needs of client utilities. Of various PPP
options, the Service Contract (SC) was preferred, by which the responsibility for investment program
implementation and for utility operations would be transferred to a private operator (PO) under a three
year performance-based contract. Such approach was also proposed at the time for Uzbekistan‟s Bukhara
and Samarkand Water Supply Project. Details as to SC scope and form are provided in Annex 2.

5.      This pioneering design was ambitious, considering that PPPs were still an alien concept in
Tajikistan. Sector stakeholders were yet at the beginning of a cultural shift to a market economy, and
administration officials and utility managers had limited familiarity with commercial utility management
practices. A fundamental bet of DWSP was thus that DVK would adjust and perform under new
economic and governance rules, while embracing and implementing radical changes, with leadership and
capacity building to be provided by a foreign private firm.

6.      DWSP was prepared in about one year. It was approved by the IDA Board on June 18, 2002,
almost 20 months after appraisal. The credit was declared effective on October 31, 2002 after completion
of the PO recruitment process, and the SC commenced on December 1, 2002.


1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

7.      The PDO was to improve the safety, reliability, efficiency, and financial viability of the water
supply services in Dushanbe.

8.      The PDO would be achieved through: (i) Strategic rehabilitation and efficiency improvement of
existing facilities in critical condition; (ii) Institutional strengthening of DVK through a performance-
based Service Contract (SC) with an internationally experienced water utility operator (the Private
Operator, or PO); and (iii) Strengthening of DVK‟s financial capacity through improved financial
management and commercial practices.

9.       The key indicators selected to measure progress towards the PDO were as follows:
        Safety: Percentage of water samples complying with chlorine residual standard;
        Reliability: Continuity of service and compliance with water supply schedule;
        Efficiency: Reduction in energy use per m3 of water; reduction in water losses; and increase in
         accounted-for water; and


                                                     2
       Financial Viability: Collection of revenues; annual ratio of collected revenues over the sum of
        operation and maintenance costs and project-related expenses.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

The PDO and the indicators were not revised during project implementation.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

10.     The final beneficiaries were identified as the people of Dushanbe connected to the water supply
system. The key identified benefits were the improvement in safety and reliability of urban potable water
supply. Given the high level of connection to the water network, such improvements would benefit a great
majority of the population, including its poorest segments.

11.     The intermediate beneficiary was DVK. The involvement of an experienced private sector
operator would bring better management, as well as operational and technical know-how. Furthermore,
the policy and institutional changes advanced by the Project would help DVK take the first steps in a
gradual path towards self-sustainability, technical efficiency, financial viability and support capacity
building in all aspects of utility management and operation.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

The Project consisted of five components:

12.     Component 1: Repair and Rehabilitation Fund (RRF) (USD 13.09 million). This component
funded essential short-term expenditures (such as operational equipment, vehicles, computer hardware
and software) and a least-cost capital investment program to be designed and implemented under the
responsibility of the PO. The investment program was aimed at i) improving operations of the water
supply system, ii) reducing water losses, iii) improving the network operations, iv) implementing a
metering program, v) improving the quality and safety of water, and vi) achieving the performance
improvement targets of the SC. The PO, together with DVK staff, would propose the investments to be
funded under this component, implement a demand management program and set up financial
management, accounting and commercial systems. An initial set of investments (the Immediate
Investment Program) was identified, estimated and designed by DVK and its consultants during project
preparation for implementation in the first year of the SC, as a means to accelerate project implementation.
Annex 2 summarizes the actual outputs of this component.

13.     Component 2: Service Contract (USD 5.43 million, of which base fee USD 3.25 million, incentive
fee USD 0.5 million, and local taxes 1.68 million) This component financed the costs of the SC,
including a base fee and a performance-based fee linked to the achievement of contractual targets. The
PO was given full responsibility for managing DVK personnel in the water supply and financial areas,
defining and implementing the demand management program, as well as the new billing and collection,
and the financial management systems.

14.     Component 3: Consulting Services to the Project Coordination Unit (USD 0.19 million). This
component financed consulting services to support the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) in its supervision
of the PO‟s performance and compliance with the terms of the SC. It included independent auditors that
would support the PCU in its monitoring of the PO‟s performance and prepare the necessary project and
DVK financial audits; and other consulting and legal advisory services as needed.


                                                     3
15.     Component 4: Project Coordination Unit (USD 0.32 million). This component financed the
operating expenditures of the PCU for project management. It covered communications, utilities, printing
and publications, office rent, maintenance and supplies, office security systems, vehicle operation and
maintenance, transportation and field trip expenses, training of PCU staff for purposes of Project
management, remuneration for staff, including qualified social charges but excluding salaries of civil
servants.

16.     Component 5: Refinancing of Project Preparation Facility (PPF) (USD 0.40 million): This
component refunded the PPF advance used for PCU establishment, final designs and bidding documents
of the Immediate Investment Program, implementation of the financial management system, procurement
assistance, and training.

1.6 Revised Components

17.      No revisions were made to the original components. New components were added as part of the
Additional Financing (AF) in 2007, in the amount of a grant of SDR 1.02 million (US$1.5 million
equivalent as of November 2006) and a credit in the amount of SDR 2.38 million (US$3.5 million
equivalent as of November 2006). The Borrower requested the AF to scale up activities, including: (i) the
purchase and installation of hypo-chlorination equipment for disinfection of water at SAM WTP; (ii) the
rehabilitation of rapid sand filters at Napornaya (NAP) WTP; (iii) procurement of additional equipment to
complement ongoing works, in particular, for rehabilitation of about 60 booster stations; (iv) provision of
technical assistance to DVK; and (v) assistance to project management. The scope of the AF components
is detailed in Annex 2. Most importantly, AF implementation arrangements did not include a new SC,
and implementation of infrastructure investments was entirely entrusted to locally hired PCU staff and
consultants.

18.       The allocation of additional financing was as follows:

               Category                   Amount of the Credit     Amount of the Grant     % of Expenditures
                                           Allocated (in SDR)       Allocated (in SDR)      to be Financed
(1)   Works                                              476,000                 204,000                 88%
(2)   Goods                                            1,285,200                 550,800                 88%
(3)   Consulting Services, incl. audits                  333,200                 142,800                 88%
(4)   Operating Costs                                     71,400                  30,600                 88%
(5)   Unallocated                                        214,200                  91,800
               TOTAL                                   2,380,000               1,020,000


1.7 Other significant changes
n/a

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

19.     The Project was prepared with the help of a grant by the Swiss Government to DVK. The Project
was highly relevant to the priorities of GOT at the time of appraisal, such as improving poor levels of
service, inefficient operations, disrepair of existing facilities, prevention of waterborne diseases, and
severe financial shortfalls of DVK.


                                                         4
20.      The PPP approach was consistent with the Bank‟s strong advocacy of private sector involvement
in the WSS sector at the time, as well as with the goal of achieving a fast turnaround of DVK‟s
performance and of maximizing the impact of investments in terms of operational improvements. In this
regard the choice of the SC model was fundamentally sound, and was thoroughly developed and adapted
to DVK needs with relevant expert support. SC design opted to have about 14% of the pre-tax contract
value as an incentive-fee, linked to performance against multiple efficiency parameters or completion of
specific deliverables. This important contract form feature was however undermined by the assumption
that the indicator baseline could be established in the first year of the Project by PO in partnership with
DVK.

21.      In hindsight, although few efforts were spared in designing a high quality SC, preparation did not
achieve sufficient client ownership and readiness for SC implementation. This may have been particularly
true at the Municipality level, a fact evidenced by client insistence to limit SC costs and to curtail SC
duration to three years out of a total five-year Project duration. Client ownership of the PPP approach,
their acceptance of SC costs, their political will to effectively transfer operational responsibility to the PO
while increasing the autonomy of DVK, and their ability to abide to agreed procedures and roles, were
indeed overestimated. At the same time, the challenges and risks associated with the governance and
operational limitations of client organizations were not recognized or mitigated to their full potential.

22.      The assessment of existing infrastructure systems and operations was thorough, including for the
evaluation and characterization of massive unaccounted-for water volumes. Project design may however
have underestimated investment and technical assistance needs. The RRF proved underfunded, possibly
incompatible with achieving all project objectives. As an example, the RRF did not allow to cover the
rehabilitation needs of SAM WTP critical for water supply quality and reliability, and could only fund a
marginal metering program. Budget arbitrages may also explain the curtailing of the SC to a3-year
duration. By most standards, such SC duration was excessively short, inconsistent with the infrastructure
and operational efficiency objectives of the Project..Insufficient funding was partly compensated by
fostering the mobilization by DVK of parallel financing by the Islamic Development Bank (IDB), for
rehabilitation investments to be integrated under PO oversight. IDB funding thus helped decisively
upgrade the SAM sedimentation ponds, but did not materialize for the critical renewal of SAM filters.

23.     The general lack of data at appraisal explains some of the shortcomings with regards to baseline
and target information on some of the Project‟s performance indicators. For example, the indicator on the
percentage of hours per month during which consumers drew water from the system measure turned out
to be too laborious to measure, and could not be determined by the PO or DVK. Moreover, the lack of
clear network zoning and of macro and micro metering resulted in other key indicators being unreliable.

24.     The Government and the Bank also agreed to unusual onlending conditions that resulted in
putting added stress on DVK‟s financial sustainability. Under the financing and subsidiary agreements,
GOT on-lent IDA‟s credit and grant funds to DVK as a loan in US dollars, with a mark-up interest rate
that would gradually increase to 5% during the first 10 years of repayment. This was imagined to provide
an incentive for DVK to behave as a commercial entity. However, with the SC failure, the assumptions of
increased revenue, cost recovery and managerial capacity did not materialize. The substantial debt service
obligation in US dollars is depressing DVK‟s financial sustainability, and is paradoxically perpetuating
DVK‟s inability to invest in maintenance, rehabilitation and modernization.

25.     Despite the mobilization of a highly qualified team of water supply and PPP experts, consultants
and reviewers, and the organization of thorough Project preparation assessments and participatory
processes, the pressure to deliver a complex project in a relatively short time limited the team‟s ability to
appraise the Project conservatively, and to achieve a higher level of risk mitigation and client ownership.
Substantial performance assumptions were made in order to appraise the Project which did not materialize.

                                                       5
In retrospect, despite a technically very solid preparation effort, the Project was probably challenged at
entry, pursuing a broad and ambitious PDO, in a risky low capacity and governance context, with fragile
implementation arrangements and arguably insufficient investment budget and implementation time.

26.     Incorporation of Lessons Learned. At preparation, the Bank had limited experience in
implementing infrastructure programs in Tajikistan. Prior Bank financing had indeed concentrated
primarily on emergency operations (the Post Conflict Emergency Reconstruction Project and the
Emergency Flood Assistance Project). The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) explains how DWSP
preparation built on lessons from those ongoing operations, including: (a) the need for high-level support
and political commitment from the outset for both policy reforms and project design; (b) the
acknowledgement that institutional reforms would require significant time to be achieved; and (c) the
emphasis from the beginning on project staff development and training to improve the overall
understanding of project management issues.

27.     The team also drew from the Bank‟s experience with the implementation of infrastructure
projects in other transition economies. According to the PAD, the Bank team was prophetically aware of
how important certain preparation and design lessons would be for DWSP outcomes. Whether effectively
applied or not, the following precautions were listed in the PAD:

       Continuous interaction with DVK, the Municipality and other stakeholders during preparation
        was indispensable to achieve good ownership by the Borrower of project approach, needed
        reforms, and Bank procedures.
       Project sustainability would depend on realistic projections of the minimum financial capabilities
        of the utility, and in turn on the commitment by the municipality to support a financial recovery
        plan based on higher billings and collections and commensurate tariff increases.
       Expectations for this first operation in the sector had to be modest. DVK would need further
        support even after the successful completion of this Project, and the institutional improvements
        would place DVK in a position to attract and absorb further assistance from IDA and other donors.
       The involvement of an international PO with adequate delegation of management, operational,
        and capital program responsibilities, combined with clear financial incentives to achieve the
        performance targets, could provide significant service improvement, utility performance and
        capacity building benefits, if the Government and the utility supported this approach.
       Implementation arrangements should be clearly defined and understood. During project
        preparation, the roles of the Municipality, the PCU, the PO, and DVK had been reviewed and
        agreed. The SC had been discussed, reviewed and finalized by the Coordinating Committee,
        DVK and PCU. The contract would clearly specify roles and responsibilities of all parties.
       The institutional and policy reforms required for the success of the SC and of the Project needed
        the involvement and support of the authorities with clear shows of commitment during
        preparation. By implementing the first steps of the reforms prior to project implementation the
        Government had not only demonstrated its commitment but would also facilitate the transition to
        PO management and operation of the water supply system.


Risk and Mitigation.

28.     At appraisal, the Bank was aware that despite all its preparation precautions, the Project entailed a
fundamental rejection and underperformance risk given the magnitude of the changes it introduced. The
following PAD excerpt captures such awareness, as well as the Bank‟s capacity to take on risk in the
absence of better alternatives: “Although the Project preparation process was designed to create an
understanding of the reasons why the reforms proposed were essential for sustainable improvements of


                                                      6
service, continued Bank leadership and support will be needed during implementation to strengthen and
maintain the existing commitment and interest. Under this project, DVK would embark on a venture for
which they are very poorly prepared in terms of experience and mind set. Turning over management and
operations to a foreign company at high cost, introducing higher tariffs and enforcing collections, and
investing in rehabilitation and maintenance rather than in capacity expansions, constitutes a complete
break with old traditions and requires a large leap of faith?.

29.     As suggested above, the risks presented in the PAD were reasonably well defined, relevant and
comprehensive. Given the pioneering nature of the operation, the obviously major risk stemming from
DVK‟s limited capacity, including for Bank procedures, should have been given a “substantial? or “high?
rating.

30.     Project design was centered on the SC as sole means to rapidly achieve operational efficiency and
management performance objectives. It assumed that the conflicts expected to arise in SC implementation
could be mediated. No “Plan B? measures were in place for the case of premature end of the SC or for the
case SC duration were confirmed insufficient and had to be extended.

31.      Project preparation did not, and arguably could not, predict the extent to which the Municipality
would assert its de facto control over Project implementation by DVK, despite the Government‟s and the
Coordination Committee‟s original commitment to institutional reform. Although assurances were
received during appraisal that the Municipality would increase DVK autonomy and limit political
interference, the likelihood of such governance gains should have been rated low. The lack of autonomy
of DVK, and the Municipality‟s objection to SC extension are two factors, among several others, that
impaired Project success. In hindsight, disbursement conditionality might have mitigated some of these
risks.

Participatory Processes

32.     Civil society and community participation processes were adequate. As part of project
preparation, a social assessment study entitled Participatory Rapid Appraisal (PRA) of Water Users was
carried out in the second semester of 1999. The main objective of this study was to determine user‟s
perceptions of the quality of the water and sewerage system in Dushanbe and their willingness to
contribute to improvement of the water supply service. Specifically the study identified users‟ spending
on water, water user problems and the users‟ willingness to solve them; users‟ willingness to contribute in
cash or in-kind for improvements and maintenance of services; and institutional mechanisms for
consumers to take responsibility for repair and maintenance.

33.     In terms of participatory approaches, the Project was prepared in close collaboration with the
municipal authorities (Hukumat), DVK, local experts, traditional neighborhood groups (mahallas),
consumers, beneficiaries, and the Bank team. A water user questionnaire was jointly prepared with the
Director of DVK, PRA consultants, and the Bank team. The participants included mahalla committees,
household users, elders in the community, DVK engineers, and teachers. The preliminary results were
discussed with DVK and the Municipality in a workshop. The final results of the PRA were presented to
key stakeholders (including officials from various government organizations, the municipality and the
media) in a project preparation workshop in March 2000. Shortly after and up until project approval, the
PCU had been preparing periodic reports for the media on project preparation.

34.   The PRA was conducted in 22 communities of Dushanbe by six researchers all of whom were
members or leaders of local NGOs or mahalla committees. Residents of 22 mahallas participated in the
PRA and in the mapping exercises to identify leakage and water problems in their localities.


                                                     7
2.2 Implementation

35.     Although DVK was the Project Implementing Agency, project implementation was led by a
Project Coordination Unit (PCU) independent of DVK, established by the Municipality (owner of DVK
and ultimately responsible for service provision) to manage the Project and coordinate Project activities
with DVK. Staffed by local consultants and resident within DVK, the PCU had overall responsibility for
project implementation, including fiduciary management, administration of the Service Contract,
supervision of the Immediate Investment Program and the RRF, and monitoring and evaluation. The PCU
would report to the Municipality and to a Project Coordinating Committee which included representatives
from various government organizations, including the Ministry of Finance. The PAD stated that DVK
would operate as a legally separate, financially self-sufficient, municipally-owned enterprise.

36.     The PO would be responsible for managing DVK‟s water supply services under a three-year
performance-based service contract, preparing the investment program, and building DVK‟s capacity.
The PO would carry out the procurement of goods, works and services in accordance with the Bank‟s
guidelines. Ownership of the assets would remain with DVK whereas the Municipality and the
Government would retain policy and regulatory authority, including for setting tariffs.

37.       Implementation started at a good pace with the hiring of a consortium composed of MVV Energie
AG and HYDROPLAN to execute the 36 month SC. According to the contract, the consortium was
responsible for 76 discreet tasks to: i) improve water quality and supply continuity through loss reduction;
ii) reduce of energy consumption through increase in energy efficiency of the treatment facilities and
improved management of those installations; iii) improve financial viability by introducing appropriate
tariffs; improving collection revenues by maintaining strict cost controls in order to improve the annual
ratio of collected revenue over the sum of operating expenses and project-related costs; iv) strategically
rehabilitate and improve the efficiency of existing facilities, and v) ensure general institutional
strengthening of DVK.

38.     The Project benefitted from generally constructive technical cooperation between PO, PCU and
DVK. Disagreements and control issues emerged however on utility management priorities and Project
procurement processes, also involving the Municipality, and which began to seriously affect the Project
implementation in its second year. Because of the particular authority embodied by the Municipality of
Dushanbe, oversight and mediation efforts by the Government and the Bank supervision team were not
effective at improving the partnership. A degraded contractual relationship with DVK and the
Municipality, as well as budget constraints eventually led to non renewal of the SC, despite the fact that
the Project situation may have required such extension.

39.      Key issues experienced in project implementation include:

      a. Implementation delays associated with procurement. Procurement was a major source of delays
         in project execution. At the time of ICR formulation and based on the procurement post review
         conducted in 2007, the PCU had adequate procurement capacity. Such capacity did not however
         prevent chronic delays in contractor selection and in contract issuance, as well as inconsistencies
         in contract monitoring and administration (several sanctions had to be applied to many contracts
         to suppliers for non compliance). Serious weaknesses in the supervision of the contracts were also
         found in the review, affecting the quality or viability of some project outputs.

      b. Institutional incentives and limitations. Cooperation from DVK in providing the necessary
         information to the PO and in effectively transferring the management of its operations, as
         stipulated in the SC, was reported as not ideal, and a factor of major SC implementation delays.
         Government‟s support for the PPP approach during preparation was not ideally sustained when

                                                      8
   implementation difficulties arose. Also, limitations in PCU‟s project management expertise,
   particularly for works supervision, contributed to several delays.

c. Service contract performance and non-renewal. In effect, the SC was not renewed after its third
   year due to: i) general dissatisfaction by the Municipality with SC costs, processes, performance
   and “value for money?; ii) institutional resistance by DVK preventing the PO from effectively
   taking over the management of the utility; iii) lack of cooperation from DVK to provide the PO
   with all necessary baseline information and data; iv) uneven qualification and high rotation of PO
   team, which reportedly included insufficiently experienced staff, and (v) Project budget
   constraints. With regards to Project investments, and despite adequate PCU capacity, the PO‟s
   prioritization and implementation prerogatives, including for management of procurement
   processes, were often challenged by solutions and approaches advocated by DVK or the
   Municipality, often leading to substantial disruptions and delays in procurement decisions. With
   regards to improving DVK‟s operational performance, the PO was never allowed to take on its
   contractual utility management responsibility, and only operated as a technical assistance team.
   Despite reportedly good technical cooperation between PO, DVK and PCU, PO performance and
   SC circumstances led to non-completion of several of the SC‟s assigned tasks and to the delivery
   of some unsatisfactory reports and plans. From the PO‟s perspective, in addition to a difficult
   operating environment, the SC lost commercial interest from the moment the incentive fee proved
   elusive, in part for reasons linked to lack of complete or consensual baseline data. Against this
   background, Bank supervisory efforts were not effective at improving SC outcomes, and at
   reversing a growing rejection by the Municipality rooted in the perception that PO staff were too
   costly, too rigid and did not deliver “value-for-money?. A factual insights and details of PO
   performance are provided in Annex 7. In all, the conflicted SC was in place for only three years
   of the original 5-year project duration and for none of the 4-year Additional Financing.

d. Limited project management and supervision capacity. From lack of a planned alternative, the
   non-renewal of the SC had a deeply detrimental effect on the Project. During the procurement and
   construction-heavy 2006-2011 period, Project management and supervision only relied on limited
   PCU and DVK capacity and expertise, without the benefit of independent international
   consultants. The procurement of an array of contracts was disrupted, project management, quality
   of design and supervision were impaired, and independent monitoring ceased. DVK furthermore
   lost all assistance to improve utility management and financial outcomes. No Project restructuring
   was undertaken despite such compromised conditions.

e. Inefficient Project governance. Project management inefficiencies were compounded by DVK‟s
   and PCU‟s lack of autonomy. At appraisal, strong political commitment seemed to support the
   recommendation that DVK should become an autonomous institution. During implementation
   however, the Municipality, although not an explicit party in the credit and project agreements,
   asserted its role as arbiter for most key Project issues, with absolute control over DVK and PCU.
   While such interventions were alleged to compensate for weak DVK and PCU leadership, they
   also resulted in ineffective Project communications, non-transparent and occasionally non-
   optimal operational and procurement decisions, and in disempowerment of professional managers.

f. Tariffs were increased on several occasions but the increases were well below required levels. As
   shown in Table 1, in most cases and particularly since 2008, tariff increases primarily reflected
   the large increases in energy costs. In real terms, taking inflation into account, these increases
   were minimal. Therefore, DVK registered net operating losses as its tariff revenues were not
   sufficient to keep up with inflation and cover operating costs, making the company progressively
   more dependent on financial support from the Municipality or on deferred payment of
   maintenance costs, suppliers and services.

                                               9
                          Table 1: Tariff Rates and Setting for Water and Sanitation
 Indicators by categories        Unit           2002     2003     2004    2005     2006       2007    2008    2009    2010
         Population
Tariff rate per m³              Somoni           1,5      2,3       3,9      3,9      3,9      6,5     15,4   17,2    19,3
Water                           Somoni             1      1,5       2,5      2,5      2,5      4,2       10   11,8    13,9
Sewage                          Somoni           0,5      0,8       1,4      1,4      1,4      2,3      5,4    5,4     5,4
   Budget organization          Somoni
Tariff rate per m³              Somoni            3       4,5      13,9     13,9   13,9         22      49      54    60,3
Water                           Somoni            2         3       8,7      8,7    8,7         14      30      35    41,3
Sewage                          Somoni            1       1,5       5,2      5,2    5,2          8      19      19      19
      Commercial org.           Somoni
Tariff rate per m³              Somoni            15       18      45,1     45,1   45,1         71     125     135     142
Water                           Somoni            10       12      27,9     27,9   27,9         45      75      85      92
Sewage                          Somoni             5        6      17,2     17,2   17,2         26      50      50      50


            Table 2: Indicators on Income and Expenditures (thousand TJS)
             Indicators                 2002      2003     2004      2005      2006         2007      2008     2009     2010
Total income                            1316      2959     4351      7798      6966         9229     15772    41558    19983
Receipt of sales                        1054      2781     3890      7751      6621         8813     14314    18532    19965
Other incomes                            262      178      461        47       345          416       1458    23026      18
Expenditures
Salary                                                     864       2193      1796,8       2022     3320     4048     4323
Social fund allocation                                     216       548       449,2        506      830      1012     1081
Materials                                                  487       1249       1193        1065     1967     1626     1585
Spare parts                                                                    168,6        145      589       610     555
Electrical energy                                                               1479        1665     3723     4322     3994
Fuel and lubricating                                                            490         982      1890     1175     1221
Charges, taxes                                                                  89,4        368      741      1338     1528
Other operational costs                                                        1994         2661     3600     3339     2248
Administrative costs                                                           2666         2011     2654     1843     957
Other expenditures                                                             324          482       0        0        0

Total of operational costs                                                     10650        11907    19151    19313    17492
Depreciation of fixed assets                                                    2772         4717     4792     5102     9818
Total:                                                                         13422        16624    24105    24415    27310
Interest and financial expenditures                                            4506         1233     860      20094    2576
Total expenditures                      5207      6858      9336     15425     17928        17857    24965    50047    29886
Income (loss)                           -3891    -3899     -4985     -7627     -10962       -8628    -9192    -8489   -9903



    g. Financial shortcomings. As summarized in Table 2, the financial standing of DVK did not
       improve during the Project. Even though collections increased considerably (from 22% in 2002 to
       95% in 2009), the low billing performance, the high level of undeclared customers and the
       inadequate tariff structure, coupled with increasing costs, have resulted in income losses in every
       single financial year during project implementation. In nominal terms, income losses more than
       doubled over the life of the Project. This situation may worsen with the need to sustain the

                                                            10
        operation and maintenance of rehabilitated facilities, unless new efforts are devised to curb water
        demands and to ensure revised tariff, billing and collection policies.

40.     In addition to the financial shortcomings due to insufficient revenues and losses in operating
income, the Project also faced shortages due to delays in the provision of the Government‟s counterpart
funding which affected the availability of resources to cover responsibilities in existing contracts.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

41.       The PAD stated that the PCU, with the support of international independent technical and
financial auditors, would monitor progress against agreed performance indicators specified in the SC. One
of the tasks given to the PO under the SC was the implementation of monitoring mechanisms to gather
the necessary technical data to better manage the water supply system. This data would also serve as the
basis to determine performance improvements in a way that could be independently verified by auditors.
The PO was supposed to furnish the PCU with monthly, quarterly and annual reports summarizing SC
operations and the utilization of projects funds. The PCU would provide to the Project Coordination
Committee and IDA quarterly consolidated reports on implementation progress covering: (i) projections
for project financing and implementation; (ii) status of project finances, procurement of goods and works;
(iii) status of implementation of the Immediate Investment Program and the Repair and Rehabilitation
Fund; (iv) statement of income and expenditure for the current and previous quarter; and (v) monthly cash
flow projections for the next six months.

42.     One of the shortcomings of this M&E approach was that it was designed primarily to be
implemented and monitored by the PO. DVK‟s inability, and in some instances reported reluctance, to
provide all necessary data to the PO, affected implementation of the indicator frameworks. For several of
the indicators, the lack of reliable information made calculations and reporting very difficult, none more
so than the lack of bulk or retail metering of distributed water. Because of the requirement for consumer
surveys, the indicator pertaining to continuity of service could never be measured during the life of the
Project. Upon non renewal of the SC, the responsibility was transferred to DVK/PCU, whose M&E
capacity was seriously limited. An M&E consultant was eventually hired by the PCU which greatly
improved the collation and tracking of indicators. Under the circumstances, the M&E of performance
indicators gradually lost any value as management tool for DVK to improve operations, and soon became
just another reporting requirement of the World Bank.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

43.     Financial management: Financial management was identified as a key weakness during project
preparation, and a Financial Management Assessment was undertaken at appraisal to agree on an action
plan to ensure that the Project had in place a financial management system, including internal controls,
accounting and reporting, satisfactory to the Bank. With this action plan, the Project introduced new
financial management practices to DVK and provided capacity building activities that resulted in
upgrading key aspects of DVK‟s financial management system that addressed the shortcomings.

44.     Based on the February 2011 supervision mission, the rating of financial management
arrangements at the PCU, including accounting and reporting, internal control procedures, planning and
budgeting, external audits, flow of funds, organization and staffing arrangements was upgraded to
moderately satisfactory. The mission corroborated that several improvements and measures were
undertaken including: (i) The use of the “1C? accounting software by the PCU. The PCU had started
entering transactions on January 1, 2010. However, PCU could not manage to invite the current 1C
Consultant Firm to modernize and update the program for reasons which depend on SUE “DVK?. As


                                                    11
result, the 1C accounting software is not able to generate all required reports; (ii) The PCU introduced the
practice of verifying both interim financial reports and withdrawal applications before submission to the
Bank. As result the discrepancies between accounting and reporting teams have been eliminated; and (iii)
Procurement of the external hard disk for the accounting team by the PCU has allowed the Acting Chief
Accountant to perform back up of Excel files and 1C accounting software each month. Due to GOT
delays in replenishing counterpart funding, the hiring for the position of the CA was delayed, nevertheless
the PCU was able to submit its quarterly Financial Management Reports on time and they were found
satisfactory to the Bank. Because of this the Financial Management rating was temporarily downgraded
but has since been gradually upgraded, and reached Moderately Satisfactory at project closing.

45.     Procurement. At the time of appraisal, Tajikistan was considered “high-risk? with respect to
procurement. The general procurement environment was not conducive to fair and transparent processes.
Given that the PCU had no experience in Bank procurement, a Capacity Assessment of the Borrower was
prepared. PCU capacity was strengthened by the hire of a Procurement Officer. However, the assessment
mentions that the PO, not the PCU would be responsible for major procurement duties. By 2004, several
delays, mostly related to procurement of several individual contracts, had occurred, putting Project behind
schedule. Throughout the life of the Project, several disagreements occurred between PO, Municipality,
DVK, PCU, and World Bank supervision teams, causing additional delays to project implementation.

46.     Environmental Aspects. Potential environmental impacts and appropriate mitigation measures
were assessed during preparation. An Environmental Management and Monitoring Plan (EMMP)
prepared in 2000 assessed significant environmental and health benefits, such as improved public health
through better quality and availability of treated water, improved sustainability of raw water sources
through reductions in losses and wastage. Potential impacts of the Project would relate to: (i)
inappropriate disposal of water treatment sludge; (ii) safety hazards of the chlorination process; (iii)
pollution by construction run-off; (iv) disturbance during construction including dust, noise, vibration,
access restriction, closure of roads, and increased traffic; (v) improper disposal of demolition debris; (vi)
damage to existing utility services during pipe repairs and installation; (vii) safety hazards from
construction activities; (viii) spillage of fuel and oil from construction; and (ix) damage to trees and
vegetative cover. All negative environmental effects could be minimized through appropriate mitigation
measures, compatible with normal construction and operation practices. The EMMP was updated in 2006
and closely monitored by the PCU during implementation.

47.      Social Aspects. One of the recommendations of the social assessment was that efforts to improve
the supply of water and maintenance of facilities be focused both internally (household and mahalla level)
and externally (repair of infrastructure and improvement of the managerial and technical capacity of
DVK). The assessment also recommended that the organization of mahalla committees and other
community-based organizations be supported so that they may contribute to the coordination with DVK,
to fee collection, and to repairs of the internal plumbing system.

48.      In order to internalize such recommendation into project tasks, the Government requested a grant
from the Japan Social Development Fund (JSDF). The grant begun implementing in March 2003 and
closed in May 2007. The total amount of the activity was USD 2,635,130 of which JSFD financed USD
2,318,660. The main objective of the grant was to improve the reliability and quality of water supply
services for poor residents of Dushanbe city through the creation of Water User Associations
(inaccurately called “homeowners associations) and the rehabilitation of old water supply systems inside
multi-apartment blocks and private houses. The Project consisted of the following components: a)
capacity building of communities in the management of the communal water distribution systems in
multi-apartment blocks and private houses; b) small civil works and materials for repair of water
distribution systems; c) training of communities and capacity building of community associations.


                                                     12
49.     At grant closing, 42 Communities had been created in Dushanbe and 4 Communities had been
strengthened. The JSDF grant provided support in 414 multi-apartment blocks; 19,480 apartments; 566
private houses; and 50,053 residents of Dushanbe, representing approximately 9% of the city‟s
inhabitants. A total of 46 rehabilitation subprojects were implemented in the Communities. The grant was
successful in setting several homeowners associations and in rehabilitating water supply systems in
private dwellings. However, these communities were not sustained and they no longer have a clear
existence nor are they formally recognized by the DVK. It is recommended that these types of models be
carefully assessed, for replication, as a viable mechanism to influence behavior of private agents.

50.      The JSDF grant was the main social outreach program that DVK undertook. There were no more
significant stakeholder consultations, with the exception of the final customer satisfaction survey. Any
new phase should emphasize mechanisms to engage more proactively with customers.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

51.      Significant rehabilitation and capacity building needs remain to be addressed by DVK through
ulterior investment phases. The most screaming need, which alone justifies continued support to DVK, is
the fact that Dushanbe‟s main SAM WTP still lacks filtration capacity. Despite very substantial and
strategic DWSP infrastructure improvements, no substantial or lasting gain has been made to improve
DVK‟s sustainability through operational efficiencies and cost-recovery. The Project ends in particular
without clear reductions in water demands or energy consumptions, nor any effective modernization of
billing and collection systems. Cost-recovery and reforms needed for DVK‟s autonomy remain elusive.

52.      These infrastructure, capacity and institutional shortcomings must be addressed by ulterior
investment phases. Residual investment needs include in particular (i) SAM WTP filters renewal, (ii)
NAP pump station and reservoir rehabilitation, (iii) System-wide bulk and retail metering program, (iv)
Network renewal and establishment of pressure zones, and were estimated at about USD40 million in a
2010 feasibility study. At the time of ICR completion, a USD19 million follow-up operation (Second
Dushanbe Water Supply Project) is being launched, funded by a USD16 million IDA and by USD3
million cofinancing loan by the Municipality , which is aimed at fulfilling the most urgent of these needs.
Dushanbe‟s wastewater collection and treatment systems, also operated by DVK, feature massive
rehabilitation needs, which for the moment do not benefit from any donor support.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

53.      The Project was clearly aligned with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) of 1998. The
objectives of the Bank‟s assistance, as outlined in the CAS were: (a) implementing the peace process and
strengthening institutions for conflict resolution and achieving social goals; (b) achieving a successful
transition from a planned economy to a market economy and achieving macro-economic stability; (c)
carrying out essential structural reforms and reducing poverty; and (d) rehabilitating infrastructure and
restoring basic services, particularly in the areas of education and health.

54.     The CAS identified the rehabilitation of the degraded water supply infrastructure, linked to
recurrent outbreaks of typhoid fever, as a critical need for the improvement of public health conditions for
the Dushanbe population as a whole, but particularly its most vulnerable groups.

55.   At the time of project preparation GOT was preparing a Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
(PRSP) which identified infrastructure deficiencies as a key factor hampering the development of


                                                     13
Tajikistan. Among the short-term policy measures identified in the PRSP were: (a) ensuring financial
sustainability of the water companies; (b) developing an action plan for modernization, reconstruction and
adequate maintenance of the infrastructure facilities; (c) liberalization of the services market in the sector;
(d) improvement of the tariff policy to gradually achieve full cost recovery of the water services; (e)
improvement of governance; (f) elimination of arrears; and (g) encouragement of know-how and
technological transfers by operators.

56.      The Project was also well aligned with the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), particularly
towards reducing by half the proportion of people without sustainable access to safe drinking water. In
retrospect however, the PDO and associated result framework could have been more grounded in the
reality of DVK‟s extremely degraded and low capacity water service, by giving more weight to basic
goals of restoring safety and availability of water service. In a city affected by recurrent typhoid outbreaks
and average service availability of less than 10 hours per day, the achievement of challenging operational
performance goals such as demand management, energy efficiency and financial sustainability, could
have prudently been listed as a secondary objective, or envisioned for a follow-up operation.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

57.     Despite some design weaknesses and many implementation disruptions, the Project has
accomplished its main physical infrastructure outputs for both the original scope and the AF, albeit with
uneven quality of results. The rehabilitations have contributed to greatly improved water quality and
substantially improved reliability of the service in Dushanbe, although such results are not always fully
captured by the PDO indicators. Importantly, due to the uneven performance and premature end of the SC,
the Project did not achieve its operational and management objectives. In particular measured operational
efficiency gains in terms of water loss reduction or energy efficiency were either insufficient or
inconsistent. The financial viability of DVK was not improved. Such results are further discussed below.

58.       The most significant and tangible contribution of the Project has been the improvement in
distributed water quality, essentially through better coagulation, sedimentation and disinfection. This is
captured by the relevant performance indicator, but is also universally recognized in Dushanbe and
captured in customer surveys, through the elimination of recurrent turbidity events which in the past
delivered “brown water? to customer taps. Parallel-financed investments financed by the IDB contributed
to this outcome, although the eventual cancellation of IDB funding for the rehabilitation of SAM WTP
filters left parts of the city supplied with unfiltered water. Overall, the Project is accompanied by a clear
reduction in waterborne diseases: Typhoid cases decreased from 379 in 2002, to 177 in 2004, 22 in 2009
and 0 in 2010.

59.      The availability and reliability of service was also substantially improved through selective
rehabilitation of degraded network sections and renewal of 99 out of 101 booster pump stations serving
apartment building blocks and other high areas previously affected by chronic shortages or lack of
pressure. Such investments have definitely translated into service improvements, as almost universally
recognized by governmental and non-governmental stakeholders. The completed rehabilitation of 60
booster stations under the AF in late 2010 has in particular reportedly led to a dramatic reduction of water
shortages in apartment buildings during the summer of 2011. Such improvements remain however
anecdotal, and are not formally captured and documented by the results framework, due to issues in the
measurement of performance indicators. They furthermore do not strongly stand out customer surveys,
the sample of which may be unfavorably biased, and the results of which are aggregated across the city,
without separating the areas that benefitted most from reliability investments.

60.     The operational efficiency and financial viability objectives of the Project were clearly not met.
This is essentially due to the SC failure and to DVK‟s inability to implement, unassisted, any consistent

                                                      14
demand management and energy efficiency programs or to modernize its customer service systems and
increase revenues for financial sustainability. To the contrary, some indicators show a degradation of
performance, including for energy efficiency and cost-recovery. In addition to continued operational and
management inefficiency, financial costs associated with interest repayment on on-lent IDA funds are
also now contributing to DVK‟s growing income losses.

3.3 Efficiency

61.      A Cost-Benefit Analysis (CBA) was done during project preparation resulting in an Economic
Rate of Return (ERR) of 12.2% and a Net Present Value (NPV) of US$2.12 million. However, the
appraisal document clearly indicated that much of the operational, technical and financial data required
for this analysis was very limited or contradictory when different sources were compared. This lack of
data made the CBA speculative to a large degree. The Project recommended a data collection system to
be installed by the PO to provide the necessary information to allow better assessments of the economic
benefits of the Project and better design of future operations. This data system was never implemented.

62.      Even though several limitations were identified during appraisal, the Bank prepared a CBA to
assess financial and economic viability, based on “with project? and “without project? scenarios. A
sensitivity analysis was used to assess the influence of key variables on economic viability. The discount
rate used was 10%, which is IDA‟s generally accepted used rate for water supply projects. The key
assumptions for the Base Case model included the improvement performance targets, particularly lower
energy costs, reduced water losses and increased operational efficiency...

63.     Given the fact that the data collection system was never implemented, no ex-post CBA could be
formulated. Furthermore, all the documentation related to the analysis could not be located and is not
available in the PAD. Hence, it is unclear on the costs that were calculation, the investments that were
included in the analysis, and the time horizon used for the CBA framework. The lack of reliable
information was identified during appraisal and verified during the formulation of the ICR.

64.       A CBA of a water supply project can be estimated if one of the following data is available: i)
incidence of waterborne diseases with the direct costs (health treatment costs) and indirect costs (eg. lost
wages), ii) data on production and consumption of individual consumers that would allow to estimate
consumer surpluses from shifts in the demand curve for water supply. Alternatively, without access to
secondary data, other methodologies such as Contingent Valuation, Contingent Choice and Ranking can
be applied to gather the primary data to evaluate willingness to pay for improvements in water quality and
reliability of water supply services. Lower energy costs (in this case these costs increased considerably)
and increased operational efficiency may render cost avoided benefits but they are a limited aspect of a
CBA framework.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

65.      The overall project outcome is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory. As described above, the Project
achieved full implementation of most planned infrastructure outputs, a remarkable feat considering the
many implementation challenges met, and a testimony to the commitment and effort of client and Bank
teams. The original project objectives, to be measured by six agreed indicators, have however only been
partially achieved despite mobilization of additional financing and a 1-year closing date extension.
Progress was made in the safety and reliability of water supply service in Dushanbe, although at lower
levels than expected (two indicators out of three have exceeded, or marginally reached, their target values,
the remaining indicator was never measured). An alternative impact assessment by customer surveys

                                                     15
conducted in May 2011 before Project closing did not compensate for such indicator data gap. Finally, no
significant result has been achieved by the components aimed at improving the operational efficiency and
financial viability of DVK (none of the 3 performance indicators approached their target value).

66.      The inconsistency of this overall rating with the last rating assigned by a supervision mission
(Moderately Satisfactory) is explained as follows: Based on available indicator data and trends for two of
the three service indicators (safety and pressure of service) and based on indirect or anecdotal evidence
available for the third service indicator (continuity of service)1, supervision missions assumed that the
Project was on track to exceed the target values for arguably the three most important PDO indicators. In
order to confirm and complement available indicator data, a customer satisfaction survey was planned for
May 2011, just before Project closing. Such survey was expected to provide alternate data for the service
indicators, and thus help make a stronger case for achievement of results. Unfortunately, the survey fell
short of conclusively documenting a strong improvement in customer perception of service continuity
(also see section 3.6 below).

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

67.     The final beneficiaries of the Project are the people of Dushanbe. Given the very high network
connection rate, system improvements have benefited the great majority of the population including the
poorer segments. However, given that at the time of appraisal the level of material poverty in Tajikistan
was very high, with four out of five residents considering themselves „poor‟, a third „very poor‟, and
nearly a fifth „extremely poor‟, this project would benefit a large portion of the poor. Furthermore, the
reduction of waterborne diseases benefits the most vulnerable (elders and children).

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

68.      The Project has not resulted in significant positive impacts on longer-term capacity and
institutional development. This is due to several reasons: i) The failed SC and the lack of a contingency
plan for such event (it was expected that by the end of the SC, DVK would have acquired and sufficient
capacity); ii) the weak capacity of the institutions to attract and keep highly qualified staff; and iii) due to
the above, the PCU was forced to function more in isolation, and little integration of functions and
institutional development was accomplished by Project closing date.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

69.      Despite the fact that highly concessional IDA credits and grants were originally mobilized for the
Project, the on-lending terms by GOT are resulting in unsustainable debt-service stress for DVK.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

70.    A customer satisfaction survey was conducted in May 2011 prior to project closing, spanning a
sample of 1,530 households and 70 commercial customers, the results of which are summarized in Annex
5. Due to its timing, the survey could not measure the full beneficial impact of the main contracts of the



1
 Such as in particular reduced number of service interruption claims, and anecdotal feedback by stakeholders such
as users, DVK staff and NGOs.


                                                        16
AF phase, in particular the rehabilitation of 60 booster pump stations aimed at improving service in
apartment buildings in the summer. The 1% household sample was for its part overrepresented customers
living in the upper floors of apartment buildings and thus with unfavorable service conditions (48% of
surveyed households lived on 4th floor or above).

71.      Survey limitations notwithstanding, a key finding was that 96% of consumers have witnessed an
improvement in water service over the last 2 or 3 years. About 76% of consumers are also now satisfied
with water quality (color, taste, scent and limpidity). On the other hand, only 54% are satisfied with
service pressure, and only 57% have continuous water service for more than 12 hours per day, a result
directly affected by the above-mentioned sample bias.

72.     With regards to tariffs, 81% of customers are satisfied with the current price of water. Despite
service improvements, a majority of customers would refuse to pay more for water under the current
service and fixed fee billing conditions, which are seen as “unfair?. Most customers would welcome
meters as a means to only pay for actual consumption.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Substantial

73.      Almost all the financed infrastructure rehabilitations were completed, although with severe delays
and uneven quality. The risk to Development Outcome is rated substantial due to: (a) the very low gains
in institutional capacity building and technical knowledge transfer due to premature end of SC; (b) the
worsened income losses and indebtedness since Project begun which can jeopardize the maintenance of
assets and sustainability of investments, and (c) the lack of internalization and sustainability of M&E as a
mechanism for DVK service improvement. Any subsequent phase must ensure to address these
challenges in the very onset.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

74.     The Bank‟s performance in Project preparation is rated moderately unsatisfactory. While
excellent sector and PPP expertise were mobilized for the preparation effort, project challenges and
possibly investment needs, were underestimated. Led by two successive task team leaders (TTL), the
preparation team developed a sophisticated design, based on relevant feasibility studies, and consistent
with state-of-the-art PPP experience at the time. In retrospect however, considering the risks associated
with the pioneering of a SC in a country with low institutional capacity, weak governance and no PPP
experience whatsoever, project preparation should have sought to secure a deeper level of client
ownership and included adequate risk mitigation and contingency plans, even at the cost of a longer
preparation time. Furthermore, the Project adopted unrealistically short task execution periods, including
a SC limited to 3 years.

75.     During design it was clear that there was a serious lack of baseline information and the appraisal
was formulated making significant simplifications and assumptions. The M&E approach was to rely fully
on the PO, which may not have been the best strategy. The risk of termination or non renewal of the SC


                                                     17
was not properly factored in project design. As such, there was no strategy in place to deal with the partial
failure and premature end of the SC. The fact that project design might have benefited had the Project
team more cautiously considered client capacity and the prevailing country-level institutional conditions
and processes does not diminish the concrete signs of relative project success, given that most of the
infrastructure was laid despite uncommon contractual and institutional challenges.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

76.     The quality of the Bank‟s supervision is rated moderately unsatisfactory. The existing
documentation (ISRs) clearly demonstrates several highly relevant issues on procurement, financial
sustainability, and the lack of PCU and DVK capacity, which all required close supervision of the Project.
Despite highly committed individuals, Project supervision teams did not always include senior expertise
commensurate with the technical, contractual, governance and customer-relation challenges of the Project.
It was not until 2008 that the Bank acknowledged the need for increased supervision efforts and capacity.
Furthermore, even though the initial team was very experienced and had good knowledge of the design
assumptions, the Project subsequently had several TTLs with diverse seniorities and experiences, who
managed the Project for relatively short periods of time. Turnover of TTLs was high, with six TTLs in
nine years of implementation.

77.     This project was designed with limited information and in a country with limited experience in
working with the Bank and with weak institutional capacities. From the onset the Bank should have
foreseen the need to allocate commensurate staff and budget resources to ensure more effective
implementation support. TTL assignments should have been managed to ensure less frequent rotations
and discontinuities.

78.      Infrastructure investments have continued although several highly relevant studies, plans and
programs were needed to assess the effectiveness of the investments. For example, the water quality
monitoring program was never established but improvements in quality are part of the objectives of the
program. Also, the PO was responsible for the implementation of the leak detection program, and this has
not been implemented. A hydraulic model was not completed, a cadastre of users is not available, zoning
has not been implemented, and the financial management system is not in use. All of these activities were
identified at the onset of implementation and represent critical aspects for the successful design and
planning of infrastructure investments and operations. The Bank had to ensure that these activities were
prepared and executed before continuing with large investments, including the additional financing.

79.      In terms of fiduciary policies the team emphasized compliance, raised issues and achieved gains
on the procurement, environmental management, financial sustainability and financial management fronts.
On the broader governance and institutional agenda however, supervision teams lacked leverage and
traction to bring about reforms that could promote increased operating autonomy of DVK or effective
delegation of management responsibilities to PO. On the one hand, supervision resources were
predominantly consumed with numerous short-term implementation issues. On the other hand Bank-
driven policy dialogue on DVK governance reform experienced stagnation, in part due to insistence on
DVK corporatization models in the face of firm municipal rejection and long readiness odds.

80.      The failure to extend the SC in February 2006 and the absence of alternative would have required
very close supervision from the Bank to ensure an adequate transition. At this critical stage, where
radically changed implementation arrangement become inconsistent with the Project performance
objectives, a restructuring of the Project may have been justified, along with the contracting of substantial
additional support to the PCU and DVK for assistance in the transition of responsibilities. The Bank did

                                                     18
not increase its support or supervision, leaving DVK and PCU with limited capacity, knowledge and
oversight for their increased duties.

81.     (c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

82.     The Bank shares in the responsibility for the overly ambitious design, the aggressive on-lending
terms and for the uneven strength of supervision. Despite strenuous efforts of supervision teams, the
Project struggled from the start. Some hurdles lay beyond the design and scope of the Project, but others
warranted mitigation by the Bank during implementation stages. In retrospect, because it was within
Bank‟s control to design a less risky and aggressive project approach, to ensure more consistent M&E and
supervision capacity and less TTL rotations, to ensure a stronger and clearer working relationship with the
Municipality, and to restructure the Project in a timely manner, the overall Bank performance is rated
moderately unsatisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

83.     GOT‟s performance is rated moderately unsatisfactory. Although the Government supported the
Project concept, it did not consistently sustain its implementation against an increasingly defensive
Municipality, and should have responded to problems more proactively. Delays in counterpart co-
financing disbursements were experienced, although much reduced, through Project closing. Tariff
revisions and adjustments were not made according to what had been agreed. GOT‟s on-lending to DVK
has clearly diminished the PO‟s capacity to improve its financial capacity. DVK has been incurring
increasing income losses throughout project implementation, partly due to the debt service to GOT.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

84.      The Implementing Agencies‟ performance is rated moderately unsatisfactory. The biggest issue
faced by the implementing agency was the requisite capacity, or lack thereof, to implement the Project in
response to the PDO. The Project design intended a PPP to fill any capacity gap needs while phasing out
capacity transference during the Project. The relationship between DVK and the private operator was
technically productive (operator was still able to accomplish many activities), but contractually
problematic because of the strained operating context, mixed operator‟s performance, and reportedly
weak DVK commitment to salvage the service contract. The lack of cooperation from DVK to provide
the necessary information to the PO and to transfer the management of its operations, as stipulated in the
service contract, caused major implementation delays. Beyond GOT‟s commitment to institutional
reforms, DVK‟s limited ownership of the Project‟s institutional goals and of the PPP approach
significantly impaired implementation.

85.    Throughout implementation it was stressed that one of the major causes for delays during
implementation was the inability of DVK to strengthen its capacity for the proper supervision of contracts.
The implementing agency nevertheless deserve full credit for completing the infrastructure component,



                                                    19
despite the departure of the private operator, including through an impressive acceleration of works
achieved in the last six months.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

86.     The Project has several years of delays primarily during the implementation of the works. The
GOT‟s lack of willingness to raise tariffs and to reevaluate the on-lending terms of the loan to DVK were
not actions in support to the effective implementation of the Project and the accomplishment if its PDO.
DVK‟s inability to provide the PO with the required information which caused delays in the service
contract and later on the failure of the approach, and the lack of substantial efforts to strengthen capacity
during implementation to effectively supervise the contracts, are more an illustration of weak ownership
than on full support to accomplish the loan‟s PDO. Based on the GOT‟s and implementing agencies‟
performance, overall Borrower‟s performance is rated moderately unsatisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

87.    Several lessons are to be learned from the Project, and may apply to the preparation and
implementation of future projects with similar ambition in low capacity contexts:

88.      Pick your battles: Balancing infrastructure rehabilitation and service improvement
emergencies with operating performance and institutional reform expectations. Ambitious operations
like DWSP, pursuing accelerated infrastructure rehabilitation and service improvements in low capacity
and poor governance environments, may also pursue operational efficiency gains and seek to advance a
reform agenda. They must however set relative priorities for such wide ranging objectives. Project design
should in particular be prepared to attach greater value to urgent basic infrastructure objectives clearly
embraced by clients (such as completion of rehabilitation works, improved safety of water supply,
improved reliability of water supply), while setting realistic expectations for utility performance and
institutional reform gains. Such pragmatic goal-setting, and its corresponding results framework, would
not preclude proactive pursuit of performance and institutional goals throughout implementation. Follow-
up operations should fund systematic metering programs, to synergistically promote demand management,
increased revenue, improved service and efficiency goals.

89.      Supervision, supervision, supervision: Need to tailor resources to implementation challenges.
Beyond ambitious objectives, the Project pioneered sophisticated implementation arrangements (such as a
PPP and the Bank‟s fiduciary procedures) in Tajikistan‟s low capacity water sector, with complex
transactions requiring new skills and changed behaviors. Given the clear risks, Project supervision
budgets and staffing should be tailored to allow frequent missions of relevantly senior experts, to
consolidate stakeholder understanding and ownership of Project approaches, ensure early identification of
problems and provide responsive and authoritative guidance.

90.     Hope for the best, plan for the worse: Contingency planning against disruption of
implementation arrangements. In low capacity, low transparency contexts such as Dushanbe, Project
design should anticipate potential disruptions or dysfunctions of planned implementation arrangements,
such as PPPs, with relevant back-up measures to maintain adequate technical and operational leadership
and control over the Project. A typical back-up measure could be the switch from PPP to a less ambitious
technical assistance approach. Legal agreements should include clear incentives for Borrower and
Implementing Entity to maintain competent and independent Project implementation capacity.



                                                     20
91.    Be proactive. Don’t wait to restructure projects with compromised outlook. The Project should
have been restructured, with relevant updates to the implementation arrangements and the results
framework, in the aftermath of non-renewal of the SC in early 2006.

92.      A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush: Risk mitigation through conservative goal-setting
and robust results framework. The DWSP experience confirms that water supply and sanitation
operations with substantial investment in low capacity countries can take 8 to 10 years to implement
successfully. From the onset, preparation of such projects can mitigate implementation risks by
moderating the ambition of performance targets, allowing for extended implementation periods to
accommodate delays, and designing robust result frameworks that will capture results. Such result
framework should be adapted to local measurement capacities, and recognize the value of simply
installing quality infrastructure. The design of the results framework should be completed at appraisal.

93.     Keep it simple. Mitigating the impact of on-lending interest mark-ups. The practice of
encouraging or enabling a Borrower to act as a financial intermediary, and to substantially modify the
terms of IDA credits and grants on-lent to a beneficiary implementing agency should be carefully
assessed in future operations. Although onlending terms are primarily a sovereign issue, financial gains
on IDA fund onlending deserve strong justification. Financing agreements may furthermore specify if and
how such revenues should be monitored, and what sector uses they should apply to.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

94.    A thorough Borrower ICR is provided in Annex 7a, with a balanced review of Project results and
a candid assessment of Project preparation and implementation issues, which to stress perceived
weaknesses in the original Project design.

95.     Client comments on the final draft ICR are also presented in Annex 7b. In synthesis, the Client
objects to the Moderately Unsatisfactory overall outcome rating proposed for the Project. The case is
made that Moderately Satisfactory would more objectively and fairly rate the success of the Project,
considering the top priority to be attached to improving quality and safety of water supply, and given the
design limitations at entry which affected implementation and results monitoring (e.g. excessively short
SC duration, insufficient budgets, unmeasurable indicators,…).

(b) Cofinanciers
None

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
None




                                                    21
Annex 1. Project Costs d Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent) - Credit 3664-TJ
              Components                       Appraisal Estimate   Actual/Latest Estimate    % of Appraisal
 1. Repair and rehabilitation fund                    12.17                  18.17               149.3%
 2. Service Contract                                   5.19                   2.26                43.6%
 3. Consulting services to PCU                         0.18                   0.82                455%
 4. Project Coordination Unit                          0.30                   0.45                150%
 5. Refinancing of PPF                                 0.40                   0.00
                    Total Baseline Cost               18.24                  21.70
   Physical Contingencies                              0.00                   0.00
   Price Contingencies                                 1.19                    0.00                0%
                     Total Project Costs              19.43                  21.70               111.68%
             Total Financing Required                 19.43                  21.70



 (b) Financing
                                               Type of Appraisal Estimate     Actual/Latest   Percentage of
             Source of Funds
                                             Cofinancing      (USD m)       Estimate (USD m)    Appraisal
 Borrower                                                2.43             1.79               73.7%
 International Development Association
                                                         17.00               19.91              117.1%
(IDA)



(b) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent) - Credit 3664-1-TJ / Grant H264-TJ

       Component & Categories                 Appraisal Estimate    Actual/Latest Estimate   % of Appraisal
1. Provision and installation of sodium                 1.50                 2.00            133.3 %
hypo-chlorine equipment
2. Rehabilitation of rapid sand filters at              1.20                 1.58            131.7 %
the Napornaya WTP
3. Additional equipment, rehabilitation                 2.00                 0.82            41 %
of booster stations:
4. Technical assistance to DVK                          0.80                 0.85            106.3 %

5. Project management, including                        0.20                 0.48            240 %
financing of operating costs
 Total                                                  5.70                 5.75
Total (including pending payments                                            5.87            102.9 %
from counterpart financing)2




2
    Includes US$105,000 for audit contract.


                                                           22
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

The Project consisted of five components:

1. Component 1: Repair and Rehabilitation Fund. This component would support essential short-term
   expenditures (such as operational equipment, vehicles, computer hardware and software) and a least-
   cost capital investment program aimed at improving the operations of the water supply system,
   reducing the water losses, improving the network operations, implementing a metering program,
   improving the quality and safety of water, and achieving the performance improvement targets in the
   service contract. The PO, together with DVK staff, would propose the investments that were required
   to optimally re-structure and rehabilitate key components of the systems, implement a demand
   management program, and set up financial management, accounting and commercial systems. A set
   of urgent investments (the Immediate Investment Program) was identified, costed and designed by
   DVK and its consultants during project preparation for consideration and use in the first year of the
   Service Contract, as a tool to accelerate project implementation.

2. Under this component the Project effectively implemented the following:
    40 km of pipeline renewal;
    Incomplete establishment of 19 pressure zones. As part of this unfinished activity, 124 valves and
      rotary valves (100-900mm diameter) and pressure gages were installed at nodal points in the
      network.
    Development of a Network Information System (NIS). Geographic information system software
      was installed and DVK staff was trained for its use. Network maps were scanned, pipes were
      vectorized, but facility data were not introduced. NIS is currently not operational.
    Installation of production meters: Ultrasonic meters were procured and installed at SAM, NAP,
      KAF and SWW. Equipment was never commissioned, because NAP and KAF installations failed
      to work (allegedly due to radio-frequency interferences). Following contractor failure to correct
      situation, equipment was mothballed, and is not in use.
    2,500 retail water meters were procured, of which 800 were installed under the Project in the
      clean water zone. DVK has since reportedly completed their installation on its own funds.
    Cleaning and restoration of the two daily sedimentation ponds at the SAM WTP, by removal of
      200,000 m³ of accumulated sediments. IDB financed a subsequent rehabilitation step for lining of
      the ponds.
    Cleaning and restoration of six sedimentation ponds at NAP WTP, with renewal of physico-
      chemical treatment equipment.
    Rehabilitation of pumps and electrical equipment for the 1st and 2nd lifts at KAF, SWW, and
      SAM. Pumping and electrical equipment was procured for NAP, but could not be installed due to
      insufficient funds for required civil works reconstruction of pump station and reservoirs.
    Rehabilitation of 39 (out of 101) DVK booster pump stations, with renewal of pumps and
      electrical equipment.
    Procurement, on an emergency and temporary basis, of maintenance, transportation and
      communications equipment, uniforms and special work clothing, computer hardware and
      software, as well as consumables such as fuel, chlorine, coagulant, spare parts for equipment, etc.

3. Component 2: Service Contract. This component would finance the costs related to the service
   contract. These costs included a base fee and a performance-based fee to be paid to the Private
   Operator (PO) based on achievement of targets defined in the Performance Standards Appendix of the
   contract. The PO would be given full responsibility for managing DVK personnel in the water supply
   and financial areas, defining and implementing the demand management program and the commercial
   (billing and collection) and financial management systems. More specifically, this component:

                                                   23
       a. Paid for: (i) the salaries and expenses of the PO core group of management staff with
          international experience in water supply sector who will implement the SC; and (ii) provided
          funds for a performance-dependent bonus paid to the PO for achievement of specific targets
          defined in the SC. This bonus was to provide incentives necessary to ensure measurable
          improvements in reduction of water losses, increase of collections and increase of water
          safety among other factors specifically defined in the SC. The actual amount of the incentive
          fee to be paid to the PO was to be determined by the application of a performance factor to
          the maximum annual incentive fee.
       b. Required the PO to provide staff with expertise in (i) general management of water supply
          utilities, ii) financial accounting and management, cost accounting and budgeting, iii) water
          supply, mechanical, electrical and environmental engineering; iv) public information and
          community relations,, v) maintenance, repair, material and inventory management.
       c. Required the PO to provide the following services:
                 Operate the facilities to carry out pumping and transport of water from water sources,
                     treatment and disinfection of water, and distribution and supply of potable water to
                     consumers;
                 Maintain the facilities to an improved standard of maintenance within the resources
                     available and develop a maintenance management program for the facilities;
                 Carry out the rehabilitation and repair of the facilities according to procedures of,
                     and using funds from, the Repair and Rehabilitation Fund so as to achieve the
                     performance improvement targets of the system;
                 Carry out all billing, collection and customer service functions related to the new and
                     existing customers in the service area, and install and manage a computerized
                     commercial system;
                 Install and manage financial management and accounting systems;
                 Develop and implement programs for (i0 water quality monitoring, (ii) facility safety
                     deficiencies correction; (iii) inventory management; (iv) operating & maintenance
                     procedures; (v) energy management; (vi) staff training and development; (vii)
                     commercial management; and (viii) preparation of quarterly, semi-annual and annual
                     reports as specified in the SC, as well financial and implementation progress reports
                     using formats acceptable to the Bank.

   The SC was effectively in place between January 2003 and February 2006. For detailed account of
   the challenged history and outputs of this component, the reader is referred to the candid and balanced
   account provided by PCU in Annex 7.

4. Component 3: Consulting Services to the Project Coordination Unit. This component would finance
   consulting services to support the PCU in its supervision of the PO‟s performance and compliance
   with the terms of the Service Contract. This component was implemented.

5. Component 4: Project Coordination Unit. This component financed the incremental operating
   expenditures incurred by the PCU on account of management of Project implementation for
   communications, utilities, printing and publications, office rent, maintenance and supplies, office
   security systems, vehicle operation and maintenance, transportation and field trip expenses, training
   of PCU staff for purposes of Project management, remuneration for staff, including qualified social
   charges but excluding salaries of civil servants. This component was fully implemented. In fact, with
   the non renewal of the SC, PCU consultants de facto substituted the PO for implementation tasks.




                                                   24
6. Component 5: Refinancing of Project Preparation Facility (PPF): This component would refund the
   PPF advance used for PCU establishment, final designs and bidding documents of the Immediate
   Investment Program, implementation of the financial management system, procurement assistance,
   and training. The component was executed.

The Additional Financing also funded five components, with the following outputs:

7. AF Component 1: Disinfection Equipment Component: Installation of hypo-chlorination equipment
   for water disinfection at SAM WTP. The equipment was successfully installed, and is fully
   operational. The on-site generation of sodium hypo-chlorite is considered a more reliable and less
   hazardous water disinfection process, compared with the standard alternative of gaseous chlorination.
   Given the cancelled renewal of SAM WTP filters in the previous investment phase, chlorination is
   currently inefficiently applied to coagulated, sedimented unfiltered water. This will be corrected with
   the partial rehabilitation of SAM filtration capacity now planned under the follow-up investment
   phase (2nd Dushanbe Water Supply Project)

8. AF Component 2: Civil Works and Capital Repair Component: Renewal of rapid sand filters at the
   Napornaya Water Treatment Plant. The original sand filters dated back to 1939 and had not been
   working since 1991. Despite implementation quality and delay concerns, the rehabilitated filters are
   fully operational. Rehabilitation of the NAP WTP will be completed under the follow-up investment
   phase (2nd Dushanbe Water Supply Project), with renewal of the NAP pumping station and reservoirs.

9. AF Component 3: System Rehabilitation, Booster Stations: Rehabilitation of 60 booster pump stations,
   serving about 80,000 consumers, towards reducing erratic water supply in particular during summer
   in high rise apartments. This component was fully completed and is in operation.

10. AF Component 4: Provision of Technical Assistance to DVK: Consultants were hired to support the
    upgrading of financial management and accounting systems, and to conduct annual audits. Planned
    consultancies to complete network zoning and conduct leak detection were only partially
    implemented due to insufficient funds.

11. AF Component 5: Assistance with Project Management: This component, consisting of operating
    costs for the operation of the PCU, was fully implemented.




                                                    25
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Economic Analysis

1. A Cost-Benefit Analysis (CBA) was done during project preparation resulting in an Economic Rate
   of Return (ERR) of 12.2% and a NPV of US$2.12 million. However, the appraisal document clearly
   indicated that much of the operational, technical and financial data required for this analysis was very
   limited or contradictory when different sources were compared. This lack of data made the CBA
   speculative to a large degree. The Project recommended a data collection system to be installed by the
   PO to provide the necessary information to allow better assessments of the economic benefits of the
   Project and better design of future operations. This data system was never implemented.

2. Even though several limitations were identified during appraisal, the Bank prepared a CBA to assess
   the financial and economic viability, based on with and without project scenarios. A sensitivity
   analysis was used to assess the influence of key variables on the economic viability of the Project.
   The discount rate used was 10%, which is IDA‟s generally accepted used hurdle rate for water supply
   projects. The key assumptions for the Base Case model included the improvement performance
   targets, particularly in lower energy costs and increased operational efficiency that would result in
   reduction of water losses.

3. Given the fact that the data collection system was never implemented, the ex-post CBA could not be
   formulated. Furthermore, all the documentation related to the analysis could not be located and is not
   available in the PAD. Hence, it is unclear on the costs that were calculation, the investments that were
   included in the analysis, and the time horizon used for the CBA framework. The lack of reliable
   information was identified during appraisal and verified during the formulation of the ICR.

4. A CBA of a water supply project can be estimated if one of the following data is available: i)
   incidence of waterborne diseases with the direct costs (health treatment costs) and indirect costs (eg.
   lost wages), ii) data on production and consumption of individual consumers that would allow to
   estimate consumer surpluses from shifts in the demand curve for water supply. Alternatively, without
   access to secondary data, other methodologies such as Contingent Valuation, Contingent Choice and
   Ranking can be applied to gather the primary data to evaluate willingness to pay for improvements in
   water quality and reliability of water supply services. Lower energy costs (in this case these costs
   increased considerably) and increased operational efficiency may render cost avoided benefits but
   they are a limited aspect of a CBA framework.

Financial Efficiency
5. Given the inconsistencies detected in the financial model used at appraisal to calculate project
   investment rate of returns (IRR), such IRR analysis was not replicated as part of the ICR effort. A
   financial analysis is instead presented based on utility data to assess the efficiency of the investments.

6. Progress towards financial viability of DVK was at the core of sector issues addressed by the Project
   at appraisal. Aside from considerable technical problems, the main obstacle identified in the PAD was
   to set up the financial and institutional framework that would eventually allow DVK, over a long-
   term horizon, to operate as both technically and financially sound local utility. Increasing DVK's
   tariffs and revenue collection was the most critical challenge at the time. The main problems facing
   DVK in the area of finance included: (i) tariffs that were below operating and maintenance costs (and
   no adequate provision for asset renewal); (ii) low collection of service charges which resulted in ever
   increasing accounts payable and receivables; (iii) minimal cash collections particularly from the
   budget organizations and industrial consumers; (iv) a highly distorted tariff structure with commercial
   tariffs about 8-10 times higher than those for domestic consumers; (v) inadequate short and medium-

                                                     26
    term operating and capital planning; (vi) debt service increasing due to on-lending in US dollars to
    DVK; and (vii) insufficient and outdated information about customers that directly affects billing.

7. The Project's strategic choice was to strengthen DVK‟s financial capacity through improved financial
   management and commercial practices. A financial recovery plan was prepared by DVK during
   project preparation with two main objectives: (i) to achieve at the end of the Project a basic level of
   financial sustainability where DVK can collect sufficient revenues to cover its operations, basic
   maintenance of the water supply system, and debt service; and (ii) to make counterpart contributions
   to the Project (this financial capacity will be maintained after the Project in order to use this revenue
   collection to continue the enhanced maintenance and repairs of the system).

8. The financial recovery strategy was based on the following strategic actions:
    Aggressive reduction of system inefficiencies (water losses, energy inefficiency, low cash
      collection, and water wastage) to reduce costs of operations;
    Implementation of a commercial strategy aimed at eliminating unregistered connections and
      users, and building trust in the community through better water supply and customer service;
    A strategic and cost-effective metering policy linked with an effective customer relations plan
      aimed at increasing revenues and/or reducing wastage;
    Set up of financial management, accounting, and commercial systems and procedures that will
      provide better information about costs;, revenues, and customers, and allow DVK to make better
      policy and tariff recommendations to the Government and implement effective commercial
      actions;
    Gradual reduction of cross-subsidies combined with enforcement of the disconnection policy to
      reduce fiscal pressure, increase revenue collection from Government organizations and industry,
      and free up resources to design and implement a targeted subsidy policy to the truly poor once
      better information on the customer base is available;
    Gradual reduction of non-cash forms of payment (barter and off-sets). As DVK is just one link in
      the existing chain of clearance payments, it will be impossible to do an immediate shift to
      payments exclusively in cash. The cash collection increase will focus first on the domestic and
      commercial sector, and gradually move to the industrial and government sector;
    Collection of better information on the fixed assets and current operational situation of the water
      supply system as a first step to have a clear assessment of the maintenance and rehabilitation
      needs and to make informed recommendations in the tariff reviews during project
      implementation;
    Linkage of the financial recovery strategy with the service appendix in the service contract
      between the Municipality, DVK and the international utility operator to ensure adequate attention
      to the urgency of DVK's financial improvement needs; and
    Close supervision of progress and effectiveness of the financial recovery plan, and flexibility to
      adapt to changing conditions within the framework of the service contract.

Analysis
9. The original financial analysis was not available so it could not be fully replicated so an assessment of
   DVK is based on current financial statements.

10. The financial standing of DVK did not improve during the implementation of the Project. Even
    though billing collection has increased considerably (from 22% in 2002 to 95% in 2009), the low
    tariff levels and increasing costs in DVK have resulted in income losses in every single financial year
    during project implementation. In nominal terms, income losses during the life of the Project have
    almost tripled. This situation will be exacerbated with the need to increase capital expansion and


                                                     27
    operation and maintenance of existing and new works unless new efforts are devised to demand
    management and to ensure an adequate tariff policy.

11. Tariffs were increased on several occasions but these increases were well below of the required levels.
    In most cases, particularly since 2008, tariff increases primarily reflected the large increases in energy
    costs. In real terms, taking into account inflation, these increases were minimal. Therefore, DVK
    registered net operating losses as its tariff revenues were not sufficient to keep up with inflation and
    cover operating costs, making the company progressively more dependent on financial support from
    the Municipality or on deferred payment suppliers and services.

Conclusions and recommendations
    The financial performance of the DVK calls for substantial improvements and efficiencies to be
       achieved. The Project fell short of its targets.
    With the current tariffs and collection rates levels, DVK is not able to generate sufficient cash to
       cover its operating expenses and annual debt service.
    Increases in tariff levels should be contemplated in real, rather than nominal terms,
    Financial, technical and commercial efficiency activities should be mainstreamed into project
       design and carefully monitored during project implementation,
    Water metering is essential for improving financial efficiencies and such programs should be
       implemented early on, not at the near end of the Project,
    Basic assumptions such as exchange rates and inflation should be carefully embedded in financial
       simulators. Future modeling exercises should include a risk analysis section to identify sensitive
       variables that have a stronger influence on the outcome of the results.

                 Title                     Unit              2006     2007     2008       2009      2010

 Water production and sold water
 Water production                         000 m3             276726   246556   238376    246754      249822
 Water loss (technical and non-
 technical)                               000 m3             201346   170721   176162    188497      193645
 Volume of sold water ( billed)           000 m3              75380    75835    62214     58257       56177
    Population                            000 m3              42850    39511    33992     35587       37388
    Commercial/Industrial                 000 m3               4801     3895     4048      3643        3764
    Budgetary organizations               000 m3              19768    17579    16437     14808       13485
    Other customers                                            7961    14850     7738      4219        1540

 Approved water tariff rates
 -see Note 1 below
    Population                         Thousand    m3         0,025    0,042       0,1    0,118       0,139
    Commercial/Industrial              Thousand    m3         0,279     0,45      0,75     0,85        0,92
    Budgetary organizations            Thousand    m3         0,087     0,14       0,3     0,35       0,413
 Other customers                       Thousand    m3         0,279     0,45      0,75     0,85        0,92

 Realized water tariffs - see Note 2
 below
   Population                          Thousand m3            0,041    0,060     0,117    0,159       0,201
   Commercial/Industrial               Thousand m3            0,630    1,046     1,461    2,016       1,798
   Budgetary organizations             Thousand m3            0,159    0,236     0,441    0,599       0,689
 Other customers                       Thousand m3
                                       Thousand
 Average realized water tariff         m3                     0,105    0,139     0,275    0,376       0,419


                                                        28
Billed water revenues (including
VAT)
                                       Thousand
  Population                           TJS             1775    2363    3974      5660             7510
                                       Thousand
  Commercial/Industrial
                                       TJS             3023    4075    5916      7345             6766
                                       Thousand
  Budgetary organizations
                                       TJS             3147    4147    7244      8877             9287
Total billed revenues (including       Thousand
VAT)                                   TJS             7945    10585   17134    21882         23563
 Total billed revenues (excluding      Thousand
VAT)                                   TJS             6621    8821    14278    18235         19969
Collected water revenues
(including VAT)
                                       Thousand
  Population                           TJS             1559    1953    2642      4990             7646
                                       Thousand
  Commercial/Industrial
                                       TJS             2024    2786    4907      7304             6454
                                       Thousand
  Budgetary organizations
                                       TJS             3036    3790    5873      8770         10445
 Total collected revenues (including   Thousand
VAT)                                   TJS             6619    8529    13422    21064         24545
 Total collected revenues              Thousand
(excluding VAT)                        TJS             5516    7108    11185    17553         20801
                                       Thousand
                                       TJS
Collection ratio (5)
  Population                               %             88       83      66          88           102
  Commercial/Industrial                    %             67       68      83          99            95
  Budgetary organizations                  %             96       91      81          99           112
All consumers                              %             83       81      78          96           104

Operating expenses
Salaries & wages                         ТС/m3          1797    2022    3320   4048        4323
Social fund contributions                ТС/m3           449     506     830   1012        1081
Materials and Spare parts                ТС/m3          1362    1210    2556   2236        2140
Electrical energy                        ТС/m3          1479    1665    3723   4322        3994
Fuel                                     ТС/m3           490     982    1890   1175        1221
Taxes & compulsory contributions         ТС/m3            89     368     741   1338        1528
Administrative expenses                  ТС/m3          2666    2011    2654   1843        957
Other cash operating expenses            ТС/m3          2318    3142    3600   3339        2248
Total operating expenses                 ТС/m3         10650   11906   19314   19313       17492
Depreciation                             ТС/m3          2772    4717    4792   5102        9818
Total operating expenses                 ТС/m3         13422   16623   24106   24415       27310
Interest expense & financial charges     ТС/m3          4506    1233     860   20094       2576
Total expenses                           ТС/m3         17928   17856   24966   44509       29886


Annual working ratio - see Note 3
below                                     ratio         1,61     1,4    1,43   0,92        0,71

Current assets and liabilities
Accounts receivable from residential
customers                                ТС/m3


                                                  29
Accounts receivable from budgetary
customers                                   ТС/m3
Accounts receivable from other
customers                                  ТС/m3
Total accounts receivable                  TJS 000             2527        2408       4349     4438      4300
Other current liabilities                  ТС/m3              10898        9573       5539     9331      8295
  Total current assets                     ТС/m3              13425       11981       9888     13769     12595
Trade accounts payable                     ТС/m3               6435        5324       9019     9749      9319
Other accounts payable                     ТС/m3               2872        5177       6134     7253      5378
Other current liabilities                  ТС/m3
 Total current liabilities                 ТС/m3              9307        10501      15153     17002     14697

Current ratio (current
assets/current liabilities)                  ratio             1,44         1,14       0,65    0,81      0,86
DVK's share of annual debt service
- see Note 4 below
Interest & financial charges
Loan principal repayment                    ТС/m3                          1233         860    1460      2576
  Total annual debt service                 ТС/m3                            25         422    761       1182
Current ratio (current
assets/current liabilities)                 ТС/m3                          1258       1282     2221      3758

Notes:
1. Approved tariffs are the tariff levels approved by the municipal/regional authorities.
2. Realized tariffs are the tariff levels actually realized by DVK; they are calculated as annual billed revenues
divided by annual billed volume.
3. Annual working ratio is annual cash operating expenses divided by annual collected revenues (including
VAT).
4. DVK's share of debt service is the share that DVK is actually expected to pay; the share of debt service to be
paid by the Government should be excluded.
.




                                                         30
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                             Responsibility/
            Names                                 Title           Unit
                                                                               Specialty
Lending
Ede Jorge Ijjasz-Vasquez       Sector Director                   LCSSD TTL
Motoo Konishi                  Country Director                  ECCU8 Sector Manager
Walter Stottman                                                        Former Sector Mgr
Felix Jakob                    Consultant                        ECSS6 Former TTL
Maniza Naqvi                   Sr. Social Protect Specialist     AFTSP Social Dev. Spec.
Rinat Iskhakov                 Operations Officer                      Operations Analyst
Takao Ikegami                  Sr. Sanitary Engineer             EASIN Procurement
Matin Kholmatov                Consultant                        ECSPE
Hiran Herat                    Consultant                        SASDI FM
Christophe Bosch               Sector Leader                     AFTUW Economics
Rajesh Sinha                   Principle Investment Officer      CN1S5 Financial Analysis
Nirmala Saraswati              Consultant                              Environment
Piotr Krzyzanowski             Consultant                              Environment
Junko Funahashi                Sr. Counsel                       LEGEN Legal
Ahmed Jehani                                                     LEGEN Legal
Hannah Koilpillai              Sr Loan Officer                         Disbursement
Tamara Noel                                                            Program Assistant

Supervision/ICR
Sana Kh.H. Agha Al Nimer       Sr Water & Sanitation Spec.       MNSWA    Engineer
Takao Ikegami                  Sr. Sanitary Engineer              EASIN   TTL
Pier Francesco Mantovani       Lead Water and Sanitation Spec.    ECSS6   TTL
Jonathan S. Kamkwalala         Sector Manager                    AFTWR    TTL
Yarissa Lyngdoh Sommer         Operations Analyst                 ECSS6   Operations analyst
Sanyu Sarah Senkatula Lutalo   Sr. Water and Sanitation Spec.     ECSS6   Engineer
Gailius J. Draugelis           Sr. Energy Spec.                  EASCS
Jan Drozdz                     Sr. Water and Sanitation Spec.    AFTUW    TTL
Naushad A. Khan                Consultant                        SARPS
Norpulat Daniyarov             Sr. FM Spec.                      ECSO3    Financial mgt.
Mirlan Aldayarov               Energy Specialist                  ECSS2
Roxanne Hakim                  Sr. Anthropologist                 ECSS4   Safeguards
Salim Benouniche               Lead Procurement Spec.            MNAPR    Procurement
Van Anh Vu Hong                Young Professional                 ECSS6   Data analysis
Bogdan Constantinescu          Sr. FM Spec.                      ECSO3    Financial mgt.
Loup J. Brefort                Country Manager                   ECCYU
Youling Zhou                   Lead Procurement Spec.            EAPPR    Procurement
Christophe Bosch               Sector Leader                     AFTUW    TTL
 Anna Cestari                  Water Resources Spec.              ECSS6   Co-TTL


                                                   31
Ruxandra Maria Floroiu    Environmental Engr.                   ECSS3    Safeguards
Rinat Iskhakov            Operations Officer                    ECSS6    Operations
Serdar Jepbarov           Operations Officer                   ECCTM     Operations, co-TTL
Aziza Nazirova            Program Assistant                     ECCTJ
Milane Reyes De Jesus     Program Assistant                     ECSSD
Dilshod Karimova          Procurement Analyst                   ECSO2    Procurement
Sodyk Khaitov             Consultant                           ECAVP
Takhmina Mukhamedova      Operations Analyst                    ECCTJ    Operations
Kishore Nadkarni          Consultant                            ECSS2    Financial analysis
Shodi Nazarov             Financial Management Analyst          ECSO3    Financial m
Fasliddin Rakhimov        Procurement Specialist                ECSO2    Procurement
Klas B. Ringskog          Consultant                            EASIN    Institutional reform
Diego Juan Rodriguez      Senior Economist                     ETWWA     ICR development
Leila Talipova            Consultant                            ECSSD    Engineer
Alexandru Ursul           Consultant                            ECSSD    Engineer

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                          Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                          USD Thousands (including
                                      No. of staff weeks
                                                                travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY99                                                                     66.80
  FY00                                      19                             93.54
  FY01                                      34                             92.18
  FY02                                      30                             86.01
  FY03                                                                     -1.08
                          Total:            83                            337.45
Supervision/ICR
  FY02                                       1                              5.51
  FY03                                      40                            171.53
  FY04                                      37                            135.72
  FY05                                      39                            101.24
  FY06                                      30                             94.37
  FY07                                      34                             61.50
  FY08                                      29                             60.45
  FY09                                      37                            149.5
 FY10                                       32                             99.1
                          Total:           309                            963.72




                                           32
    Annex 5. Beneficiary survey results


1. Project preparation benefitted from a Social Assessment Study carried out in 1999, with a civil society
   workshop in 20003, to assess users‟ perception of the quality of the water and sewerage system in
   Dushanbe, and their willingness to contribute to the improvement of water supply services. No
   systematic further customer surveys were conducted during project implementation, with the
   exception of a final customer satisfaction survey at project closing, aimed at complementing the
   evaluation of the Project beyond the limitations of the results framework.

2. Such Social Impact Assessment of the Project and Consumer Satisfaction (SIAPCS) was conducted in
   the spring of 2011 (final report June 2011) to monitor and evaluate client perceptions as to impacts of
   the Project (final report dated June 2011). Because of its timing, the survey could not capture all
   project impacts.

3. To that effect DVK hired consultants to assess, on the customers‟ side: (i) the coverage and reliability
   of water utilities, (ii) the quality of treated drinking water, (iii) the availability and effectiveness of
   service, (iv) the ability to effectively meet the needs of vulnerable subgroups, (v) the degree of
   consumers satisfaction with service, and (vi) the degree of rational use of drinking water.

4. Surveys were conducted by 13 local interviewers, trained in survey and data analysis techniques.
   1,530 households and 70 commercial clients enterprises were interviewed, sampled from within
   Dushanbe city, Somony district, Firdawsi district, Shomansur district and Sino district. The household
   sample was heavily skewed towards overrepresentation of customers living in upper floors of
   apartment buildings (48% of surveyed households live on 4th floor or above). Although the survey
   was designed to assess desegregated project impacts in the four main service areas of DVK, i.e. SAM
   (Samotechnaya WTP), NAP (Napornaya WTP), SWW (South-West Wellfield Intake) and KAF
   (Kafarnigan Wellfield Intake), survey results were only made available in aggregate for Dushanbe as
   a whole. The survey intervened before completion of the critical NAP filters rehabilitation. The
   survey also intervened before summer, the most critical season for service pressure and continuity.
   Accordingly the surveyed households had not yet experienced the improvement in summer service
   brought about by the 60 booster pump station rehabilitations completed in the fall-winter of 2010-
   20114 to improve service, particularly in summer, to the upper floors of apartment buildings.

5. The survey findings are summarized in the attached tables, regrouoped under four categories of
   questions: (i) safety, (ii) reliability, (iii) service quality and performance, and (iv) customers opinion.

6. Focus groups were also held gathering 90 participants (47 women and 43 men), and the discussions
   were very rich and frank. Results are summarized as follows:

7. According to focus group customers, services have improved but are still unsatisfactory:
           o on the issue of the quality of water: in general customers find it better, year by year;




4
 Anecdotal evidence confirmed by DVK claims records, suggests that compared to previous summers, customers
experienced much improved service in the summer of 2011, with dramatically fewer reported shortages.


                                                      33
            o   on the issue of continuity/discontinuity of the supply: customers complain about the “on
                and off? patterns of the supply;
            o   on the issue of the pressure: although 30% noticed an improvement, the majority still
                experience weak water pressure, or even worse conditions than previously;
            o   on the issue of tariffs and State/local authorities’ activities on policy: customers actively
                complain about the lack of information, communication and therefore transparency.

8. Focus group customers are not willing to pay more for improved services, as long as there is a lack of
   trust and a feeling of unfairness:
            o “it is not fair? to have discontinued services with less than 12 hours of service per day,
                 when some households receive water 24 hours/day.
            o “it is not fair? to pay for “unused? water such as the water pumped illegally or leaking
                 because of the deterioration of the system;
            o “it is not fair? to be unaware of how tariffs are calculated;
            o “it is not fair? to pay the same amount of money for water supply services that differ
                 totally depending on the floor level.

9. Finally, according to focus groups, there is a general latent demand for water meter installation:
   Customers are willing to pay for actual water consumption or for hours of actual water supply service.




                                                    34
                       Summary of customer survey results for 70 enterprises and 1,530 households in Dushanbe

                                                                         Results of surveys of 1,530 households                     Results of surveys of 70 enterprises
                                                                    47% are serviced by SAM or NAP                           68.6% are serviced by SAM or NAP
                                                                    53% are serviced by SWW or KAF                           31.4% are serviced by SWW or KAF.
                                                                    49.8% live on a first floor                              54.3% are "socially vulnerable" organizations            SUMMARY
                                                                    11.8% live on a second or third floor                    (schools, medical institutions, etc.)
                                                                    23.2% live on a fourth floor                             23.8% are from the service sector (large or SME)
                                                                    15.2% live on a fifth floor or higher                    12.9% are from the industrial sector

                         Importance given to the quality of water   For 99.5%, good quality water is important


                                                                                                                       In general the enterprises noted an improvement of
                                                                    76.4% are satisfied with water quality: they are   water quality over the last 2-3 years. 88% are
                         Level of quality                           happy with the color, the taste, the scent and the satisfied with it: they are happy with the color, the
                                                                    transparency (results between 67.8 and 79.9%).     taste, the odour, and the clarity (results from 62 to
                                                                                                                       89.5%).


                                                                    The majority of Interviewees (over 68%) are aware of
                                                                    diseases which are spread via water (typhoid, fever                                                            ON SAFETY:
                                                                    and dysentery).                                                                                                CUSTOMERS FIND
Safety                                                              92.8% use boiled water for drinking. It is not clear                                                           WATER QUALITY
                                                                    whether it comes from doubts on the quality or taste                                                           IMPROVED, YEAR
                                                                    preference.                                              All the organizations are informed about existing     BY YEAR
                         Awareness of higiene and sanitary risks
                                                                    58.6% are concerned first about their hygiene and        waterborne diseases. For 89.5%, staff has never got
                         related to bad quality water
                                                                    sanitary conditions in the case of lack or shortage of   inffected.
                                                                    water. Over 90% say that when it does happen, then
                                                                    the sanitary situation in their household is affected.
                                                                    However, the majority of the families confirms that
                                                                    noone in their households got infected (87.8% of over
                                                                    1,000 families who answered the question).


                         Filter                                     Most interviewees have no filter (97.1%)                 Most enterprises do not use filters (66.7%).


                         General satisfaction                       60.1% are satisfied with the access to water             81% are satisfied with the access to water



                         Availability of piped water service is
                                                                    Yes for 56.7%                                            Yes for 86.6%
                         greater than 12 hours per day



                         Availability, pressure of service varies
                                                                  Yes according to 64.6%                                     Yes according to 62.5%                                    ON RELIABILITY:
Reliability - Access     seasonanally
                                                                                                                                                                                       ALMOST HALF OF
                                                                                                                                                                                       CUSTOMERS
                                                                                                                              None. The main concern (for more than 92%) relate SAMPLED EXPRESS
                         Storage (revealing potential absence or    75.2% of interviewees store water (in plastic
                                                                                                                              to the negative impact on hygiene and sanitary           UNSATISFACTION
                         shortage of water)                         containers).
                                                                                                                              conditions                                               WITH CONTINUITY
                                                                    The large majority of interviewees (over 89%) do not      The large majority of enterprises (over 81%) do not      OR PRESSURE OF
                                                                    have any alternative source of drinking water (no         have alternative source of drinking water (no individual SUPPLY.
                         Alternative source of water                private/individual pump, no alternate well with pump      pump, no stand-by well with the pump, etc.). They
                                                                    installed, etc.). They depend therefore entirely on local depend therefore entirely on local water supply
                                                                    water supply services.                                    services.

Reliability - Quantity   Satisfaction                               55.4% are satisfied with the quantity of water           68.1% are satisfied with the quantity of water



Reliability - Pressure Satisfaction                                 54.2% are satisfied with the pressure                    71% are satisfied with the pressure




                                                                                                  35
                      General satisfaction                       56.9% are satisfied with the level of service            89.5% are satisfied with the level of service

                                                                 Only 44.2% have a formal contract with SUE DVK.          89.5% have contracts with SUE DVK and almost all
                      Contract
                                                                 Out of which 90.1% say they are satisfied with it.       of them are satisfied with the terms of the contract.

                                                               81.3% are satisfied with the current price of water
                      Tariff                                                                                              96.5% are satisfied with the current tariff rate
                                                               supply services.
                                                               5.5% have installed water meters and pay based on
                                                                                                                          82.4% have water meters (all functional).
                                                               consumption. The remaining 94.5% pay a fixed tariff.
                                                                                                                          The measures are read monthly, by SUE DVK for
                                                               15% do not regularly pay their bills (it takes from 2 to
                                                                                                                          most of the enterprises (otherwise by the enterprises
                                                               12 months); in general customers would prefer a
                                                                                                                          themselves).                                            SERVICE QUALITY
                                                               payment once or twice per year.
                                                                                                                          The payments are timely made by the enterprises.        AND PERFORMANCE
                      Water meter, monthly billing and payment The large majority (over 93%) get a receipt upon
                                                                                                                          98% receive a receipt upon payment, that hey
                                                               payment, find the invoice and the receipt clear, the
                                                                                                                          usually find to be clear. Only 3.5% have addressed aIN GENERAL
                                                               method of payment appropriate. Only 4.8% have
                                                                                                                          complaint (to SUE DVK directly) about               CUSTOMERS SEE
                                                               claimed for wrong billing and have in that situation
                                                                                                                          miscalculations.                                    YEARLY
                                                               addressed their claim to SUE DVK for most, or to the
                                                                                                                                                                              IMPROVEMENTS
                                                               Housing Utility (or other) for the rest.
Service quality and                                                                                                                                                           BUT STILL
                                                               The majority of interviewees (over 78%) do not know
performance                                                                                                           The majority of enterprises (over 68%) know who to UNSATISFACTORY.
                                                               who to address their disagreement to, and have never
                      Claims                                                                                          address their complaints to at SUE DVK; however,        THEY ASK FOR
                                                               submitted any claim. For those who have, for only
                                                                                                                      they have never submitted any claim.                    MORE
                                                               39.1% the problem was resolved.
                                                                                                                                                                              INFORMATION/COM
                                                                                                                      In general it takes a day to have services after a
                                                               In general it takes between a day and a week to have                                                           MUNICATION/TRANS
                                                                                                                      request for maintenance (for 63.9%). It may take a
                      Request for maintenance                  services after a request for maintenance. It may take                                                          PARENCY ABOUT
                                                                                                                      weekl (experience of 30% of enterprises) or a month
                                                               a month (experience of 8.7% of interviewees).                                                                  TARIFFS,
                                                                                                                      (experience of 6.1% of enterprises).
                                                                                                                                                                              BREAKDOWNS, ETC.
                      Accessibility of SUE DVK staff / Problem 70.3% say they fix problems via phone (more than       79% say they fix problems via phone (more than
                      resolution                               during visits to or by SUE DVK).                       during visits to or by SUE DVK).
                                                               Customers are generally informed about new services
                                                               by mass media (for 81.6%) and not SUE DVK              The enterprises are informed about new services
                                                               themselves.                                            either by mass media (for 54%, the majority) or by
                      General information/communication on     Similarly, they learn about disconnections or          SUE DVK themselves (for 46%).
                      services                                 emergency situations from mass media (for 54.8%) or They learn about disconnections and breakdowns
                                                               from neighbours or relatives (for 38.6%), much more    from mass media (for 82.4%) and not from SUE DVK
                                                               than from SUE DVK themselves (only 6.6% say they themselves (nor from neighbours or relatives).
                                                               are).
                                                                                                                      For the majority (90.9%), SUE DVK should be the
                                                               A majority of households (71.4%) understands that      main executor for repair work and for
                                                               SUE DVK is responsible for performing maintenance problems/complaints resolution.
                                                               tasks on the water supply network. 54.4% of            The entity who should pay for the repairs is            CUSTOMERS
                      Maintenance's responsibility             households believe DVK must pay for such               - SUE DVK according to 52.6% of the enterprises         WITNESS
                                                               miantenance, whereas the rest (over 44%) think         interviewed,                                            IMPROVED
                                                               households or the Communical Service Unit must pay - the enterprise itself according to 44%                    SERVICE, BUT DO
                                                               for it.                                                - the housing and utilities administration or other for NOT ARE NOT WANT
Customers' opinions                                                                                                   3.4%.                                                   TO PAY MORE FOR
                                                               The large majority of interviewees (over 96%)                                                                  IT . THEY ARE
                                                                                                                      All organizations consider that the improvement of
                                                               have noticed improved quality of services over                                                                 WILLING TO PAY
                                                                                                                      quality of services is important; however most
                      Improvement of the quality of services the last 2-3 years. When asked if they would pay                                                                 BASED ON ACTUAL
                                                                                                                      (66.7%) are not willing to pay large amount of money
                                                               more for improved services, the majority (67.6%)                                                               WATER
                                                                                                                      for improved services.
                                                               say they are not ready.                                                                                        CONSUMPTION.
                                                               In general, the majority (over 70%) do not use water   62.5% of enterprises use water for irrigation.
                      Water usage                              for other purpose than for drinking (not for gardening 39% use water for other purposes than drinking water
                                                               purposes or other)                                     or irrigation.




                                                                                               36
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Minutes of workshop held in Dushanbe on December 9, 2011 at the invitation of DVK.

1.        List of participants invited by DVK:
        N. Khairullaev, First Deputy Mayor of Dushanbe
        F. Isupov, Director of DVK
        Z. Nazimov, Director of PCU for DWSP
        J. Saidov, Ex Director of PCU of DWSP
        J. Lokaev, Ex director of PCU of DWSP
        B. Safarov, ex director of PCU of DWSP and DVK
        A. Hasanov, procurement specialist, PCU of DWSP
        K. Nasimov, Financial specialist , PCU of DWSP
        D. Primkulov, Engineer, PCU of DWSP
        K. Muzaffarov, Engineer, PCU of DWSP
        Pier Mantovani, World Bank, TTL
        Serdar Jepbarov, World Bank, co-TTL
        Leila Talipova, consultant (author of minutes)

2.       The Bank has shared the final draft ICR on December 4, 2011. The TTL provided
         background as to the purpose of the ICR, and the rating methodology. The proposed
         outcome rating (moderately unsatisfactory) was explained with a detailed review of
         measured values for the six performance indicators. The TTL explained that both the
         Bank‟s and Borrower‟s performance in the Project were also evaluated as moderately
         unsatisfactory. The purpose of the workshop is to discuss the ICR findings and ratings
         for the Project and draw major lessons learnt.

3.       The representative of the Borrower understand that the ICR is a document of the World
         Bank, not based on the Borrower‟s assessment. Given the short review time, it is agreed
         that beyond the present roundtable, DVK will gather comments on the Bank‟s ICR
         ratings through December 17, and share them with the Bank. Particular emphasis is
         recommended on providing factual comments, illustrated by evidence or better
         documentation of performance indicator data.

4.       The main reactions and comments of participants are listed below.

    The final draft translated version of ICR was received just recently, and there was not enough
     time to prepare comprehensive comments.
    The field work in DVK of the ICR author during summer of 2010 was too short (about 2
     weeks, what didn‟t allow detailed understanding of the progress and achievements of as long
     a project as DWSP1).
    There were a number of problems and delays caused by the Bank in the course of project
     implementation. Some of these problems may relate to:




                                                 37
         o    significant impact of supervision on the procurement of Sodium Hypochlorite
              systems for SAM (in 2008 the bidding was cancelled, and the DWSP had to re-
              design the chlorination systems and limit it to the pilot area only).
    The Project M&E indicators target values were inappropriate (overestimated) since the start
     of the Project. Despite the termination of the Private Operator contract with DVK, overall
     physical investments were not sufficient to reach the stated targets. This warning had been
     conveyed by PCU to the Bank since the start of the Project.
    Change of the closing date for original credit and grant funds of the AF: the proceeds of the
     original credit were implemented in time, but the extension of the closing date was required
     to implement additional contract: rehabilitation of the DVK laboratory building and
     construction of canopy due to emerged new funds in USD equivalent as a result of the SDR
     appreciation.
    The Project M&E indicators were not given the high importance during the first years of the
     Project, and in particular during presence of Private Operator. The effective monitoring of the
     progress of the Project (where applicable) has started at the end of 2009, when under the
     guidance of the Bank‟s task team. A monitoring and evaluation specialist was hired by the
     PCU on a part time basis in 2010.

5.       Conclusions: The minutes of the ICR workshop, and formal written comments on ICR
         ratings and findings (to be prepared by the Borrower (DVK and PCU) will be
         incorporated and annexed in the final version of the ICR.

(Minutes developed by L. Talipova, WB consultant)




                                                 38
Annex 7a. Summary of Borrower's ICR




                                 The Republic of Tajikistan

                           State Executive Authority of Dushanbe

                              Dushanbe Water Supply Project



                    IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT

                     The International Development Association of the
                  World Bank Credit 3664 TJ, 3664-1 TJ, Grant H-264-TJ,
                 Grant from Social Development Fund of Japan TF 051228,
                           Project Preparation Advance Q189-TJ,
                          Grant from Swiss Government TF021819


                                Dushanbe – December 2010




                                       Table of Content

      1. INTRODUCTION
             1.1. Project rationale.
             1.2. Project financiers

      2. PROJECT TASKS

      3. PROJECT OBJECTIVES

      4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION OVERVIEW

      5. GRANT FROM SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT FUND OF JAPAN

      6. ANNEXES




                                              39
1. INTRODUCTION

1.1. Project rationale.

A preliminary study and assessment of the Dushanbe water supply by international experts
involved by the International Development Association (the consulting company BWS (Austria)
in 2000, consultant Mr. Gunnar Demoulin in 2001 and consultant Ms. Leila Talipova in 2008),
demonstrated that the water supply and sanitation in Dushanbe provided by the SUE
“Dushanbevodokanal? (DVK) were at a very low level.

In reports, Consultants have noted the following:

       Poor condition of facilities: Water treatment and water supply networks are in continuous
operation without repair and renewal, and their current technological and sanitation standards do
not meet requirements.

        Inefficient operation: The most difficult technical issues for DVK are huge water losses
and leakages in the system. The results of this situation are poor drinking water quality and
unreliable water supply. The annual water production volume in Dushanbe is approximately
269.7 million m³, (or about 1400 liters per day per person, including physical losses). Water
losses in the system are enormous. According to estimates, water losses per year in Dushanbe are
159 million m³, and this is 53% of water production (from which the losses in the distribution
network are 16%, and 37% in the water supply lines of multi-stored houses). Moreover it does not
take into account additional water savings that could be achieved through the implementation of
an effective water demand management, especially in private houses with gardens. The DVK
system does not have the main water meters.

        Unviable and lack of financial resources: Extremely low tariff rates (equivalent USD
0.004 per cubic meter for residential customers in 1998) in combination with a very low
collection rate (only 20% for that period). The severe DVK financial situation means that the
DVK can only work by reducing its accumulated inter-agency debts and by collecting the debts
of its users and as a result of this DVK has not adequately maintained its facilities.

      Lack of human capacity: The rapid emigration of a large number of DVK‟s technical
personnel as a consequence of the civil war in Tajikistan.

The Soviet Union collapsed in 1991 and in Tajikistan the situation deteriorated with provision
and quality of public services such as: water supply, sanitation and solid waste management.
Nowadays, there is still an acute need for rehabilitation and reconstruction of considerable part of
infrastructure in order to regain the level of public services at acceptable level. But state
enterprises of the utilities are unable to cope with problems due to the lack of financial resources
and institutional capacities. At the same time, considerable part of infrastructure does not meet
modern standards of efficiency operation.

In the framework of goals for reducing poverty in the country and improvement of life quality
Tajikistan Government signed on July 3, 2002 Development Credit Agreement and received a
loan (3664-TJ) in the amount of XDR 13.5 million from International Development Association
for implementation of Dushanbe Water Supply Project. The main project objectives are to
improve safety, reliability, efficiency and financial viability of Dushanbe water supply services.



                                                 40
There was project preparation phase before Credit Agreement signing, funded by a Project
Preparation Fund Q189-TJ and Grant from Swiss Government TF021819. After Project
preparatory phase completion and fulfillment of additional conditions of loan entry into force
(signing of the Subloan Agreement between the Ministry of Finance and State Unitary Enterprise
"Dushanbevodokanal", hiring an individual Operator, signing of Service Contract, and etc.) the
basic Credit entered into force on October 31, 2002.

For Project implementation, coordination and monitoring, Dushanbe Municipality (Khukumat)
established the Project Coordination Unit (PCU). Since 2002, this Project is implemented by
PCU, SUE Dushanbevodokanal and foreign individual Operator (till February 2006), selected on
a tender basis.

1.2. Project Financiers

Initially the Dushanbe Water Supply Project was funded by:

        Grant from Swiss Government TF021819 in the amount of 300,000 Swiss Francs
        Credit from the International Development Association (IDA) of the World Bank in the
         amount of XDR 13.5 million (at the time of signing the equivalent was 17 million USD).
        Tajikistan Government in the amount of USD 2.43 million (estimated value)

It was acknowledged during Project evaluation that investments needs for this sector are huge and
full rehabilitation of water supply and sanitation system in Dushanbe would take long time, very
costly and it would be gradual process. In this sense Dushanbe Water Supply Project was
designed as an initial step towards improving of water supply services in the Tajik capital,
focusing its implementation on more urgent works requiring immediate results. Considering
current limited funds, the Project approach was to determine an annual basis, of key priorities that
would have stable impact on improving of the water supply system. As a result of this approach
an urgent need has arisen for immediate additional financial resources. In this regard the Republic
of Tajikistan has requested the Bank to provide additional credit / grant in order to expand the
scope of activities including ongoing implementation programs to improve water supply to
multistoried houses, install advanced disinfecting equipment, and rehabilitate sand filters in one
of the DVK water treatment plants. Agreement on additional financing was signed on Feb. 1,
2007 in the amount of XDR 2380 thousands Credit 3664-1-TJ IDA (70%) and Grant H-264-TJ
(30%) XDR 1020 thousand (total equivalent 5.0 million USD).


2.   PROJECT TASKS

Project intended to increase the safety, quality, reliability and efficiency of water supply, as well
as strengthen the financial viability and stability of the SUE "Dushanbevodokanal". Progress in
achieving Project objectives can be evaluated by monitoring of the following indicators:

        Safety and quality: the percentage of water quality samples in respective specified value
         of the basic parameters
        Reliability: water supply continuity. Consumers percentage who receive water for 24
         hours a day;
        Efficiency: Reduction of energy consumption at the rate of 1m³/water (task – reduction of
         energy consumption till 20%), reduction of water losses (40 thousand m³ /day), increase
         records volumes of works;


                                                 41
        Financial viability: exceeding annual income over the sum of operating costs,
         maintenance expenditures and expenditures related with project implementation;
        Sustainability: satisfaction of public by water services, an agreement on effective
         institutional arrangements to preserve the stability of the Project achievements after its
         completion, perhaps with the expansion of private sector involvement.


3.   PROJECT OBJECTIVES

     a) strategic rehabilitation and efficiency improvement of existing facilities which are in
        emergency condition;
     b) management         and institutional strengthening of the utility of Dushanbe
        (Dushanbevodokanal State Unitary Enterprise -DVK) through conclusion of Service
        Contract (SC) with an internationally experienced water utility Operator (the Private
        Operator, PO);
     c) strengthen of DVK financial capacity through improved financial management and
        commercial practices.


4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION OVERVIEW

The underlying principle of providing financing for the Project implementation was hiring of
international Operator who has sufficient experience in this sector and the appropriate qualified
personnel. According to the international selection with IDA World Bank “no-objection? a
Services Contract was awarded to consortium of MVV Energie AG / HYDROPLAN (Germany)
(Operator) for a period of 36 months.

In the annex "Implementation Standards" and the relevant provisions of the Service Contract the
Private Operator (PO) must implement 76 tasks during three years, which have annual control
indicators. During Operator‟s activities the following were developed:
     1. Service Payment Program
     2. Training and Staff Development
     3. Public Enlightenment Program
     4. Commercial Management Plan
     5. Energy Management Plan
     6. Plan for Hydraulic Modeling Network
     7. Plan for Protection and Monitoring of the Water Supply Sources
     8. Plan for Repair and Rehabilitation
     9. Plan for Customer Service
     10. Computerized System of Billing and Tracking of Incomes
     11. Network Information System Plan
     12. Procurement Provision
     13. Customers Service Program
     14. Qualification Evaluation of the Production Personnel
     15. Monitoring Guidelines for Dushanbevodokanal
     16. Base Year Report
     17. Sampling Program and Water Quality Monitoring
     18. Report on Leaks
     19. Annual Water management Balance 2004 and Indicator Detecting Direct Loses
     20. Operation and Maintenance Plan


                                                 42
Service Contract tasks:

          Improvement of water quality and water supply continuity through water loss
           reduction
         Reduction of energy consumption through increase of energy efficiency of the
           various plants, as well as better management of facility
         Improvement of Financial viability by:
             o Introducing an appropriate tariff setting;
             o Improving collection revenues by maintaining strictest cost control in order to
                 improve the annual ratio of collected revenue over the sum of operation
                 expenses with project-related costs.
         • Strategic rehabilitation and efficiency improvement of existing facilities, and
         • General institutional strengthening of DVK.

The performance of the PO, and thus the success of the Project, will consequently have to be
assessed keeping these main objectives in mind.

The Service Contract was designed very similar to other World Bank Management Contracts,
notably those in Armenia (Yerevan) and Uzbekistan (Samarkand and Bukhara). Institutional
environment was maybe not taken sufficiently into account and the term of the contract has, on
the request of the Client, unreasonably been reduced to three years only. In the beginning
Operator‟s work cooperation between the SUE “Dushanbevodokanal? management and the PO
was problematic, because of which the PO could not take control over SUE “Dushanbevodokanal?
activity in 2003. Moreover, according to the contract, Operator had to manage activity of the
water production staff, including managing staff of the SUE “Dushanbevodokanal?, excluding
Director of the Company. Actually Operator did not control activity of the SUE
“Dushanbevodokanal? staff, it was under control of DVK Director. Operator was in position of a
common consultant which provided technical assistance to the company, instead of conduction
required substantial change into the SUE “Dushanbevodokanal?. The only positive moment in the
PO activity was managing over the sales department of SUE “Dushanbevodokanal? from March
of 2005, which was 1,5 year after beginning of its activity. As usual contract implementation of
similar contracts takes about 5 years. According to the practice such duration of contract is
reasonable, because in the initial phase of a contract implementation due to starting difficulties
may not be reached any substantial progress. Decision on shortening time of the Service Contract
implementation up to three years, without introduction of any simplification or optimization into
the scope of tasks of the Contract, remuneration decrease was not justified. Further if will be
signed such contracts we should take into account the fact of insufficiency of basic data of the
company required for implementation and readiness of the managing staff to cooperate with
Consultant and facilitate its activity in implementation of planned tasks.

The selection of the PO was entirely cost based (after meeting an easy to achieve technical
minimum score) which has obviously encouraged (at least the winning bidder) firms to submit
proposals with insufficient number of (partly insufficient qualified) staff. Institutional
environment did not allow the PO to take over the management of DVK in the spirit of Service
Contract. This becomes most obvious when looking at the Operation‟s Staff Appendix.

Many implementation delays and incompliances with the condition of the Service Contract were
caused by problems in the first year:



                                               43
•   The POs team was weak. An insufficient number of key experts with partly insufficient
    qualifications (notably very limited water utility expertise)
•   The lack of co-operation from DVK with respect to providing data and information in a
    timely fashion.
•   And as a consequence, the PO prepared many poor quality reports and plans, most of them
    lacking an implementation schedule. This lack of proper planning was a major disadvantage
    and lead to the substantial negligence of fundamental elements of the Services Appendix.
•   The severe financial situation of DVK, being de-facto bankrupt and with bank accounts
    sometimes frozen, did have an additional negative impact on the performance of the PO. It
    has lead, besides others, to a very high staff fluctuation and DVK's problematic situation that
    competitive salaries for qualified managerial, finance and technical staff cannot be paid.

Despite all of this, significant achievements were made by the PO in cooperation with DVK:
•   A US$ 17 million investment program has been implemented in the shortest possible time;
•   Water quality has improved;
•   Supply continuity has improved;
•   Many of the facilities (notably pumping stations) have been upgraded; and
•   A good public relations and public education program has been developed and implemented.

On the other hand, there were several areas where the PO failed to take action or to achieve
results:
•   Failure to establish the required financial management and accounting systems and improve
    DVK's financial performance.
•   Total negligence of leakage reduction until the very end of the contract. Leakage reduction
    always was one of the main objectives of the project as it would help to reduce operating cost
    and reduce water demand and thus water quality; and


Finally it can be concluded that the Service Contract was an ambitious way of achieving the
development objectives but could have worked very well if:
•   The main principle - an International Operator taking control over water supply staff of
    DVK -would have been honestly accepted by the the management of DVK;
•    PCU would have been strengthened (e.g by timely engaging a Technical Auditor as early as
    required by the Service Contract and including continuous advice in his scope of work);
•   The PO would have provided sufficiently experienced personnel, especially during the first
    Year of the Contract;
•   The Contract was designed thoroughly, taking into account the local conditions, challenges
    and needs ; viz:
                      Long term of implementation;



                                                44
                       Was taken into account absence of basic data in DVK and time for its
                        collection and processing;
                       Accent is on institutional development of the company.;
                       Contract with fixed payment and remuneration as per attained results.


(i) Strategic rehabilitation and Facilities efficiency in emergency conditions;

The main task of this section have been identified during Project preparation and included in the
Repair and Rehabilitation Fund such as (a) reducing water loss and network improving, (b) water
record, (c) improving water quality and water services, safety and reliability (d) strengthening of
SUE “Dushanbevodokanal? operation activities through procurement of necessary equipment,
transportation, computer hardware and software, (e) arrangements according to the management
plan and environment monitoring. The total amount provided for repair and rehabilitation Fund
was USD 13.6 million (including "other" expenses)

(а) reducing water loss and network improving – in pursuit of this project objective the
replacement of 37 km of worn sections of the network, development and introduction of Network
Information System (NIS), Hydraulic Network Modeling (HNM), zoning of the network,
reducing water loss till 40,000 m³ / day were taken into account. Project Objectives were
partially achieved:
     40 km of pipelines are replaced;
     Dushanbe water supply system was theoretically divided by PO into 19 main areas of
         equal pressure. According to the program for water distribution network zoning at the
         nodal points were replaced 124 valves and rotary valves diameter from 100 to 900 mm
         with the installation of equipment measuring the pressure in the network. This provided
         an opportunity to partially regulate water flow in some areas of water distribution
         network. Zoning of networks requires continuation of this work, including a large amount
         of consulting services and physical works.
     Network Information System (NIS) had to be a main Operator‟s tool, and subsequently
         DVK‟s. PO has not set the NIS in the first year only basic principles were designed.
         Then the PO hired a consultant only the third year of Service Contract. A Consultant has
         supplied the software on creation and operation of the NIS and trained DVK personnel.
         Despite the fact that the maps were scanned, and the pipes were vectorized, facility data
         were not introduced and the NIS remained only in digital map. Without involvement of
         experienced specialists DVK will not be able independently complete the NIS and use it.
     To develop the Hydraulic Model Network (HMN) it is necessary to complete NIS. HMN
         was not developed, and accordingly it is impossible to complete the network zoning.
Improbable, that DVK will be able independently complete the NIS and use it in its activity.

(b) water metering – This objective was target to arrange accounting of water production, all
multistoried apartments where possible must be equipped with water meters, all non-household
consumers are equipped with water meters. PO had to provide procurement and installation of
ultrasonic water meters to count water production in the water treatment plants. This issue is not
solved. Selected supplier supplied and installed such equipment, and held related training.
However, in Napornaya and Kafirniganskaya water treatment plants this equipment do not
functioning because of electromagnetic interference from radio antenna and navigational
equipment of airport. To avoid negative impact of radio waves to the equipment it is suggested to
purchase ultrasonic meters in safety case which displayed positive results during its testing at
NAP water treatment plant. In the other two water treatment plants measuring equipment are



                                                45
installed but not operated by DVK. Due to the breach of the contract conditions the contract on
supply of the equipment was terminated and the equipment was not accepted. Operator procured
2,500 water meters to measure the amount of water consumption by population and 800 out of
that were installed in the clean water zone. Water meters installation for that period was not
possible due to poor water quality, which could lead to blocking or frequent failure of water
meters. At present, DVK on its own continuing works, it was possible after operation of the daily
sedimentation pond.

(c) improving water quality and water services, safety and reliability – This goal was target to
improve water quality through rehabilitation of water treatment facilities (rehabilitation of daily
sedimentation pond (DSP), to increase safety and reliability through piloting of water disinfection
system with sodium hypochlorite at the SAM WTP, replacement of pumps and electrical
equipment at all water treatment plants, reconstruction of existing sand filters in the NAP,
rehabilitation of booster pumping stations for high-rise buildings, etc.

The failed and inactive DSP was cleared from accumulated sediment in the amount of 200000 m³.
It was the first stage of reconstruction. The second stage of reconstruction was implemented from
IDB (Islamic Development Bank) Credit. Since commissioning of DSP in 2009, city residents in
(approximately 290,000 people) do not use untreated water from Varzob river. Also in the frames
of this Contract accumulated sediment were cleared from NAP. After commissioning of the DSP
the processing of water coagulation at the plant was put into operation due to the procurement of
the coagulant. This allowed providing clean water to 80,000 and even more Dushanbe residents.

Pumps and electrical equipment were replaced in the 1st and 2nd lifts in Kafarnigan groundwater
intake (KAF), Southwestern groundwater intake (SWW), and Samatechnaya WTP. These
activities helped to increase the growth of underground water till 13% and provide reliable and
uninterrupted water supply to those plants. For the Napornaya WTP electrical equipment had
been procured, but it was not installed due to lack of insufficient funds for the construction of
new machine room and reservoir. Existing facility of machine room was built in 1936 and that
facility is in critical condition.

The Project is fully upgraded pumps and electrical equipment with related elements in the 69 out
of 101 Dushanbe water pumping plants, and this allowed improving water supply to 110 people
living in the multi-stored houses. At the amount of additional project financing currently two
contracts are in the process - Reconstruction of the existing sand filters at Napornaya water
treatment plant of DVK and implementation of a pilot plant for water disinfection with sodium
hypochlorite in the Samatechnaya water treatment plant. After commissioning of filters the
drinking water will meet state and after installation of new disinfection technologies safety and
reliability of chlorination process on Samatechnaya would be provided.

(d) strengthening of SUE “Dushanbevodokanal? operation activities by procurement of
necessary equipment, transportation, computer hardware and software. During Project
implementation at the request of SUE Dushanbevodokanal there were procured necessary repair
equipment, transportation, special clothing, communications equipment, computer hardware and
software, as well as consumables, including petroleum, chlorine, coagulant, spare parts for
equipment and etc., necessary for the daily DVK activities. This goal is a temporary, which was
completed in 2006.

(e) Arrangements according to the management plan and environment monitoring
Management and Environmental Monitoring Plan (MEMP) was developed in order to prevent
impacts on environment, this Plan is fundamental to the Project activities, the environmental


                                                46
protection in the scope of Project is carried out in accordance with the requirements of the World
Bank's environmental assessment as described in OP / BP / GP 4.01, as well as laws and
regulations of the Republic of Tajikistan on the examination of environmental and impact
assessment. The original MEMP version was issued on August 2000 and updated on September
2006. MEMP goals are to identify the main impact on the environment, social and human health
as a result of the Project, to propose actions to decrease significant adverse impacts, and
determine monitoring programs.

Investment Program of Dushanbe Water Supply Project is financed by the International
Development Association of the World Bank (IDA) and by the Tajikistan Government. During
MEMP implementation the Project has no significant adverse impact on the environment and
does not threatens to human health: thus the World Bank for the purpose of OP 4.01 assigned
category "C" to the Project. Project offers significant benefits to the environment and human
health, in particular, improving the sustainability of water supply sources by reducing losses and
wasteful water use, reducing energy use through highly efficient operation and improving public
health through good quality of treated water.


(ii) Institutional Strengthening of DVK activity-based on Operator's Service Contract

SUE "Dushanbevodokanal" was established as a State Unitary Enterprise in accordance with the
Law on State Enterprises, the decision of the Chairman of Dushanbe dated May 3, 2002, whose
founder is the State Executive Authority of Dushanbe. The main duties and functions of DVK
are:
               Meeting the needs of consumers in supplying of safe drinking water;
               Collection and treatment of waste waters
               Operation and maintenance of basic facilities of water supply and wastewater.

In accordance with the terms of Service Contract Operator has assessed the qualifications of DVK
production personnel, designed and implemented staff training, has prepared Operation and
Maintenance manuals, and trained under this program, as well as within Project implementation
relevant DVK experts were trained and acknowledged with computerized accounting system.

Operator transformed DVK arrangement structure (financial, audit and public relations
departments, etc.); moreover Customer Department was completely under the direct control of the
PO for the fixed time.

One of the Service Contract items was that the PO had to manage all DVK personnel involved in
water supply, except the Director. The functions of the PO were:
• Daily direct management of water production personnel;
• Establishment of arrangement structure of water production personnel;
• Activity assessment of water production personnel and others

Actually the PO was not given the opportunity to manage personnel fully, thus it did not allow the
PO to achieve tangible results on the relevant control tasks.

(iii)  Strengthening the SUE “Dushanbevodokanal? financial capacity through
improvement of financial management of the sales department.

In respect of finance and accounting the PO in the scope of Service Contract had developed and
introduced computerized information system of financial management, accounting and reporting

                                                47
for both the DVK and for the PCU, and based on these systems submit different reports, including
financial reports, tax reports, Project Management Reports, etc. The PO was also responsible for
water supply and sanitation billing and for payments collection to DVK.

Statistics shows a steady tendency of payment reduction level in 2004 and 2005 and gradual
increase year by year during Project implementation. Period of the PO‟s activity indicated
negative changes in administration system for collecting payments over a period of project
implementation. Incorrect billing along with significant shortcomings of possibilities to provide
services and improper administration increased the level of consumer’s rejection to pay the
bills and extend consumers agreement. Especially these factors clearly appeared in 2004 and
2005. During this period, billings dramatically increased (the amount of unfairly billing on the
certain consumers categories resulted in threefold overestimation) and level of collection
significantly reduced.

According to the Service Contract Operator had to collect all DVK bills for water supply and
sewerage (through the sales department, the banks, cassiers and other terms agreed with PCU),
define and record all unpaid bills, present to PCU the list of all debt customers, take measures on
penalty of debt customers and develop procedures on collection of bills, provide it for PCU
consideration and approval. Operator had present in its quarterly reports to PCU summary anв
analysis of unpaid bills.

Actually collection of bills was administrated absolutely contrary to the conditions of the Service
Contract. It was DVK proceeding with collection of bills for water supply and sewerage and did
it in the manner as it was before. Only from time to time Operator was allowed to take part in this
process. Operator could not set duly control over record system of DVK and accordingly
accounting system as it was stipulated in the Contract was not introduced in DVK. So instead of
billing, collection of bills, providing its truthful data on billing of customers, collected bills and
the service of the customers, operator had to request for such data different departments of DVK.
Operator had no opportunity to assure its correctness (arithmetical correctness) or correspondence
to the requirements, just provided it to PCU in its quarterly reports (sometimes commenting
discrepancies). For example, DVK management was not able control and check billed customers
who have not paid their bills, so operator could not provide this data to PCU. Hence data on
billing and collection of bills provided by the PO in its reports was not adequate in point of its
correspondence to the requirements of the Service Contract, which was caused by the lack of
DVK facilities and supervision. Particularly wrong was data on billed customers and debt of
customers.

For 5 months of 2010 collection from population increased to 95% compared to 70% level (as
per project evaluation indicator) and commercial billing has reached 95 % in compare to 94%.
(as per project evaluation indicator). These levels of billing collection were attained due to DVK
management efforts. Payments are closely related to consumer billing. Payment of domestic
consumers is made simultaneously with the issuance of bills (receipts). These tasks are carried
out by controllers. The main reasons for increasing of payment collection over the last four years
and the current period of 2010 on the domestic consumers (population) may be analyzed from the
Table No.1
Statistics of 2002 up to 5 months of 2010 on the payment collection from population shows an
increase from 22% up to 95% and it can be explained by the following factors:
     Tariff increased in 12.9 times for the current period as compared with 2002;
     The number of inspectors increased on domestic consumers;
     Refusal of DVK for payment collection in 2004 by the housing utilities on domestic
         consumers;

                                                  48
             Agitation and propaganda among the population for the payment of performed services
              through the current account of DVK;
             Involvement of inspectors by opening encouraging fund for payment collection, etc.


               Financial Assessment on Indicators during project implementation
                                                                                                    Table No. 1
                            Technical and financial indicators on incomes and expenditures
                                                                                                    Thousand TJS
                          Indicators                  2002      2003      2004      2005   2006      2007    2008
      Total income                                    1316      2959      4351      7798   6966      9229 15772
      Receipt of sales                                1054      2781      3890      7751   6621      8813 14314
      Other incomes                                   262       178        461       47     345       416    1458
      Expenditures
      Salary                                                              864       2193   1796,8    2022     3320
      Allocation to Social fund                                           216        548    449,2     506      830
      Materials                                                           487       1249    1193     1065     1967
      Spare parts                                                                           168,6     145      589
      Electrical energy                                                                     1479     1665     3723
      Fuel and lubricating                                                                   490      982     1890
      Charges, taxes                                                                         89,4     368      741
      Other operational costs                                                               1994     2661     3600
      Administrative costs                                                                  2666     2011     2654
      Other expenditures                                                                     324      482       0
      Total of operational costs                                                            10650   11907     19313
      Depreciation of fixed assets                                                          2772    4717      4792
      Total:                                                                                13422   16624     24105
      Interest and financial expenditures                                                   4506    1233       860
      Total expenditures                             5207       6858      9336     15425    17928   17857     24965
      Income (loss)                                  -3891      -3899     -4985    -7627   -10962   -8628     -9192


     In general, paid incomes level does not cover production costs. For example: in 2008 DVK
     incomes were 15,772 thousand TJS while the expenses amounted to 24,965 thousand TJS, hence
     DVK losses were 9192 thousand TJS. Table No.2 summarizes DVK financial data on incomes
     and expenses.


                                           Analysis of DVK financial data
                                                                                                       Table № 2
                                                                                                               2010 (5
                  Title                            Unit            2006           2007     2008       2009    months)

Water production and sold water
Water production                                  000 m3          276726          246556   238376    246754       104530
Water loss (technical and non-technical)          000 m3          201346          170721   176162    188497        80703
Volume of sold water ( billed)                    000 m3           75380           75835    62214     58257        23827
  Population                                      000 m3           42850           39511    33992     35587        15549
  Commercial/Industrial                           000 m3            4801            3895     4048      3643         1498


                                                           49
  Budgetary organizations                   000 m3        19768   17579   16437   14808   5649
  Other customers                                          7961   14850    7738    4219   1131

Approved water tariff rates
-see Note 1 below
   Population                           Thousand   m3     0,025   0,042     0,1   0,118   0,139
   Commercial/Industrial                Thousand   m3     0,279    0,45    0,75    0,85    0,92
   Budgetary organizations              Thousand   m3     0,087    0,14     0,3    0,35   0,413
Other customers                         Thousand   m3     0,279    0,45    0,75    0,85    0,92

Realized water tariffs - see Note 2
below
  Population                            Thousand m3       0,041   0,060   0,117   0,159   0,182
  Commercial/Industrial                 Thousand m3       0,630   1,046   1,461   2,016   1,892
  Budgetary organizations               Thousand m3       0,159   0,236   0,441   0,599   0,700
Other customers                         Thousand m3
Average realized water tariff           Thousand m3       0,105   0,139   0,275   0,376   0,404

Billed water revenues (including VAT)
  Population                            Thousand TJS      1775     2363    3974    5660   2829
  Commercial/Industrial                 Thousand TJS      3023     4075    5916    7345   2834
  Budgetary organizations               Thousand TJS      3147     4147    7244    8877   3952
Total billed revenues (including VAT)   Thousand TJS      7945    10585   17134   21882   9615
Total billed revenues (excluding VAT)   Thousand TJS      6621     8821   14278   18235   8013
Collected water revenues (including
VAT)
  Population                            Thousand TJS      1559    1953    2642    4990    2695
  Commercial/Industrial                 Thousand TJS      2024    2786    4907    7304    2680
  Budgetary organizations               Thousand TJS      3036    3790    5873    8770    4297
Total collected revenues (including     Thousand TJS
VAT)                                                      6619    8529    13422   21064   9672
Total collected revenues (excluding     Thousand TJS
VAT)                                                      5516    7108    11185   17553   8060
                                        Thousand TJS
Collection ratio (5)
  Population                                  %             88       83      66      88     95
  Commercial/Industrial                       %             67       68      83      99     95
  Budgetary organizations                     %             96       91      81      99    109
All consumers                                 %             83       81      78      96    101

Operating expenses
Salaries & wages                            ТС/m3          1797    2022    3320
Social fund contributions                   ТС/m3           449     506     830
Materials and Spare parts                   ТС/m3          1362    1210    2556
Electrical energy                           ТС/m3          1479    1665    3723
Fuel                                        ТС/m3           490     982    1890
Taxes & compulsory contributions            ТС/m3            89     368     741
Administrative expenses                     ТС/m3          2666    2011    2654
Other cash operating expenses               ТС/m3          2318    3142    3600
Total operating expenses                    ТС/m3         10650   11906   19314
Depreciation                                ТС/m3          2772    4717    4792
Total operating expenses                    ТС/m3         13422   16623   24106
Interest expense & financial charges        ТС/m3          4506    1233     860
Total expenses                              ТС/m3         17928   17856   24966


                                                     50
Annual working ratio - see Note 3
below                                               ratio              1,93         1,68        1,73

Current assets and liabilities
Accounts receivable from residential
customers                                          ТС/m3
Accounts receivable from budgetary
customers                                          ТС/m3
Accounts receivable from other
customers                                         ТС/m3
Total accounts receivable                         TJS 000             2527         2408        4349
Other current liabilities                         ТС/m3              10898         9573        5539
  Total current assets                            ТС/m3              13425        11981        9888
Trade accounts payable                            ТС/m3               6435         5324        9019
Other accounts payable                            ТС/m3               2872         5177        6134
Other current liabilities                         ТС/m3
 Total current liabilities                        ТС/m3               9307        10501       15153

Current ratio (cuuent assets/current
liabilities)                                            ratio            1,44         1,14       0,65
DVK's share of annual debt service -
see Note 4 below
Interest & financial charges
Loan principal repayment                               ТС/m3                         1233         860
  Total annual debt service                            ТС/m3                            25        422
Current ratio (cuuent assets/current
liabilities)                                           ТС/m3                         1258       1282
Notes:
1. Approved tariffs are the tariff levels approved by the municipal/regional authorities.
2. Realized tariffs are the tariff levels actually realized by DVK; they are calculated as annual billed revenues divided by
annual billed volume.
3. Annual working ratio is annual cash operating expenses divided by annual collected revenues (excluding VAT).
4. DVK's share of debt service is the share that DVK is actually expected to pay; the share of debt service to be paid by
the Government should be excluded.
.

     The part of accounts receivable of enterprise became like a weak warranty for reimbursement of
     costs. Also DVK tries different ways to convince customers to pay their bills through collection
     inspectors; representatives of multistoried apartments or community administration.

     International consultants completed to provide individual consultancy on financial management
     who was selected on a tender basis under the additional Project financing. During the annual
     period from December 2007 Consultant fulfilled significant work aimed to improve DVK
     financial management:
          Initial financial activity was evaluated, report describing the strengths and weaknesses
              was prepared and submitted;
          Development and supervision over plan implementation within fixed time for improving
              enterprise financial management;



                                                            51
       Development and implement of accounting policies, adaptation of modern technologies
        of management accounting, development set of key indicators to monitor enterprise
        financial activity;
       Development and adaptation of accounting regulations and procedures;
       Certification of accounting and sales department personnel;
       Supervising DVK quarterly and annual progress reports;
       Consulting support to financial personnel and PCU management concerning Project
        implementation, etc.

Also within Additional Financing specialized local company is adapting accounting software 1C
to DVK and PCU: Accounting, whose tasks include:
     Review of current accounting system of DVK and PCU;
     Setting up of current local network in accordance with the 1C software;
     Setting up of current 1C software in accordance with the PCU requirements;
     Setting up current software based on 1C in accordance with the requirements of DVK;
     Adaptation of billing system. Installation of network billing system in the DVK sales
        department;
     Training for PCU to use the software (an individual training - 3 specialists);
     Group training of DVK accounting personnel (15 specialists - 50 hours);
     Consulting support during introducing process of incoming balance of all accounts of the
        accounting for DVK and PCU.
     Training of DVK sales department personnel to work with billing system (50 hours of
        group training);
     Consulting support for introducing consumers database details in billing system;
     Development of manuals for DVK and PCU personnel;
     Ongoing support and maintenance of software in the DVK and PCU;

The Public Institute of Professional Accountants and Auditors of Republic of Tajikistan carried
out three courses to enhance the skills of accounting personnel of the SUE "Dushanbevodokanal"
in International Financial Standards of Reporting:
      Financial Accounting - 1 (25 DVK specialists, 60 hours);
      Management Accounting - 1 (15 DVK specialists, 60 hours);
      Laws & Taxes (15 DVK specialists, 60 hours)

Tests were taken after completion of courses and certificates were issued.

Financial and Economic Department of DVK is responsible for tariff calculation and elaboration.
Furthermore, approval of the Department for the State Agency on antimonopoly policy and
entrepreneurship support under the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan is required.
Tariffs are reviewed in irregular intervals, although there is a regular pattern operating for the last
three years. The last tariff adjustments took place in 2004, 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010.

From February 1, 2010 by the Decision of the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade
under No.3 dated 12.02.2010 new tariff on drinking water and sanitation was introduced
(increased percentage by the grouped consumers):
     For population +12,2%
     For budgetary + 11,8%
     For commercial + 5,2%
Based on tariff increase for the electric power.


                                                  52
5. GRANT FROM THE JAPANESE SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT FUND

In addition to the main Project, Japanese Social Development Fund (JSDF) awarded a Grant (TF
051228) to work with communities to manage urban water supply, grant was aimed to improve
safety and reliability of water supply systems in multistoried apartments in Dushanbe which
participated in the Project.

PCU with the support of international NGO – TBW, Technical Consultancy for Land and Water
Use LLC implemented this Project. The Project was funded by:
      • JSDF Grant IDA USD 2,539,000
      • Government and communities involved in the Project: Estimated USD 317,000;

5.1. The main objectives and tasks of the JSDF
 Establishing or institutional strengthening based on freewill association of homeowners -
     Communities;
 Removal of intra-houses and intra-apartments leaks through the rehabilitation, replacement
     and repair of water distribution systems and water fittings inside the multi-stored houses,
     apartments and communities involved in the Project;
 Training and stimulation of Communities for further independent operation and maintenance
     of intra-houses water supply systems

5.2. Results Achieved

In the framework of the Project in Dushanbe formed 42 Communities based on freewill
association of apartment residents in residential districts and private houses in the communities.
Including:
• 5 communities in Shohmansur district
• 4 communities in Somoni district;
• 12 communities in Firdausi district;
• 21 communities in Sino district.

Communities have been formed under the existing laws of the Republic of Tajikistan and
underwent          state        registration   in         Ministry      of        Justice;
• During the Project implementation period rehabilitation works were completed in 46 sub-
projects in the newly formed communities that encompass 393 and 566 multi-stored private
houses with total population 47,068 people.


6. PROPOSALS

Dushanbe has a sharp relief of the territory with a difference in altitude from north to south about
150 meters, water supply zoning is required in order to ensure sufficient amount of water and
pressure head to consumers. Water supply zoning in Dushanbe was started about 35 years ago,
when first water lines and pressure-regulating reservoir zones were constructed. At the present
time, all necessary reservoirs and part of the water supply lines are constructed. Completion of
Network Information System and Hydraulic Model Network are necessary to complete city water
supply network zoning. Then it would be possible to define the entire scope of the works and the
cost of zoning, including construction of unfinished water lines, communications, central pipe
fitting and required metering equipments and etc.



                                                 53
Practice has shown that most Plans and Programs developed by the PO, which had to improve
DVK activity in operation of existing facilities, reducing energy consumption, water quality
control, financial management, work with customers were not implemented due to the following:
     Low qualification of DVK staff;
     High rate of fluctuation of DVK staff;
     Introduction of plans and programs should be supervised by its designers or experienced
         specialists at least in its initial phase of implementation;
     Permanent control of the management ;
     Lack of permanent qualification improvement and accreditation of DVK staff.

We think it is necessary to attract experienced international consulting companies, who together
with DVK specialists would start to implement programs. The Project has procured a complete
set of equipment to detect leaks. The Supplier of the equipment carried out training for DVK
personnel. In the procurement plan of Additional Financing was included hiring an individual
international consultant for leaks. Survey of 60 km. water supply lines in Dushanbe was provided
for 2 months, a working group from DVK was created for the continuing effort to detect leaks
and to develop the structure and position of detection group and remove DVK leaks. These
activities were not fulfilled because of small dedicated budget and large amount of the works
considered in a short period. Taking into account this important component for further DVK
activity, it is necessary to continue support of DVK through involvement of experienced
international consultants for a long period to detect leaks covering the entire Dushanbe water
supply system.




ANNEXES TO BORROWER ICR:

Annex 1: Information on financing and expenditures of funds from Project financiers.

Annex 2: Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators5

Annex 3: Information on Implemented Contract of the Dushanbe Water Supply Project.6




5
    Not provided (ndlr)
6
    Not provided (ndlr)


                                               54
                   Borrower ICR Annex 1: Information on financing and expenditures of funds

     1. Development Credit Agreement, Credit 3664-TJ (As of August 1, 2010)

                                                       IDA Credit 3664-TJ       Government Input         Total
            Component & Categories
                                                           Million                                       Million
                                                                       %      Million USD    %
                                                            USD                                           USD
Component A. Repair and Rehabilitation Fund of
Water Supply System in Dushanbe:
Works …………………………………….                                           4.97   89.9          0.56      10.1         5.53
Goods……………………………………..                                          12.00   98.1          0.23       1.9        12.23
Recurrent costs of DVK………………….                                  0.28   82.4          0.06      17.6         0.34
        Total on Component A………….                              17.25   95.3          0.85       4.7         18.1

Component B. Service Contract Provision:
 Management services…………………….                                   1.56   69.0          0.70      31.0          2.26
       Total on Component В……………                                1.56   69.0          0.70      31.0          2.26

Component C. Project Management:
 Consultant's services, training, auditing….                    0.69   84.1          0.13      15.9          0.82
 Incremental operating costs………………                              0.35   79.5          0.09      20.5          0.44
       Total on Component C……………                                1.04   82.5          0.22      17.5          1.26

TOTAL (Actual) …………………………..                                    19.85   91.8          1.77       8.2        21.62
TOTAL (Expected at closing date) ………                           19.93   91.8          1.78       8.2        21.71
According to PAD plan……….……………                                 17.00   87.5          2.43      12.5        19.43




     2. Additional Financing, Credit 3664-1-TJ / Grant H264-TJ (As of August 1, 2010)

                                                       IDA Credit 3664-1-
                                                                                Government Input         Total
            Component & Categories                     TJ/Grant H264-TJ
                                                        Million                                          Million
                                                                     %        Million USD    %
                                                         USD                                              USD
Component 1. Provision and installation of sodium
hypo-chlorine equipment for disinfection of water:
Goods ………                                                       1.23   98.4          0.02          1.6       1.25

Component 2. Rehabilitation of rapid sand filters
at the Napornaya Water Treatment Plant: Works                   0.84   89.4          0.10      10.6          0.94

Component 3. Provision of additional equipment
to complement on-going works, in particular, the
rehabilitation of booster stations: Goods …                     0.50   87.7          0.07      12.3          0.57

Component 4. TA for utility management,
financial management and accounting, water
distribution network zoning and leak detection,
and institutional, financial and technical studies,
as well as audits: Services, including audit ……                 0.71   88.8          0.09      11.2          0.80

Component 5. Assistance with Project
management, including financing of operating


                                                      55
costs:   Operating costs……………………..                          0.32         86.5              0.05           13.5         0.37

 TOTAL (Actual) ………………………..                                 3.60         91.6              0.33            8.4         3.93
 TOTAL (Expected at closing date) ……                        5.17         88.0              0.70           12.0         5.87
 According to PAD plan……….………….                             5.00         88.0              0.68           12.0         5.68




     3. JSDF Grant Number TF051228: Community-based Urban Water Supply
     Management Project (supplement to Dushanbe Water Supply Project) (Completed)
                                                 Grant                                         Communities
                                                                       Government                                    Total
         Component & Categories                TF051228                                        Contribution
                                              1000                       1000                  1000                   1000
                                                       %                             %                    %
                                              USD                        USD                   USD                    USD
Part A. Creation and capacity building of
CBOs to manage communal systems:
 Consultant's services                         398.9         100                                                      398.9

Part B. Small works and materials to repair
communal distribution systems:
 Works                                          636.3       75.6              42.3   5.0          163.0       19.4    841.6
 Goods                                        1,170.0       91.3             111.1   8.7                              1,281.
                                                                                                                          1
Part C. Training activities to CBOs and
capacity building of CBO Association            78.0         100
                                                                                                                         78.0
 Part D. Capacity building for M&E and
interaction with NGOs and CBOs:
  Consultant and sociologist services….         35.5         100
                                                                                                                         35.5
Part E. Audits:                                       0          0
                                                                                                                           0
TOTAL (Actual)                                2,318.7                    153.4                 163.0
According to the Agreement                    2,539.0                According             According                  2,635.
                                                                     ly                           ly                       1
                                                                                                                     Accord
                                                                                                                     ingly


     4. Grant of the Swiss Government TF 021819 for project preparation (Fully disbursed)
                                                Grant TF 021819                  Government Input                Total
          Component & Categories
                                                Million
                                                                     %         Million USD         %          Million USD
                                                 USD
Component 1. Consultant services:                     0.19           100.0                 0              0              0.19

TOTAL (Actual) ………………………..                                0.19       100.0                 0              0              0.19
According to the Agreement …………….                         0.22       100.0                 0              0              0.22




                                                 56
Annex 7b. Borrower's comments on final draft ICR

                            [Officious translation of Russian original]
 From:                                                 To:
Government of Tajikistan                               Task Team Leader
First Deputy Chairman                                  Dushanbe Water Supply Project
of Dushanbe City                                       Mr. Pier Francesco Mantovani
Date: 15/12/11


Dear Mr. Mantovani,

Local Government Executive Body of Dushanbe City assures its highest esteem to you and
informs that during Project appraisal it was acknowledged that investment needs for this sector
are high, and that full rehabilitation of water supply and sewerage systems in Dushanbe would be
a long, expensive and staged process.

The Dushanbe Water Supply Project was developed as an initial step towards improvement of
water supply services in the capital of Tajikistan with focus on implementation of the most urgent
works that require immediate results.

The essential condition for Project implementation financing was the recruitment of the
international Private Operator who had enough sector experience and relevant qualified staff.
Following an international tender approved by IDA, the Service Contract was awarded to MVV
Energie AG/ HYDROPLAN (Germany) (Operator) for 36 months.

Pursuant to the SC, the Private Operator was obliged to implement 76 tasks, with annual targeted
values, and to be achieved within three years.

Detailed analysis of Operator's performance and Project execution was provided under the
Technical Audit conducted by “Limberger and Partners? company. The main conclusion was that
the Service Contract was ambitious. Actually, it was not realistic to achieve targeted values in
three years. It should be noted that originally the Project was considered for five years of
implementation.

Comments on the performance indicator values:

a) Safety
Half of Dushanbe‟s population is supplied from the surface water source of the Varzob river.
“Napornaya? and “Samotechnaya? water treatment plants, which treat surface water, have been
operating for more than 50 years and were not meeting potable water quality standards at the time
of Project commencement. This maintained a risk of infectious disease outbreak among the
population. The quality of water supplied to population and its disinfection improved
substantially after implementation of certain contracts at these two plants under the Dushanbe
Water Supply Project. The cases of typhoid fever decreased from 177 in 2004 to 0 in 2010,
pursuant official data that was provided by the State Sanitary and Epidemiologic Control Center
of Dushanbe city (this data was also submitted to the World Bank in the report of the Monitoring



                                                57
and Evaluation Consultant). Due to that fact, the one of the main Project Development Objectives
regarding provision of the population safety was achieved.
b) Power consumption
Currently volumes of water consumption are not measured at any of the four DVK water
production sites, which supply potable water to the city, due to absence of bulk meters. There are
no meters installed at the outlet of pump station of the right bank zones IV and V and left bank
zone IV. Volumes of water produced are estimated by DVK based on the capacity of the
installed pumps. This method does not provide actual production measurements. Energy
consumption at DVK sites is measured by meters that are the property of the energy utility. The
adopted monitoring indicator for energy consumption in the Project is the ratio of energy
consumed per volume of water produced per annum (increase from 0,38 in 2002 to 0,52 in 2010).
The indicator developed by this method doesn't reflect real conditions.

It should be noted that this Project was the first one implemented during the period of transition
economy in the socially significant DVK service area. It was the first time that DVK was faced
with World Bank procurement procedures, international standards and rules of urban water
supply utility management, financial management, legal reforms, hydraulic modeling of water
supply network and other new technologies. Actually, during Project implementation DVK staff
were trained and received basic knowledge for the above mentioned.. The experience obtained
during the first phase of the Project was successfully applied by DVK staff together with the new
WB team during the second implementation phase (Additional Financing: improvement of water
quality at “Napornaya? Station; new disinfection technology at “Samotechnaya? Station and
rehabilitation of 30 booster stations).

The view of the former heads of the Dushanbe Water Supply Project Coordination Unit is that the
overall Project rating presented in the Implementation Completion and Results Report as
“Moderately Unsatisfactory? is not objective and is not accurate.

In this regard we consider the overall Project rating of “Moderately Unsatisfactory? be
judgmental and not taking into account the above mentioned arguments, and we request to
consider the objective factors in presenting the final Project rating.

Local Government Executive Body of Dushanbe city expresses appreciation to the World Bank
for fruitful and mutually beneficial cooperation in investing into modernization of socially
significant urban sector which is Dushanbe water supply sector.


Sincerely                                                           N. Khairulloev




                                                58
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
N/A




                                         59
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Aide memoires 1998-2011

Demoulin, Gunnar (2001). Proposed Dushanbe Water Supply Project (Version 01): Preparation
of a Program for Improving the Water Production Facilities. Report prepared for the World Bank.

Dushanbe Vodokanal (2000). Business Plan of Dushanbe Vodokanal. Second Draft. Dushanbe,
Tajikistan.

Implementation Status and Results Reports (ISRs) from August 2002 to December 2010.

Liemberger & Partners GmgH (2006). Review of the Operator’s Performance: General Problem
Analysis Report. October 2006. Dushanbe, Tajikistan.

Liemberger & Partners GmgH (2006). Audit of the Operator’s Year 2 and 3 Performance: Audit
Report. October 2006. Dushanbe, Tajikistan.

Liemberger & Partners GmgH (2005). Audit of the Base Year Data Report: Audit Opinion
Statement. April 20, 2005. Dushanbe, Tajikistan.

Liemberger & Partners GmgH (2005). Audit of the Operator’s First Year Performance. April 20,
2005. Dushanbe, Tajikistan.

Nematullo, Abdulloev (2010). Final Report No. 4 on Monitoring and Evaluation of the Results of
Dushanbe Water Supply Project. Dushanbe, Tajikistan.

Procurement Post Review 2007

TBW Technical Consultancy for Land and Water Use Ltd. (2007). Community-Based Urban
Water Supply Management Project: Final Report of Consultant. July 2007. Dushanbe, Tajikistan.

The World Bank (2002). Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Credit in the Amount of
SDR 13.5 million (US$17 million equivalent) to the Republic of Tajikistan for the Dushanbe
Water Supply Project. Report No. 24006-TJ. May 20, 2002.




                                              60
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             IBRD 38980

                                                                                                                                                                       TAJIKISTAN
                                                                                   DUSHANBE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
                                                                                        Main Components of Water Supply System
                                  WATER TREATMENT                                                                                                                                                                                        MAIN ROADS
                                  PLANTS AND WELLFIELDS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SECONDARY ROADS
                                  THIRD STAGE PUMPING STATIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         RAILROADS
                                  TREATED WATER STORAGE


This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.




                                                                                                                                                              RUDA
The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information




                                                                                                                                                                  KI
shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank




                                                                                                                        Varzo
Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.




                                                                                                                              b
                                                                                                                          River
                                                                                                                                                                                       SAM
                                                                             Lu
                                                                               sh
                                                                                 ob
                                                                                    Riv
                                                                                           er




                                                                                                                                                              KARAMOVA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TAJIKISTAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Dushanbe




                                                                                                                                                                              RUDAKI
                                                                                                                                   NAP
                                                                           KARAMOVA




                                                                           NI
                                                                ISMAIL SOMO
                                                  ACADEMIC GHAFUROV




         r Canal
    Gissa
                                                                                                                                                                                                        DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                            UZ
                                                                                                                                                                                                               H
                                                                                      PROFSIUZOV




                                                                                                                                                                                                              BA
                                                                                                                                                                                                               NA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 RO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DO
                                                                                                                                                                                       RU




                                                                                                                                                                                                                      V
                                                                                                                                                                                       DA
                                                                                                                                                                                        KI




                                                                                                                                                                                                     AINI

                                                                                                                                    ZI
                                                                                                                              SHERO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              AHMED




                                                                                                                       HAFIZA
                                                                                                                                                                       KOR
                                                                                                                                                                          G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DONISH
                                                                                                                                                                         AR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     AINI

                                                                                                                                                                                             TITOV

                                                                              SHESTOPAVLOV
                                                                      IEV




                                                                                   ABAYA                                                                                                                                      Dushanbe
                                                               NA B




                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Airport
                                                                                                   NEGMATA KARABAEVA
                                                                              AD




                                                            DJAM
                                                                            BORB




                                                                       I

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             KAF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ve
                     V                                                                                                                                                                                                Ri
                  BIE
             NA                                                                                                                                                                                                  an
                         SWW                                                                                                                                                                                   ig
                                                                                                                                         Dushanbe ska Riv




                                                                                                                                                                                                           n
                                                                                                                                                                                                       fir
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Ka
                                                                                                                                                         er




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0            1       2 Kilometers


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0                1                  2 Miles


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DECEMBER 2011
