Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3664-1-TJ 
GRANT NUMBER H264-TJ 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing for Dushanbe Water Supply Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated February 1, 2007 
 
Page  2
Page  3
CREDIT NUMBER 3664-1-TJ 
GRANT NUMBER H264-TJ 
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated February 1, 2007, entered into between REPUBLIC OF 
TAJIKISTAN (
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”) for the purpose of providing additional financing for activities related to 
the Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Recipient and 
the Association hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Financing 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions, in the 
Appendix to this Agreement or in the Original Financing Agreement, provided 
that these terms are not defined in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to 
this Agreement.  
ARTICLE II - FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant and a credit in the following 
amounts to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (“Project”): 
(a) 
an amount equivalent to one million twenty thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 1,020,000) (the Grant); and 
(b)  
an amount equivalent to two million three hundred eighty thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 2,380,000) (the Credit). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
Page  4
-
2
-
2.04 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with repayment 
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is Dollars. 
ARTICLE III - PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Recipient shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project 
Implementing Entity and the Municipality of Dushanbe in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and in accordance with the 
Operational Manual, EMMP and Action Plan, all satisfactory to the Association. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
(a) 
The Project Implementing Entity or the Municipality of Dushanbe shall 
have failed to perform any of their respective obligations under the 
Project Agreement. 
(b) 
The Operational Manual shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated 
or waived without the Association’s prior consent. 
(c) 
The Action Plan shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated or 
waived without the Association’s prior consent. 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following: any event 
specified in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of Section 4.01
 
of this Agreement occurs 
Page  5
-
3
-
and is continuing for a period of 60
 
days after notice of the event has been given 
by the Association to the Recipient. 
ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
(a) 
The Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Recipient 
and DVK.  
(b) 
The Recipient has adopted the Operational Manual, satisfactory to the 
Association.  
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matters consist of the following: 
(a) 
The Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Recipient and DVK and is legally binding upon the Recipient and DVK 
in accordance with its terms. 
(b) 
The Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by DVK and 
the Municipality of Dushanbe and is legally binding upon DVK and the 
Municipality of Dushanbe in accordance with its terms.
 
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
5.04. 
For purposes of Section 8.05 (b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement shall terminate is twenty (20) 
years after the date of this Agreement. 
ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Minister for Finance. 
Page  6
-
4
-
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministry of Finance 
3, Akademikov Rajabovykh Avenue 
Dushanbe, 734025 
Republic of Tajikistan 
 
Facsimile: 
 
992-372-213329 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 International 
Development 
Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
or 1-202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI) 
 
AGREED at Dushanbe, Republic of Tajikistan, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN 
 
By /s/ Safarali Najmuddinov 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Cevdet Denizer 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  7
-
5
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is to improve the safety, reliability, efficiency and 
financial viability of the water supply services in Dushanbe. 
The Project consists of the Original Project and the following additional parts: 
Component 1
:
Provision and installation of sodium hypo-chlorine equipment for 
disinfection of water. 
Component 2:
Rehabilitation of rapid sand filters at the Napornaya Water Treatment 
Plant. 
Component 3:
Provision of additional equipment to complement on-going works, in 
particular, the rehabilitation of booster stations. 
Component 4
:
Provision of technical assistance to DVK to improve institutional and 
financial management, including employment of consultants for utility management, 
financial management and accounting, water distribution network zoning and leak 
detection, as well as the financing of audit services of the Project and DVK. 
Component 5:
Assistance with Project management, including financing of Operating 
Costs.  
 
Page  8
-
6
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Subsidiary Financing, Institutional and Other Arrangements
1.
 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project the Recipient shall make the proceeds 
of the Financing available to DVK under a Subsidiary Agreement between the 
Recipient and DVK, under terms and conditions approved by the Association, 
which shall include the following: 
(a) 
The term of the Subsidiary Loan shall be thirty (30) years, including a 
grace period of five years. 
(b) 
Interest on the amount of the Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time at a rate that shall gradually increase every year for 
ten years after the grace period to reach five percent (5%). 
(c) 
The Subsidiary Loan shall be denominated in US Dollars. 
2. 
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Association and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Financing. The Recipient shall not assign, amend, 
arrogate, or waive the Subsidiary Agreement or any of its provisions without 
prior approval by the Association. 
3. 
The Recipient shall take all measures necessary to ensure that: (a) the 
Municipality of Dushanbe shall review, in accordance with established 
procedures, the periodic proposals for tariff adjustments submitted by DVK 
quarterly; and (b) thereafter, the Municipality of Dushanbe shall promptly take 
action to adjust said tariffs so that DVK can meet its obligations by collecting 
sufficient revenues to cover operation and maintenance costs and other expenses. 
4. 
The Recipient shall take all measures necessary to ensure that the Municipality of 
Dushanbe and the national government agencies shall, after review of the 
forecast amount of water consumption prepared by DVK every six months: (a) 
allocate in the relevant operating budgets or budget organizations adequate funds 
for payment of water fees; and (b) ensure that said funds are paid to DVK. 
5. 
The Recipient and the Municipality of Dushanbe shall take all measures 
necessary to ensure that DVK is able to collect water fees from its customers, 
including but not limited to disconnection of non-paying customers. 
6. 
The Recipient shall take all measures necessary to ensure appropriate yearly 
budgetary allocations required for Project implementation. 
Page  9
-
7
-
7. 
The Recipient shall ensure that all measures necessary for the carrying out of the 
EMMP shall be taken in a timely manner. 
8. 
The Recipient, through the PCU, shall prepare and furnish to the Association by 
November 30 in each year, for its review and concurrence, an annual work 
program for the Project for the following calendar year, including procurement 
and financing plans. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports 
 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and shall 
cause DVK to prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 
of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators agreed with the Association.  
Each Project Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar semester, and shall be 
furnished to the Association not later than forty five (45) days after the end of the period 
covered by such report.  
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
cause DVK to prepare and furnish to the Association not later than forty-five (45) 
days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim un-audited financial reports 
for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association. 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Recipient. 
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
1.
 
Goods and Works.
 
All goods and works required for the Project shall be 
procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I 
of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
Page  10
-
8
-
2
.
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project shall be 
procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I 
and IV of the Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3.
 Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
1.
 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of International Competitive Bidding. 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used: 
Procurement Method 
(a)  National Competitive Bidding for works, subject to 
the additional provisions set forth in the Annex to this 
Schedule 2 
 
(b)  Shopping 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1.
 Quality- 
and 
Cost-based 
Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be
 used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify 
the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Page  11
-
9
-
Procurement Method 
 
(a)  Least-Cost Selection 
 
(b)  
Selection Based on Consultant’s Qualifications 
 
(c)  Individual Consultants 
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Association’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review 
by the Association. 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General. 
 1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank may specify by notice to the Recipient 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made applicable to 
this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as 
set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Credit and of the Grant to each Category, and the percentage of 
expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
Page  12
-
10
-
Category 
Amount of the 
Credit Allocated 
(expressed in 
SDR) 
Amount of the 
Grant Allocated 
(expressed in 
SDR) 
 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to 
be Financed 
(1) 
 
Works 
 
476,000  
204,000  88% 
(2)  Goods 
 
1,285,200 
 
550,800 
 
88% 
(3) Consultant Services, 
including audit 
 
333,200  
142,800  88% 
(4) Operating Costs 
 
71,400 
 
30,600 
 
88% 
(5) 
Unallocated 
 
214,200  91,800  
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
2,380,000
1,020,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period.  
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.
 
2.
 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2008. 
Page  13
-
11
-
ANNEX 
to 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
National competitive bidding procedures of the Recipient may be used for 
procurement of works under the Project provided that the following provisions are 
complied with: 
 
1.  
Works, for which this Agreement allows procurement under paragraphs 3.3 and 
3.4 of the Procurement Guidelines, shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
the 
Law of the Republic of Tajikistan “
n
Public Procurement of Goods, Works and 
Services”, dated March 3, 2006 (“the Law”).  These provisions, in order to ensure 
economy, efficiency, transparency, and broad consistency with the provisions included in 
Section I of the Guidelines (as required by paragraphs. 3.3 of the Guidelines), shall be 
modified as set forth in the following paragraphs. 
 
Entity responsible for carrying out the procurement
2.  
The procurement shall be carried out by the “procuring entity”(as defined in Art. 
9
of
the Law), without any involvement of the Authorized Body on Public Procurement 
(as referred to in Art. 3 of the Law). 
 
Participation in bidding
3.  
Government-owned enterprises in Tajikistan shall be eligible to participate in 
bidding only if they can establish that they are legally and financially autonomous, 
operate under commercial law, and are not a dependent agency of the procuring entity (as 
defined in the Law). 
 
4.  
Foreign bidders shall be eligible to participate in bidding under the same 
conditions as local bidders. In particular, no domestic preference over foreign shall be 
granted to local bidders in bid evaluation. 
 
Advertising: time for bid preparation
5.  
Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated national 
newspaper, allowing a minimum of 30 days for the preparation and submission of bids. 
 
Standard bidding documents
6.  
Until a modified version of the Recipient’s standard bidding documents has been 
approved by the Association, the Association’s sample NCB bidding documents for the 
Europe and Central Asia Region shall be used.   
 
Page  14
-
12
-
Qualification criteria and evaluation criteria
7.  
Qualification criteria shall be clearly specified in the bidding documents, and 
criteria so specified, and only
 
criteria so specified, shall be used to determine whether a 
bidder is qualified. Bids of bidders not meeting such criteria shall be rejected as non-
qualified. Qualifications of a bidder found to meet the specified qualification criteria shall 
not be taken i
nto account in the evaluation of such a bidder’s bid. 
 
8.  
Evaluation criteria shall be clearly specified in the bidding documents, and 
evaluation criteria other than price shall be quantified in monetary terms. Evaluation 
criteria so specified, and only criteria so specified, shall be used in bid evaluation. Merit 
points shall not be used in bid evaluation. 
 
Bid security
9. 
For the procurement of goods and works, bidders shall be required to submit a 
bid security in the amount and in the form specified in the bidding documents, unless 
otherwise agreed with the Association.  A bid security in the form of an advance bank 
transfer shall not be allowed. 
 
Bid submission and bid opening
10.  
Bids may be delivered by mail or by hand.  Bids shall be opened immediately 
after the deadline for bid submission in the presence of the bidders who wish to attend. 
Said deadline and the place of bid opening shall be announced in the invitation to bid.  
The name of each bidder and the amount of its bid, shall be read aloud and recorded 
when opened in the minutes of bid opening.  The minutes of bid opening shall be signed 
by the members of the bidding committee immediately after bid opening. 
 
11.  
Bids received after the deadline for bid submissions shall be returned to the 
bidders unopened. 
 
Bid evaluation and award of contracts
12.  
Bidders shall not be allowed to be present during bid evaluation, and no 
information relating to the evaluation of bids shall be disclosed to bidders until the 
successful bidder is notified of the award. 
 
13.  
A bid containing material deviations from or reservations to the terms, conditions 
and specifications of the bidding documents shall be rejected as not substantially 
responsive. A bidder shall not be permitted to withdraw material deviations or 
reservations once bids have been opened. 
 
Page  15
-
13
-
14. 
Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria specified in the 
bidding documents, and contracts should be awarded to the qualified bidder offering the 
lowest evaluated and substantially responsive bid. 
 
15. 
A bidder shall not be required, as a condition for award, to undertake obligations 
not specified in the bidding documents or otherwise to modify the bid as originally 
submitted. 
 
16. 
There shall be no post-bidding negotiations between the purchaser and the lowest 
or any other bidder. 
Page  16
-
14
-
SCHEDULE 3
 
Repayment Schedule 
 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
 
On each March 15 and September 15: 
 
commencing March 15, 2017 to and including 
September 15, 2026 
 
1% 
commencing March 15, 2027 to and including 
September 15, 2046 
 
2% 
_____________________ 
*
The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to 
be repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 
3.03 (b) of the General Conditions. 
Page  17
-
15
-
APPENDIX 
Section I. 
Definitions 
1. 
“Action Plan” means the Action Plan to Improve Financial and Technical 
Performance of DVK, as approved by the Municipality of Dushanbe, and as may 
be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Association. 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
4. 
“EMMP” means the Environmental Management and Monitoring Plan, 
satisfactory to the Association, adopted by DVK on September 13, 2000 and 
amended on October 30, 2006, setting forth measures to mitigate any adverse 
impacts to the environment. 
5. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005. 
6. 
“Municipality of Dushanbe” means the City of Dushanbe of the Recipient, or any 
successor thereto. 
7. 
“Operating Costs” means operating expenditures incurred by the PCU on account 
of Project management and implementation for communications, utilities, 
printing and publications, office rent, maintenance and supplies, office security 
systems, vehicle operation and maintenance, transportation and field trip 
expenses, training and such other expenditures as may be agreed upon by the 
Association. 
8. 
“Operational Manual” means the manual satisfactory to the Association, setting 
forth procedures and rules related to Project implementation, prepared and 
adopted by the Recipient, as the same may be amended from time to time with 
the agreement of the Association. 
9. 
“Original Financing Agreement” means the Development Credit Agreement for 
the Dushanbe Water Supply Project between the Recipient and the Association, 
dated July 3, 2002 (Credit No. 3664-TJ). 
10. 
“Original Project” means the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Original 
Financing Agreement. 
Page  18
-
16
-
11. 
“PCU” means the Project Coordination Unit established by the Municipality of 
Dushanbe for the purpose of Project coordination and management. 
12. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
13. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated November 15, 2006 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
14. 
“Project Implementing Entity” or “DVK” means Dushanbe Vodokanal State 
Unitary Enterprise, a legal entity established under Decision No. 45 of the Mayor 
of Municipality of Dushanbe, dated May 3, 2002, and registered in the State 
Statistical Agency of the Recipient (#850), dated May 6, 2002, and in the 
notary’s office of the Ministry of Justice of the Recipient (#4/g-47), dated May 7, 
2002, or any successor thereto. 
15. 
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Recipient and DVK pursuant to paragraph 1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as 
the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all 
schedules to the Subsidiary Agreement, and pursuant to which the Recipient shall 
make the proceeds of the Financing available to DVK. The term “Subsidiary 
Loan” means the Subsidiary Loan provided under the Subsidiary Agreement. 
16. 
“Subsidiary Loan” means a loan provided by the Recipient to DVK under the 
Subsidiary Agreement. 
 
