Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
CREDIT NUMBER 3882 -IN 
 
Development Credit Agreement
 
(Elementary Education Project) 
 
between 
 
INDIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated June 3, 2004 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3882 -IN 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated June 3, 2004, between INDIA, acting by its President (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower is carrying out a comprehensive policy and 
budgetary framework (currently financed under its Tenth Plan 2002 
–
2007)
for 
universalizing access to and provision of elementary education under its National 
Program for Universal Elementary Education (Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan) (the Program); 
(B) 
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to 
assist in the financing of the Project; 
(C) 
certain activities under the Project will be carried out by the States and 
the Union Territories of the Borrower (the Project States) through respective State 
Implementation Societies (SISs) with the Borrower’s assistance, and as part of such 
assistance, the Borrower will make available for the benefit of each of the Project States 
part of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; 
(D) 
by agreements to be entered into between the United Kingdom 
Department for International Development (DFID) and the Borrower (the DFID Grant 
Agreement) and the European Commission (EC) and the Borrower (the EC Financing 
Agreement), DFID and EC respectively intend to provide grants to the Borrower in a 
principal amount of £190,000,000 (one hundred and ninety million pounds sterling) (the 
DFID Grant) and E160,000,000 (one hundred and sixty million euros) (the EC Grant) to 
assist in financing, through a common pool, activities of the Program on the terms and 
conditions to be set forth in the DFID Grant Agreement and EC Financing Agreement 
respectively;  
(E) 
DFID, the EC, the Association (collectively referred to as the 
Development Partners) and the Borrower intend to enter into a Memorandum of 
Understanding (the MOU) providing for 
inter-alia
,
matters of technical, operational and 
financial co-operation amongst the Development Partners and the Borrower on the terms 
and conditions set forth in the said Memorandum of Understanding; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter
 
alia
,
of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Development Credit Agreement (hereinafter referred to as “this Agreement”); 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999) (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“Annual Procurement Plan” means the Plan referred to in paragraph 7 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
“Annual Work Plans and Budgets” or “AWP&Bs” means the Annual 
Work Plans and Budgets for the Program for a Fiscal Year prepared by Districts; 
(c) 
“Consolidated Report on Audits” means the report covering the Audits 
referred to in Section 4.01 of this Agreement and the Procurement Audits referred to in 
paragraph 8.01(b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(d) 
“DEEL” means the Department of Elementary Education and Literacy 
within MHRD (as hereinafter defined) which is responsible for, 
inter-alia
,
technical and 
financial oversight of the Program. 
(e) 
“District” means an administrative district within a Project State; 
(f) 
“Elementary Education Bureau” or “EEB” means the unit within DEEL 
which is responsible for coordination and implementation of Program activities; 
(g) 
“Environment Assessment Report” means the Environment Assessment 
Report dated December 30, 2003 of the Borrower, which, 
inter-alia
,
identifies the main 
environmental and public health impacts of the Project and actions to be taken, including 
good practice, management and mitigation measures to reduce the risks and impacts; 
(h) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(i) 
“FY” or “Fiscal Year” means the fiscal year of the Borrower, which 
commences on April 1 of a calendar year and ends on March 31 of the following 
calendar year; 
Page  4
-
3
-
(j) 
“JRM” means Joint Review Mission to be carried out pursuant to 
paragraph 10 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(k) 
“Letter of Undertaking” or “LOU” means the letter of commitment by a 
Project State to the Borrower confirming its financial contribution to the Program in 
accordance with the SSA Framework for Implementation, and includes the letter of 
sanction issued by the Borrower to the SIS of such Project State from time to time for 
implementing the Program as confirmed by a bond furnished by such SIS; 
(l) 
“Manual on Financial Management and Procurement” means the Manual 
dated December 17, 2003 prepared by the Borrower and governing the financial 
management and procurement of the Program; 
(m) 
 
“MHRD” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Human Resource 
Development; 
(n) 
“Mid-term Review” means the Mid-term Review to be carried out 
pursuant to paragraph 11 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;  
(o) 
 “National Component” means the component under the Program to be 
carried out at the national level by the Borrower in each Fiscal Year; 
(p) 
“Project Approval Board or “PAB” means the independent Board 
convened by MHRD to, 
inter-alia
,
approve AWP&Bs, State Components (as hereinafter 
defined) and National Component under the Program; 
(q) 
 “Project Executing Agencies” means any agency of the Borrower 
responsible for implementation and execution of the Program and includes MHRD, 
DEEL, the Project States and SISs; 
(r) 
“Report-based Disbursements” means the withdrawal of funds from the 
Credit Account referred to in Part B.2 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(s) 
“Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan Framework for Implementation” or "SSA 
Framework for Implementation" means the framework issued in May, 2001 by the 
Borrower for implementation of the Program and which contains, 
inter alia
,
the basis of 
SSA planning and financing norms; 
(t) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; 
(u) 
“State Component” means the component under the Program to be 
carried out by a Project State including its SIS in each Fiscal Year other than the 
components included in the Districts AWP&Bs; 
Page  5
-
4
-
(v) 
“SIS” means a State Implementation Society in each Project State 
incorporated under the Borrower’s Societies Registration Act 1860 (21 of 1860); 
 
(w) 
“Tribal Development Plan” means the Tribal Development Plan of the 
Borrower dated December 2003, which, 
inter-alia
,
delineates the strategy for increased 
participation of tribal children in the Program.  
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to Three Hundred Thirty Four Million Nine Hundred Thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 334,900,000).  
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for  
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Program and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2007 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
Page  6
-
5
-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
April 15 and October 15 commencing October 15, 2014 and ending April 15, 2039. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on April 15, 2024 shall be one and 
one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount. 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid; and 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more 
after the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that 
the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, 
however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five 
years on such repayment of principal. 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08.  
The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project, through the Project Executing Agencies, with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, elementary education and 
environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
(c) 
Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations 
under this Agreement, the Borrower shall cause each Project State and its respective SIS 
to carry out their respective activities under the Project in accordance with the provisions 
of this Agreement and the terms and conditions set out in their respective Letters of 
Undertaking. 
(d) 
Without limitation or restriction upon any of its obligations under this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall take all actions, including the provision of funds, 
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable each Project 
State and its respective SIS to perform all their respective obligations set forth in this 
Agreement and in the respective Letters of Undertaking of the Project State and its 
respective SIS. The Borrower shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would 
prevent or interfere with such performance. 
(e) 
The Borrower shall establish and implement arrangements, satisfactory 
to the Association, to make available for the benefit of each Project State and its 
respective SIS a portion of the proceeds of the Credit to the SISs for the Program 
activities in the Project States. 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a 
report on the implementation of the Project in context of the continuation of the Program; 
and 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said report. 
Section 3.04. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project shall be 
carried out by each Project State and its respective SIS pursuant to the terms of their 
respective Letters of Undertaking. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall, and shall cause Project States and SISs to, 
maintain a financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare 
financial statements in a format acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect in 
accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations, resources, expenditures and 
audits related to the Program, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower and each 
Project State and the SISs responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall, and shall cause each Project State and the SISs to: 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
(ii) 
upon request, furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but 
in any case not later than nine months after the end of the Fiscal 
Year to which the request relates, (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning 
said auditors, as the Association may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
The Borrower shall:  
(i) 
furnish to the Association no later than nine months after the end 
of each Fiscal Year a Consolidated Report on Audits containing 
an opinion on the statements, records and accounts and the report 
of the audit referred to in paragraph (b)(ii) of this Section, and 
the report of the procurement audit referred to in paragraph 
8.01(b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; 
and 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such Consolidated Report on Audits as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
(d) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were Report-based Disbursements, the Borrower shall:  
(i) 
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained 
until at least one year after the Association has received the audit 
report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made; 
(ii) 
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and  
(iii) 
ensure that such records are included in any audit that the 
Association may have requested pursuant to paragraph (b) of this 
Section. 
Page  10
-
9
-
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Section 4.01 above, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the 
Association a Financial Monitoring Report, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Credit, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of such funds; and 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation. 
 (b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 
December 31, 2004, and shall cover the period from April 1, 2003, through  
September 30, 2004; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later 
than ninety (90) days after each previous six months, and shall cover such six-month 
period. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the 
Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out; 
(b) 
that the SSA Framework for Implementation shall have been amended, 
waived or abrogated so as to adversely affect the implementation of the Project or the 
achievement of the objectives of the Project; 
(c) 
that the Manual on Financial Management and Procurement shall have 
been amended, waived or abrogated so as to adversely affect the achievement of the 
objectives of efficiency, economy and transparency of procurement methods and 
procedures; 
(d) 
any of the provisions of any Letter of Undertakings, relevant for this 
Agreement, shall have been amended, waived or abrogated so as to adversely affect the 
implementation of the Project or the achievement of the objectives of the Project; and 
 
Page  11
-
10
-
(e) 
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that any Project State or SIS will be able to perform its obligations under its Letter of 
Undertaking;  
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any of the events specified in 
paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall 
continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by the 
Association to the Borrower. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
 
Section 7.01. The Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director, 
Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs in the 
Ministry of Finance or successor thereto of the Borrower is each designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of  
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
Secretary to the Government of India 
 
Department of Economic Affairs 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
New Delhi 110 001 
India 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
ECOFAIRS 
  953-31-66175 
 91-11-23094075 
 New 
Delhi 
 
 
FINE 
IN 
 
 
Page  12
-
11
-
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
  248423 
(MCI) 
or (202) 
477-6391 
Washington, D.C.   
  64145 (MCI) 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in New Delhi, India, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INDIA 
 
By 
 
 
 
          /s/ Ranjit Bannerji 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
 
 
 
 
  /s/ Michael F. Carter 
Country Director, India 
Page  13
-
12
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
A. General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and     
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Category
Amount of the Credit 
Allocated (Expressed in  
 SDR Equivalent)
Expenditures 
to be Financed
(1) 
Goods, works and 
services under the 
Program for Fiscal 
Year 2003-2004 to 
Fiscal Year 2006-
2007
 
334,900,000 
32 % of Eligible 
Expenditures in each 
Fiscal Year or any other 
percentage that the 
Association may 
establish from time to 
time. 
 
__________
TOTAL 
334,900,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule 1, the following terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
the term "Eligible Expenditures" means the aggregate of expenditures 
under Category (1) incurred by the Borrower and in Eligible Project States (as hereinafter 
defined) for the Program in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement in excess 
of a threshold level of expenditure in a Fiscal Year (the "Threshold Level of 
Expenditure") established by the Association and determined in the manner set out in 
paragraphs 5 and 6 below; and  
(b) 
the term "Eligible Project State" means a State or Union Territory of the 
Borrower that has entered into a Letter of Undertaking and such agreement has not been 
suspended or terminated. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement except that withdrawals in an amount not exceeding the equivalent of  
SDR 66,980,000 may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that 
date and incurred after March 31, 2003; and (b) payments made for expenditures for 
works, goods and services supplied under a contract which any national or international 
Page  14
-
13
-
institution or agency or the Association shall have financed or agreed to finance under 
any other agreement. 
4. 
The Borrower may request withdrawals from the Credit account to be made on 
the basis of reports to be submitted to the Association in form and substance satisfactory 
to the Association, such reports to include the Financial Monitoring Report and any other 
information as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower (Report-based 
Disbursements).  
5. 
Except as the Association may otherwise agree, the Threshold Level of 
Expenditure for fiscal year 2003-2004 shall be Rupees 1500 crores. The Threshold Level 
of Expenditure for fiscal year 2004-2005 to fiscal year 2006-2007 shall be established by 
the Association in consultation with the Borrower and communicated to the Borrower. 
6. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of the foregoing paragraphs, and except as the 
Association may otherwise agree, withdrawals in respect of Eligible Expenditures shall 
be made on an annual basis in accordance with the following provisions: 
 
(a)  
with respect to Eligible Expenditures for fiscal year 2003-2004, the 
Borrower may request withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on the basis of 
the Consolidated Report on Audits for such Fiscal Year submitted by the Borrower 
pursuant to Section 4.01(c) of this Agreement and any other reports or information as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Except as the Association may 
otherwise agree, such request shall be made no later than January 31, 2005;  
(b)  
with respect to Eligible Expenditures for fiscal year 2004-2005 to fiscal 
year 2006-2007, the Borrower may request withdrawals from the Credit Account to be 
made on the basis of reports to be submitted to the Association in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association, such reports to include the Financial Monitoring Report 
covering the relevant Fiscal Year and any other information as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower (Report-based Disbursement). Except as the 
Association may otherwise agree, such request in respect of a Fiscal Year shall be made 
no later than July 31 of the Following Fiscal Year. 
(c)  
no withdrawals shall be made from the proceeds of the Credit for a Fiscal 
Year unless the Consolidated Report on Audits for the previous Fiscal Year has been 
submitted by the Borrower pursuant to Section 4.01(c) of this Agreement; and 
(d)  
any amount disbursed by the Association to the Borrower in accordance 
with the above provisions shall be adjusted for actual levels of Eligible Expenditures 
confirmed by the Consolidated Report on Audits to be submitted by the Borrower 
pursuant to Section 4.01(c) of this Agreement or by other reports or information 
submitted by the Borrower pursuant to the Association’s request, such adjustment to be 
made from the next disbursement, provided, however, that the Association may at any 
time request refunds of amounts not confirmed by such Consolidated Report on Audits, 
Page  15
-
14
-
other reports or information, and upon such request, the Borrower shall immediately 
refund such amount. Any such refunds made to the Association shall be credited to the 
Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the 
provisions of this Agreement.  
B. Special 
Account
1. 
The Borrower may open and maintain a special deposit account, on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association.  
2. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of the 
Annex to this Schedule1 (Report-based Disbursements). 
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures. For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a) 
if the Association, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to 
in Part A.4 of this Schedule adequately provide the information required for Report-based 
Disbursements; 
(b) 
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Credit Account; or 
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) or (c) of the Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of: (i) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (ii) the records and 
accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based 
Disbursements.  
5. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in 
part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the Association shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may 
Page  16
-
15
-
be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower of its determination. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall 
so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment. 
Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into 
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or 
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association determines at anytime that any amount of the 
Authorized Advance (as defined in the Annex to Schedule 1) outstanding in the Special 
Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures, the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such 
outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.  
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.  
 
Page  17
-
16
-
Annex  
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into 
the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from 
the Credit Account under Category 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  
2. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Advance” means an 
amount equivalent to $75,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and 
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 of this Annex. 
3. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Advance and subsequent withdrawals to the 
Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
for withdrawals of the Authorized Advance, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Advance. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested. 
 
(b) 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the 
Credit other than for the Authorized Advance, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account an 
amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) the amount which the 
Association has determined, based on the reports referred to in Part A.6 (a) and (b) of 
Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application and any adjustments to be carried 
out pursuant to Part A.6(d) of Schedule 1, in order to finance Eligible Expenditures 
during the Fiscal Year prior to the date of such reports. 
4. 
The amount of the Authorized Advance shall be deducted from payments for 
Eligible Expenditures for Fiscal Year 2006-2007 or from such other Fiscal Year as the 
Association shall determine. If the amount of payment for Eligible Expenditures for such 
Fiscal Year shall be less than the amount of the Authorized Advance, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association refund the difference to the Association for 
Credit to the Credit Account for cancellation in accordance with the provision of this 
Agreement. 
 
Page  18
-
17
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to support the Borrower’s ongoing Program for 
Universal Elementary Education (Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan) that aims at achieving 
universal enrollment in and completion of elementary education of satisfactory quality by 
2010, through (a) increasing enrollment and reducing the number of out-of-school 
children; (b) narrowing existing gender and social gaps; and (c) enhancing the quality of 
education of all the elementary school students. 
 The Project consists of the following activities subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve 
such objectives: 
1. 
Construction of primary and upper primary schools and classrooms, including 
other school facilities;  
2. 
Provision of school/alternative schooling facilities; 
3. 
Upgrading of Education Guarantee Schemes to regular schools, or setting up of a 
new primary school as per state norm;  
4. 
Hiring of teachers and paying their salaries; 
5. 
Supporting innovative activities for girls education, early childhood care and 
education, interventions for children belonging into SC/ST community, computer 
education especially for upper primary level; 
6. 
Supporting interventions for out of school children, preparation activities for 
micro planning, household surveys, studies, community mobilization, school-
based activities, office equipment, training and orientation at all levels; 
7. 
Provision of free textbooks (for girls and students of SC and ST backgrounds); 
8. 
Maintenance and repair of school buildings;  
9. 
Provision of teaching, learning materials and equipment for primary and upper 
primary education;  
10. 
Provision of school grant (for replacement of non-functional school equipment); 
11. 
Provision of teacher grant (for purchase of teaching and learning materials);  
12. 
Provision of teacher training;  
Page  19
-
18
-
13. 
Provision of training of community leaders; 
14. 
Constructing and supporting State Institute of Educational Management and 
Training;  
15. 
Constructing and supporting Block Resource Centers, Cluster Resource Centers; 
16. 
Provision of support to children with disability; 
17. 
Provision for the education of girls at the primary and upper primary levels;  
18. 
Undertaking of research, evaluation, supervision and monitoring; 
19. 
Planning, Operation and Management of the Program; and 
20. 
Carrying out activities at the national and State level including training, capacity 
building, technical support, monitoring and evaluation, financial management, 
dissemination and media campaigns. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2007.
Page  20
-
19
-
SCHEDULE 3
 
Procurement 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods, Works and Services
Part A
:
General
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, goods, works and services to be 
financed under the Program shall be governed by the provisions of this Section I. 
Part B
:
Procurement Procedures
(a) 
Goods, excluding information technology equipment, estimated to cost 
the equivalent of more than US$50,000 but not more than US$300,000 per contract and 
works estimated to cost the equivalent of more than US$20,000 but not more than 
US$300,000 per contract shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 109-111 of Chapter X of the Manual on Financial 
Management and Procurement (Open Tender Method). 
(b) 
Information Technology Equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of 
more than US$50,000 but not more than US$2.0 million per contract shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 109-111 of 
Chapter X of the Manual on Financial Management and Procurement (Open Tender 
Method). 
(c) 
Goods, including Information Technology Equipment, estimated to cost 
equivalent of US$50,000 or less per contract may be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 112 of Chapter X of the Manual on Financial Management and 
Procurement (Limited Tender Method). 
(d) 
All procurement of the following goods and services may be carried out 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 113 of Chapter X of the Manual on 
Financial Management and Procurement (Single Tender Method). 
(i) 
goods estimated to cost equivalent of less than US$30,000 per 
contract and which are specifically certified as of proprietary 
nature or of which only a particular firm is the manufacturer; 
(ii) 
textbooks estimated to cost equivalent of US$300,000 equivalent 
or less per contract; 
(iii) 
Books, teaching materials, school facility improvement, hiring of 
vehicles and operation and maintenance equipment estimated to 
cost equivalent of less than US$30,000 per contract; 
Page  21
-
20
-
(e) 
All procurement of goods or group of goods estimated to cost equivalent 
of less than US$1,000 per contract may be made without inviting tenders/quotation. 
(f) 
 Works estimated to cost equivalent of US$20,000 or less per contract 
may be carried out in accordance with any of the following provisions: 
(i) 
Paragraph 112 of Chapter X of Manual on Financial 
Management and Procurement (Limited Tender Method); or 
(ii) 
Paragraph 113 of Chapter X of the Manual on Financial 
Management and Procurement (Single Tender Method i.e. direct 
contract without competition); or 
(iii) 
Paragraph 115 of Chapter X of the Manual on Financial 
Management and Procurement (Procurement through 
Communities). 
Works procured in accordance with clause (iii) above may be procured under the 
unit/piece rate through qualified contractors or registered non-governmental organization, 
other beneficiary association or Village Panchayats. 
(g) 
Goods, other than Information Technology Equipment, and works 
estimated to cost equivalent of more than US$300,000 per contract and Information 
Technology Equipment estimated to cost equivalent of more than US$2.0 million per 
contract shall be procured in accordance with such methods as may be established by the 
Association  
Section II
:
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
All Consulting Services to be financed out of the proceeds of this Credit shall be 
procured in accordance with paragraph 117 of Chapter X of the Manual on Financial 
Management and Procurement. 
Section III
:
Misprocurement
Part A
:
The goods, works and services that have not been procured in accordance with 
this Schedule 3 shall be treated as misprocurement in accordance with paragraph 121 of 
Chapter X of the Manual on Financial Management and Procurement.   
 
Page  22
-
21
-
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
Program Structure
1. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(a) 
cause MHRD, through EEB, to oversee and be responsible for the day-
to-day implementation of the Program; 
(b) 
shall maintain the PAB throughout the Project implementation period; 
(c) 
ensure that SISs and other Project Executing Agencies remain 
operational throughout the Project implementation period;   
(d) 
cause MHRD, through EEB to ensure that the PAB meets diligently, 
whenever necessary, to 
inter alia
,
approve and sanction AWP&Bs and the National 
Components and the State components, ensure adherence to the financial norms 
envisaged in the Program, maintain consistency with the overall objectives of the 
Program and the Project, ensure cost effectiveness of all proposed interventions at 
various levels and co-ordinate the activities of various Project Executing Agencies; 
(e) 
cause MHRD through EEB, to ensure timely submission of AWP&Bs, 
State and National Components for appraisal and subsequent approval by PAB; 
(f) 
cause MHRD, through EEB, to ensure SISs timely pass funds to various 
Project Executing Agencies including Districts, Block Resource Centers and Cluster 
Resource Centers; 
(g) 
cause the audits of various Project Executing Agencies to be conducted 
in a timely manner in accordance with the terms of reference set out in the Manual on 
Financial Management and Procurement; and 
(h) 
appoint and maintain a Director (finance) at the national level with 
responsibility for the entire Program. 
Manuals and Plans
2.01. 
Throughout the duration of the Project the Borrower shall:  
 
(a) 
maintain the SSA Framework for Implementation and the Manual on 
Financial Management and Procurement; 
Page  23
-
22
-
(b) 
promptly inform the Association of any amendment, waiver or 
abrogation of any provision of the SSA Framework for Implementation and the Manual 
on Financial Management and Procurement;  
(c) 
refrain from taking any action which shall prevent or interfere with the 
implementation of the SSA Framework for Implementation and the Manual on Financial 
Management and Procurement.  
2.02. 
Throughout the duration of the Project the Borrower shall, and shall cause the 
Project States and the SISs to: 
(a) 
carry out the Project and the Program in accordance with the SSA 
Framework for Implementation;  
(b) 
implement the Manual on Financial Management and Procurement in 
accordance with the objectives, policies, procedures, time schedules and other provision 
set forth therein; and 
(c) 
refrain from taking any action which shall prevent or interfere with the 
implementation of the SSA Framework for Implementation and the Manual on Financial 
Management and Procurement. 
3. 
To ensure that the tribal population and other socially deprived groups in India 
benefit fully from the activities under the Project, the Borrower shall, and shall cause the 
Project Executing Agencies to implement, in a manner satisfactory to the Association, the 
Tribal Development Plan and the interventions targeted towards other socially deprived 
groups set forth in the SSA Framework for Implementation. 
4. 
The Borrower shall carry out and shall cause the Project Executing Agencies to 
carry out the Program in accordance with the agreed Environment Assessment Report 
and ensure that: 
(a) 
the relevant manuals and guidelines are at all times consistently and 
satisfactorily applied; 
(b) 
the appraisal of AWP&Bs and National and State Components and 
independent third party evaluations of civil works examine the implementation of 
environmental management measures, and outputs of such evaluations are used to 
improve the implementation of the Program in the subsequent years. 
Page  24
-
23
-
Financial Commitment
5. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
a) 
 
throughout the Project implementation period, maintain financial 
commitment in real terms to the level of Fiscal Year 2002-03 in Elementary Education; 
and 
b) cause the Project States to maintain their financial commitment in real terms to 
the level of Fiscal Year 1999-2000 in Elementary Education. The contribution by the 
Project States to the Program shall be over and above this commitment. 
Land
6. 
The Borrower shall and shall ensure that the Project Executing Agencies shall: 
(a) 
ensure that any private land needed for any work under the Program shall 
be provided by the owner of such land in a voluntary manner, through a registered deed 
or a memorandum of understanding or through any procedure prescribed by the relevant 
laws;  
(b) 
not commence any work in any locations for which clear title is not 
already available; and 
(c) 
to the extent practicable, ensure that any land to be made available by the 
owner shall be free from any encumbrances and encroachment, and that no involuntary 
resettlement arises from any use of such land under of the Program. 
Procurement
7. 
(a) 
The Borrower shall provide to the Association the Annual Procurement 
Plan at the time of the review referred to in paragraph 10(c) of this Schedule 4. 
(b) 
Such Annual Procurement Plan shall 
inter-alia
,
be
a
consolidation of 
procurement activities set out in the AWP&Bs, the State and National Components.  
8.01. 
The Borrower shall carry out the following Procurement Audits: 
(a) 
Internal Procurement Audit in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 99 of Chapter VIII of the Manual on Financial Management and Procurement. 
(b) 
External Procurement Audit in accordance with the provisions of 
Chapter IX of the Manual on Financial Management and Procurement. 
Page  25
-
24
-
(c) 
Subject to paragraph 8.02 hereunder, post review of contracts in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 120 of Chapter X of the Manual on 
Financial Management and Procurement. 
8.02. 
Notwithstanding anything contained in Clause (c) of paragraph 8.01 above, the 
Association reserves the option to carry out post review of any contract awarded in 
accordance with Schedule 3. Such post review, however, shall be carried out in 
consultation with the Borrower. 
9. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(a) 
shall make available to the Association at the time of the review referred 
to in paragraph 10(c) of this Schedule 4 the Audit Reports for the audits and post review 
referred to in paragraph 8.01(b)&(c) herein above respectively; 
(b) 
review the Post Review Reports referred to in clause 8.01(c) and modify, 
if required, the Terms of Reference of the Auditors for such post review after a period of 
one year. Such modification to the terms of reference shall be promptly furnished to the 
Association; and 
(c) 
Refer all cases of non-compliance to the relevant authorities of the 
Borrower and the Project States for taking necessary remedial action. 
Performance Monitoring Indicators, Reviews and Mid-Term Review
10. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Program and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; 
 
(b) 
furnish to the Association semi-annually at the time of reviews referred 
to in Clause (c) hereinafter reports, of such scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request, on progress made in the carrying out of the Project during the 
six month period immediately preceding said reports; and 
(c) 
review with the Association in the months of December/January and 
June/July of each year of Project implementation progress made in the carrying out of the 
Project and the attainment of the objectives thereof, such reviews to be based on the 
reports referred to in sub-paragraph (b) above (JRM); and thereafter take, or cause to be 
taken, all such action as shall have been agreed upon by the Borrower and the 
Association during such reviews as necessary for the efficient execution of the Project 
and the achievement of the objectives thereof. 
 
Page  26
-
25
-
11. 
The JRM in January 2006 shall constitute the Mid-term Review of the progress 
made in carrying out the Project.  Such Mid-term review shall be carried out in 
accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Borrower and the Association. 
 
