E855
Volume 4
A  
SARVA SHIKSHA
ABHIYAN
An Environmental
Assessment
Technical Support Group
Educational Consultants India Ltd,
New Delhi.
FILE COPY



INTRODUCTION.
Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA) is the flagship programme of
Government of India to achieve Universal Elementary Education
(UEE) in the country in a mission mode.
With an outlay of Rs.980 billion, SSA covers 193 million children,
3.3 million teachers and nearly 1 million schools and alternative
schools spread over 1.1 million habitations in 28 States and 7
Union Territories. The largest programme of its kind in the world,
SSA is an integrated, comprehensive scheme in partnership with
State Governments, Local Self Governments, the community and
the civil society.
SSA is an effort to universalize elementary education by community
ownership of the school system.  It emphasizes on the active
involvement of local self governments and grassroot level structures
like Village Education Committee, Parent-Teacher Association,
Mother-Teacher Association etc.
Goals
Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan aims to provide useful and relevant
elementary education for all children in the 6 to 14 age group (grade
I to Vil) by 2010. The objectives of SSA are;
* All children in school, education guarantee centre, alternative
school & back to school camp by 2003
• All children to complete five years of primary education by 2007
* All children complete eight years of elementary education by
2010
* Focus on elementary education of satisfactory quality with
emphasis on education for life
* Bridge all gender and social category gaps at primary stage by
2007 and at elementary education stage by 2010 and
* Universal retention by 2010
Broad strategies
The broad strategies of SSA are;:
* Institutional reforms in the states to improve efficiency of the
delivery system
* Sustainable financing in partnership with the states (gth Plan
- 85:15, 10th Plan -75:25, 50:50 thereafter)
* Community ownership of school based interventions through
effective decentralization.
* Institutional capacity building for improvement in quality.
* Community based monitoring with full transparency in all
aspects of implementation
* Community based approach to planning with habitation as
an unit of planning.
2



* Special focus on girls, scheduled caste (SC) /scheduled
tribes (ST) working children, urban deprived children,
children with special needs, children in marginalized families
and children in hardest to reach groups.
* Thrust on quality and making education relevant.
* Recognition of the critical role of the teacher and focus on
the human resource development needs of teachers.
* Preparation of District Elementary Education Plans reflecting
all governmental and non-governmental investments.
Interventions and components
Keeping with the above objectives, the major components of the
programme are:
1. Opening of new schools, Education Guarantee Scheme
(EGS) Centres and alternative and innovative education
centers
2. Appointment of teachers and Para teachers
3. Provision of Grants  - teachers grant, school grant,
maintenance grant, Teaching - Learning Equipment grant.
4. Teachers training - in service and induction training
5. Setting up academic support structures (block resource
centers and cluster resource centers) - appointment of
resource teachers, contingency, TLM grants, TA/DA, library
grants etc.
6. Free text books for girls and SC/ST children.
7. Training of community leaders
8. Innovative activities in computer education, ECCE, girls
education and education of SC/ST.
9. Integrated Education of the disabled
10. Provision  for research, evaluation, supervision  and
monitoring.
11. Civil works - construction of school buildings for new,
building less and dilapidated schools, construction of
additional rooms in primary and upper primary schools,
construction of BRC and CRC centers, provision of toilets,
drinking water, electrification and boundary walls to schools.
Launched in 2000-01, the programme is now in its third year of
effective implementation. All the 35 states and Union Territories of
the country are presently covered. So far about 70,000 new schools
and 4,28,000 posts of teachers have been sanctioned under the
scheme. SSA has also sanctioned construction of 32196 new
primary school buildings, 14180 upper primary schools, 115087
additional classrooms, 7673 resource centers, 106707 toilets and
73481 drinking water facilities.
3



ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT - CONTEXT
In 18 out of the 35 states, the District Primary Education Programme
(DPEP) was under implementation when SSA was launched. Most
of these states therefore viewed SSA as an extension and
continuation of the innovations and experiments initiated under
DPEP. Efforts to make the physical and teaching learning
environment of a school more child friendly had started under DPEP
- the same continued under SSA.
Manuals and guidelines have been circulated to all implementing
states/ UTs to guide the activities under the programme. All the
manuals and documents developed at the National level under
DPEP has also been adopted under SSA to guide the construction
component of the programme. The programme is being
implemented through the State and District level Implementation
Societies, set up at every state. Due to the decentralized nature of
the programme, most of the decisions with regard to design and
implementation of the programme are taken at the state and district
level. The role of the Central Government (MHRD) is mainly
advisory in nature, supporting and advising states on the proper
implementation of the programme.
This note therefore is an attempt to identify the probable
environmental issues and impacts with respect to Sarva
Shiksha Abhiyan. It also provides information on the various
manuals, documents and guidelines that has been shared with
the states to address such issues. This note is to be read along
with the 'SSA - Framework for implementation' and the following
documents.
1. A guide to design for better learning environment: DPEP
Publication, 1997
2. Lets work together - A Community Construction Manual
DPEP Publication, 1998
3. Building Rural Primary Schools - Towards improved designs
: DPEP publication, 1999
4. Child friendly elements for rural primary schools - An
engineer's handbook: DPEP Publication, 2001
The salient feature of SSA is the involvement of the community in
every aspect of programme implementation. The local community
is the best judge for the environment of a place. They have
detailed information about the local microclimate, local building
materials, local technologies etc. they are also aware of the
remedial measures to be taken (which are in many cases
traditionally followed) to avoid possible environmental fallouts.
Involving the community in planning and construction
therefore ensures that the implementation is free from potential
environment hazards.   Further,  by  promoting  community
participation, environmental benefits potentially go beyond the
programme, as there are opportunities for building local capacities
on environmental management, use of appropriate technologies,
designs etc. in other similar works.
4



ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES/ IMPACTS
A. PHYSICAL ENVIRONMENT
1.    Site Location and sensitivity:
SSA provides for a primary schooling facility within 1 Km. of a
habitation and an upper primary schooling facility within 3 Kms of a
habitation. In small habitations, where there is at least 15 children
in the age group of 6-14 years, an EGS center is established. For
an even smaller number of children, an AIE center can be opened.
The Scheme also allows special interventions for out of school
children in served habitations - bridge courses (residential or non
residential) or a back-to-school camps can be organized for them
before being mainstreamed into formal schools.
School buildings are provided under SSA only in case of formal   4     i
schools. Buildings are provided for new schools, existing building
less schools and dilapidated schools. For all the other forms of
schooling facilities (EGS and AIE variety), the community is     t1I*
expected to arrange for the physical infrastructure - it is mostly an
unutilized existing building in the village or a spare room in a house.  Alternative school in M.P
In cases where such a space is not available, the community might
organize a temporary/ semi permanent structure made of locally
available materials.                                            How to choose a site for a
new school building ?
In case where a permanent structure of school building is       *  It should be within 1 Kms
constructed, it is always on public land or on a land donated by the  of the settlement
community. The land may be owned by an individual member of the  *  It should not be located
community or may be a Panchayat land. In both cases the land is   in any particular
transferred in the name of the schools before any construction     community's area
activity is taken up.  Since a participatory process is adopted,   should ideally be of 1
involving the whole village, there are no chances of people being  acre. In no case should
displaced due to the construction of the school building.         it be less than 1000
sqm.
*It should preferably be
As the land is donated by the community, it is usually a good piece  of a regular shape
of land in or near the village and free from  any environment   *  The site should not be in
hazards. The construction manual issued to the community before    a low lying area or in an
the start of construction, also lists out the various environmental  area of heavy slope.
parameters to be considered for proper selection of land. Further,  b The building should not
an approval of the engineer/ technical person supervising the      soil or in soil with
construction is also taken by the community before finalisation of the  decomposed plant/
site.                                                              animal material
*  Water should be
available on or near the
Apart from new school buildings, the other major components of     site. It should preferably
construction include additional classrooms and Resource centers    have access to
(BRC and CRC). Additional classrooms and CRC buildings are         electricity.
constructed in existing school campus - they are usually placed in  *  It should not be located
alignment with the   existing  school building, retaining  the     sources of noise like
architectural features of the old building. The BRC is usually located  highways, rail tracks,
in land belonging to the Education dept. or the Panchayat. In many  factories etc.
cases it is located within the Panchayat complex.               Excerptsfrom 'Lets work
together - a community
construction Manual' - DPEP
5



Environmental issues  are  taken  into  consideration  while
constructing schools and buildings in areas where the entire region  School building in the riverine
is vulnerable to natural hazards - e.g riverine areas is Assam (prone  area of Assam
to flooding), coastal areas of Orissa (prone to cyclone) and regions
falling under the Seismic zone V. The objectives of the programme
may require schools to be constructed in these areas, but then
special care is taken in these regions to ensure that the buildings
are designed to withstand such adverse forces. The schools in the  ~ J L §
riverine areas of Assam  have been designed as partially
prefabricated structures that can be dismantled and shifted to a new  i _ _
location when the river changes the course or inundates areas.
Schools in the coastal areas of Orissa have been designed to
double up as shelters during flood. Design of all buildings, both
schools and resource centers, in the seismic areas of Gujarat, North
Bihar and Uttaranchal incorporate all the remedial measures
recommended in the IS Codes. Although a large number of
buildings were destroyed or damaged in the devastating earthquake
in Gujarat in 2001, not a single building constructed under DPEP
suffered any major damage.
Location issues are more pronounced in the urban areas where
there usually is a scarcity of land. Many schools in urban areas
therefore run from rented buildings. Schools in the slum areas are
usually located within the slum - most Slum improvement
programmes have space set aside for school buildings. In cases
where the slum is not an organized one, EGS/AIE centers are
opened in a space provided by the community. All construction in
urban areas, including their location, covered area and facilities
provided are governed by the respective Municipal Bylaws.
The environmental issues with regard to location of the newly
constructed school buildings and other facilities are therefore
addressed programmatically through the process of guiding
the local community on site selection and ensuring technical
approval of the same.
2.    Facility related impacts:
Schools under SSA are envisaged as a composite unit comprising
of adequate number of classrooms, open spaces, water supply and
sanitation facilities, electricity and an enclosed boundary. However,
due to budgetary constraints, it may not be possible to provide all
the facilities to all schools in one go. Provision of drinking water and
toilet facilities is therefore accorded a higher priority within the
programme compared to electricity or playground.
SSA however, seeks convergence with various central and state
level schemes and funds in an effort to improve the overall school
environment and provide for all the necessary facilities. Central
schemes like the Swajaldhara, Total Sanitation Campaign, PMGY,
SJY, MP/ MLA LAD funds, 11th Finance Commission grants, State
govt. funds and various other Panchayat level funds are all to be
tapped and converged with the SSA funds to provide all the
6



necessary infrastructure facilities to the schools. Preparation of a
complete infrastructure plan with respect to each school is proposed
under SSA.
Drinking water is usually provided through the extension of an
existing pipeline or by providing a hand pump. India Mark 11 / Ill
systems are usually used for handpumps - these are easy to
operate and maintain. Care is taken to locate the water facility in
such a way that it does not create waterlogging in the surrounding            __
area. The water source usually has a platform surrounding it from
which the water is drained out in a channel. In many cases,
depending upon the initiative of the local community, this waste
water is reused for flushing of toilets or for watering the plants.
Water supply facilities
There is a significant convergence with Rural Development and
other related departments with respect to provision of water  6        *
facilities. Technical expertise is sought from these departments to
address problems with regard to water quality and water table. In
areas where the water table is low, a deeper boring is required and
consequently a higher unit cost. It has been agreed in a meeting  -  -
with the National Drinking Water Mission that such cases, where the  -
unit cost is likely to be high, are to be taken up through the  ---------
Swajaldhara scheme (which do not have a limit on the unit cost).
The relatively easier cases would be met through the SSA funds.
Directives to this effect have been sent to both the Rural
Development and the Education department at the state level
through the concerned line Ministries.
Rain water harvesting   techniques have been successfully
demonstrated in school buildings of Rajasthan under DPEP. This is
now being expanded to the drier areas of other states like Gujarat,
Maharashtra, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh under  ll
SSA.
Provision of toilet facilities have been found to have had a positive
impact on retention of girl children, specially at the upper primary  Water tank with dual wage as
level. It is also a relief for the lady teachers and can be seen as an  black board for extended
important intervention to encourage appointment of lady teachers in  teaching
rural areas. Toilets are also necessary from the point of view of
promotion of better hygiene practices among children.
Provision of toilets/ urinals have been a major component of the civil
works interventions in earlier programmes as well as under SSA.  - 4    ¾
The toilet design is based on the Sulabh model of the twin pit
system. Septic tanks are usually discouraged (except for cases             _
where the water table is very low and there is a risk of          -       --
contamination) from cost and maintenance considerations. In fact,  Toilet facility
maintenance has been a major concern with respect to toilets
constructed in earlier programmes. SSA provides separate funds
for maintenance of the school building and part of this fund is being
utilized for the maintenance of toilets also.
7



As school buildings become more equipped, the need for a
boundary is also being increasing felt. A boundary provides a  g          -    v
sense of enclosure and the necessary security to the school. States  L
have been advised to explore other convergent sources of funding
for this purpose. However, in cases where a boundary wall has
been identified as a priority (e.g in Himachal Pradesh, where the
terrain made it mandatory to have a boundary wall in certain cases)  -
and convergent sources of funding were not available, construction  -  41
of the same has been sanctioned under SSA.                 A green boundary in a school in
Orissa
States have also experimented with different types of boundaries.
Boundary with bamboo fencing is a common feature in the schools
of Assam and north West Bengal. Stone patties are used as
boundary in the stone intensive areas of Madhya Pradesh and
Andhra Pradesh while in the tribal areas of Bastar in Madhya
Pradesh, boundary walls are made of mud and decorated with tribal
paintings. In Gujarat, the school itself has been so designed that
addition of a small jali wall encloses the whole school. In general,
provision of hedges and green fencing as boundary is  being
encouraged as an environment-friendly option.
The environmental concerns with respect to school facilities
like drinking water, toilets, boundary etc have therefore been
identfied and proactive steps have been taken to address
them.
3.    Design related impact:
A lot of experimentation and innovation has been done under DPEP
with respect to building designs. 'A Guide to Design for better
Learning Environment'. The manual that was developed under
DPEP clearly specify space requirements of school buildings,
illumination and ventilation requirements and siting/ orientation
considerations. This guideline was mainly based on the provisions
of IS 8827 (1978) and developed in a workshop of architects and
pedagogues. The document covers the following issues with respect
to the design of school buildings:
Design of Elements
* Vital - classroom storage, teachers room storage,
display, chalkboard, provisions for the disabled
*  Desirable - floor, colour, wall decor               -1A
Design of Spaces
* Vital - size, shape, ventilation, illumination, verandah,
teachers room, toilets
*  Desirable - acoustics, school layout, kitchen, balwadi.  -
Site Planning                                                    LL>
* Vital - master plan, general layout, location of toilet and
GROUND FLOOR PLAN 41A
drinking water facilities
*  Desirable - location of kitchen, balwadi, open space,
landscape, boundary, rain water harvesting, solar  School design from Tamil Nadu
energy.
8



Site Selection
* Vital -location, topography, sub-soil, water, safety
*   Desirable - size, shape, electricity, noise.
The document also provides information on climatic requirements,
anthropometric requirements and       landscape   requirements in a
school design.                                                                               J
Essential components of a primary school design
Classroom size: The optimum size for a classroom of forty students in a teacher-
centred teaching environment is at least about 30 sq. m. (320 sq. ft) The activity-
based teaching method involves group activities and a classroom size should be  > F
modified to satisfy the functional requirements. The size of a classroom should be
sufficient to accommodate storage of study materials and teaching aids   Designing for furniture less
situation
Classroom  shape: 'Child-centered' teaching method involves group and
individual activities. The shape of the classroom should be conducive to these
functions. A centric space is preferred over a linear one.
Ventilation: According to IS 8827:1978 level of ventilation in classrooms is six
air changes per hour. Ventilation level required in a classroom depends on the
climate of a place and the time of the year In cold climatic zones, little or no
ventilation is required while in warm-humid zones, ventilation is essential.
Illumination; The level of illumination at classroom desk-top and chalkboard is
150 - 800 lux. A general illumination level of 152 lux is recommended. Window
area is to be about 1/10th of the floor area.  Windows in room should be on two  _-, -_
opposite walls to achieve uniform light in the interior. Care should be taken so
that there is no glare from window shutters or chalkboards. Direct sunlight in the              .-
interior should be avoided as it creates glare.  North light is recommended for
reading purpose as it is glare-free. High level windows are preferred to ensure
better illumination.
Accoustics; Maximum acceptable  noise level from external sources is 40 dB.
The school building itself should be located at a maximum possible distance from  L  v----
noisy roads. If possible, the windows should not face the direction of source of the  VRO moon PlAN  IA
noise. The noise from one classroom should not reduce the audibility level of the
other. The maximum distance of a student from a teacher should not be more than  School designs from Gujarat
7.0 m ( about 23 ft) in order to have clear audibility.
Verandah, courtyards and semi-open spaces are used as spill over areas. These
spaces are used by groups to spread out in the activity based learning system,         - _
specially when the number of students are large (as in multigrade system). These
spaces must be big enough to act as independent classrooms, approximately 18.5
sq.m (200 sq. ft). In case it becomes necessary, these spaces could be easily
upgrades into classrooms, using local masons and materials.
Storage : For activity-based learning system, sufficient storage must be provided
in schools for stationery, teaching aids and equipment, which vary in quantity and  '  .
type.
Display : Display is an important item of classroom design, required  for
exhibiting teaching material and students' works. Display areas are required by
teachers for putting up educational charts and maps. Display area for children's         _ L_ 
works include vertical surface (for hanging their work) and horizontal platform/
shelves (which can also function as work platform).
9



Chalkboards: At least two chalkboards are required in a multigrade class.
Chalkboards are also required for outdoor classes or school notices. Chalkboards
may be provided at a lower level also for the children's use. Size and shape of
chalkboard should be determined for their proper utilization and convenience. An
1800 mm by 1200 mm (6 ft. by 4ft.) board is generally recommended, the bottom
being 600 mm (2 ft) from the floor. Material of chalkboard is usually cement
plaster. Colour of the board should preferably be green (using green oxide) for
psychological reasons and to reduce strain on the eyes.
Excerpts from: A Guide to Better Learning Environment - DPEP Publication
Subsequently another document titled 'Building Rural Primary
Schools' was published that had a compilation of all the various
designs generated under DPEP. It also highlighted the basic
requirements of a primary school design. This document and the
design guidelines have been circulated to all the states under SSA.
As stated in the SSA framework' a large number of building designs
for schools have been developed in DPEP districts. These designs,
apart from being attractive, are child centered, functional and in tune
with the new pedagogical concepts.    The States may make use of
designs already developed under DPEP/ Lok Jumbish Project in
their specific local contexts. Incorporation of child friendly internal
and external elements will be mandatory in all new construction and
repair works.'
Efforts towards energy efficient and environment friendly buildings
had started under Lok Jumbish and continued under DPEP. Use of               -              h
local materials were given priority. Rain water harvesting techniques
were used in Gujarat and Rajasthan while solar passive features
were incorporated in Himachal Pradesh. As is recorded in the SSA
Framework of Implementation, all these innovations are being            7Z
continued under SSA.                                              Solar passive features in a
building in Himachal Pradesh
The thrust of the civil works programme under SSA is therefore
to create a child friendly physical environment, both inside and
outside the classroom.
4.     Construction related aspects:
There are two sets of environmental issues with regard to the
construction of schools:
The first relates to the construction process itself. Almost all
constructions under SSA are being executed through the Village
Education committees or other similar school level committees.
Arrangement for materials is made by the community. The
construction is either done by the villagers themselves or through
contracted labour. The labour employed is invariably local,
generating an employment opportunity. In case a labour contractor
is employed, all relevant rules and regulations relating to
construction labour are applicable, including the Minimum Wages
Act. Often, the people from the village may voluntarily contribute
10



labour. This practice is found common in most states as the
villagers have a stake in the successful construction of the school
building and education of their children. The  provisions of the
Minimum Wages Act or other Construction Regulations would not
be applicable in such cases.
In case of larger constructions like BRCs, engagement of a separate
construction agency is permissible. Such a construction agency may
be a government department like the PWD (Tamil Nadu), the Zilla   ,. -
Parishad (Karnataka), the Jal Nigam (UP) or private contractors
appointed by the Implementation Society. For any government
agency, it is mandatory to follow all existing norms and regulations  School building in West Bengal
with respect to construction, construction labour and environment.
In case a private contractor is appointed, it is based on a proper
tendering process and the tender documents clearly specify the
requirement of the contractor to abide by all relevant environmental
and construction laws.
Quality of construction is a focus under SSA. The quality control
is achieved through the following means
* All construction are supervised by technical persons, who may           :   -
be either from the government departments or recruited on
contract. They are available at all vital stages of construction
and help the VEC in the identification and purchase of good  VEC training on construction
quality material for construction.
* All involved in the construction process are provided extensive
training. This includes engineers and supervisors, the VEC
(including the teacher) and the local masons who would be used  a          .. ->
for construction. Additionally the VEC is also supported by a
detailed construction manual that include the drawings, the
technical details, the estimate, the accounting procedures and  '.
broad tips for construction. The VEC training programmes and
the construction manual also address to basic site management
issues such as:                                          W  S-
*  Reducing wastage of materials at site                       .    -
*  Ensuring safety in the area surrounding the construction
so that no hurt or injury is caused to people during the
construction process
* As far as possible, avoiding damage to the existing flora
and fauna.
*  Restricting air and noise pollution to a minimum and
*  Ensuring proper time management                   Construction Manual in local
language
* States have also been advised to conduct laboratory and field
tests of the construction quality at regular intervals. This can
either be done through the regular engineering setup or through
an external agency. Purchase of necessary equipments for the
same is allowed under SSA.
The second set of issues on construction has to do with the
materials, technologies and specifications used in the construction
of the buildings. As per the SSA framework, the programme "will
11



encourage use of local construction materials and low cost
technologies". This is based on the earlier experiences of Lok
Jumbish, BEP and DPEP and the extensive resource mapping
exercise taken up under such programmes identifying local
materials.
India has a number of building materials like stone (sandstone,
slate, granite, laterite), bamboo, tiles, timber etc. available in 
abundance in various parts of the country. Use of such locally
available material not only reduces the cost of the building but also               -
reduces the energy consumption of buildings. Materials like burnt
bricks and cement concrete are much more energy intensive. Local
materials have been put to excellent use in the school buildings of  Use of stone wall and slate roof
Rajasthan, Himachal Pradesh, Assam  and other states under  in school bldg. In Himachal
DPEP. The same practice is being encouraged under SSA. Use of
potentially hazardous materials like Asbestos is consciously avoided
and efforts are made to choose materials that cause a minimum
depletion to the natural resources.
Use of alternate technologies like rat trap bond wall, filler slab roof
and stub foundations have been tried out previously under BEP and
DPEP. The primary advantage of such technologies is the reduction
in the consumption of cement and steel, which are highly energy
intensive. Apart from the already tested technologies, SSA would  - _..
also promote various other alternatives like stabilized mud block, fly
ash bricks, brick corbelled structures, jack arch roof etc. The
Technical Support Group of SSA is in contact with other National
Resource Institutions like HUDCO and CBRI for this purpose. The
SSA guidelines provide for an Innovation Fund upto Rs. 5 million  Alternate technology of Filler
per state which can be used for further research in this area.  slab being used in school bldg.
of Tamil Nadu.
The primary consideration for the adoption of such alternate
materials and technologies would be the maintainability, replicability
and durability of such structures. Cost effectiveness, rather than
cost reduction, would be the principle behind such initiatives.
5.    Maintenance and Repairs:
Maintenance of created assets is also an essential component of
the programme. Regular upkeep of the school environment is
essential to prevent deterioration over time. Whitewashing and
painting, roof and site drainage, maintenance of the water and
sanitation facilities, site cleanliness and greenery are a recurring
requirement with respect to school buildings. SSA provides funds for
maintenance upto a maximum of Rs. 5000 per year per school.
While the requirement for small schools is usually much less, the
larger schools may require additional funds to be generated through
the community to meet all the maintenance requirements. A broad
guideline for the utilization of this maintenance grant has been
provided to the states.
12



Repairs, both of the major and minor varieties, are a major
requirement with respect to school infrastructure. The SSA
framework also stresses the importance of repairs. Under Lok
Jumbish, excellent efforts were made to repair and restore school
buildings with the active involvement of the community. The lessons
learned from Lok Jumbish and DPEP on repairs and maintenance
have been disseminated to all states.
While minor repairs can be addressed through the maintenance
grants, SSA does not provide for the major repairs. It is however
expected that the repair requirements would be met through other
convergent sources of funding. A principal source of such funds are
the non plan allocation of State funds on the repair and
maintenance of schools - most states have substantial funds
aHocated under this Head, which usually remains unutilized. Funds
allocated to States for relief operations are also allowed to be used
for the repair and maintenance of school buildings and other
infrastructure. Rajasthan has made effective utilization of the
drought relief funds for meeting their maintenance requirements.
6.    Barrier Free environment:
The Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan aims to provide a learning
environment free from all barriers - both social and physical.
Equity issues have been built into all aspects of the programme.
Inclusive Education is one of the major components under SSA with
a separate financial allocation. The primary concept behind creating  _.
a barrier free physical environment is to be sensitive to the needs of
the special child in designing the school building. This requires
incorporation of additional features in new buildings and
modifications to existing buildings, in accordance with the provisions
of IS 4963(1987) and IS 4838 Part I (1969)                 Ramps provided in schools to
The following provisions are envisaged in order to create a barrier  make them barrier free
free physical environment in the school
Children with locomotor impairment
Includes children with non ambulatory and semi ambulatory
disabilities
*  Gates, approach road and steps to allow for smooth movement.
*  Ramps with handrails to be provided.
*  No major level differences within building. Reduce passages and
corridors.
* Toilets to be provided with adjustable seat, grab rail and ramp.
Children with visual impairment
Includes children with low vision and total blindness
*  Plan of the building should be simple.
*  Design of windows and illumination levels to eliminate glare.
*  Reduce distance between the child and the chalk board
*  Use of contrasting colours and textures to aid identification of
levels, ramps, passage ways, steps, doors etc.
*  Minimize risk of injuries - avoid projections, sharp edges etc.
13



* Provision of embossed eye charts on walls.
Children with hearing impairment
Children short of hearing or having difficulty in comprehending
words and sounds in noisy environments.
*  Reduce distance between teacher and child.
*  Insulate walls - provision of low cost mats and panels, soft
board, charts etc.
*  Provision of supplementary visual information - ideograms
Children with intellectual impairment
Children with uncommon social behaviour or hyperactive
*  Provide for lot of open space and greenery.
* The school design to allow the teacher to be able to pay
personal attention to the child.
*  Create / in built personal space for the child.
*  Use of bright colours.                                  Providing barrier free features
in a school
* Provision of in built play elements
B. TEACHING LEARNING ENVIRONMENT
Creating a child friendly environment, building on experiences of
children, contextualising learning are some important environment
related features of pedagogical renewal initiated in the states. These
features are found not only in textbooks and TLMs but also in
trainings, resource support that is extended to teachers, evaluation
strategies and so on.
Teaching Learning Materials (TLM):
Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan provides every teacher with an yearly grant
of Rs. 500 for developing teaching learning materials. Many states  9       ,
have conducted separate training and workshops for teachers on  i ---- 
development of TLM. The emphasis is on developing TLM that are
local, relevant and lead to better learning outcomes. Clay balls,
twigs, leaves etc. have for long been used as teaching learning  ,
materials in rural schools. Such materials, apart from being low
cost, are also easy for the children to identify with.     A learning corner
Besides, every school is also provided an yearly grant of Rs. 2000
for the development of the school. Various kinds of aids and
appliances like games and music kit can be procured from this
grant. The money can also be used for buying charts, posters etc or  _
for painting, graphics or murals on the walls as visuals are often a  a t
much stronger medium of instruction than written documents. Most
schools in Gujarat have 'bal mitra varg' painted on the walls of the  : 
lower classes. --t3
Textbooks and teaching learning materials promote a learning
environment free from fear and authority consciously building in  Painting on wall - visual
elements of peer and group learning using local materials. For  method
instance, the lesson 3 in class 2 mathematics books in Uttar
Pradesh has an exercise with pebbles and dice that demands  children to sit in groups
and interact with each
14



other while doing addition. Each child in this exercise has the
freedom to select a number. Children will not only count and add but  r- ;
will also try and figure out how many pebbles are required to win.
Each child will also keep a check on the pebbles picked by others in
his group. The lesson thus in itself promotes peer and group
learning.
Even in mathematics textbooks, there is a shift from linearly
arranged topics in form of exercises to a more open and interesting
approach to teaching. Often stories, poems and games are used to  Activity based lessons in
introduce and build on concepts. Such features are clearly visible in  textbook
textbooks of Kerala, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and to some extent in
Tamil Nadu.
Physical Built Environment:                                       -
Even the physical built environment is creatively used as learning  l  W 7
aids. There are examples of window grills and floor patterns being
used for teaching learning. A scale painted on the wall, a weighing
machine, local games engraved in the floor, a sundial constructed in
the campus - various interesting elements have been used as  ' 
learning aids. Such elements need not be limited to the new
schools. Existing schools can also be provided with such facilities  g     g
with very little cost implications.
On the physical side, furniture, chalkboards, storage and display  ;  t ,     _
areas - all contribute to the teaching learning environment within  i  v'
the classroom. Chalkboards are provided not only to the teacher but    i
also for the children. The children's chalkboard are usually made in  Hi
various interesting shapes - this makes them  attractive and
encourages the children to use the board. All states have been  The lively interiors of a
advised to use green chalkboards instead of black. Storage and  classroom
display spaces of various shapes and sizes also make the
classroom lively and interesting.
Schools in rural parts of the country by and large do not have
furniture. While there are instances of community donating furniture
in some schools, most schools provide jute mats or durris for
children to sit on. Most of the new school designs developed under
DPEP and SSA also attempt to address furniture less situations by  -7
providing an in-built ledge along the walls of the classroom - this  .l
serves as a writing top and can double up as a display area when   - 
not in use. Some schools in Karnataka has attempted to have
foldable wooden worktops which can be folded up when the   In built ledges are a reprive in
classroom is required for some activity. Assam is experimenting with  furniture less schools
the use of bamboo furniture as an environment friendly option.
The exterior of the classroom, which includes the verendah or the
school campus can also be used as an effective learning space.
Learning in an open surrounding, under the trees can actually be
'fun'. There are examples of the verendah of a classroom being
modified into an amphitheatre which also doubles up as an open air
classroom. Free standing chalkboards under trees or along the  *
boundary wall provide opportunities for outside learning - this is a  Worktops for group activity
15



Common sight in the schools of North India (UP, Haryana, Punjab,
Gujarat) during winter.
As an    attempt towards making      the school more 'environment
friendly', many schools have developed      gardens within the school
campus consisting of fruit trees, flowering shrubs and medicinal
herbs. These gardens are tended and maintained by the students
and the teachers, often with active support from      the VECs. Many
teachers can be seen to be creatively using these garden and the
trees in their teaching transactions.
Observations from Dighaltari Ratan Primary School, Assam
The Class IV students, after working on social studies switches over to general  The 'external' learning
science, with question paper cards that have a diagram of flowers. The teacher  environment
arrives in the group with a china rose in hand, which he had just collected from
garden and initiates the discussion. He dissects the flower in hand into its various   ,A.-
parts as petals, stem, stipules, androcium, gynoecium etc. The children interestedly
compare different parts of the flower with the diagram in hand. The teacher
explains to them the names of the different parts of the flower. Then he exhibits all   -
the parts on the bench separately and moves away. Children continue to work on
this theme quite enthusiastically. They match different parts of the flower with
their own diagrams and discuss the nomenclature. Then they take the second type
of question cards and match the names of the different parts in diagram with their  .
respective names on the other side. The leader then brings the third type of cards  A  well maintained  school
containing various questions relating to the function of each part of the flower and  garden
they all start working on them. This is followed by matching with the answer
cards, when the teacher again turns up for guiding them.
Various inexpensive play elements are also provided to attract
children and create a 'child friendly' environment. A see saw or a            1:          .
swing, made of the locally available materials, can be found in many           -
schools. Very often, if there is a tree in the campus, swings are                                   - -
hung from them using ropes and used tyres. Similarly unused hume
pipes and waste materials from      construction are often utilized to
make slides and other interesting play elements within the campus.
Shahdol district in Madhya Pradesh has attempted in a big way to encourage the  Play elements in a school
community to put up swings outside the school. There is also a variety in the
swings - they include slides, see-saws, the regular swing and a locally popular
rahachua. The swings have come up outside EGS schools also even though they        v
do not have enclosed compounds. This has become a major attraction for children         170
and has probably helped in the regularity of children in coming to school as well.
The swings have helped create a joyful atmosphere in the schools and encouraged
collective, playful interaction amongst children. Additionally, since children hang
on around the swings till late after school, the spot has become a meeting point for
the community members as well.
SSA   endeavors to create a lively learning environment in all the
schools of the country - both new and existing. A handbook for such
inexpensive child friendly elements has been developed           under
DPEP and has been circulated to all the states. All states have also                A -
been oriented to the importance of such elements in the transaction        Swing and see saw made of
of pedagogy.                                                               local resources
16



The case studies revealed examples of beautiful compounds having been
developed as a result of the head master's and community's motivation. In one
school observed in Assam (district Dhubri) a rich garden has been developed  , .  ~  '   '   .
outside the school with fruit trees, flowers and medicinal herbs. The decorative  }
garden is surrounded by a low bamboo fencing. In one of the schools observed in
Tamil Nadu a garden was carefully tended and maintained by the students and the       - i
teachers. The teachers of this school complained that there was no boundary wall  . ;   - < ,,
to protect the garden. Another school had a playground with slides, see saws and  g       m½w w--- .
bars. This was also the only school which provided game equipment to students to
play during recess. Another example is of a primary school in Madhya Pradesh
(district Shahdol). This school also has a spacious lush green compound with trees  The external environment can
shrubs and grass. In addition it has many swings and see-saws in the compound  be developed as an effective
which seems to delight the children. This has also been a joint effort of the Head  learning space
Master (HM) and the community. The HM of this school now wants to double the
number of swings. The above two schools show that the particular talents of
certain HMs can manifest in remarkable ways in which they develop their schools.
Source . Inside the school: a synthesis of case studies of classroom practices
EVS as a subject:
Environmental studies is an integral part of the school curriculum
and classroom transactions.It has emerged as a separate subject in
many (especially class 3 onwards) states like Maharashtra, MP,
Kerala, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Orissa       and   Andhra   Pradesh.
Through this subject, concepts of science, environment, health and
hygiene are introduced to the child. Inculcation of environmental       -
concepts at such an early stage of education has a major benefit in       I
creating environment friendly future citizens.                         Joyful learning
The National Curriculum Framework, developed by the NCERT also
stresses on Making education relevant to the life of children and
providing them 'education for life'. In this context a new subject
called "Art of Healthy and Productive Living" has been introduced at
the primary classes with a view to enabling the children to face the
challenges of life.
In lower classes many states show      an increasing sensitivity to
environmental issues bringing out language cum      EVS textbooks.
For instance Gujarat has a intergrated textbook for language and
EVS in class 1. Some states have attempted integrated textbooks of
all the three subjects - language, maths, and EVS at class 1 and 2
level. Textbook of Kerala, Haryana, Orissa, UP are a case in point.
The textbooks offer space for child's expression, provide a lot of
freedom  for the child to innovate and experiment. Textbooks are
being used as a starting point moving on to build on the experiences
of children. While some states have integrated textbooks combining
language and EVS or language, maths and EVS, others also have           TLM in an alcove
separate EVS textbooks.
17



Highlights of the EVS textbook in Uttar Pradesh.
*   EVS textbooks have been enlivened with the usage of pictures/illustrations
portraying real situations so that learning can be brought as close to
experiential learning as possible. Examples of such topics include the solar
system, stories about land, life and people of different states, etc.
*   To acquaint the children with the cultural diversity of Uttar Pradesh, lessons
include descriptions of the flora and fauna, festivals, traditions, attire and food
habits of the people. There are lessons on the important cities of Agra,
Lucknow and Varanasi to create an awareness among the children about what
makes them important through extensive use of pictorials.
*   An approach has been adopted to allow for transition of the child's mental
horizon from one's immediate surroundings to the unfamiliar. Beginning with
the realities around them, a gradual shift has been made over in lessons in
different classes. The Class III textbook begins with the village and runs up to
the district and India and various states are covered in the Class IV textbook.
India's neighbouring countries are covered in the textbook of Class V.
*   The lesson Rasoi in the Class I textbook describes kitchens in rural and urban
households. For most children the rural kitchen would be known. By using the
same concept in the urban context has enabled children to learn about the
unknown. This is an example of exposing children to the unknown from the
known.
*   To comprehend map reading and it's interpretation a simple method has been
adopted in the lesson Asia Mein Bharat in the Class III textbook which
encourages children to find answers using the map or globe through exercises
in the chapter. Another interesting exercise to reinforce the understanding of a
physical map has been given in the lesson Uttar Pradesh Prakritik Banawat va
Rehan Sehan in the Class IV textbook where children have been asked to
make models of the terrain.
* The EVS textbook of Class IV has a lesson - Uttar Pradesh Prakritik Banawat
va Rehan Sehan where the region wise specifilities are highlight. A folk tale
has been given in the Class IV language textbook (p.45)- Sawari Ka Prabandh
- and Chidiya Ka Daana in the Class V language textbook (p.68) as examples
and at the end of the lesson, children have been given the task of compiling
folk takes of their region. This exercise is expected to promote learning within
the home and enlist greater participation of parents in the education of their
children.
December 2000 glimmer of hope: Forwards quality education.
UP Education for all Board, Lucknow,
Environment Friendly Classroom Transactions:
The classroom transactions are also getting more 'environment
friendly'. Children are no longer restricted to the confines of the
classroom and are encouraged to explore the environment outside.
They are given 'projects' that require them to explore the village
surroundings and come up with answers/ observations. E.g a
project on construction may require the children to visit the
construction site in groups of 4-5 and collect information through        s9       -
discussion with the men working there. After the visit each group
would require to present the observations while others would add to
the information being presented.
Sticks, pebbles, leaves in the environment and the community living
near   school   are  increasingly   finding  a  place   in  classroom
transaction. Thus on one hand, one finds children moving out of the       environment
school, measuring circumference of trees through thread & scale,
studying different leaves, visiting post office, tea gardens etc.
18



On the other hand there are mothers and grandmothers coming in
schools telling folk stories and farmers telling about tilling of land....
The   trainers  in    the
Not only the textbooks and TLM but the whole support system too is       Cherrpulsserry BRC (Kerala)
took up one curricular statement
geared to promote learning on environment issues. Teachers too in        for    discussion   among
their monthly meetings,    plan their lessons on environment - the       themselves. Physical features of
emphasis is on drawing upon the local environment to teach the           the bird e.g. crow. They
competencies    listed  in textbooks. As     EVS   assumed    greater    outlined some of the activities
importance   in  curricular transaction,  problems    and  difficulties  that could be done as a part of
pertaining to its teaching were increasingly felt and addressed
through meetings and teacher training programmes. The trainers felt      Children would sit in a circle
that for each activity the teacher will have to ask some provocative     and sing a song "Sab Ki Kavita"
questions   which   will challenge   the   children  to  explore  the    on crow As a part of the Kavita
or afterwards the teachers
environment for answers.                                                 would raise questions like:
How many legs does a crow
have?
How many fingers? How many
Health and Hygiene:                                                      fingers are to the front?
Children will give different
Health   and  hygiene   forms   an   important part of the     school    answers to some of these
environment. The importance of being healthy as a prerequisite to        questions and would obviously
proper education is acknowledged at the highest Policy level - this      yearn to know  the correct
has been the genesis of the Mid Day Meal Scheme, that provides           answer. For which the teacher
can ask them to go and observe
cooked food to all school going children in the country. Provision of    and come back with their
water and sanitary facilities to schools are also a step towards         observations.
promoting hygiene in general and during meals in particular. Many
states have a system of maintaining 'Health Cards' for children
through which growth and general health conditions of the child are
monitored.
Health and hygiene is also an integral part of the environmental         _-
studies curriculum. Discussion on themes like food, house health,                  1_
good and bad habits, personal hygiene, common illnesses are part              _
of the classroom   transaction in all states. Field trip to the local    i
hospital, interview with a doctor etc. are also part of activities that  L
children perform in the schools. In the 'school cabinets' of
Karnataka, there is a separate minister for health. Schools in many      Hygienically    maintained
other states have 'safai samitis' comprising of children who are         exterior and interior of a
responsible for cleanliness of the school. Messages relating to          classroom
health and sanitation issues are delivered in an interesting way to
the children. These children, equipped with the knowledge, serve as                       .
change agents in the village.
Observations from GLPS Vadakkumurry School, Kerala
The discussion was on health and hygiene. Children first narrated a poem from the
textbook about a boy who ate and drank too much . Since the poem was funny,
children were really enjoying themselves. Later they discussed the problems of
over-eating and , staying unclean. Children pointed out the importance of eating
hygienic food and drinking clean water. Role of a doctor in case of pain was also
pointed out soberly by a child.
19



While discussing ways to keep healthy, children gave the following responses
* "For good health we drink Horlicks"
* " No Boost is better than Horlicks "
* " We should drink goat's milk, it gives resistance. My grandmother puts
onion in goats milk and gives it to me when I have a sore throat. It cures my
cough instantly. "
* "Give Paracetamol when the child is unwell"
* " We should clean our teeth"
* " We should cut our nails and keep our hands clean"
* "we should use chappals otherwise our feet get dirty"
Later the teacher summed up the ways to keep healthy, taking into account their
observations.
Observations from monthly meeting of teachers undertaking detailed
planning on themes of food and house health
Teachers sat in groups. There were two class I groups and three class 11 groups.
There were about four teachers in each group. One of the group was working on
the theme of health. The group first identified the curricular statements (CSs)
which could be transacted through this theme. These were 1, 9, 10, 11, 13, 19, 20,
21, 22, 25, 26, 29, 30, 36, .... Some of these identified CSs in form of statements
would be:
*       Folk songs with action, Sentences, Good health habits, To read
stories and children's song, To recite lines etc.
Some of the activities to be done to fulfill the above CSs were also identified.
These were:
Song, play related to hospital, conversation, writing, field trip to hospital, personal
hygiene (checking in the class), observation, interviews with doctor, discussion on
diseases and so on. This group then presented one day's teaching plan. The CSs
identified were 1, 9, 13, 22, 25. The activities planned were:
*       Wake up song
*       Words related to hospital or diseases to be used for grouping
*       Sentence making
*       Project on "Do our neighbours feel ill" - find out which diseases
affects them the most
*      Collect data
*      Present data in tabular form
*       S.No.                  Name of Diseases          Frequency
*      Which diseases occurred most? Arrange the frequency in ascending
and descending.
Source:. 'Classrooms with a difference: Sept-Oct 2000; DPEP
20



ADDRESSING ENVIRONMENTAL CONCERNS
This assessment looks at the various support mechanisms that
have been created within the design of the programme to help
address environmental concerns during its implementation.
At the outset it needs to be clarified that SSA is a decentralized
program and States are free to decide on implementation strategies
within the Framework of the program. This is also natural given the
huge diversity within states thereby making it impossible to have a
uniform implementation strategy. GOI monitors the program
primarily against the outcomes and budgetary utilization. But apart
from monitoring, GOI also plays a supportive role, strengthening the
capacity of the states and helping them develop the right kind of
strategies and interventions.
Based on experience in DPEP and other basic education projects,
GOI has already circulated the following documents/ instructions to
the states to guide program implementation:
* A sample community construction manual that lists issues
relating to site selection and good construction practices.
* A guideline on design that lists issues relating to functionality
of schools (i/c illumination, ventilation etc), essential design
requirements (storage, display, chalkboards etc) and basic
facilities to be provided (toilets, hand pumps, boundary,
ramp etc).
* A compilation of school designs developed under DPEP that
give the basic requirements of a rural primary school
* A handbook on child friendly features that can be
incorporated in a school.
* A guideline for utilizing the Rs 5000/- maintenance grants
provided under SSA.
* An instruction to states to converge with Total Sanitation
campaign, Swajaldhara and other Central/ State schemes
for providing water supply and sanitation facilities to all
schools.
* A suggestive pattern of the various management structures
that can be adopted to implement civil work activities
A guideline on construction issues in urban areas and a handbook
on barrier free environment is on the anvil.
The above documents are to guide program implementation at an
overall level. There are also region specific or state specific
environmental concerns which are being / will be addressed state
wise like earthquake resistant constructions in Gujarat, Uttaranchal
& the North eastern states, construction in flood prone areas in
Assam, Bihar & West Bengal, solar passive buildings in Himachal,
Uttaranchal and J&K, rain water harvesting in Gujarat, Rajasthan
Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. The GOI, along with the Technical
21



Support Group would also play a pro- active role in sharing of
experiences and encouraging cross learning. Good practices, both
in terms of the physical environment as well as the teaching learning
environment, will be shared with other states through documentation
and workshops.
The monitoring and follow up from GOI with respect to
environment and other infrastructure issues, would be at
various levels:
Appraisal of Annual Work Plans is the first step where the
activities of the previous year are appraised - this also serves as a
basis of the recommendations for the subsequent year. The 'Manual
for Appraisal of Plans', developed under SSA, clearly lays down the
various issues that are looked into at this level. A reading through
this Manual would indicate that most of the broad environmental
concerns get addressed at this stage. E.g with respect to physical
environment, the major appraisal issues include planning of
infrastructure as per a proper infrastructure survey, strategy for
supervision, monitoring and implementation of civil works, strategy
for ensuring quality of construction, capacity building of various
stakeholders, efforts towards a child friendly and barrier free school
building and strategy for repair and maintenance of school buildings.
Similarly, with respect to the teaching learning environment, the
appraisal looks at issues of textbooks and curriculum development,
teaching learning materials and teacher training modules. These
set of appraisal issues are more qualitative in nature and need an
annual review to check whether states have adopted the desirable
quality interventions and technically sound strategies / activities
which are being advocated by SSA.
For monitoring of the Program, with respect to outcomes and
objectives, Monitoring Institutions have been appointed for each
State. These institutions would be monitoring the program through a
set of 'monitoring indicators'. The primary monitoring indicators,
which are quarterly in nature, are largely on progress of civil works
and narrowing the gap between requirements and planned targets.
National level monitoring would also be supplemented through the
proposed Joint Review Missions. These Missions would look into
all aspects of program implementation, including environmental
ones (as per this Report). DPEP experience shows that these JRMs
have been very effective in identifying shortcomings and highlighting
good practices. In fact many of the civil works initiatives under
DPEP like design renewal, use of local materials, efforts towards a
child friendly school etc emanated from these interactions.
Apart from this, GOI would consider periodic third party
evaluations of the physical infrastructure constructed under the
program. These evaluations would be in line with the DPEP National
evaluation of civil works and would look at both the 'process' and
the 'product'. Aspects like school location, site selection,
prioritization and planning, designs, materials and technologies,
costs, quality of construction, community involvement and
22



maintenance are going to be evaluated in more detail through this
process. These evaluations will be carried out through independent
consultants, academic institutes or government bodies - the
logistics of the same would be decided at the state level.
This assessment therefore is based on the premise that the
guidelines and manuals circulated to the states are put to effective
use and the States share the vision and objectives of the
programme.
23



