                                   Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                      Report No:ICR0000193




             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                  (IDA-38820)




                                     ON A

                                    CREDIT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 334.9 MILLION
                       (US$ 500.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                    TO THE

                             REPUBLIC OF INDIA

                                    FOR AN

                     ELEMENTARY EDUCATION PROJECT

                           (SARVA SHIKSHA ABHIYAN)

                                  April 24, 2008




Human Development Department
South Asia Region

                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                (Exchange Rate Effective March 31, 2008)

                      Currency Unit = Indian rupee (Rs.)
                               US$ 1.00 = Rs. 39.25
                              US$ 1.64664 = SDR 1

                                 FISCAL YEAR
                                April 1 ­ March 31

                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AIE     Alternative and Innovative Education
ASER    Annual Status of Education Reports
AWPB    Annual Work Plan and Budget
BAS     Baseline Assessment Survey
BRC     Block Resource Center
CAG     Comptroller and Auditor General
CAS     Country Strategy
CFR     Concurrent Financial Review
CPAR    Country Procurement Assessment Report
CRC     Cluster Resource Center
CWSN    Children with Special Needs
CSS     Centrally Sponsored Scheme
DEA     Department of Economic Affairs
DEEL    Department of Elementary Education and Literacy
DFID    Department for International Development (UK)
DIET    District Institute for Education and Training
DISE    District Information System for Education
DP      Development Partners
DPEP    District Primary Education Program
EC      European Commission
ECCE    Early Childhood Care and Education
EDI     Educational Development Index
EEB     Elementary Education Bureau
EFA     Education for All
EGS     Education Guaranteed Scheme
EMIS    Education Management Information System
GDP     Gross Domestic Product
GER     Gross Enrollment Ratio
GOI     Government of India
IDA     International Development Agency
IED     Inclusive Education Department
INR     Indian National Rupee
IRR     Internal Rate of Return
KGBV    Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalaya (Girls in special hardship areas)
LJ      Lok Jumbish (People's Movement)
MAS     Mid-Term Assessment Survey
M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
MDGs    Millennium Development Goals
MDM     Mid-Day Meal Scheme
MHRD    Ministry of Human Resource Development


                                          ii

MIS      Management Information System
MOF      Ministry of Finance
MS       Mahila Samakhya (Program for Women Empowerment)
MTA      Mother Teacher Association
NAS      National Achievement Surveys
NCERT    National Council for Educational Research and Training
NCTE     National Council for Teacher Education
NER      Net Enrolment Ratio
NGO      Non-Governmental Organisation
NUEPA    National University for Educational Planning and Administration
NPE      National Policy on Education
NPEGEL   National Program for Girls' Education at the Elementary Level
NPV      Net Present Value
NSS      National Sample Surveys
NSSO     National Sample Survey Organization
OBB      Operation Black Board
OECD     Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development
OOSC     Out Of School Children
PAB      Project Approval Board
PMIS     Project Management Information System
PRI      Panchayati Raj Institutions
PTA      Parents-Teachers Association
PTR      Pupil Teacher Ratio
QMT      Quality Monitoring Tools
SC       Scheduled Caste
SCERT    State Council of Education Research and Training
SFD      Special Focus District
SFG      Special Focus Group
SIC      Sector Investment Credit
SIEMAT   State Institute of Educational Management and Training
SIS      State Implementation Society
SPAR     State Procurement Assessment Report
SRI      Social and Rural Research Institute
SSA      Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan
ST       Scheduled Tribe
SWAp     Sectorwide Approach
TAS      Terminal Assessment Survey
TDP      Tribal Development Plan
TLE      Teaching Learning Equipment
TLM      Teaching Learning Material
TSG      Technical Support Group
UEE      Universal Elementary Education
UT       Union Territories
VEC      Village Education Committee
WB       The World Bank


                            Vice President: Praful Patel
                         Country Director: Isabel Guerrero
                          Sector Manager: Michelle Riboud
                     Project Team Leader: Venita Kaul
                        ICR Team Leader: Reema Nayar




                                          iii

                                                         India
                          ELEMENTARY EDUCATION PROJECT

                                   (SARVA SHIKSHA ABHIYAN)




                                                   CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
 3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 13
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 23
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 23
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 25
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 27
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 29
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 31
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 48
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 48
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 57
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 57
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 58
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 67
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 70




                                                            iv

A. Basic Information

                                                                    ELEMENTARY
Country:                India                 Project Name:         EDUCATION
                                                                    PROJECT
Project ID:             P055459               L/C/TF Number(s):     IDA-38820
ICR Date:               05/04/2008            ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                    GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                   Borrower:
                                                                    INDIA
Original Total
                        XDR 334.9M            Disbursed Amount:     XDR 334.9M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Human Resource Development
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date            Process         Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review:        08/06/2003    Effectiveness:       06/25/2004         06/25/2004
Appraisal:             01/28/2004    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              04/20/2004    Mid-term Review:     01/31/2006         01/11/2006
                                     Closing:             12/31/2007         12/31/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Substantial
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory          Government:           Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory          Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:      Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory          Performance:          Satisfactory




                                              i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                            QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators          (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project No                 Quality at Entry
                                                                   None
at any time (Yes/No):                        (QEA):
Problem Project at any                       Quality of
                          No                                       None
time (Yes/No):                               Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                            Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                              5                 5
Pre-primary education                                          5                 5
Primary education                                             75                75
Sub-national government administration                        15                15


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Decentralization                                            Secondary        Secondary
Education for all                                            Primary          Primary
Gender                                                      Secondary        Secondary
Participation and civic engagement                          Secondary        Secondary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                     At ICR                        At Approval
Vice President:           Praful C. Patel                 Praful C. Patel
Country Director:         Isabel M. Guerrero              Michael F. Carter
Sector Manager:           Michelle Riboud                 Michelle Riboud
Project Team Leader:      Venita Kaul                     Kin Bing Wu
ICR Team Leader:          Reema Nayar
ICR Primary Author:       Reema Nayar
                          Deepa Sankar



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)




                                            ii

  The project's objective was to assist the GOI's ongoing Program for Universal
Elementary Education (SSA) that aims at achieving universal enrollment and completion
of elementary education of satisfactory quality by 2010, through (a) increasing
enrollment and reducing the number of out of school children; (b) narrowing existing
gender and social gaps; and (c) enhancing the quality of education of all the elementary
school students

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
Not applicable.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target      Formally         Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value          Values (from        Revised          Achieved at
                                                approval         Target         Completion or
                                              documents)         Values          Target Years
               (i) Reduction in the number of children 6-14 years not enrolled in school or

Indicator 1 :  alternative systems.
               (ii) Increase in the number of children enrolled in schools or alternative systems.

                                          (i) Out-of-school                  (i) 7 million out-of-
                                          children (OOSC)                    school implying
               ((i) 25 million out -of -  reduced by at least                average annual

Value          school children            3 million a year                   reduction of 4.5

quantitative or(ii) 159 million enrolled (ii) Enrollment in                  million

Qualitative)   in schools and alternative elementary school                  (ii) 175.4 million
               systems                    and/or alternative                 enrolled in schools
                                          system increases                   and alternative
                                          in absolute terms.                 systems

Date achieved 01/01/2003                  12/01/2007                         10/01/2006

Comments       Reduction in OOSC exceeded targets (150%) with commensurate increases in

(incl. %       enrollments. Actual values based on latest available data. Substantial progress in

achievement)   reducing OOSC and increasing enrollments is validated with independent data
               (Annex 2 for details).
               Increase in numbers of Girls, Schedule Caste/Schedule Tribe (SC/ST) and
Indicator 2 :  disabled children (Children With Special Needs -- CWSN) as share of students
               enrolled in Primary schools.
                                          (i) Girls share 47%                (i) Girls share
                                          (ii) SC share as per               47.8%

               (i) Girls share 44%        their share in                     (ii) SC share 19.0%
                                          population.                        (higher than
Value          (ii) SC share 18.9%        (iii) ST share as                  population share)
quantitative or(iii) ST share 10.3%       per their share in                 (iii) ST share 9.6%
Qualitative)   (iv) Disablility share
               0.6% (.56 million          population.                        (higher than

               children enrolled)         (iv) Disability                    population share)
                                          share as per share                 (iv) CWSN
                                          in population                      enrolled increased
                                                                             to 2.18 million



                                                iii

Date achieved 01/01/2003                     12/31/2007                        07/17/2006

Comments        Based on latest available data. Independent household data validate: (i)

(incl. %        achievement of near gender parity (0.99); (ii) substantial progress in social (SC

achievement)    /ST) parity (0.95) in participation rates by October 2005 (Annex 2). CWSN
                enrolled increased 389%

Indicator 3 :   (i) Increase in transition rates from primary to upper primary.
                (ii) Improvements in retention rates in primary
                                                                               (i) Transition rate
                (i) Transition rate from                                       from primary to
Value           primary to upper primary Transition and                        upper primary is
quantitative or - 75 %                       retention rates to                83%
Qualitative)    (ii) Retention rate in       increase                          (ii) Retention rate
                primary is 53.4%                                               in Primary is 71%

Date achieved 01/01/2003                     12/31/2007                        07/17/2006
Comments        Based on latest available data. Retention rate is included in ICR as additional
(incl. %        indicator of quality; progress in completion and transition validated from
achievement)    independent data (Annex 2).

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target      Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value            Values (from                        Achieved at
                                                  approval         Revised        Completion or
                                                 documents)     Target Values      Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Pupil Teacher Ratio (PTR) in primary to improve (decline)
Value
(quantitative   PTR in primary is 46         PTR to improve                    PTR in primary is

or Qualitative)                              (decline)                         41

Date achieved 01/01/2003                     12/31/2007                        07/17/2006
Comments
(incl. %        Achieved, close to desired norm of 40. Actual value based on latest available

achievement)    data.

Indicator 2 :   Student absenteeism to reduce
Value
(quantitative   Student absenteeism is                                         Student

or Qualitative) 33.5%                                                          absenteeism is 30%

Date achieved 12/01/2002                                                       01/01/2007
Comments
(incl. %        This is based on latest available independently commissioned studies for selected

achievement)    states and based on random visits. Statewise trends in Annex 2.

Indicator 3 :   Student absenteeism to reduce
Value
(quantitative   Teacher absence is 25%                                         Teacher absence is

or Qualitative)                                                                19%

Date achieved 12/01/2002                                                       01/01/2007
Comments        This is based on latest available independently commissioned studies for selected



                                                  iv

(incl. %       states and based on random visits. Statewise trends in Annex 2.
achievement)

Indicator 4 :  Student test scores in language and mathematics in Grades 3,5, and 7/8 measured
               in baseline studies and in repeat assessments
                                           Results of baseline
                                           grade 3,5, and 7/8                  Results of baseline

                                           assessment in                       surveys (Grades 3,

                                           language and                        5, 7/8) in language

Value          Baseline studies of         mathematics                         and mathematics

(quantitative  language and                reported and                        reported. Repeat

or Qualitative)mathematics conducted                                           assessment for
               for Grades 3,5, and 7/8     Grades 5 and 7/8
                                           tests repeated and                  grade 5 conducted

                                           results of Grade 5                  in 2005 and results

                                           repeat assessment                   reported in Jan

                                           reported.                           2008.

Date achieved 01/01/2003                   12/02/2007                          01/31/2008
Comments       Delays in completion and analysis of baseline and repeat surveys reflect
(incl. %       challenges relative to capacity. Low learning levels but small improvement in
achievement)   repeat test despite inclusion of large numbers of first time learners.


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                     Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived                DO                          IP                 Disbursements
                                                                                (USD millions)
  1     07/15/2004           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                       75.00
  2     01/06/2005           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                       75.00
  3     04/11/2005           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     138.81
  4     10/05/2005           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     138.81
  5     04/04/2006           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     385.90
  6     11/08/2006     Moderately Satisfactory           Satisfactory                     488.71



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                                 v

I. Disbursement Profile




                           vi

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

India, a country of over a billion people with a per capita GDP of about $515 in 2003, had made
remarkable progress in poverty alleviation and education. Poverty incidence had declined from 45 percent
in the 1980s to 26 percent in the early 2000s.1 Between 1992/93 and 1998/99, net enrollments of primary
school age children (6-to-10-year-olds) had increased from 68 to 82 percent across the nation, with most
of the enrollment expansion attributable to improved access, especially for girls and rural children.

Despite the remarkable achievements, however, India still accounted for one-quarter of the world's 104
million out-of-school children.2 According to MHRD statistics, the Grade 5 completion rate was under 70
percent nationwide. Potential new entrants into the system from a rapidly growing child population
exceeded the numbers exiting the system in any year. Wide-ranging disparities across states and districts
meant that, for example, the net primary enrollment ratios ranged from 63 percent in Bihar to 98 percent
in Kerala3. Grade 5 completion rates varied from 64 percent in West Bengal to 94 percent in Himachal
Pradesh for boys, and 43 percent in Rajasthan to 98 percent in Kerala for girls. Children of Scheduled
Castes (SC) and Scheduled Tribes (ST) were less likely to enroll in and complete elementary education.
The quality of elementary education was uneven across states, districts and sub-district and student and
teacher absenteeism were high. Insufficient public and household financial resources, social inequality,
uneven capacity and insufficient accountability constrained efforts to improve the system and outcomes.

Reflecting its deep commitment to universalizing access to and completion of elementary education of
satisfactory quality by 2010, the Government of India (GOI) launched the Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA),
the National Program for Universal Elementary Education (UEE)                 4The program provided a
comprehensive policy and budgetary framework for achieving the goal enshrined in the 86th
Constitutional Amendment (2002) of making elementary education a fundamental right of every child.

The Bank and other development partners had supported the GOI's District Primary Education Program
(DPEP), through eight projects; the Bank's 2001 Country Strategy (CAS) for India highlighted the
achievements of DPEP and recommended its scaling up. Bank support to SSA (which built on the DPEPs
but was nationwide in scope) was intended to broaden and deepen the policy reforms and development
impact. SSA paid special attention to gender and social equity and inclusive education, in addition to an
emphasis on quality. It provided a technically sound program designed and owned by the GOI, which
could enable not only the realization of the GOI's education, growth and poverty reduction objectives, but
could also help meet the global MDG for universal primary education by enrolling one-quarter of the
world's out-of-school children.

The rationale for external support to SSA was thus compelling. In addition to the financial resources, the
Development Partners (DPs, consisting of DFID, EC, and IDA) were to add value through: supporting the
strengthening of GOI's own review of program design and implementation; technical support to the
ongoing SSA program in key areas including through sharing of national and international best practices;
and strengthened monitoring and evaluation and its strategic use. The project pioneered the sector-wide
approach (SWAp) in India, in the hope that it would provide a model for more effective development
assistance not only for education, but also for other sectors in the country.

The DPs pooled approximately USD 1 billion, which was expected to be 30 percent of total project costs,
and committed the first phase of their support to the SSA program for a four year period. The Elementary
Education Project (also known as the SSA or SSA 1 project) was for the Bank, a Sector Investment Credit
(SIC) which relied on GOI's own rules and procedures to implement the program together with common
reporting formats for expenditures, auditing and monitoring. The SWAp was chosen to honor GOI
ownership, to facilitate partner harmonization, to strengthen sectoral management capacity, and to reduce
transaction costs, compared with a traditional SIC.




                                                      1

 1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

 The project's objective was to assist the GOI's ongoing Program for Universal Elementary Education
 (SSA) that aimed at achieving universal enrollment and completion of elementary education 5 of
 satisfactory quality by 2010, through (a) increasing enrollment and reducing the number of out of school
 children; (b) narrowing existing gender and social gaps; and (c) enhancing the quality of education of all
 the elementary school students. It is important to note that while the government's program is a long term
 program with clearly defined goals upto 2010, the Elementary Education Project supported by the DPs
 financed a time-slice of the national program between 2003/04 and 2006/07.6

 According to the Legal Documents, the key associated performance indicators for the period of DP
 support were:

  i.    The number of out-of-school children aged 6-14 years reduced by at least 3 million per year.
 ii.    Enrollment in elementary school and/or alternative system increases in absolute terms.
iii.    Girls as a share of students enrolled in primary education increase from 44 percent in 2003 to 47
        percent in 2007.
 iv.    Children of Scheduled Castes as a share of students enrolled in primary education increase to reflect
        their share in the population aged 6-11 of India.
  v.    Children of Scheduled Tribes as a share of students enrolled in primary education increase to reflect
        their share in the population aged 6-11 of India.
 vi.    Children with disability as a share of students enrolled in primary education increase to reflect their
        share in the population aged 6-11 of India.
vii.    Pupil-to-teacher ratios to improve.
viii.   Student absenteeism to reduce.
 ix.    Teacher absence without leave to reduce.
  x.    Improvement in the baseline of 75 percent transition rates from primary to upper primary education
        in 2002.
 xi.    Student test scores in language and mathematics in Grades 3, 5, and 7/8 measured in baseline
        studies and in repeat assessments.
xii.    Number of states providing Financial Management Reports (FMRs) and Audit Reports within the
        due date.

 Data with respect to the above were to be disaggregated/compiled by gender, scheduled castes and
 scheduled tribes, by primary and upper primary education; formal and alternative schools; by state and
 district; and by public, grant-in-aid and recognized private (un-aided) schools, whenever possible. While
 indicators (i. ­ xi.) above relate to the development objectives, (xii) related to fiduciary compliance and is
 discussed in section 2.4.

 1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
 reasons/justification

 The PDO was not revised and there were no changes in Key Indicators.

 1.4 Main Beneficiaries

 The primary beneficiaries were expected to be 9 million children (particularly girls, SC and ST children,
 and children with disability) in the 6-14 year age group who were out of school and who would enroll as a
 result of the program efforts and investments to reach out to all children. These included community
 mobilization campaigns, enrollment drives, greater involvement of village education committees,
 provision of schools within close proximity of every habitation, and special facilities to include girls and
 disabled children. SSA program efforts were complemented by investments from other parallel programs
 (e.g. the mid-day meal scheme, teacher education and tribal programs) and from households.



                                                       2

In addition, all children in the school system from grade 1-8 would benefit from the SSA interventions to
improve quality. SSA norms would ensure investments to improve quality for example through the
provision of one teacher for every forty children, the expansion and provision of school facilities, the
provision of free textbooks, supplementary teaching and learning materials, regular in-service training to
teachers, school grants for repair and maintenance and for materials and equipment, teacher grants for
teaching and learning materials, establishment of the Block and Cluster Resource Centers (BRCs and
CRCs), and innovative activities.

Other beneficiaries included the various institutions and individuals expected to benefit from the
implementation experience as well as the capacity building efforts, including: (i) the research and training
institutions at the national, state and district levels (National Council for Educational Research and
Training, NCERT; National University for Educational Planning and Administration, NUEPA; State
Councils for Educational Research and Training, SCERTs; State Institutes of Educational Management
and Training, SIEMATs; and the District Institutes for Education and Training, DIETs); (ii) the BRCs and
CRCs at the sub-district levels; (iii) local community institutions such as the Village Education
Committees (VECs) of the local self-government (Panchayati Raj), women's groups and NGOs, and
teachers; and (iv) state, district and sub district level departments/project entities.

1.5 Original Components

SSA is a centrally sponsored scheme (CSS), with the Center acting through the Ministry of Human
Resources Development (MHRD) providing (i) clear time-bound targets; (ii) a coherent framework for
their achievement through norms for planning and costing; and (iii) additional resources to achieve these
targets. States and districts articulate their plans through a process of needs assessment and planning, and
by matching central government allocations in a specified ratio. Implementation is then the responsibility
of decentralized state, district and particularly sub-district entities including representatives in local self-
governments, communities, school management committees, parent teacher associations, and other
stakeholders.
During the 10th plan period (2002-2007), the central government contributed 75 percent of the finances
and the states provide a matching 25 percent. During the first phase of DP support to SSA (between 2003
and 2007), DPs were to contribute to the central government's total share of 75 percent, so that the
financing was to consist of contributions of 45 percent from central government, 30 percent from the DPs
and 25 percent from the states (see also Table 1).

The financing needs were determined through a process of decentralized planning through district Annual
Work Plan and Budgets (AWPBs) for elementary education, developed by districts and states in
consonance with norms and guidelines detailed in the SSA ­ Framework for Implementation, and
appraised by the Project Approval Board at the national level.

Unlike a traditional investment operation, there were no pre-defined components and associated ex-ante
allocation of finance. Instead, funding of state plans is designed to enable the scope of interventions and
resource requirements to vary across states, districts, and sub-districts, and over time in order to respond
to different circumstances to best meet the development objectives. In addition to the funding of states
plans, the program finances a national component covering capacity building, technical support and
monitoring and evaluation, and financial management as key activities.

Apart from the support to program management and monitoring and evaluation, SSA funding covered
various categories of activities including:

(i)     To move towards UEE:
    · Establishment, construction and extension of primary and upper primary schools;
    · Provision of training in social mobilization and educational management;
    · Payment of the salaries of teachers hired under the program;
    · Interventions to enroll out-of-school children.


                                                         3

  (ii)    To narrow existing gender and social gaps:
       · Provision of free school textbooks to girls and students from SCs and STs;
       · Special schools and facilities for girls, including residential schools and toilets;
       · Hiring of female teachers to aim at parity with male teachers;
       · Provision of grants to districts to support students with disability.

  (iii)   To improve quality:
       · Provision of training for new and continuing teachers;
       · School grants for repair and maintenance, and for materials and equipment;
       · Teacher grants for teaching and learning materials;
       · Establishment and building of Block and Cluster Resource Centers; and
       · Innovative activities

  An approximate distribution of the costs between major categories of activities as estimated at appraisal,
  based on the approved SSA allocations in 2003/04, is presented in Table 2 (with more details in Annex 1).
  Approximately $1.1 billion was expected to be spent on civil works including the construction and
  expansion of schools. The next two largest categories were expected to be interventions for out of school
  children and salaries of teachers recruited ($ 374.5 million each).

  1.6 Revised Components

  No revisions.

  1.7 Other significant changes

  The most significant change was the much higher level of financial support to the program by the GOI
  and states than anticipated at appraisal, and a higher pace of implementation. In a reflection of the
  heightened commitment to UEE, and to provide additional resources for elementary education, a
  dedicated 2 per cent Education cess was introduced by the new Government starting from the 2004-05
  budget. The increased commitment of central finances was matched by higher contributions from state
  governments increasing the total fund availability to SSA. Thus, the total program expenditures over the
  four year period between 2003/4-2006/7 were approximately $ 7.8 billion, compared to the estimated $3.5
  billion anticipated at appraisal (Table 1 and Annex 1).

                             Table 1: Project Financing (Appraisal and Actual)
                          Appraisal      Actual/Latest                         Share in Total    Share in Total
                          Estimate (US   Estimate* (US $   Percentage of        Financing at       Financing
                          $ Million)     Million)          Appraisal             Appraisal          (Actual)
Borrower (GoI)               1579.0           4781.1             303%              45.0              61.4
States                        875.0           1945.4             222%              25.0              25.0
DPs                          1046.0           1047.0             100%              30.0              13.6
Total                        3500.0           7786.9             222%              100.0             100.0


  As a result of the much higher level of domestic financing for SSA, the actual share of external funds in
  total program expenditures over this four year period, at 13.6%, was significantly smaller than the 30%
  anticipated at appraisal. In addition, the higher domestic commitments combined with the design of the
  disbursement formula meant that the pace of disbursement by the DPs was much faster than anticipated,
  leading to the credit being fully disbursed 15 months in advance of the closing date of December 31,
  20077. The increases in the pace of implementation were maintained in 2006-07 as well, due to the
  continued high domestic investment in the program (see Annex 1).

  There were no changes in design; however, as a result of the flexibility in the program, actual funding
  allocations were determined on the basis of annual plans. With the more than doubling of finances to the
  program, funding for most categories increased significantly. Reflecting the increased emphasis during



                                                        4

   implementation on closing infrastructure and human resource gaps in lagging states (section 2.2),
   allocations for civil works and teacher provisioning were a higher share of program expenditures than
   estimated at appraisal (Table 2 and Annex 1).

                      Table 2: Project Costs by Major Categories (Appraisal and Actual)

                                                                                        Share of    Share of
                                              Appraisal                                 Activity    Activity in
                                              Estimate    Actual/Latest      Percentage in Total    Total Cost
                                              (US $       Estimate* (US $    of         Cost at     (Actual/latest
Activity                                      Million)    Million)           Appraisal  Appraisal   estimate)
Teachers' Salary                                374.5           1527.5          408%       10.7         19.6
Civil Works                                    1155.0           3414.0          296%       33.0         43.8
Interventions for Out of School Children        374.5           790.5           211%       10.7         10.2
Others (see Annex 1 for details)               1596.0           2054.9          128%       45.6         26.4
TOTAL                                           3500            7786.9          222%      100.0         100.0



   2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

   2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

   Background Analysis, Preparation and Design, Government Commitment and Participatory Processes.

   The Government's SSA program and the Elementary Education project were based on sound background
   analysis and built on the lessons learned from a series of past CSSs8, particularly the DPEPs. The
   objectives were highly consistent with the national priorities to universalize elementary education, as
   reflected in the Ninth and Tenth Five Year plans and recognized as a fundamental right in the 2002
   constitutional amendment. The targets for the access, equity and quality goals were ambitious, and in
   particular the access and equity goals were more ambitious than the MDGs. Yet, they were mostly
   feasible ­ apart from reaching the last hardest to reach ­ and necessary to make a major contribution to
   meeting both GOI's development goals and the MDG's for education on a global scale. The strategy to
   achieve these goals ­ in mission mode but through decentralized planning, active partnership of the
   community and partnerships with NGOs ­ was also sound, consistent with the focus in the national plans9,
   as well as with international evidence on strengthening education, and was the only feasible approach to
   addressing the ambitious goals in such a diverse country context. Financing a national program critical to
   meeting the MDGs potentially provided an opportunity to facilitate larger scale impact of DP financing
   which was limited relative to the enormous needs of a large country.

   The following paragraphs discuss strengths and shortcomings in the design.

   Commitment and Participation. SSA is the government's flagship program in elementary education.
   Designed and owned by the GOI, policy is set and oversight is exercised at the highest political levels in
   the country, states and districts: through the National Mission chaired by the Prime Minister, the State
   Missions chaired by the Chief Minister and the District Committees chaired by the District Collector,
   Magistrate or CEO of the District Panchayat.

   Although a Federal program, SSA provides considerable room for the states and districts to develop and
   implement local strategies best suited to achieve the objectives. Within the SSA framework, community
   participation is unambiguously mandatory.10 Participatory processes are built into the design of the
   program, through the local level planning and consultation in the preparation of district plans, the
   appraisal of district plans, the establishment/strengthening of VECs/SMCs/PTAs, and through the role of
   these bodies in implementation and monitoring. SSA also conceived a vibrant partnership with NGOs in
   capacity building, and the framework allowed for direct funding of NGOs for delivery and capacity
   building.



                                                         5

The high level of government commitment and the focus in the design of the program on decentralization
and stakeholder involvement enabled the SSA program to serve as a powerful vehicle to mobilize
stakeholders around the objective of ensuring that every child is included in the education system
regardless of social category, disability or gender.

Focus on equity and built in flexibility in design. The design of the program ­ with a norms-based
approach to planning and resource allocation ­ was well suited to the needs of children in underserved
and lagging areas. This was complemented by the flexibility to support differentiated needs that was built
into the AWPB process at the heart of the program, which facilitated further targeting for equitable access.
Other complementary interventions to address gender and social parity (see Section 3.2, PDOs 1 and 2)
also contributed to a strong design focus on equity.

More broadly, the AWPB process provides a built in flexibility in the design of the program. Through its
focus on targets, implementation performance, and increasingly, performance in achieving outputs and
outcomes, it is an important vehicle for annual dialogue between the center and states around achievement
of SSA goals. Through this process, funding is directed to decentralized entities to support the
achievement of targets. The process allows flexible strategies in the program, across states and over time.
Since key issues and policy levers are in the domain of states, the framework encourages innovations by
states, for example in teacher recruitment, quality monitoring etc., and in principle, provides opportunities
for cross-state learning. The AWPB process also provides a vehicle for building in annual adjustments to
state plans and to national norms, based on experience. Thus, for example, this enabled increased
resources to be channeled to districts and states with largest need, contributing to the achievement of
access and equity goals and supporting the provision of inputs to improve quality (section 2.2 and 3).

Design of DPs' support. The design of the DPs' support through a SWAp, honored GOI ownership and
facilitated strengthening of sectoral management capacity, and reduced transaction costs. The SSA
Results Framework was designed as a common performance assessment framework for GOI and the DPs.
Procedures were harmonized between DPs through a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with
common formats, withdrawal claims, and Joint Review Missions (JRMS). The use of country systems
facilitated their strengthening over time.

In addition, since DP support came in after national program had been in implementation for a couple of
years, the project was "ready" and did not encounter the initial implementation delays that often
characterize investment projects. The design and disbursement mechanism ensured an element of
predictability in external funding.

Aspects of design that could have been stronger. While the above design features contributed positively to
implementation and outcomes, some aspects of design could have been stronger. First, although the SSA
Framework identified the importance of addressing the needs of urban deprived children, the early focus
on inputs and norms was more suited to rural areas with large segment of underserved populations. Being
a dynamic program, however, the focus on the specific problems of children in urban slums, migrant
populations, etc. was strengthened during implementation11. Second, the significant contribution of the
unaided private sector to the growth in enrollments particularly in urban areas, suggests that innovative
partnerships with un-aided private schools could have been further/actively explored to further scale up
the achievement of program outcomes (See section 3.2 PDO 1). The SSA Framework encourages public-
private partnerships and the program is extended to local body and private aided schools, but is less well
developed on partnerships with private unaided institutions, to a large extent reflecting the lack of
consensus either nationally or in some states on how to move forward.12 Finally, as discussed in section
2.2, during implementation, it became clear that the goals with regard to adequate national monitoring of
learning outcomes, proved challenging relative to capacity, particularly given the scale of the coverage
and diversity of languages and state capacities; while this is now beginning to be addressed, it was not
sufficiently appreciated during preparation of the project by the DPs.




                                                     6

Risks and mitigation
The project at entry identified several pertinent risks to development outcomes, including modest risks of
insufficient prioritization of resource allocation, insufficient inclusion of ST groups, and possible negative
impacts on quality in the drive to reach the quantitative targets. Mitigation measures ­ including
directions and consultation to assist prioritization through the AWPB process, special attention to tribal
education development, and parallel attention on inputs and processes to support quality ­ were
appropriate. The lack of capacity to monitor quality and particularly learning at the national level,
however, was not adequately considered as a risk, nor was strengthening institutional capacity in this area
given sufficient attention as mitigation measure.

The PAD appropriately identified weaker capacity in lagging states and districts as a substantial risk to
achieving component results, as these areas did in fact have the majority of out-of school children and
largest gender and social disparities. This risk was mitigated to a considerable extent due to strong
monitoring and the capacity building efforts from the center and states (see Section 2.2). Potential
difficulty of some states to provide their financial contributions was appropriately identified as a modest
risk, particularly given historical expenditure patterns. However, absolute state contributions were over
double of what was anticipated at appraisal (Annex 1) and all states were able to provide their share of
contributions. This was facilitated by the introduction of fiscal reforms in many states, as well as by the
incentives and conditions provided through release of matching central contributions under SSA. Finally,
financial management risks were adequately identified as substantial, and mitigation measures were
generally successful in containing these risks (see Section 2.4).

Quality at entry. There was no QAG review for quality at entry

2.2 Implementation

The DPs' financing followed two years of implementation of the GOI program, and came at a time when
implementation had begun to accelerate, after a sluggish start. The period of DP support coincided with
substantial increases in domestic financial commitment to the program, and a rapidly increasing pace of
implementation and thus expenditures on the program (Figure 1 and Table 1). This enabled the
government to pursue higher targets (e.g. provision of minimum physical infrastructure and teachers),
contributing to significant achievement of access targets. There was a focus, particularly during the early
years of implementation of the program on the provision of minimum inputs designed to improve quality;
there has subsequently been an increased emphasis on strengthening the processes that are essential for
these inputs to translate into improved learning. Key factors that contributed to successful implementation
are outlined below as are some of the challenges that became apparent during implementation.

Commitment and Participation. SSA expenditures increased substantially from 2004, reflecting the
increased financial commitment by the Center and States (Section 1.7, Figure 1) to the program. In
addition to the stepped up financial commitment by the government, the participation and commitment of
government and non-government stakeholders at all levels also increased. The program generated an
unprecedented awareness about education in the country, and a visible increase in community
participation in school development which contributed to increase in enrollments. The rapid pace of
implementation observed in SSA would not have been possible without the empowerment of the districts,
blocks and cluster level institutions as well as the VECs/SMCs structures supported by SSA: over 50% of
funds (for civil works, grants to schools and teachers, etc.) were eventually channeled through
communities The political executive, government functionaries, and departments of education were very
involved in giving shape to SSA mission not only through implementation of program components but
also by moulding the program to suit state specific needs; and the national framework was adapted by
states. An increased number of NGO and civil society partners were also brought into a collaborative
relationship and played a key role in delivery, particularly alternative schools, bridge programs, and
programs for CWSN.




                                                       7

Figure 1: SSA Expenditures increased substantially                                  Figure 2: Lagging states now account for well over two-
reflecting higher financial commitments by the GOI and                              thirds of total SSA budgetary releases and expenditures
states as well as increasing pace of implementation

                Trends in SSA budget approvals, releases and expenditures (in                          Share of Lagging States in Total SSA Releases and Expenditures (2003/4 and 2006/7)


                                      current prices)                                            75

              250


              200                                                                                70




    noill     150                                                                                65

         Bi.                                                                           gea

                                                                                          cent
            Rs100                                                                             Per
                                                                                                 60


               50

                                                                                                 55

                0
                   2001-02   2002-03    2003-04     2004-05    2005-06     2006-07
                                                                                                 50
                                                                                                         Share of lagging states in total releases                  Share of lagging states in total expenditure

                          Approved   Expenditure    GOI release   State release                                                                           aa

                                                                                                                                                     2003/4 2006/7



   Sector Policies, Planning and Budgeting. The decentralized approach to planning and implementation
   above, was complemented by (i) the use and continued strengthening of the AWPB process for directing
   finances according to needs, and based on performance; and (ii) convergence with other programs.

   While norms were particularly suited to addressing key input gaps in underserved and lagging areas,
   resources were also increasingly targeted during implementation to areas with large infrastructure and
   human resource gaps and to Special Focus Districts (SFDs) ­ districts with largest gender and social gaps
   (see Section 3.2, PDO2). More recently, this evidence-based planning has been further strengthened with
   the use of the Educational Development Index (EDI) to identify backward districts. Flexibility was also
   introduced through the relaxation or adjustment of norms, as needed, to accelerate the provision of inputs
   to lagging districts and states. As a result, the share of the 9 lagging states13 in total SSA budgetary
   releases (center and state) rose from 63% in 2003/4 to over 70% in 2006/7 (Figure 2). Bihar, for example,
   saw a nearly fifteen fold increase in nominal releases while in UP nominal releases increased nearly nine
   fold between FY2002/03 and FY2006/07. A similar targeting is observed within states, for example 61%
   of resources in Karnataka in 2006/07 went to 11 SFDs. This enabled lagging states, which accounted for
   the bulk of the out of school children, to make significant strides in improving access and reducing
   disparities (section 3.2, PDO 1).

   The AWPB process also directed commensurate attention to addressing capacity and implementation
   bottlenecks; as seen in the improvements in the utilization of resources by lagging states. Financing to
   states in any year depends in part on adequate utilization of previous releases. As a result, utilization of
   funds by lagging states increased from less than 50% in FY 2002/03 to about 85% by FY2006/07, which
   is the national average (and close to the utilization rates for non-lagging states). Together with the
   increases in total releases above, the improvements in implementation performance contributed to a
   significant increase in the share of lagging states in total SSA expenditures, from below 55% in 2003/04
   to over 68% in 2006/07.

   The convergence with other programs and departments in most states (e.g. Mid Day Meal Scheme or
   MDMS, Integrated Childhood Development Scheme or ICDS, Panchayati Raj or PR Ministry, Total
   Sanitation Campaign or TSC and Swajaldhara) ­ and particularly in the areas of infrastructure planning
   and implementation, and with the water and sanitation sector ­ was also an important contributing factor
   enabling greater results in improving enrollments.

   The program was for the most part successful in providing the minimum basic inputs and facilities for
   learning (classrooms, teachers, textbooks and learning materials, academic support structures) reflecting
   the focus in implementation during the early years, on the provision of inputs. It has been more



                                                                                  8

challenging to strengthen the school and classroom processes which are essential for moving from inputs
to improvements in learning, but are also more complex. There is still a need to make teaching and
learning processes more child-centered (as envisaged in the National Curriculum Framework), with a
greater results focus, and clear and specific learning targets. Similarly there is a need to move beyond
teacher provisioning, to improving teacher quality and accountability ­ to further reduce teacher
absenteeism, improve their preparation and training, and the quality of classroom instruction. Improving
quality also needs capacity building of the institutions at all levels that can support and sustain quality
improvements and of VECs/SMCs to enable them to play the desired broader role in school monitoring
and school based management (sections 3.2 PDO 3, and section 3.5). These challenges cannot be
adequately addressed in a three to four year time frame as they call for institutional and behavioral
changes; yet they are essential for sustained improvements in learning. Several states have introduced
innovative initiatives and programs to improve quality; there is a need to strengthen the evidence base on
the impacts of these initiatives and, therefore, their potential for scaling up. Tackling these issues is now
becoming more central in SSA and the AWPB reflects this evolution of the center and state dialogue on
processes and outcomes.

With the benefit of hindsight, the AWPB process in the initial years was more focused on targets to
improve access and equity and the provision of minimum inputs for quality ­ of greater relevance to
lagging states. Perhaps a variation in targets ­ with greater emphasis on process and outcome indicators
for quality particularly in states which were more advanced with regards to access and equity ­ could
have been considered. The introduction of the Quality Monitoring Tools (QMTs) (see section 2.3) is a
response to the acknowledged need for monitoring and targeting improved classroom processes. Finally,
although convergence with other programs has worked well for access, there is now a need to ensure
convergence to achieve quality improvements. For example strengthened convergence with the teacher
education scheme, and indeed a strong teacher education scheme ­ is needed for an integrated approach to
addressing teacher quality.

Administration and capacity. Proactive implementation steering of the program by the Elementary
Education Bureau (EEB) of MHRD and strong administrative capacity at this level was critical, as was
the role played by the Project Approval Board. Although implementation capacity varied at the state
level, as seen above, implementation capacity of lagging states improved considerably. Staffing issues did
plague states and particularly sub-state implementing agencies during implementation; however these
have been, and continue to be, addressed with a proactive role played by the center. In the states where
project management structures are integrated with education administration, implementation appears to
have been smoother. Finally, as discussed below, improvements in financial management capacity and in
particular in the timeliness of fund flow to lower levels through electronic fund transfer processes
contributed to implementation. However, as discussed in section 3.5, there are still considerable capacity-
building needs at all levels.

Joint Supervision Mechanisms. Building on the DPEP practice, semi-annual joint reviews, led by GOI
and including the participation of national experts from within and outside government as well as
Development Partners, have been institutionalized. The format of alternating field and desk reviews also
worked well. These reviews have, for the most part, been effective in focusing on progress in outcomes
and implementation, and identifying key issues and bottlenecks. The leadership and ownership of the
reviews by the government meant that many of the recommendations of the review missions were
internalized and implemented. As discussed in section 5.1 (b), these could at times have benefited from
additional expertise. For example, at times the skills mix of the DP team could have more strategically
included relevant areas of expertise, and field missions could have included additional fiduciary staff.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

M&E Design. The M&E design for SSA was comprehensive and built on the DPEP design. It consisted
of: (i) annual updates of administrative/household censuses to monitor out of school children; (ii)



                                                       9

expansion of the District Information System for Education (DISE) to become SSA's primary source of
statistical data on children in schools and gender and social disparities or its EMIS (Education
Management Information System); (iii) use of periodic independent household surveys to provide an
independent check and disaggregated information on out-of-school children, and commissioning of
independent studies for other key indicators (e.g. teacher attendance); (iv) introduction of National
Achievement Surveys to monitor student learning achievements in grades 3, 5 and 7/8; (v) quarterly
information on inputs and outputs through the Project Management Information System (PMIS); and (vi)
field based monitoring by independent Monitoring Institutions (MIs), BRCs, CRCs, and VECs.

The use of a common results or performance monitoring framework was effective in facilitating regular
and constructive monitoring, feedback and dialogue of all stakeholders on results and on the adequacy of
monitoring instruments. Key indicators were adequately identified; baseline measures for most indicators
were collected using existing data14 and special sample surveys. In the case of baselines for learning
assessments, the Baseline Assessment Survey (BAS) for grade 5 had been carried out in 2002, and
preliminary results made available prior to the project. The Grade 3 and Grade 7/8 BAS were carried out
in 2004 and 2003 respectively and results available in 2006.

M&E Implementation. M&E implementation was for the most part successful, facilitating collection of
appropriate data. There were four key successes in implementation. The first was the expansion of DISE
since 2005/06 to all districts in the country, making it the world's largest school-based system. It now
covers a richer set of indicators, has started covering the private sector, and is beginning to provide trend
information on key indicators. Timeliness of reporting of DISE data was a serious issue in the first year
or two of SSA implementation, but has improved considerably.15 Second, the administrative household
census was updated annually and provided the basis for community based monitoring and planning for
out of school children. Third, several states introduced innovations on data collection and management
including Child Tracking Systems (e.g. Orissa, Delhi), state systems of learning assessment (e.g.
Karnataka), and school grading systems (e.g. Uttaranchal) 16. Fourth, third-party surveys, evaluations,
independent assessments, and studies by independent researchers/agencies were increasingly conducted
and used at state and central levels.

With regard to national monitoring of quality, the QMTs have been introduced to support field based
monitoring particularly of processes. National monitoring of learning outcomes through the National
Assessment Surveys proved challenging relative to capacity, and in view of the scale of the effort (See
Section 3.2, PDO 3). The preliminary results of the Grade 5 Mid- Term Assessment Survey (MAS) have
now become available in January 2008, with some delay.

M&E Utilization. Utilization of data collected to inform decision making and resource allocation has
continuously been strengthened and integrated into the annual planning process. Information from the
annual household census/registers was used for community monitoring of out of school children and to
devise local strategies to include these children. DISE data were used to identify Special Focus Districts,
and are now being used to develop the EDI to facilitate the targeting of resources according to needs.
Surveys of teacher and student attendance are now being used in the planning process to focus attention
of states on the issue.

While the NCERT BASs provided some information on levels of learning outcomes and their variations
across states, technical concerns and delays in reporting limited their usefulness in providing feedback on
the system or for example, in identifying states in need of special attention. Many states attempt to
incorporate some kind of evaluation to obtain feedback on innovative programs for access or quality.
With an increase in the share of funding through the AWPB to support state determined quality programs,
it is becoming increasingly important to build capacity to evaluate impact. Finally, although several
research and evaluation studies were commissioned by states and sub-state institutions, these studies are
of variable quality. Wider dissemination within states could be beneficial.




                                                     10

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguard Compliance is rated as satisfactory.

Social Aspects. A social assessment, prepared at appraisal and updated recently in preparation for the
second phase of DP support to SSA, confirms that during the first six years of SSA implementation,
activities for the "special focus groups" (SFGs) in the Framework (girls, SCs and STs, minorities ­
particularly Muslims), disabled children and deprived urban children and for "special focus districts"
(SFDs) have been mainstreamed in State and District planning, appraisal and implementation, training
and monitoring. (See sections 2.1 and 2.2 and 3.2 PDO 1 and 2 for a further discussion of how social and
equity issues are integrated into the program and project). A Tribal Development Plan (TDP) was
prepared at appraisal of SSA1 and has been updated. It notes the priority accorded to STs in the national
planning process through Tribal sub-plans, particularly for elementary education, through constitutional
and legislative protections, as well as in the SSA framework. As a SFG, ST educational challenges are
being addressed through the consultative planning and appraisal process, targeting of districts, monitoring
and evaluation, focused interventions, and favorable budgetary norms for tribal areas. Specific
interventions that have particularly benefited tribal populations are further discussed in Section 3.2 PDO 2,
and Annex 2. Review of processes of obtaining land and transfer of ownership were included in the third
party evaluations of civil works (see below) with a special focus on tribal areas to ensure that there are no
negative impacts on tribal people. On balance, there have been considerable positive impacts (see section
3), although continued focus will be needed to fully bridge gaps in education indicators for ST children
and to address specific challenges including physical access in remote or sparsely populated tribal areas,
and seasonal migration.

Environmental aspects. The project was classified as environmental category B; environmental issues
related mainly to civil works, including construction of toilets and water facilities in schools. A partial
Environmental Assessment (EA) was carried out as the works are small in scale and issues relatively
small and local. Some environmental safeguards were already built into the norms and standards specified
in SSA. The EA report identified the probable environment issues and described the manuals, directives
and guidelines in place to address environment issues, and arrangements to implement and monitor
actions and to ensure that environment issues are mainstreamed; during implementation additional
manuals were developed by GOI and State level implementing agencies. Environmental parameters are
included in the appraisal of annual work plans, in annual reviews of program implementation, in JRMs
and in independent Third Party Evaluations (TPEs) of civil works. As with the DPEP, the JRMs played a
key role in identification of shortcomings and highlighting of good practices17.

There were no major issues during implementation related to site selection, and overall construction
quality has also been largely satisfactory. Nevertheless, as the program was scaled up, issues relating to
school level infrastructure planning including instances of haphazard expansion, inadequacies in ramps
for barrier free access, and maintenance of water and sanitation facilities, were identified. In response,
states have taken or are taking actions to improve the ramps and to strictly adhere to specifications in
future construction, to provide water facilities and separate toilets for girls in all schools by 2010, to
create conducive environments to teaching and learning. In addition, all states/UTs will be covered by an
environmental audit by a special team of engineers at State level over the next three years.

Community consultation is integral in the program, and communities and local institutions like VECs are
involved in identification, planning, design, implementation and operation and maintenance of schools
and all other program activities. Operations and Maintenance (O&M) is being financed through annual
Repair and Maintenance Grants (RMG) and other State funds.

Fiduciary compliance is rated as moderately satisfactory.

Financial Management (FM). SSA's FM system builds on existing GOI/state financial procedures as
well as on the experience in DPEP. With SSA in implementation since 2001/02, many of the systems,



                                                      11

processes, checks and balances were already in place or being tested through implementation. In addition,
significant progress was made during the period of external support in strengthening financial
management capacity, in line with a key objective of the first SWAp in the country. MHRD has made
significant achievements in the following areas: (i) funds flow improved since 2004-05 with the use of
electronic channels for all transfers to states, and in a significant number of states for transfers to districts;
(ii) a comprehensive Manual for Financial Management and Procurement (FMP) has been prepared,
translated and disseminated and its use has contributed to increased uniformity across program states; (iii)
audit is as per a standard Terms of Reference (ToR) which requires for provision of an opinion of the
truth and fairness of the financial statements, and reports provide insights in operation of the program in
states; (iv) as an effective monitoring tool, MHRD conducts quarterly review meetings of Finance
Controllers of states; (v) GOI has constituted a process of independent Concurrent Financial Review
(CFR) which has provided useful insights to GOI/DPs in operation of the program; and (vi) efforts have
been made to use financial accounting software; which are leading to overall improvements in FM.

Some areas of concern include: (i) internal controls continue to be weak e.g. delays in bank
reconciliations, weaknesses in internal audit and no settlement of advances; (ii) the external audit process
needs strengthening in terms of co-ordination between multiple auditors and better coverage of
procurement aspects; (iii) audit reports have identified significant issues as well as observations which
have led to disallowance of expenditure relating to a few specific states; and (iv) difficulty in monitoring
at the sub-district levels. MHRD is proactively addressing these issues to continue to improve the
financial management performance of the implementing agencies. Mitigation measures put in place
include strengthening of internal and external audit and the use of firms empanelled with the CAG,
specific attention to co-ordination of multiple auditors, monitoring of adequacy of staff, training of
financial management staff, periodic meetings of financial controllers of states, increasing participation of
FMP specialists in Joint Review Missions, and extending audit coverage to all sub-district entities
(including VECs) which incur annual expenditure above specified thresholds.

As part of preparation of the project, the Bank and GOI agreed on monitoring timeliness of key financial
information; viz. the interim expenditure information or the FMRs and the External Audit Reports
(performance indicator xii in section 1.2). There was timely reporting of expenditure through the FMRs;
audit timeliness did not improve on the other hand, remaining more-or-less the same despite significant
increase in program activities.

Disbursement. The arrangements for reimbursements from the DPs which: (i) are designed as single
annual tranches linked to the national budget cycle; (ii) are triggered by Financial Monitoring Reports
(FMRs) from GOI and adjusted later based on audited financial statements; and which (iii) finance two-
thirds of eligible expenditures above annually rising thresholds, has contributed to efficient disbursement
and monitoring of expenditure, although as discussed earlier, as a result of the much higher domestic
commitments to the program, the credit was fully disbursed 15 months in advance of the closing date of
December 31, 2007.

Procurement. Procurement under the project was governed by the Manual for Financial Management and
Procurement (FMP), which was rolled out by the Government of India in the year 2004. Compliance of
the agreed procurement procedures was consistently reviewed through JRMs and transparent third-party
reviews/evaluations such as statutory audits and CFRs. In addition, the DPs commissioned an
independent ex-post review, which indicated that except for a few contracts, agreed procurement
arrangements were complied with. The contribution of intensive but efficient procurement of the small
value items in achieving the objectives of the program cannot be under-estimated18.                Community
oversight over decentralized procurement ensured the quality of construction and better ownership and
use of the assets created. As with financial management, the SWAp contributed to strengthening
procurement systems, most notably through the development of the FMP manual (the procurement
sections of this being broadly based on Bank Guidelines, with customization where necessary), but also




                                                       12

through the introduction and strengthening of procurement audit and the introduction of procurement
training as part of FM training.

During the implementation of SSA, certain weaknesses in the procurement arrangements were noted ­ for
example less awareness about the provisions of FMP Manual particularly at sub-district levels, weaker
monitoring of decentralized procurement, inadequate MIS for the contracts issued, weaknesses in internal
procurement audit, and need for further strengthening of community oversight for school and district
levels. The post review also highlighted the need to improve the contract data and record keeping
systems; and the need for further procurement capacity building mainly at school level. MHRD promptly
initiated the appropriate action to address these deficiencies some of which were observed during initial
years of SSA. As a result, during the tenure of the project the procurement performance of the
implementing agencies improved considerably. Mitigation measures for many of the remaining issues
have since been put in place for example strengthening internal and external procurement audit, training
of procurement staff, increasing participation of FMP specialist in Joint Review Missions, improving
disclosure of procurement information, developing VEC Manuals etc

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

Next Phase of SSA and follow-up operation. The project was the first phase of the Development
Partners' support to the Government's ongoing and evolving SSA program. SSA was originally
conceived as a ten year CSS of the GOI, running from 2001 to 2010; in a recent GOI decision, the scheme
will now be implemented through the end of the 11th Five year Plan (i.e. FY11/12). GOI has requested the
Development Partners to continue to support the program, and a second phase of support through the
Second Elementary Education or SSA II Project has been prepared which draws on the lessons learned to
date. As with SSA I, SSA II is also being structured as a SWAp using country systems, taking into
consideration modifications for procurement procedures as per the Bank's Anti-Corruption Guidelines
introduced in 2006.

During the remainder of the program, and given the progress made on access targets, the emphasis of the
program during the 11th Plan is on quality with equity throughout the elementary cycle and completion of
the access and equity agenda in upper primary. The quality enhancement framework combines basic
provisioning to create enabling learning conditions ­ including improving teacher availability,
accountability and training ­ with an enhanced focus on capacity building and academic support to state
and sub-state structures; and monitoring learning outcomes and research and evaluation of quality
initiatives. A combination of demand and supply side interventions will continue to be used to enable the
hard-to-reach children to attend school.

The DP support will be accompanied by a Technical Cooperation Fund to provide technical assistance to
build capacity in monitoring learning outcomes and to evaluate the impact of quality interventions. In line
with the emphasis on decentralization, State and district Annual Work Plans remain at the center of the
program, with an increased focus on performance and commitments to support the national focus of
quality with equity. For example, the AWPB process in 2006/07 set targets for the reduction of drop-out,
inclusion of children for educationally backward minority communities, improvement in learning
outcomes, regular monitoring of student and teacher attendance, increased community monitoring, and
appraisal and redesign of teacher accountability systems.

Financial and Institutional Sustainability. The estimated cost for the program over the next three years
is about USD $10.5 billion; this is expected to be financed jointly by the Center, States and external
partners with over 90% of the funding coming from domestic sources. As previously anticipated, the cost
sharing ratio between GOI and States will shift from the 75-25 under the 10th Plan to 50-50 by the end of
the 11th Plan declining in a tapering ratio. This will gradually increase state financing for the program and
therefore financial sustainability. To ensure that this does not compromise the pace of implementation
especially by lagging states, however, which still have to complete the provision of basic infrastructure



                                                      13

and teachers, the transition in the cost-sharing ratio will be gradual.19 To ensure adequate coverage of
O&M expenditures relating to repair and maintenance of schools annual Repair and Maintenance Grants
(RMG) will complement non-Plan allocation of state funds. Recurrent costs related to teachers hired
under SSA and their training, etc. will continue to be covered under SSA; with responsibility for
financing gradually transferred to the states.

A key issue for sustainability will be institutional capacity to continue to manage and implement the
program to achieve and sustain outcomes, especially learning outcomes. To this end, the following steps
are being taken: (i) the SSA Framework was recently amended to strengthen the links between the project
management structures, VECs/SMCs and the statutory PRI bodies; operationalization will be supported
through the remainder of the program; (ii) while some states have already integrated SSA structures with
the general education system; ending of parallel implementation structures (between State Government
and SSA) at district and lower levels is now included as a priority among expected outcomes in the
AWPB process; (iii) technical support and capacity building to relevant national, state and district
institutions (e.g. NCERT for quality monitoring and evaluation, BRCs and CRCs for provision of
academic support) and particularly to lagging districts (e.g. in the formulation, implementation and
monitoring of district plans) is being emphasized; and (iv) at the community and school levels, capacity
building efforts will support VECs and SMCs to make the transition from a role that has focused
primarily on civil works and social mobilization, to one that facilitates quality monitoring and school
development planning.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Relevance of objectives. The objectives of the SSA program remain highly relevant to both India's
development and education sector priorities as reflected in the 11th Plan (2007-2012) and to the India
Country Strategy (CAS) for FY05-08 discussed by the Board on August 26, 2004. The CAS emphasized
improving government effectiveness, investing in people and empowering communities, and promoting
private sector-led growth as key program priorities, and envisaged a scaling up of lending for human
development, particularly elementary education. It also entailed a shift towards a more inclusive strategy
that addressed lagging states and a scaling up of the SWAp approach pioneered by the SSA to leverage
scarce DP resources for maximum impact.

Design and Implementation have remained highly relevant. The emphasis in the SSA program on
addressing supply (infrastructure and human resource) constraints in underserved areas and lagging states,
and the demand constraints faced by previously excluded groups (girls, SC and ST) has enabled the
achievement of nearly universal enrollment, especially of girls, SC and ST in primary schools, and an
increase in primary completion rate, thus accelerating progress towards the MDGs. The SSA strategy
which employed and strengthened decentralized planning, and active partnership of the community and
NGOs to facilitate investment in education, is highly consistent with the national and CAS emphasis on
improving government effectiveness, empowering communities and investing in people. The in-built
flexibility in the design also contributes to its continued relevance. Thus, the program has shifted its
emphasis to address the continuing agenda of quality, reaching the hardest to reach and promoting upper
primary education. In the case of quality, the focus is on the processes and outcomes to facilitate
improved learning. DPs' assistance through the SWAp approach has thus remained highly relevant,
despite the relatively small share of external funding; and implementation assistance has also largely been
responsive to changing needs.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

This section discusses the achievement to date of each of the three components of the overall PDO, which
is to assist the GOI in achieving universal enrollment and completion of elementary education of
satisfactory quality by 2010. Targets were set for the project until June 2007. The discussion is based on



                                                     14

the most recent administrative data available (typically 2006), but is complemented by an assessment
based on the National Sample Surveys (NSS) 1996, 2000 and 2005 carried out by the National Sample
Survey Organization (NSSO). This is done to (i) validate trends during the phase of SSA particularly due
to greater suitability of household surveys for assessing some indicators (e.g. equity); and (ii) provide
comparable information on trends during the post-2000 (roughly the first phase of SSA) period and the
pre-SSA period, using the pre-SSA period as the counterfactual to facilitate assessment on plausible
attribution of results. This is because the national rollout of the program precludes a contemporaneous
counterfactual. Although these independent data are only until 2005 and, as such, do not cover the full
period of the project, they enable an adequate assessment of progress on the program that started in 2000.
The NSS (2007/08) and an independent survey for SSA planned in 2008 are expected to provide further
confirmation of trends beyond 2005.

Annex 2 complements this discussion with a more detailed presentation of the validation exercises, a
more detailed discussion of the outputs under each objective, and some state-wise trends. In the
discussion that follows below, it is important to bear in mind that there are definitional differences
between the NSS data and administrative sources on children in and out of school. The NSS data measure
participation or self-reported attendance while administrative sources measure enrollment.20 The NSS
data are used to validate trends; however the absolute numbers reported from the different data sources
will necessarily differ.

PDO 1: To reduce out-of-school children and increase enrollment

Indicators: (i) The number of out-of-school children aged 6-14 years reduced by at least 3 million per
year; (ii) Enrollment in elementary school and/or alternative system increases in absolute terms.

According to the baseline MHRD household child census of January 2003, there were 25 million children
aged 6-14 years out of mainstream and alternative schools (Education Guarantee Scheme, or EGS, and
Alternative and Innovative Education, or AIE, centers). The updated household censuses report an annual
decline from this baseline, with the number of out of school children reported to have fallen to 7 million
as of October 2006. An independently commissioned sample survey for SSA, carried out by the Social
and Rural Research Institute (henceforth the SRI survey) shows a higher number of OOSC of 13.5 million
a year earlier (October 2005). However, both administrative as well as independent household surveys
suggest that the target of annual reduction of 3 million a year has been exceeded (see also Annex 2). As
the number of children out-of-school fell, enrollments increased (Annex 2). Enrollments increased faster
than the growth in the school age population, as a result of which the GER in primary increased from
98.8% to 119.2% and NER from 81.5% to 88.8% between 2000 and 200521.

The NSS data confirm the tremendous progress in increasing participation during the first phase of SSA
(Figure 3, Annex 2 and Sankar 2007). The most significant contributions likely came from the opening of
new schools and EGS centers, awareness campaigns to mobilize communities, back-to-school camps and
residential and non-residential bridge programs, expansion of existing schools and improvements in
physical infrastructure, and the hiring of teachers (Annex 2). The investments in physical infrastructure
and human resources catered to the increased demand ­ not only from the continued growth in incomes ­
but also from the mobilization campaigns or demand side interventions for the hard to reach. Thus for
example, all habitations had a primary school or an EGS/AIE center within 1 km by 2005/06. In addition,
several innovative strategies were used in different contexts, depending on local constraints.

The years prior to SSA also saw substantial progress in reducing out of school children and increasing
enrollments, likely due to increased demand for education by families as well as possible association with
the interventions such as DPEP. The NSS data show acceleration in progress during the period covered by
SSA compared to pre-SSA years (Figure 3), suggesting that it is plausible that the above interventions
under SSA contributed to these results. Progress also accelerated during SSA in the nine lagging states22
which received the majority of funds under SSA (Figure 2), and contributed to more than half of the
decline in children not participating in schools (Figure 3).



                                                     15

            On the other hand, it is more difficult to attribute causality, for example in urban areas, where much of the
            growth in participation has been in the unaided private schooling sector, which does not benefit from SSA
            financing. Figure 4 shows that while enrollment in absolute terms has risen over the past decade in both,
            government and private schools in urban areas23, the unaided private sector accounted for 92% of the
            increase in urban areas. In contrast in rural areas, just under 80% of the growth in enrollments was
            absorbed by the government sector (including private aided schools). It should be noted however, that the
            private unaided sector constitutes about 17% of overall enrollments. The growth of the private unaided
            sector has mostly been in the urban and semi-urban areas and among the more affluent groups, while the
            government sector has continued to cater to students in rural areas, SCs, STs, Muslims, CWSN and those
            from the lowest economic quintiles: over 90% of enrollment gains in the poorest quintile has been in
            government schools. In contrast, less than 40% of children in the highest income quintiles, who have
            come into schools during this period, have enrolled in government schools (Sankar 2007).

Figure 3: There has been acceleration in the decline in               Figure 4: Most of the growth in participation in the rural and
children not participating in school across India and in              previously underserved areas has taken place in government
the lagging states since 2000                                         schools which have benefited from SSA interventions.

               Number of children not participating in schooling                     Increase in the number of children participating in
                              among 6-14 years old                                               schooling by type of school
            60                                                                  140
    sn                                                                  sn
      io                                                                        120
        ill 50                                                            lioli
           M                                                                   M100

            40                                                                   80

                                                                                 60
            30
                                                                                 40

            20                                                                   20

                                                                                  0
            10
                                                                                     2000          2005                      2000       2005

             0                                                                              Rural               <>                 Urban
                     1996                   2000               2005


                                   All India Lagging states                                          Government     Private unaided

            Source: NSS data various rounds


            PDO 2: To narrow existing gender and social gaps.

             Indicators: (i) Girls as a share of students enrolled in primary education increase from 44 percent in
             2003 to 47 percent in 2007; (ii) Children of Scheduled Castes as a share of students enrolled in primary
             education increase to reflect their share in the population aged 6-11 of India; (iii) Children of Scheduled
             Tribes as a share of students enrolled in primary education increase to reflect their share in the
             population aged 6-11 of India; (iv) Children with disability as a share of students enrolled in primary
             education increase to reflect their share in the population aged 6-11 of India.

            The indicators reflect the intention to narrow gaps in enrollment rates between girls and boys, children of
            SC and ST with other groups, and a sequencing of the equity agenda, beginning with a focus on achieving
            near parity in enrollment rates in primary education. There is in addition, an intention to increase
            enrollment of CWSN.

            Girls, SC and ST children: At a first glance, trends from school based data suggest that parity of girls with
            boys and of SC and ST children with other children has been achieved in primary education. The share of
            girls in primary enrollment in 2005/06 was 47.8%, practically equal to their share in primary school age
            population (48%). In the case of SC and ST children, their shares in 2005/06 were 18.95% and 9.56%,
            higher than their shares in the primary school age population of 17.6% and 9.3% respectively. Indeed, in


                                                                      16

 the case of SC and ST, their shares in enrollment were already higher than their shares in population at the
 baseline.

 A clearer picture emerges in comparing trends in enrollment or participation rates of primary age children
 of the different groups using household survey data (see Annex 2 for limitations of school based data for
 trends on parity). The NSS data capture participation (or self reported attendance) and show that the
 participation rate of 6-10 year old girls (primary age children) in school approached that of boys. Thus
 gender parity ratio (defined as the ratio of girls' to boys' participation rates) increased from 0.90 in 2000,
 to 0.96 in 2005. The SRI data,24 show that gender parity ratio among primary age children was 0.99 in
 October 2005.

 Figure 5: Gender and social gaps in participation have fallen faster since 2000.


        Participation rates, 6-14 year olds, by gender               Participation rates, 6-14 year olds, by social group
                                                                100%
100%
                                                                 95%
 95%                                                             90%
 90%                                                             85%
 85%                                                             80%
 80%                                                             75%

 75%                                                             70%

 70%                                                             65%
                                                                 60%
 65%
                                                                 55%
 60%                                                             50%
 55%                                                                         1996                2000                 2005
 50%
                                                                                         Participation rates ST
           1996                2000               2005
                                                                                         Participation rates SC
                             Boys            Girls                                       Participation rates Others


        Participation rates, 6-14 year olds, by location            Participation rates, 6-14 year olds, richest and poorest
100%                                                                                       quintiles
                                                                100%
 95%
                                                                 95%
 90%
                                                                 90%
 85%                                                             85%
 80%                                                             80%
 75%                                                             75%
 70%                                                             70%
 65%                                                             65%
 60%                                                             60%
 55%                                                             55%
 50%                                                             50%
             1996                 2000                2005                  1996                 2000                 2005

                             Rural           Urban                                              Q1           Q5



 For SC children, the social parity ratio (with "others") among primary age children increased from 0.85 to
 0.91 between 2000 and 2005 (NSS data), reflecting substantial narrowing of gaps by 2005. For ST
 children, the social parity ratio improved from 0.77 to 0.87 for primary age children, once again reflecting
 tremendous progress in narrowing gaps. The SRI data ­ although not strictly comparable ­ suggest that
 these gaps may have continued to narrow: for both SC and ST children, the social parity ratio was 0.95 in
 October 2005.

 The NSS data also confirm substantial narrowing of gender and social gaps in upper primary between
 2000 and 2005, but suggest a still unfinished agenda here (Annex 2 and Sankar 2007).



                                                            17

Figure 5 shows that while there was progress in narrowing gaps for elementary age girls, rural children,
SC and ST children, and the poorest income quintiles even in the years prior to SSA, this progress
accelerated during SSA. Thus it is plausible that SSA interventions ­ intended to target these groups ­
contributed to this; with the continued focus on equity, targets for parity in primary are expected to be
substantially met in the near future.

SSA had a strong design focus on equity. First, many of the interventions to include out of school
children discussed under PDO 1 (e.g. the provision of schools and EGS/AIE centers, provision of
teachers) were by design, targeted at the rural and underserved areas which were furthest away from
achieving the SSA norms.         Second, this focus, and targeting was further strengthened during
implementation with the identification and targeting of resources to special focus districts (SFDs) 25 ­
districts with large concentration of OOSC, SC, ST and minority children, and highest gender gaps. Third,
awareness campaigns on the benefits of education likely increased the demand for education from parents
of girls, SC and ST children. Fourth, these children also benefited from demand side interventions such as
free textbooks and other state specific demand side programs. Fifth, the recruitment of female teachers, or
teachers from the local SC/ST community and the provision of separate toilet facilities for girls also likely
increased the demand for education for these groups. The hardest to reach girls from SC, ST and other
disadvantaged communities benefited also from the inclusion in SSA of two new or newly strengthened
CSSs, the National Program for Education of Girls at the Elementary Level (NPEGEL) and the Kasturba
Gandhi Balika Vidyalaya (KGBV). (See Annex 2 for details).

PDO 3: To enhance the quality of education for all children

Indicators: (i) Pupil-to-teacher ratios to improve; (ii) Student absenteeism to reduce; (iii) Teacher
absence without leave to reduce; (iv) Improvement in the baseline of 75 percent transition rates from
primary to upper primary education in 2002; and (v) Student-test scores in language and mathematics in
Grades 3, 5, and 7/8 measured in baseline studies and in repeat assessments

The PDOs for quality appropriately emphasize a mix of input (e.g. pupil-teacher ratios), process (e.g.
regular student assessments) and intermediate outcome indicators (e.g. student and teacher attendance
rates, completion and transition rates), with the objective of eventually improving learning levels26.

The provision of minimum infrastructure, adequate teachers, grants to teachers and schools for teaching
and learning materials, maintenance and materials and equipment, etc. constitute the "basic provisioning"
pillar of the SSA quality enhancement strategy.         Progress on this pillar has been strong, and has
contributed to an improved learning environment in schools (see Annex 2). Thus, for example, the
provision of teachers has reduced the pupil teacher ratio (from 46 to 41 in government primary schools
between 2002 and 2005), the provision of classrooms has reduced overcrowding (average student
classroom ratio fell from 67 to 42 in primary), school and teacher grants have facilitated the availability of
teaching and learning materials in schools (nearly 92% of primary schools now receive TLM grants,
compared to 40%), and most students now have textbooks.

To support improved teaching and learning, and to promote child-centered teaching, the National
Curriculum Framework (NCF) was revised in 2005 following extensive consultations; textbooks are now
being revised to reflect the active pedagogy and inclusiveness reflected in the NCF 2005. In addition,
SSA has financed induction and in-service teacher training (for example, 3 million, or 65% of teachers
were covered in 2006/07), established functioning academic support centers in all blocks and 84% of
clusters, and financed state specific innovations in virtually every state to improve quality.27 Many of
these state specific innovations were piloted before scaling up; most emphasize improved instructional
processes, assessment and attainment of at least basic competencies, and accountability for outcomes.
Most of them actively work with local institutions, such as the DIETS, BRCs, CRCs, and communities,
through VECs.




                                                     18

Together with the basic provisioning, these interventions appear to have contributed to improved
processes and outcomes to some extent: interaction of schools with CRCs has increased (increase in visits
from 53% to 63%), teacher time on non-teaching assignments has fallen (from 22 to 15 days), student and
teacher absenteeism rates have fallen (from 33.5% to 30% and 25% to 19% respectively, between 2002
and 2006 for 14 states),28 retention rates in primary have improved (from 53% to 71%), and transition
rates from primary to upper primary have also improved from 75% to 83% (Annex 2). The studies on
teacher and student absenteeism may provide a better understanding of the channels for these results in
the different states; however, the decentralized recruitment of teachers supported by SSA and the
consequent higher accountability, and possibly the increased oversight of communities in some states may
be part of the story. Finally the preliminary (January 2008) results from the first follow up MAS show a
small increase in weighted mean test scores in grade 5 between 2002 and 2006/07, from 50.3%, 58.9%,
and 46.5% to 52.2, 60.3, and 48.5% respectively in Environmental Studies, Language and Mathematics
(See Annex 2 also for state-wise trends).

Annex 2 and Figure 6 show that the NSS confirms the trends of improvements in completion rates and
transition rates. Consistent with a causality story given the focus of SSA on the more disadvantaged,
Figure 6 shows that the share of primary completers increased faster for the poorest quintiles since 2000
compared to the pre-SSA years. The share of completers in children from better off groups, which were
already considerably higher, has improved more slowly. It is expected that completion rates will increase
further in the coming years, as the large cohorts of children who have now entered the school system
complete primary and go on to upper primary.

While the discussion so far below shows good progress on four of the five indicators for quality and on
primary completion rates, progress was slower on the fifth indicator. The SSA strategy for quality
enhancement also emphasizes assessment of
student learning at the various levels, including    Figure 6: Primary Completion Rates have increased faster
continuous assessment in classrooms as well as       for the poorest children since 2000
state and national level monitoring of learning
outcomes. SSA has introduced a system of                       11-13 years old who had completed primary
                                                              education: Richest (MPCEQ5) and the Poorest
National Achievement Sample Surveys (NAS)                             (MPCEQ1) completion rates
by NCERT (through Baseline, Mid-term and                   90

Terminal assessment surveys or BAS, MAS                    80

and TAS, respectively), and has financed the               70
                                                           60
introduction of state level assessments by a               50
number of states. Classroom assessments are               %40
also being encouraged and supported.                       30
                                                           20
The plan for the NAS cycle, however, took                  10
longer to implement due to the challenges of                0
coverage (280,000 children in over 100                               1996            2000             2005
districts nationwide with different languages
and mediums of instruction) relative to                                       MPCE Q1    MPCE Q5

capacity. Three Baseline Achievement Surveys
(BAS) of student achievement (in grades 3, 5 and 7/8) and at least one repeat assessment (for grade 5)
were to be completed, analyzed and results used to monitor learning and provide feedback by 2006/07.
The grade 5, 7/8 and 3 BASs were conducted in 2002, 2003 and 2004 respectively; reporting and analysis
was only available in 2005 (grade 5) and 2006 (grade 7/8 and grade 3)29. Together with technical issues
relating to the data and analysis, delays in reporting of the NAS cycle has limited the ability of the studies
to contribute to quality improvements in States, or to promote the needed accountability and public
awareness. The preliminary results of the first repeater assessment (2006, grade 5, Mid-Term Assessment
or MAS) have now become available in January 2008. The second repeat assessment for grade 7/8 was
delayed. Nevertheless, many states have increasingly been using their own pupil testing systems to



                                                      19

introduce remedial measures or promote accountability and awareness. GOI now plans to seek
international technical assistance to address capacity constraints and to strengthen the technical
underpinnings on test development, analysis and reporting.

The BASs show low achievement scores. In grade 3, the mean performance in language was 63% and in
mathematics it was 58%. The corresponding numbers in grade 5 were 59% and 47% and for 7/8 were
52%/52% and 30%/38%. There is substantial variation across states. In general, urban areas performed
better than rural areas. Gender differences, although present, are small. These findings on low learning
levels are corroborated by more recent data from other sources, including the Annual Status of Education
Reports from 2005 and 2006 carried out by Pratham, a large Education NGO (Annex 2).30 Nevertheless,
as discussed above, there are incipient signs that some improvements in learning levels are taking place -
the grade 5 MAS shows small improvements in language and mathematics scores.

Despite observed improvements in most input and outcomes indicators of quality, the still low learning
levels, and still high teacher and particularly student absenteeism (more so in some states, e.g. Bihar),
show the challenges ahead. Improving learning of children will require changes in classroom processes
and interactions. This needs, for example, in addition to the recruitment and training of teachers and
establishment of academic support, to ensuring effectiveness of the training and academic support. It will
also need a greater role of communities in supporting quality improvements. As discussed in Section 2.2,
achieving such changes in teaching and classroom practices, and in accountability and performance of
teachers, and ultimately in student learning have become more central in SSA, following the earlier
emphasis on inputs. SSA is now emphasizing, for example, the state level development of performance
standards for teachers and academic support institutions, and improved learning outcomes. However, such
changes will take time, and will only yield results in the medium and longer term. Indeed, as more and
more students from disadvantaged backgrounds are included in the system, many of them first generation
learners, student achievement levels as typically measured by average test scores could initially fall. In
this regard, the improvement in average test scores in many states as measured in the grade 5 MAS,
although small, suggests that quality enhancement and remedial programs introduced by many of the
states may be helping these students.

3.3 Efficiency

The economic analysis at appraisal included (i) a cost-benefit analysis, assessing the costs and benefits
stream generated during the project period; and (ii) an analysis of the fiscal sustainability of SSA. The
quantitative benefits used for the analysis included the increase in wages due to a higher number of
primary and upper primary school completers; as well as a slightly higher wages for the latter due to
improvements in quality. Based on a comparison of the discounted benefit stream over the working life-
time of primary and upper primary school completers under the project with total costs (including project
costs as well as direct and indirect or opportunity costs faced by households) an internal rate of return of
22.4 percent was estimated (using a discount rate of 12 percent).

This analysis was repeated for the ICR using updated actual information on costs and benefits, including
the higher project costs due to higher domestic investments, the higher number of completers than
anticipated at appraisal, and updated information on wages (see Annex 3). The analysis suggests an
internal rate of return of 22% and a NPV of benefits of USD 6.8 billion. Even when no increases in wages
are assumed due to quality improvements, the 1RR is nearly 21%, suggesting a rate of return superior to
alternatives. It should be noted that this is an underestimate; among other reasons because the returns
from improved social participation, lower fertility, healthier children, and longer term impacts of lower
poverty are not quantified.

Available information suggests that approaches for civil works (which constituted 44% of SSA
expenditures) and for teachers hired under SSA (nearly 20% of expenditures were on teachers' salaries)
were cost effective (Annex 3). In the case of civil works, the use of unit cost norms, encouragement of
community contributions, and innovative use of local and alternative materials facilitated cost-effective



                                                    20

implementation. For example, community involvement in school building construction resulted in cost
savings from contractor profits, which in public building construction programs is typically about 10%.
Recruitment of teachers followed state policies and priorities but in many of the states teachers hired
under SSA were recruited locally. While costs are lower, on the benefits side, there is some evidence that
these teachers have higher attendance rates and spend less time non-teaching activities (see Annex 3).

Finally, an update on fiscal sustainability (discussed in section 2.5) is also included in Annex 3.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory

Objective                                             Relevance       Efficacy       Efficiency    Outcome
1. Reduce out-of-school children and increase             High           High
enrollment                                                                          Substantial  Satisfactory
2: To narrow existing gender and social gaps              High       Substantial
3: To enhance the quality of education for all            High         Modest


The overall outcome rating of Satisfactory31 takes into account the fact that targets for access were
exceeded, and for gender parity in primary have been met and social parity in primary are expected to be
substantially met. With regard to quality, good progress was made on four of the five indicators
established at appraisal. For the fifth indicator, while there were delays and technical concerns with the
assessment surveys, the student achievement in the repeat assessment for grade five has been completed
and the preliminary results are now available. Moreover, GOI is seeking technical assistance to address
the capacity constraints in this area. Thus progress has been made in putting into place the inputs and
institutions needed to improve quality: improvements in completion and transition rates are evident, and
mean test scores are slightly improved. This is expected to continue to contribute to improved learning
outcomes in the medium and longer term if the efforts to improve quality (particularly the emphasis on
teacher quality, classroom processes, and learning outcomes) are sustained and strengthened, and the
capacity constraints identified are adequately addressed. The overall outcomes assessment takes into
account this, as well as the assessments of high relevance of all objectives and substantial achievement of
efficiency criteria.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

 (a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The strong link between improving human capital and poverty reduction is well established. The
discussion above has documented how girls, and hitherto excluded social groups and disabled children,
and children from the poorest income quintiles were successfully reached, and how they benefited
disproportionately from SSA interventions (Figures 5, 6 and discussion in section 3.1 and Annex 2). The
program has enabled these children to improve their human capital, and thus to attain higher levels of
education which in turn will enable them to earn more, have smaller and healthier families, and better
participate in and benefit from economic growth.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

As discussed in section 1.4, it was expected that the program would have long term benefits for a number
of institutions through their role in design and implementation ­ including apex research and training
institutions at the national, state and district levels, academic support centers at the sub-district levels,
local community institutions such as the VECs, NGOs and project entities/departments at state and lower
levels. By providing DP support through a SWAp the "project" was integrated in the regular education
system, to strengthen institutions and thus increasing sustainability. Notwithstanding the still large
capacity challenges ahead, the years of DP support have seen considerable institutional change and



                                                      21

strengthening, including a stronger planning and budgeting process, and administrative decentralization.
In addition, as discussed earlier the SWAp has facilitated considerable strengthening of financial
management capacity, and procurement systems (see section 2.4).

The planning and budgeting process embodied in the Annual Work Plan and Budget (AWPB) has been
strengthened as a transparent and open vehicle for dialogue between the center and states where funding
is determined based on performance against targets. From an initial focus on input, fund utilization and
norm-based targets, it has evolved to focus increasingly on processes and outcomes. It has become more
evidence based, supports convergence between departments, and includes wider participation of
stakeholders. Transparency is additionally ensured, for example, at the national level by the disclosure of
PAB minutes on the website.

The focus, in the design and during implementation, on decentralization has also contributed in varying
degrees to the strengthening of decentralized institutions. Administrative decentralization, through the
creation and strengthening of district, block, and cluster level planning, implementation and resource
structures (e.g. BRCs and CRCs), has been the most successful. At the same time, the quality of DIETs,
BRCs and CRCs is variable and planning capacity is also still a challenge in some districts.

With regard to the delegation of functions to VECs/SMCs, capacity of these institutions has been
strengthened through the key role they have played in community mobilization, and in implementing civil
works. Although in some states, these institutions have played a key role, for example, in recruitment
and/or monitoring of teachers, or running of alternative schools, in most states they have yet to play the
desired role of deeper community participation and engagement in schools.

The links of SSA with the third type of decentralization, the devolution to the Panchayati Raj Institutions
(PRIs) has been largely beyond the ambit of the SSA with states proceeding at their own pace and SSA
responding flexibly to state arrangements. However, SSA is now committed to strengthening the links
between the project management structures, the VECs/SMCs, and the statutory PRI bodies, in order to
enhance accountability. Through an amendment in November 2006, the SSA framework underlines the
"centrality of Panchayats in monitoring and supervision of SSA."

Finally, SSA envisages a key role for the technical support institutions at the national and state levels
(including TSG, as well as the apex national institutions such as NCERT, NUEPA, IGNOU, and state
level institutions such as SIEMATs and SCERTs). There is need to further strengthen the capacity of
these institutions themselves, to enable them to play an effective technical support and capacity building
role in various aspects of academic support, planning and administration, and monitoring and evaluation.

Capacity building efforts during the next phase of SSA are expected to focus on these needs including the
capacity of the apex institutions, improved effectiveness of sub-district academic support and planning
where these are weak, deepening of community engagement in schools, and strengthening of links
between PRIs, project structures and VECs/SMCs to promote greater local accountability. In addition, the
ending of parallel implementation structures is being emphasized (see section 2.5).

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
Although convergence with other departments was intended in SSA, stronger convergence that
anticipated was achieved with other programs ­ especially with the water and sanitation programs, but
also the MDMS, ICDS, and Social and Tribal Welfare departments including in the lagging states.
Almost all states mobilized funds by dovetailing resources from other schemes (and also providing
additional support from their own budgets) for elementary school infrastructure. Convergence is getting
stronger and is institutionalized through the AWPB process.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)
See Annex 5.


                                                     22

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Substantial
The risk rating reflects primarily substantial technical and institutional capacity risks. Despite substantial
achievement of access and equity, and good progress on some quality indicators, sustaining these will
depend on sustaining improvements in learning outcomes, including in the lagging states and states and
districts with weaker capacity. With the entrance of a large number of first generation learners into the
system, national, state, district and particularly sub-district institutions, and teachers need to be adequately
prepared to address diverse needs and to ensure sustained improvements in classroom pedagogy. As
discussed earlier, key risks arise from the still outstanding needs to: (i) ensure sustained improvements in
teacher quality ­ including their training and performance; (ii) strengthen national and state institutions
for monitoring of education quality and student learning; (iii) strengthen national and state institutions
that train teachers, education managers, planners; (iv) strengthen district and sub-district academic
support and planning and integrate project management and district education structures; and (v)
strengthen the role of VECs/SMCs and their links with locally elected institutions and project
management structures.

Addressing these risks are now the focus of SSA efforts moving forward; the challenge comes from the
behavioral and institutional changes required among a large number of institutional players, as well as
teachers, parents, and communities.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory
Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry is assessed as satisfactory due to (i) ensuring adequate
quality at entry including lessons learned; (ii) flexible approach to supporting a technically sound national
flagship program through a SWAp; and (iii) adequate preparation and appraisal of technical fiduciary and
safeguard issues; and (iv) contribution to the development of a common monitoring and evaluation
framework. All these have been discussed in prior sections.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory
Bank performance at supervision is satisfactory. Collaboration with other development partners was
excellent, and the DP team successfully maintained a focus on the key objectives of the program. Key
technical issues were adequately raised in JRMs. Important technical contributions were made in a
number of areas such as the strengthening of evidence based planning and targeting of resources to
educationally backward areas. The leadership of JRMs by GOI representatives meant that
recommendations were thoroughly discussed and many were internalized and implemented, making
supervision particularly effective. On the other hand, when there were different points of view between
MHRD and the DP team, the aide-memoires sometimes reflected compromises. The benefit in terms of
increased ownership dominated; and any issues of concern to DPs were adequately raised in management
letters from Development Partners. Supervision of fiduciary and safeguard aspects were also satisfactory;
with appropriate staff inputs and presence at JRMs, although including additional fiduciary staff on field
missions could have been beneficial. As discussed earlier, the SWAp contributed to strengthening of
institutions, including financial management and procurement. ICR preparation was initiated early on to
enable lessons learned to feed into preparation of the follow on support; continuity in the ICR and
preparation teams facilitated this.

With the benefit of hindsight, perhaps some JRMs could have better included technical staff in areas of
particular skill needs. For example, the second or third JRMs could have benefited from the presence of a
learning assessment specialist; or alternatively there could have perhaps been greater pro-activity in



                                                       23

bringing in technical assistance to address identified capacity constraints in this area. In this case, the
second JRM in July 2005 noted the delays and identified some technical flaws in NCERT's National
Achievement Surveys (NAS); the need to strengthen the process of student testing, analysis and feedback
- through wider participation and expertise including from outside the country - was also raised in the
management letter of the Mid-Term Review (Third JRM). Yet, the opportunity was not used by the DPs
to secure adequate technical assistance. This issue is since being addressed and has been helped by the
much greater consensus on this issue among internal stakeholders, during the last year of assistance.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory.
The rating for overall Bank performance takes into account the satisfactory performance in ensuring
quality at entry as well as satisfactory quality of supervision.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
The commitment of the government to the constitutional goal of making elementary education a
fundamental right of every child, and ownership of the program ­ as evidenced in the oversight at the
highest political levels, and the substantial financial commitment ­ played a key role in the achievement
of outcomes. GOI implemented the program initially without DP support, so that considerable preparatory
work and implementation experience had been gained prior to DP support, which contributed to smooth
implementation. It also played a strong role in coordinating development partners around its flagship
program, while ensuring national ownership and focusing on strengthening domestic capacity. All legal
covenants were complied with. Its has committed to financing the program at least through the end of the
11th Five Year Plan to completing the program successfully. The recently approved cost sharing plan
between the center and states, will facilitate continuation of the pace of implementation even in lagging
states.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
Proactive steering of the implementation of the program by the EEB of MHRD, and its management of a
complex national program with a multitude of stakeholders and interests and considerable variation in
capacity of sub-national institutions has been critical to achieving outcomes. MHRD, through the Bureau,
played a key role in directing the planning process and in strengthening it over time, in strengthening the
consultation in the process, and instilling accountability into it. Together with the PAB it has facilitated
attention on the lagging states as well as critical technical or implementation bottlenecks in all states. It
has used quarterly reviews with states to follow up issues and agreements on a regular basis; and has also
used the venue of the semi-annual meetings with state ministries to share progress and raise any critical
issues ­ for example staffing issues that need to be addressed. It has emphasized the importance of
monitoring and evaluation, working for example with apex national institutions (NUEPA and NCERT) to
facilitate the development of appropriate monitoring for SSA purposes, and commissioned research
studies to provide insights into various aspects and interventions. Through the mechanisms of the JRMs,
for example, MHRD invited feedback from national experts as well as development partners, and was
proactive in following up on the implementation of recommendations.

Fiduciary issues were generally adequately addressed, although delays for example in resolving
differences in balances from audit findings meant that expenditures related to specific states had to be
disallowed. The planning process was successfully used to focus on the access and equity agenda, on the
provision of inputs for quality, and to address utilization of funds, particularly relevant to states and
districts where these were challenges. With the benefit of hindsight, perhaps greater focus could have




                                                      24

been given early on to improvements in classroom processes and learning outcomes in the states which
had already achieved the access and equity objectives early.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
The overall rating takes into account the commitment, readiness, pro-activity and flexibility of GOI and
MHRD in preparation as well as implementation to coordinate all efforts towards accelerated
achievement of outcomes, as well as in ensuring compliance with covenants and agreements.

6. Lessons Learned

As reflected in the discussion, SSA has evolved considerably over the past few years, building on the
lessons of its own experience. In addition, a second phase of the DP's support to SSA is under
preparation which has benefited from the lessons learned from the first phase. These include:

· A Centrally Sponsored Scheme like SSA can provide a powerful vehicle to mobilize ownership and
    commitment of stakeholders at all levels to a common mission. As the government's flagship
    program in elementary education, with political commitment at the highest level, SSA has served as a
    powerful vehicle to mobilize stakeholders at all levels (communities, districts, states, and national)
    around the objective of ensuring that every child from 6 to 14 years, is included in the education
    system regardless of social category, disability status or gender. The backbone has been the AWPB
    process which has facilitated decentralized district strategies to improving outcomes ­ within a
    context where national and state governments have provided the financing and technical support, set
    and monitored standards and targets, and facilitated the sharing of experiences. Similar mobilization,
    now planned around the goal of quality with equity, could play a key role in the unfinished agenda.

· Flexibility to support differentiated needs is central to addressing the challenges in diverse local
    contexts. A norms-based approach to planning and resource allocation has been well suited to the
    need to achieve equitable access particularly in rural and underserved areas. The SSA experience
    increased the recognition of the need for a differentiated approach to respond flexibly to the special
    needs of diverse States and districts which themselves differ over time; and to combine this flexibility
    with accountability for agreed targets. In the SFDs, the AWBP process prioritizes access and equity;
    at the same time, SSA supports quality enhancement measures identified by States.

· The strong focus on equity in program design has facilitated narrowing of gaps at primary, but
    access and equity concerns for the hardest to reach, particularly in upper primary, need to be
    addressed. The strong focus on equity in the design, enhanced during implementation, has facilitated
    significant gains in enhancing the access of disadvantaged groups ­ girls, SCs/STs, and minorities.
    However, the children still outside the education system will be the most difficult to bring into the
    system and to retain, as they typically belong to the extremely disadvantaged and marginalized groups.
    The planning process, with its emphasis on responding to differentiated needs, now directs greater
    attention and resources on special focus districts and groups (girls, SC, ST, Muslims, CWSN), urban
    areas, and upper primary education. Retention of these children is being emphasized, through
    strengthening of community participation, monitoring student attendance, and improved school
    performance.

· Enhancing quality requires sufficient focus on classroom processes and on learning outcomes, and
    takes time. Provision of inputs ­ such as adequate physical facilities, free textbooks, and teacher
    training ­ are necessary for achieving quality education but need to be accompanied by sufficient
    attention to classroom processes and interaction as well as outcomes. It needs, beyond teacher
    provisioning for example, capable teachers present in the classrooms and teaching techniques flexible
    enough to meet the varied needs of students and a modern curriculum. These changes take time, and
    need a much greater focus on processes and well-specified learning outcomes. SSA is addressing
    these issues in various ways, including monitoring of classroom processes and learning, giving



                                                     25

   priority to learning in early grades, remedial teaching, encouraging states to develop quality
   improvement innovations that emphasize improved pedagogy, needs based training and local
   academic support to teachers to address the diverse needs of their classrooms.

· Strengthening the role of local bodies in school management can lead to improved outcomes, but
   furthering decentralization requires considerable efforts at capacity building at all levels ­ and
   particularly at village and community levels ­ to support quality. Setting standards and monitoring
   performance at higher levels of government combined with operational autonomy (with
   accountability) at lower levels can change dynamics in the school, increase effectiveness of schools,
   and - eventually - improve learning. SSA has institutionalized decentralization of operations
   mandatorily through local community bodies such as VECs/SMCs/ PTAs. It is recognized that lower
   tiers of governments, communities and Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRIs) play an important role in
   implementation; however, their capacity needs to be enhanced to ensure that they play their roles
   effectively. This is now being addressed in SSA, for example, through provision of technical support
   to States/Districts with weaker institutional structures, training of SMCs/VECs members on roles,
   responsibilities and mechanisms to ensure quality in schools, and fostering stronger links between
   education and PRI Departments.

· Partnerships with local body and private aided schools are encouraged under SSA while the
   growth of the unaided private sector in urban areas suggests potential gains from carefully
   designed partnerships with this sector as well. The significant contribution of the unaided private
   sector to the growth in enrollments particularly in urban areas, suggests that innovative partnerships
   with un-aided private schools could be explored to further scale up the achievement of program
   outcomes. The SSA Framework encourages public-private partnerships and the program is extended
   to local body and private aided schools, but is less well developed on partnerships with private
   unaided institutions, to a large extent reflecting the lack of consensus either nationally or in some
   states on how to move forward.

· Greater use of data in planning and monitoring further improves their reliability and usefulness;
   there is now need to ensure capacity to generate and use reliable information on student learning
   and to evaluate the impact of interventions. Various data, assessment and evaluation systems have
   emerged, benefiting most recently, from concerted efforts under SSA. Several steps are being taken
   to improve their quality, and their increased use in the planning process is expected to further
   contribute to improvements in their reliability. Special focus needs to be given to addressing the
   capacity constraints to successfully implement a program of student assessment and to systematically
   evaluate the impact of programs on outcomes and quality. A TC Fund to enhance capacity at both
   center and state levels for these purposes is being put in place to address this, during the second phase
   of DP support to SSA.

· The SWAp, pioneered under SSA, has facilitated partner harmonization, strengthened sectoral
   management capacity, and reduced transactions costs. As the first SWAp in India, SSA provides a
   model for effective development assistance. The use of country systems allowed strengthening of
   GoI's financial management and procurement procedures over time. By providing DP support
   through a SWAp, the "project" was integrated into the regular education system, which facilitated
   strengthening of existing education institutions and agencies at various levels through their role in
   design and implementation. The leadership and ownership of the JRMs by the government meant that
   many of the recommendations were internalized and implemented. The skills mix of the DP team
   could sometimes have more strategically included relevant areas of expertise.

SSA's own experience yields lessons consistent with those coming out of the recent India Health Detailed
Implementation Review. For example, the second phase of the DP's support to SSA under preparation
focuses on greater transparency and capacity building in procurement and financial management down to




                                                    26

local levels, enhanced joint supervision, and continued use and strengthening of independent third party
monitoring and evaluation.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The borrower provided a comprehensive evaluation. A summary of this evaluation is attached as Annex 7.
In addition detailed comments were provided on the draft ICR, many of which have been incorporated.
The borrower's evaluation raises the issue that DPs need to bring greater international experiences to the
table. This is an important message and one that is consistent with the Bank's own assessment, that DPs
could consider more strategically the composition of JRM teams to include international technical experts
on relevant issues. In addition to JRMs, DPs plan to support the sharing of relevant experience through
other mechanisms including conferences and sharing of case studies.

There are a few issues on which there are some differences of opinion between MHRD (as reflected in its
comments/evaluation) and the Bank team's assessment.

First, concern is expressed with regard to fiduciary issues, and particularly, on the willingness of the Bank
to rely on "robust" country systems. The Bank assessed the fiduciary capacities and procedures of the
sample states and, based on the results of this assessment, agreed to the use of country fiduciary systems
(viz. FMP Manual) while supporting their strengthening, as needed. The Bank and other DPs actively
participated in JRMs; wherever deviations were noticed from the agreed procedures in FMP Manual (or
where such observations were made in audits/reviews conducted by the implementing agencies), such
issues were raised with the Borrower. This process was not always smooth and many a times this was
viewed by the Borrower as micro-management. However, many suggestions/inputs for improving the
compliance of the FMP Manual were mutually agreed between MHRD and the DPs. The borrower's
comments to the draft ICR confirm a difference of opinion on this issue.

A second set of issues where there are differences is on the extent to which ongoing and future directions
of the SSA program should be reflected in the ICR. From MHRD's perspective such directions are
"futuristic" and belong in the PAD for SSA II and not in an ICR. From the Bank team's perspective, these
directions have necessarily to be reflected in the ICR as per the guidelines to present lessons learned and
how they have been reflected in follow-up operations, to outline the post-completion arrangements and
means of sustaining reforms and institutional capacity, and to assess risks to development outcome. In the
case of SSA, where the government's program is a dynamic one with new directions strengthened every
year, it is particularly important to reflect these ongoing and future directions; indeed this is a critical
strength of the program contributing to its continued relevance. For example, the monitoring of classroom
processes in the AWPB, or of measures for strengthening accountability of teachers, introduced in later
years of implementation will only have full impact in the coming years ­ yet these are important
directions included in the program.

The team also does not agree with the comment on the tendency of the ICR team to "draw up a new SSA
program" in order for WB staff to pursue research interests of individual staff. Members of the ICR team
did include staff implementing a program of impact evaluation studies, but those had been previously
agreed upon with GOI and/or state governments, and were meant to contribute to the knowledge base on
what works to improve quality in India.

MHRD's evaluation and their comments to the ICR also reflect a concern that the ICR considered a
singular focus on measurement of learning outcomes alone as a panacea for quality. The ICR team did
emphasize the importance of measuring learning outcomes ­ although not singularly so ­ as international
experience has shown that good assessment and evaluation can improve student learning achievements.
Moreover, the issue had been raised during JRM missions as well.




                                                     27

Finally, MHRD's comments state that Borrower performance should be rated as highly satisfactory; the
Bank team's assessment of satisfactory is justified in section 5.2.

(b) Cofinanciers

DFID and EC contributions are included in Annex 8.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                                     28

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

The project was designed as a SWAp and therefore, unlike a traditional investment operation, there
were no pre-defined components and associated ex-ante allocation of finance. The cost of the program
is driven by the interventions needed to achieve universal elementary education of satisfactory quality
as determined by decentralized annual planning. Interventions do not neatly map into each of the three
objectives ­ for example free textbooks for girls, SC/ST contribute both to the equity as well as to the
quality objective and similarly teachers's salaries map either into access or equity alternatives (the
latter through funding of female teachers to enhance participation of girls). Similarly, innovative
activities in the early years may have reflected predominantly innovative activities to include
girls/SCs/STs, but over time, have evolved into innovations for quality. In this context, Table A1.1
below presents expected and actual distribution of funds across various activities. Appraisal Estimates
are obtained from Annex 6 of SSA PAD.

Table A1.1 Project Cost by Categories of Activity (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                        Appraisal                                              Share of          Share of Activity
                                                         Estimate      Actual/Latest        Percentage     Activity in Total       in Total Cost
                                                          (US $          Estimate*               of             Cost at            (Actual/latest
 Activity                                                Million)      (US $ Million)       Appraisal         Appraisal              estimate)
 Teachers' Salary                                         374.5           1527.5               408%              10.7                  19.6
 Textbooks                                                227.5            374.9               165%               6.5                   4.8
 TLE                                                       87.5            161.1               184%               2.5                   2.1
 BRC and CRC                                              119.0            278.4               234%               3.4                   3.6
 Maintenance                                              175.0            301.0               172%               5.0                   3.9
 Interventions for OOSC (includes
 community training, Inclusive Education,
 NGEPEL, and EGS/AIE.)                                    374.5            790.5               211%              10.7                  10.2
 School Grant                                              59.5            146.5               246%               1.7                   1.9
 Teachers' Grant                                           70.0            125.7               180%               2.0                   1.6
 Civil Works                                             1155.0           3414.0               296%              33.0                  43.8
 Teacher Training                                         203.0            225.5               111%               5.8                   2.9
 Innovative Activities                                    119.0            138.7               117%               3.4                   1.8
 Management Cost (includes state
 component)                                               210.0            235.2               112%               6.0                    3
 Others (includes Research Evaluation and
 Management Studies, and SIEMAT)                          325.5            67.8                21%                9.3                   0.9
 TOTAL                                                     3500           7786.8               222%              100.0                100.0
 *Actual Estimates are based on actual expenditures for the years 2003-04 -- 2006-07. Categories in recording became
 more detailed during implementation compared to appraisal. For example, there was no "others" in recorded data, and
 expenditures under various components for OOSC interventions are recorded separately. Some assumptions are made to
 allocate categories into those identified at appraisal. A notional exchange rate of Rs. 44.5 to 1 USD was used for the period
 of support.


Table A1.2: Financing

           Source of Funds                  Type of Cofinancing        Appraisal Estimate         Actual/Latest Estimate      Percentage of
                                                                           (USD M)                     (USD M)                 Appraisal
                                              Counterpart Funds
Borrower                                         from Center                 1579.00                     4781.1                  303%

 UK: British Department for
                                                     Grant                   346.00                      358.3                   104%
International Development (DFID)
 EC: European Commission                             Grant                   200.00                      200.00                  100%
 International Development
                                                  IDA credit                 500.00                      488.7                    98%
Association (IDA)
Local Govts. of Borrowing Country             Counterpart funds              875.00                      1945.4                  222%
                                                 from States
Note: differences in actual amounts for external financing are due to exchange rate fluctuations

                                                                  A-29

Table A1.3: Estimated and Actual Annual Expenditures (Total Program and by DPs in Rs. Crores)
                                     2003/04               2004/05             2005/06             2006/07   Total
SSA Expenditures
Appraisal Estimate                     2,600                3,600                4,440               5,126   15,766
Actual                                 3,057                6,598                10,002             14,994   34,652
Eligibility Threshold                  1,500                1,800                2,400               3,000   8,700
Eligible Expenditures
(for reimbursement)
Appraisal Estimate                     1,100                1,800                2,040               2,126   7,066
Actual                                 1,557                4,798                7,602              11,994   25,951
IDA (48% of external)
Estimated                               352                  576                   653                680    2,261
Actual                                  624                 1134                   478                 0      2235
DFID (33% of external)
Estimated                               242                  396                   449                468    1,555
Actual                                  491                  463                   433                189    1,575
EC (19% of external)
Estimated                               139                  228                   258                269     894
Actual                                  136                  613                   135                 0      884
Total External
Estimated (30% of total)                733                 1,200                1,360               1,417   4,710
Actual (14% of total)                   1250                2209                  1046                189     4695
Source: SSA PAD Table 7.2 (Annex 7), DP disbursement data, GOI Actual Expenditures from GOI FMR reports
Note 1 crore is 10 million

Table A1.3 shows that actual annual program expenditures were considerably higher than appraisal
estimates. The higher domestic commitments combined with the design of the disbursement formula
meant that the pace of disbursement by the DPs was much faster than anticipated, leading to the credit
being fully disbursed 15 months in advance of the closing date of December 31, 2007. To ensure that
external funding remained additional to domestic resources and to provide (at least in theory)
incentives for increased domestic investment in elementary education, DPs planned to finance two
thirds of the SSA program expenditure above rising annual thresholds. Thus the eligibility threshold of
Rs.1500 crore for 2003/04 compared with a lower expenditure of Rs. 1,306 crore in 2002/03 and
significantly less than even half of that in 2001/02. Reflecting the expected annual increases in
implementation and expenditures, the thresholds increased annually, while remaining in the range of
between 50-60% of total expected SSA domestic expenditures. However, with GOI and states
spending so far above the annually rising threshold, however, and in the absence of any annual cap on
disbursements (other than in the case of DFID), the bulk of DP financing was exhausted by 2005/06.




                                                           A-30

Annex 2. Outputs by Component
This annex provides additional information to complement the discussion on the achievement of
outcomes in Section 3 of the main text. It includes data on: (i) trends in outcomes as reported by
administrative monitoring data, as well as additional data from independent sources to triangulate and
validate trends (ii) trends in outputs to facilitate the establishment of the linkages between the program
outputs and achievement of objectives including in lagging states (with largest infrastructure and
human resource gaps); and (iii) state-wise trends in key outcomes.

A. Trends in Outcomes (Administrative Data and Validation from independent sources)

SSA sources for regular monitoring have included: (i) the SSA annual household censuses collected
and compiled in Village Education Registers (VER); (ii) the annual DISE (or school census data); (iii)
the PMIS; (iv) periodic independent household sample surveys such as the SRI for 2005; and (v)
NCERT National Achievement Surveys (NAS). This section provides a more detailed presentation of
the Results Framework Analysis in Section F of the Data Sheet. In particular it provides a richer set of
indicators and triangulates results of the administrative and official data sources with independent
sources ­ including NSS 55th (1999/2000) and 61st (2004/05) rounds, and from Pratham's rural ASER
surveys (2005, 2006) ­ to validate the available information on achievement of outcomes, bearing in
mind limitations due to differences in the definitions of indicators across surveys.

This was considered important due to features of the underlying school based data used for monitoring
several of the indicators. First, at the time of approval, coverage of DISE data had not yet expanded
from the DPEP districts to all districts in the country. By 2004/05, however, the DISE covered 581
districts, and by 2005/06 all districts were covered. Baselines were therefore established using the SES
data. Triangulation and validation of trends ­ for example in enrollment ­ was therefore considered
important. Second, there are often issues related to using school based data such as the DISE to
examine trends in participation rates, and participation shares of groups as the population share data
come from different sources, such data typically do not include accurate information on age groups of
children, and do not fully cover the private schooling sector ­ in particular the unregistered private
sector.

In addition, the annual updated household censuses, while an important tool for planning and
monitoring for OOSC, are not the most suited for purposes of comparisons across states; validating
these data from independent sources including periodic independent household sample surveys
commissioned by MHRD (the first was in 2005, also known as the SRI survey) is built into SSA M&E.




                                                   A-31

                                                 Table A.1: Results Monitoring Framework

                   Baseline
                                  Target
Outcome            (2002-03
                                                       Achievement                Data          Comments
Indicators          unless     (until 2006/07                                   Source
                    stated)    unless stated)

                                          Objective 1: To reduce out of school children and increase enrollments
1. Reduction in
the number of                                                                                13.4 m OOSC estimated from independent (IMRB/SRI,) sample survey in

Out Of School                                                                                Oct 2005 was close to MHRD SSA Household Census of 2005 13.5 m.

Children (OOSC)                                                                              Share of 6-14 year old OOSC in rural areas was 7.8% in IMRB/SRI and 6.6%
                                                                                             in Pratham's ASER 2005
                                                     7 m. OOSC in Oct.
                     25 m                                                         SSA        Progress was also validated using NSS data. It should be noted that NSS data
                                3 m a year             2006 implying                         capture recent non-attendance (self-reported) or non-participation as opposed
                                                       average annual          Household
                                                                                             to non-enrollment and therefore give higher numbers for children not
                                                      decline of 4.5 m.         Census
                                                                                             participating compared to OOSC from the SSA household census and
                                                                                             SRI data, as attendance is lower than enrollment. However, the trend is
                                                                                             validated: the number of children not participating in school was 46 m in
                                                                                             2000, and had fallen to 24 m in 2005, suggesting an annual reduction of 4.4
                                                                                             million.

                                                                                             SES numbers (baselines) are likely an overestimate; DISE more accurate but
                                                                                             does not adequately capture unregulated private schools.

                                                                                             As a result of discontinuity in the administrative data series (between SES

                                                      182 m in 2004/5             SES        and DISE) trends in enrollment, particularly upper primary, are deceptive.
2. Increase in      159 m                                                                    NSS data validate increases in absolute participation and participation
Absolute                         Increase                                                    rates in primary and upper primary. Numbers are not comparable
Enrolment                                                                                    between administrative sources and NSS as NSS data capture recent
                                                                                             attendance (self-reported) or participation as opposed to non-enrollment

                                                     157 m. in 2004/05
                                                                                 DISE                Participation            Primary            U.Primary
                                                    175.4 m. in 2005/06
                                                    130.8 m. in 2004/05           SES                2000                     88.4m              47.7m

o/w primary         114 m        Increase            118 m. in 2004/05
                                                                                 DISE                2005                     119.3m             53.5m
                                                    124.6 m. in 2005/06

                                                      51.m in 2004/05             SES                Participation                               Upper primary
                                                                                                     Rate                     Primary age        age
o/w upper primary    45m         Increase             39 m. in 2004/05           DISE                2000                     77.2%              76%
                                                       43.7 in 2005/06
                                                     6.4 m. in 2004/05                               2005                     86.9%              84.8%
o/w EGS/AIE           No                                                         PMIS
                    baseline                         7.1 m. in 2005/06


                                                                      A-32

                         Baseline
                                         Target
   Outcome               (2002-03
                                                             Achievement              Data           Comments
   Indicators             unless     (until 2006/07                                  Source
                          stated)    unless stated)

                                        Objective 2: To narrow existing gender and social gaps in primary school participation

                                          47%              46.7% in 2004/05            SES        Trends in school based data like DISE conceal actual progress as girls (i)
                                                                                                  constitute larger share of overage children; (ii) are more likely to attend
                                     (to reflect their                                            government schools which are over-represented in school data. For e.g. share
                                         share in                                                 of overage girls has been falling.
1 a. Increase in girls                 population)
as a share of students                                     47.5% in 2004/05
                           44%                                                                    Trends in the gender parity ratio, defined as the ratio of participation rate of
enrolled in primary                    (Population         47.8% in 2005/06           DISE        6-10 year old (primary age) girls to participation rate of 6-10 year old boys
                                    census 2001 share                                             based on NSS data shows near achievement of gender parity among primary
                                        6-10 yrs                                                  age children by 2005. Similarly for 11-14 year olds, considerable progress
                                       population:                                                was made in gender parity.
                                         47.9%)

                                                                                                          Gender parity (ratio of          Primary       Upper
                                                           44.4% in 2004/05            SES                F/M participation rates)         age           primary
                                           n.a.                                                                                                          age

1 b. Increase in girls                 (Population                                                        2000                             0.90          0.87
as a share of students              census 2001 share
enrolled in upper          41%                                                                            2005                             0.96          0.91
                                        11-14 yrs          45.3% in 2004/05
primary                                population:                                    DISE
                                                           45.8% un 2005/06
                                         47.4%)                                                       SRI data for October 2005, confirms near achievement of
                                                                                                      gender parity among primary age children (0.99 in October
                                                                                                      2005).

                                    Increase to reflect    18.9% in 2004/05
                                                                                       SES
2a. Increase in SC                       share in                                                 Share greater than population sure in school-based data reflects higher share
children as share of                   population                                                 of overage children among SC and in government sector. Decline in DISE
students enrolled in      18.9%
                                       (Population                                                data could reflect the fall in the share of overage SC children.
primary                               Census 2001          20.7 % in 2004/05
                                                                                      DISE        NSS data validate increase of SCs parity with other groups.
                                     share 6-10 yrs         19% in 2005-06
                                       population:
                                         17.6%)
                                                                                                          Social Parity (ratio: SC                          Upper
                                    Increase to reflect                                                   to non SC/ST/OBC                 Primary age      Primary
                                         share in           17% in 2004/05             SES
                                                                                                          participation rate)                               age
2b. Increase in SC                     population                                                         2000                             0.85             0.84
children as share of      14.9%
                                       (Population
students enrolled in                                                                                      2005                             0.91             0.90
                                      Census 2001          20.1% in 2004/05
upper primary                        share 11-14 yrs                                  DISE
                                       population:         19.4% in 2005/06                        SRI data of October 2005 shows SC parity ratio (among primary age
                                         17.1%)                                                   children) with other groups was 0.95.

                                                           10.5% in 2004/05                       Share greater than population share in school-based data reflects higher share
3a. Increase in ST        10.3%     Increase to reflect                               DISE        of overage children among STs and in government sector. Decline in DISE


                                                                           A-33

                          Baseline
                                                 Target
   Outcome                (2002-03
                                                                         Achievement              Data          Comments
   Indicators              unless            (until 2006/07                                     Source
                           stated)           unless stated)
children as share of                             share in                                                    data could reflect the fall in the share of overage ST children.
students enrolled in                           population
primary                                                                10.7% in 2004/05                      NSS data validate increase of STs parity with other groups
                                               (Population
                                              Census 2001               9.6% in 2005-06           SES                 Social Parity (ratio: SC                      Upper
                                             share 6-10 yrs:                                                          to non SC/ ST/ OBC              Primary       Primary
                                                  9.3%)                                                               participation rate)

                                                                        8.2% in 2004/05
                                       Increase to reflect                                        DISE                2000                            0.77          0.75
3b. ST children as                     share in population                                                            2005                            0.87          0.85
share of students                                                       8.6% in 2004-05
enrolled in upper           7.9%       (Population Census                                         SES
primary                                2001 share 11-14 yrs             7.5% in 2005-06                           SRI data of October 2005 show ST parity ratio (among
                                       population: 8.6%)                                                         primary age children) was 0.95.
                                                                                                                No. of CWSN and no. of enrolled children come from different data
                                                                                                                sources. A related issue with monitoring is the improvement in
                                                                                                                identification of CWSN over time. Under these circumstances, tracking
                                                 Increase                                                       enrolled against identified CWSN is more appropriate.

                                                                         Enrollment of
4. Children with                           to reflect share in                                                  Only 0.63 m CWSN were identified in 2002/03 compared to 3.04 m in
                                                                        CWSN increased
disability as a share of    0.6%               population                                                       2007. The number of children with disability enrolled has increased from
                                                                      from 0.56 m to 2.18
primary students                                                                                 PMIS
                                               (Population                                                      0.56 m. in 2002/03 to 2.18 m. in 2007 suggesting enrollment rate of 72%
                                                                          m in 2007.
enrolled increase                             Census 2001                                                       for CWSN.
                                             share 6-10 yrs:
                                                  2.1%)                                                         SRI data (October 2005) show that share of 6-13 year old disabled
                                                                                                                children in enrollment was 0.5% compared to 0.7% of disabled in 6-13
                                                                                                                children; and suggesting an enrollment rate for this group of 66.5%
                                                                                                                compared to 93% for 6-13 year old children in general.

                                                              Objective 3: To enhance the quality of education for all children

                                                                                                                SRI data show "proxy" transition rate in October 2005 is 80% (20% of
1. Transition rates                                                                             SES for         grade 5 children dropped out and did not go to grade 6)
from primary to Upper       75%                  Increase                                       baseline,
                                                                       83.4% in 2005-06
primary increase                                                                                DISE for        NSS data confirm increase in transition rate for 11-15 year olds increased
                                                                                                end line        from 81.4% to 89.4% between 2000 and 2005.
                                                                                                                Retention rate is defined as the proportion of cohort that entered schools 5
                                                                                                                years previously reaching grade 5 (without repeating or dropping out).
2. Primary Retention       53.4%                                        71% in 2005-06
rate                                               n.a.                                           DISE
                          (2003/04)                                                                             NSS data confirm share of primary completers among 11-13 year olds
                                                                                                                increased from 58.8% to 64.4% between 2000 and 2005.
                                                                                                                Using re-constructed cohort method.
                             3. Indicators of internal efficiency in primary                                    2005/06 estimates not yet available.

3a. Average Drop Out       10.6 %                                       10% in 2004/05
Rate                                               n.a.                                           DISE
                          (2003/04)

                                                                                       A-34

                         Baseline
                                         Target
    Outcome              (2002-03
                                                           Achievement              Data        Comments
    Indicators            unless     (until 2006/07                                Source
                          stated)     unless stated)

3b. Average                7.8%                           6.3% in 2004/05
Repetition Rate          (2003/04)         n.a.                                     DISE


3c. Average               81.5%                          83.8% in 2004/05
Promotion Rate                             n.a.                                     DISE
                         (2003/04)

4. Increase Pupil-
teacher ratio
                                                                 41                             Government Schools
4a. Primary                 46                                                      DISE

                                                                 37
4b. All Elementary          43

5. Reduce Student                                                             Baseline: WB      Govt. Schools
Absenteeism                                                                   Study 2002        14 states
                                                                30%                             Based on 3 random visits
5a. Primary               33.5%            n.a.                               End line:      ASER reports lower student absenteeism rate more or less unchanged
                                                                              MHRD Follow
                                                                25%                          between 2005 and 2007 (Primary: 26.5% of students absent in 2005 and
5b. Upper Primary           n.a.           n.a.                               Up Indep-      2007; Upper Primary: 25% and 24.5% respectively in 2005 and 2007)
                                                                              endent Studies

6. Reduce Teacher                                                             Baseline: WB
Absence without leave                                                         Study 2002        Govt. Schools
                                                                                                Based on 3 random visits
                                                                19%
6a. Primary                25%             n.a.                               End line:      ASER reports lower teacher absenteeism rates and declines between 2005
                                                                              MHRD Follow    and 2007 (Primary: 18.8% and 9% of teachers absent in 2005 and 2007
                                                                20%           Up             respectively; Upper Primary: 21.2% and 12.6% of teachers absent in 2005
6b. Upper Primary           n.a.           n.a.                               Independent    and 2007 respectively)
                                                                              Studies
                                     BAS conducted:
                                     Grade 3 in 2004         All BAS's
7. Student test scores              Grade 7/8 in 2003      completed and
in language and                     MAS conducted:        results available
mathematics in Grade                Grade 3 in 2007/8   Grade 5 MAS results   NCERT
3, 5, and 7/8 measured    Grade 5      Grade 5 in        completed in 2006    Sample            Targets based on SSA PAD
in baseline studies      BAS 2002     2005/06 (and       preliminary results  Surveys
(BAS) and repeat                     results available   available in January
assessments                            in 2006/07)
                                      Grade 7/8 in              2008

                                        2006/07




                                                                           A-35

                         Baseline
                                        Target
    Outcome              (2002-03
                                                       Achievement            Data     Comments
    Indicators            unless     (until 2006/07                          Source
                          stated)    unless stated)


                          Grade 3                                                    Trend information from NCERT sample surveys are considered most reliable.
                          (2004):                                                    However, DISE and ASER report the following trends.

                          Math:
                           58%
                                                                                       Percent of children passing with 60% or above marks in school exams
                         Lang: 63%
                                                                                                                          2002-03             2005-06
                                                              .
                                                                                              Boys                                                 47.8%
8. Student test scores    Grade 5                                                                                               44.2%
                                                      Grade 5 (2006/7):
in language and           (2002):                      Math: 48.5%      NCERT                 Girls                             44.8%              48.5%
mathematics in Grades                 Test scores
                          Math:                                         Sample                Grade5                            36.6%              40.5%
3,5, and 7/8 show                      improve         Lang: 60.3%
                          46.5%                                         Surveys               Grade 8                           30.2%                33%
improvements
                           Lang:                                                                            Std I-II (who can read alphabets or more):
                          58.9%                                                               Reading       70.3% (2005) to 74.5% (2006) and

                         Grade 7/8                                                                          Std III-V (who can read either at Level 1 or
                                                                                                            Level 2). : 67.4 (2005) to 66.2% (2006)
                          (2004):                                                                           Std I-II who can recognize numbers or do
                          Math:                                                                Maths        more): 55.3% (2005) to 60.6% (2006)

                         30%/38%                                                                            Std III-V (who can do subtraction or more). :
                                                                                                            60.7 (2005) to 64.7% (2006)
                         Lang:52%




                                                                     A-36

  B. Outputs by Objectives

  SSA I was unlike a traditional investment credit with predefined components. The scope of interventions
  varied across states, districts and sub districts and also from year to year, enabling the interventions and
  resource requirements to respond to different circumstances to best meet the development objectives. This
  section presents trends in some of the key outputs/categories of activity. For the physical infrastructure
  and human resource outputs ­ which constituted the largest share of expenditures, and where gaps were
  greatest in the lagging states ­ the data is presented for the nine lagging states as well. A monitoring
  format and breakup of outputs by objectives similar to that discussed in SSA PAD is used. It should,
  however, be noted that many of the outputs under PDO 1 also contribute to equity or quality (PDOs 2 and
  3) ­ for example, provision of minimum physical or human resources.

  Under each component/objective, the first table provides output indicators for which annual targets are
  available from AWPB. Targets were set annually, and cumulate targets over the four year period
  (2003/04-2006/07) are presented, together with achievement information available as of March 2007. It
  should be noted, however, that with additional funds being made available after the introduction of the
  education cess in 2004, annual targets were also made more ambitious. The second table for each
  component presents baseline and end-line information on additional monitoring output (or
  intermediate/process) indicators for each component.


   Component/Objective 1: To reduce out-of-school children and increase enrollments
  SSA has supported the construction of 193,220 new schools and 146,240 EGS centers since 2003/04,
  resulting in nearly all habitations having either a primary school or EGS/AIE center within the prescribed
  norm of 1 km (compared to 160,528 habitations which did not in 2002/03) by 2005/06. Although EGS
  centers were simultaneously being upgraded where appropriate to mainstream schools, on average about 6
  million children attended EGS/AIE schools during a year of the SSA program. Infrastructure
  improvements included the construction of 650,442 new classrooms, and the provision of drinking water
  and toilet facilities, bringing the share of schools with such facilities up from 73% to 83% and 34% to
  52% respectively. About 0.8 million new teachers were recruited under SSA, contributing to substantial
  reductions in pupil-teacher ratios, for example, from 46:1 to 41:1 in government primary schools between
  2002/03 and 2006/07. Targets for output indicators were substantially met, with the majority of provision
  taking place in the lagging states. Community mobilization, better availability of improved facilities and
  closer proximity, and with adequate staffing, and the other innovative strategies to enroll out-of-school
  children have likely contributed to the observed results on this objective.


                  Table B1.1a: Cumulative Targets and Achievements: 2003/4-2006/7: All India
                                                                     Cumulative       Cumulative

Component/Objective                        Outputs                     Targets       Achievements         %
                                                                      including          (as of      achievement
                                                                       2006-07         31.3.2007)
                         Opening of New schools                         240072          193220          80.5%
                         Construction of school buildings               183461          157516          85.9%

PDO 1: Reduce out of     Construction of additional classrooms          692678          650442          93.9%

school children and      Number of EGS made operational                 162084          146240          90.2%

increase enrollments     Number of EGS Upgraded to regular schools      101270           93168          92.0%
                         Teachers appointed                            1012000          795000          78.6%
                         Drinking water facilities                      170267          158361          93.0%
                         Construction of toilets                        235041          203577          86.6%

               Table B1.1b: Cumulative Targets and Achievements: 2003/4-2006/7: Lagging States
                Assam, Bihar, Chattisgarh, Jharkhand, MP, Orissa, Rajasthan, UP, West Bengal)

                                                                     Cumulati        Cumulative         Achieveme        Achievem
                                                                                                        nt as % of           ent of
  Component/Objec                                                        ve           Achieveme           targets           lagging
           tive                          Outputs                      Targets             nts
                                                                     including           (as of                              states

                                                                      2006-07         31.3.2007)                           as % of
                                                                                                                          All India
                          Opening of New schools                         193145            135354             70.1%            70.1%
                          Construction of school buildings               139052            116277             83.6%            73.8%

  PDO 1: Reduce           Construction of additional

  out of school           classrooms                                     509011            472543             92.8%            72.7%

  children and            Number of EGS made operational                 122063            116648             95.6%            79.8%

  increase                Number of EGS Upgraded to

  enrollments             regular schools                                 92014              91070              99%              98%
                          Teachers appointed                             887177            730163             82.3%            91.8%
                          Drinking water facilities                       68595              62828            91.6%            39.7%
                          Construction of toilets                        123792              98480            79.6%          48.4%*
 *The much lower share of lagging states in provision of drinking water facilities should be interpreted with caution as it reflects
 greater convergence with the swajaldhara program.

          Table B1.2: Achievements in key access, infrastructure and human resource output indicators
                                                                    Values of Indicators                 Source of data
Component       Output indicators                                   2002-03             2005-06          Baseline            Endline
                Number of habitations without access to a               160528             20957*            AISES              PMIS
                primary school within 1 Km norm                                                              2002/3             12/06
Access          Percentage of habitations having access to a                                                 AISES
through         primary schooling facility within 1 Km                   87%                96%              2002/3             PMIS

provision of    norm                                                                                                            12/06

facilities      Number of habitations without access to a                                                    AISES              PMIS
                Upper primary school within 3 Km norm                   169492             20544             2002/3             12/06
                Percentage of habitations having access to a                                                 AISES
                Upper primary schooling facility within 3                78%                85%              2002/3             PMIS

                Km norm                                                                                                         12/06

                Ratio of Primary to Upper Primary Schools                                                    AISES              PMIS
                (govt)                                                    3.8                 3.1            2002/3             12/06
Infrastruct     Percentage of all govt. elementary schools                                                    DISE              DISE
ure             with single classroom                                     13.4               11.0            2002/3            2005/6
improveme       Student Classroom Ratio (SCR) in                                                          DISE 2002-            DISE
nts             Government Elementary Schools                              45                 40               03              2005/6
                Percentage of government elementary                                                       DISE 2002-            DISE
                schools with SCR>=60                                       25                19.6              03              2005/6
                Average number of classrooms in                                                           DISE 2002-            DISE
                government elementary schools                             2.9                 3.2              03              2005/6
                Percentage of elementary schools with                                                     DISE 2002-            DISE
                drinking water facility                                   73.3               83.1              03              2005/6

                Percentage of elementary education schools                                                DISE 2002-            DISE
                with common toilet facility                               34.3               52.4              03              2005/6

Teachers        Percentage of all elementary government                                                   DISE 2002-            DISE
                schools with single teacher                               15.9               14.1              03              2005/6
                Average Number of teachers per school
                                                                                                          DISE 2002-            DISE
                Govt. primary only schools                                2.5                 2.6              03              2005/6
                                                                                                          DISE 2002-            DISE
                All government elementary schools                         3.2                 3.6              03              2005/6
                PTR


                                                           A-38

                                                              Values of Indicators        Source of data
Component      Output indicators                              2002-03        2005-06      Baseline      Endline
                                                                                           DISE 2002-   DISE
               Govt. primary only schools                         46             41            03       2005/6
                                                                                           DISE 2002-   DISE
               All government elementary schools                  43             37            03       2005/6
               Percentage of schools with PTR>100
                                                                                           DISE 2002-   DISE
               Govt. primary only schools                        9.4             5.9           03       2005/6
                                                                                           DISE 2002-   DISE
               All government elementary schools                 8.2             5.3           03       2005/6
*These habitations have alternative schools

Component/Objective 2: To narrow existing gender and social gaps in primary school participation

SSA's interventions for improving access and reducing OOSC were inherently designed at reducing
gender and social gaps, as the disadvantage groups formed majority of those left out of the school system.
In addition, to encourage parents of these groups to send their girls/children to school, SSA ­ directly or
through conversion with other programs ­ facilitated a near doubling in the share of schools with girls'
toilets, an increase in the share of female teachers from 31% to 36%, and the provision of free textbooks
to girls, SC and ST children with improved delivery from 85% to 96% of the target groups between
2002/03 and 2005/06 (Annex 2). SC and ST children additionally benefited from the appointment of local
teachers from SC and ST communities, provision of training, textbooks and learning materials in tribal
languages, and state specific programs (e.g. scholarships) determined through convergence with the
Social Welfare and Tribal departments.

In addition, the inclusion of two new or newly strengthened CSSs, the NPEGEL and the KGBV, to
supplement SSA, facilitated focused interventions in the most educationally backward blocks (EBBs)
with the highest prevalence of vulnerable girls. The NPEGEL covering 3000 EBBs reached nearly 23
million of the most vulnerable girls in 2006 with interventions such as the development of model schools
(nearly 36,000, upper primary) and classrooms, support to nearly 400,000 ECCE centers (facilitating
sibling care), provision of remedial teaching, provision of bridge courses (to 1.3 million girls in 2006/07),
and training/mobilization to 4.6 million community members. Together with the KGBV which by
2005/06 provided 2180 residential schools at upper primary for girls predominantly from SC, STC, OBC,
and minority communities, and by 2005-06 supported 81,000 of the most vulnerable girls, considerable
difference was made in terms of reaching the hardest to reach girls32. These were complemented by a
national focus on ensuring gender sensitivity in textbooks and in classroom practice through teacher
training, while SSA innovation funds supported numerous state specific innovations to include girls.33

                   Table B2.1: Cumulative Targets and Achievements: 2003/4-2006/7: All India

                                                                   Cumulative     Achievements
 Component/Objective                       Outputs                   Targets                          %
                                                                    including         (upto      achievement
                                                                     2006-07        31.3.2007)

 PDO 2: Reduce               Total number of children receiving    66.9 million     64 million      95.67%
 gender and social           free text books (2006-07)

 disparities                 Total number of children received
                             text books (cumulative till 2007)     246 million      220 million      90%




                                                       A-39

              Table B2.2: Achievements in output indicators to reduce gender and social disparities

                                                               Values of Indicators Source of data
Component        Output indicators                             2002-03     2005-06  Baseline     Endline
                 Percentage of elementary schools with                                             DISE
                                                                 22.2         37.4    DISE
Provision of     separate girls' toilet facility                                     2002-03       2005/6
special school   Percentage of elementary schools with                                DISE         DISE
facilities       ramps                                            4.6         17.1   2002-03       2005/6
                 Percentage of Female teachers
                                                                                      DISE         DISE
Teachers         Govt. primary only schools                      31.6         35.6   2002-03       2005/6
                                                                                      DISE         DISE
                 All government elementary schools               31.3         35.8   2002-03       2005/6
                 Schools without Female teachers
                                                                                      DISE         DISE
                 Govt. primary only schools                      45.1         33.6   2002-03       2005/6
                                                                                      DISE         DISE
                 All government elementary schools               38.9         32.4   2002-03       2005/6
Free
Textbooks        Percentage of targeted children receiving                            PMIS
                 free text books                                 85%          96%    2003/4       PMIS 2006

                 Model Cluster schools developed                             35645                PMIS 2006
                 Construction of toilets                                     18505               PMIS, 2007
                 Construction of drinking water facility                     17581               PMIS, 2007
                 Number of teachers sensitized for gender
                 in EBBs                                                     229267              PMIS, 2007

                 Number of additional rooms constructed
                 for bridge courses, skill building activities               21898               PMIS, 2007
Provisions       for girls
under            Anganwadis and ECCE centres (in non-                        393289
NPEGEL           ICDS areas) supported                                                           PMIS, 2007

Program          Community Mobilization (Number of
                 people trained)                                            4622986               PMIS, 2007

                 No. of KGBVs Operational                                     1226               PMIS, 2007
                 No. of KGBV centers in blocks having
                 over 20% Muslim Population                                   266                PMIS, 2007

                 No. of KGBV centers in blocks having
Provisions       over 20%SC Population                                        622                PMIS, 2007

under KGBV       No. of KGBV centers in blocks having
Program          over 20%ST Population                                        583                PMIS, 2007



 Component/Objective 3: To enhance the quality of education for all children
 The provision of minimum infrastructure, adequate teachers, grants to teachers and schools for teaching
 and learning materials, maintenance and materials and equipment, etc. constitute the "basic provisioning"
 pillar of the SSA quality enhancement strategy. Strong progress was made in this pillar; that on provision
 of infrastructure and teachers has been discussed above. Thus, for example, the provision of teachers has
 reduced the pupil teacher ratio (from 46 to 41 in government primary schools between 2002 and 2005),
 the provision of classrooms has reduced overcrowding (average student classroom ratio fell from 67 to 42
 in primary), school and teacher grants have facilitated the availability of teaching and learning materials
 in schools (nearly 92% of primary schools now receive TLM grants, compared to 40%), and most
 students now have textbooks.

 Quality improvements are also expected from the revision of the National Curriculum Framework (NCF)
 in 2005 and its ongoing implementation. SSA has also financed induction and in-service teacher training
 (3 million, or 65% of teachers were covered in 2006/07), established functioning academic support

                                                      A-40

 centers in all blocks and 84% of clusters, and financed state specific innovations in virtually every state to
 improve quality. Some examples are the Children's Learning Improvement Program (CLIP), followed by
 Children's Learning Acceleration Program for Sustenance (CLAPS) in Andhra Pradesh, 3 R's Guarantee
 Program, followed by Education Quality Improvement Program (EQIP) in Maharastra, and the Tamil
 Nadu Ability Based Learning Program. Virtually every state has introduced such programs. See Shiksha
 Sangam, 2006 IIM(A) publication on Innovations under SSA, SSA website http://ssa.nic.in, and state
 level websites for full descriptions of the programs and results of available evaluations.

 The SSA strategy for quality enhancement also emphasizes assessment of student learning at the various
 levels, including continuous assessment in classrooms as well as state and national level monitoring of
 learning outcomes. SSA introduced a system of National Achievement Sample Surveys (NAS) by
 NCERT (through Baseline, Mid-term and Terminal assessment surveys or BAS, MAS and TAS,
 respectively), and financed the introduction of state level assessments by a number of states. Classroom
 assessments are also being encouraged and supported. The implementation plan for the NAS cycle was
 challenging in view of the large and diverse scale relative to capacity. Three Baseline Achievement
 Surveys (BAS) of student achievement (in grades 3, 5 and 7/8) and at least one repeat assessment (for
 grade 5) were to be completed, reported and used to monitor learning and provide feedback.           In fact,
 reporting and full analysis of BASs was delayed and technical issues relating to the quality of the data and
 analysis have limited their contribution to quality improvements. The preliminary results of the first
 repeater assessment (2006, grade 5, Mid-Term Assessment or MAS) were available in January 2008.


 Table B3.1a: Cumulative Targets and Achievements: 2003/4-2006/7
                                                                 Cumulative     Achievements
  Component/Objective                    Outputs                   Targets                           %
                                                                  including        (upto         achievement
                                                                   2006-07       31.3.2007)

  PDO 3: Enhance the       No. of BRCs made operational             6746            6771            100%
  quality of education     No. of CRCs made operational            70388           66487            94%
  for all children         Teacher training (20 days) (2006-07)   3405615         2952395          86.7%

              Table B3.2: Achievements in output indicators to enhance quality of education for all

                                                              Values of Indicators    Source of data
Component          Output indicators                          2002-03     2005-06     Baseline       Endline

Teachers                                                                               DISE 2002-       DISE
                   PTR in all govt. elementary schools          31.3         35.8          03          2005/6
                   Average number of working days non-                                 DISE 2002-       DISE
                   teaching assignment (govt.)                  19.5          17           03          2005/6
                   Percentage of teachers involved in non-                             DISE 2002-       DISE
                   teaching assignments                         21.6         15.0          03          2005/6
                   Percentage of all elementary schools with
                   a book-bank                                  41.0         47.7

Teaching and       Percentage of schools receiving TLM
Learning           grants
Materials (other                                                                       DISE 2002-       DISE
than textbooks)    Primary schools                              39.7         91.9          03          2005/6
                                                                                       DISE 2002-       DISE
                   All elementary schools                       33.7         61.8          03          2005/6
Academic           Percentage of all elementary schools                                DISE 2002-       DISE
Support            visited by a CRC coordinator                 53.3         62.3          03          2005/6




                                                    A-41

    C. Selected state-wise data
    This section provides state-wise trends on (i) participation rates for all groups and by gender, and social
    groups for primary and upper primary age from rounds of the NSS surveys; (ii) available trends on
    student and teacher absence from independent studies (baselines commissioned by the World Bank and
    follow up commissioned by MHRD); and (iii) preliminary results of trends in average test scores for
    Grade 5 from the NCERT BAS and MAS.
                      Table C1: Participation Rates of 6-10 year olds in schooling
                    All               Boys                Girls               ST               SC


               1999-    2004-    1999-    2004-     1999-     2004-    1999-     2004-    1999-  2004-
               2000      05      2000       05      2000       05       2000      05      2000     05
AP               84.6     95.2     87.3     96.4      81.7      93.9     66.6      91.0    85.4     95.6
Arunachal        56.8     72.2     50.3     73.2      63.7     71.0      54.1      68.9    70.2     98.7
Assam            80.0     91.1     82.3     91.1      77.5     91.1      84.4      93.0    79.8     94.5
Bihar            52.5     68.0     58.8     72.3      44.8     62.7      48.8      67.8    36.9     52.3
Chhattisgarh      0.0     88.2      0.0     90.3        0.0    86.1        0.0     87.7     0.0     91.0
Goa              92.5     96.8     94.8     94.9      89.9      98.5    100.0     100.0   100.0   100.0
Gujarat          84.2     91.6     87.9     93.0      79.8     89.8      74.1      83.0    80.9     95.9
Haryana          85.2     89.9     88.9     92.3      80.9     86.9      31.9     100.0    76.5     82.5
HP               97.4     98.5     97.4     98.4      97.3      98.5     99.4      95.5    96.9     98.6
J&K              83.2     92.8     90.9     94.5      74.9      91.1     69.4     100.0    57.1     94.1
Jharkhand         0.0     79.7      0.0     81.2        0.0    78.0        0.0     74.2     0.0     80.3
Karnataka        82.9     95.1     83.5     95.9      82.4     94.2      75.2      96.1    75.9     91.9
Kerala           95.0     98.8     96.0     98.1      94.1     99.7      91.5      94.4    92.9     97.5
MP               72.8     84.7     76.9     88.0      68.2      80.9     57.3      71.1    70.7     82.6
Maharashtra      91.1     94.2     92.9     94.0      89.3     94.5      79.2      78.5    91.0     93.6
Manipur          86.9     95.7     87.1     96.0      86.6     95.4      77.6      92.8    85.1   100.0
Meghalaya        89.3     90.8     89.0     90.2      89.5     91.5      89.3      90.5    84.6   100.0
Mizoram          90.8     97.1     92.7     97.2      88.7     97.0      92.0      97.6   100.0   100.0
Nagaland         92.6     97.4     93.6     98.4      91.2     96.3      92.6      98.1    91.3   100.0
Orissa           75.0     87.7     80.0     90.6      69.8     84.5      57.8      73.6    74.8     90.6
Punjab           89.6     92.9     90.8     92.8      88.3     93.0      77.1      97.5    82.2     90.6
Rajasthan        74.8     84.1     84.1     89.1      64.3     79.2      62.6      76.0    66.8     79.2
Sikkim           94.9     95.7     95.7     95.1      94.2     96.4      94.6      97.4    92.1   100.0
TN               93.3     99.0     94.3     99.1      92.2      98.9     80.9     100.0    92.2     99.4
Tripura          89.8     94.4     91.8     92.7      86.9     96.1      85.6      95.7    90.2     96.0
UP               74.0     83.4     79.6     85.3      67.3      81.4     70.6      67.1    70.5     82.4
Uttarakhand       0.0     92.3      0.0     94.3        0.0    90.0        0.0     98.1     0.0     91.0
West Bengal      77.2     88.7     81.3     89.6      72.6     88.0      60.3      72.9    75.6     88.6
ANI              95.5     98.6     98.7    100.0      92.0      97.0     91.9     100.0    76.3   100.0
Chandigarh       94.3     96.8     94.3     96.0      94.4     97.6     100.0     100.0    88.3   100.0
D&NH             75.7     86.8     83.4     95.4      69.3      77.6     73.5      84.9   100.0   100.0
D&D              96.0    100.0     96.9    100.0      95.2     100.0     94.0     100.0   100.0   100.0
Delhi            91.4     94.5     92.7     94.4      90.0     94.7      81.3     100.0    80.4     87.2
Lakshadweep      97.9     88.3     98.5     89.6      97.3     86.9      97.8      88.3     0.0      0.0
Pondicherry      94.8     98.8     96.3     98.6      93.3     99.1     100.0       0.0   100.0   100.0


Non-lagging
states           83.1     93.5     86.2     94.1      79.6     92.8      76.5      85.7    79.1     92.4
Lagging
states           67.8     81.1     73.2     83.9      61.6     78.0      57.3      75.5    61.6     77.0



                                                     A-42

                   Table C2: Participation Rates of 11-13 year olds in schooling
                   All              Boys              Girls               ST             SC

              1999-           1999-     2004-    1999-    2004-     1999-    2004-  1999-  2004-
              2000   2004-05   2000      05      2000      05       2000      05    2000    05
AP             67.1      82.6   74.9      88.7     58.6     75.8      42.0     73.3  64.3   77.2
Arunachal      75.8      82.3   76.3      86.5     75.1     76.5      75.2     79.9  44.6  100.0
Assam          80.5      92.0   84.6      91.9     75.8     92.2      86.4     93.5  83.7   96.8
Bihar          60.0      76.4   66.9      82.2     51.5     69.2      60.8     99.1  38.2   62.7
Chhattisgarh    0.0      84.0     0.0    89.7       0.0     78.3       0.0     79.8   0.0   86.0
Goa            86.3      91.7   88.5      91.7     82.6     91.7       0.0      0.0 100.0  100.0
Gujarat        80.4      85.2   85.0     89.7      74.9     79.5      61.3     81.1  79.5   82.1
Haryana        89.2      91.1   91.4      95.5     86.6     86.0     100.0    100.0  81.5   81.9
HP             95.7      97.4   97.0      98.0     94.4     96.8      96.8     93.4  96.5   96.7
J&K            83.7      92.7   91.6     97.1      75.5     87.7      18.8     73.4  61.0   89.0
Jharkhand       0.0      78.3     0.0     83.8      0.0     71.8       0.0     71.0   0.0   76.2
Karnataka      75.7      88.3   79.1      89.9     72.3     86.6      61.5     79.7  69.5   76.9
Kerala         95.3      98.7   95.0     97.9      95.6     99.7      78.7    100.0  89.9   98.6
MP             73.6      82.3   79.7      87.3     66.2     76.3      53.9     66.8  71.5   82.4
Maharashtra    86.7      91.3   88.4     93.1      84.7     89.4      76.6     77.5  86.6   92.1
Manipur        86.3      95.5   87.4      97.1     85.2     93.0      76.9     94.9  98.5  100.0
Meghalaya      89.6      92.0   91.2      88.2     88.0     96.2      89.0     91.3  84.7  100.0
Mizoram        93.0      98.4   93.8     97.8      92.3     99.0      93.2     98.4  98.3  100.0
Nagaland       91.5      93.7   93.0     94.9      89.6     92.4      92.3     94.5  65.0    0.0
Orissa         72.5      79.6   76.2      81.2     68.8     77.9      52.9     63.7  68.6   77.4
Punjab         83.2      89.8   83.8      90.2     82.6     89.3      92.4     94.5  74.5   87.0
Rajasthan      70.2      79.4   84.2     88.2      53.6     69.3      57.8     79.7  58.9   70.6
Sikkim         93.5      96.5   95.8     95.5      91.0     97.6      92.2     95.6  98.2   96.4
TN             86.3      95.8   86.6     97.0      86.0     94.4      86.3    100.0  85.4   94.0
Tripura        94.8      94.2   96.3      92.9     92.9     95.7      95.2     91.8  92.2   93.2
UP             73.1      79.7   80.0      84.9     65.7     73.3      69.3     66.1  68.5   76.6
Uttarakhand     0.0      89.6     0.0    91.9       0.0     87.4       0.0     99.5   0.0   88.8
West Bengal    75.3      84.2   77.0      84.3     73.7     84.2      66.7     73.6  68.3   85.2
ANI            89.9      98.5   85.3      99.8     95.2     97.2      94.8      0.0  46.6    0.0
Chandigarh     89.8      92.6   95.9      93.1     82.9     92.0       0.0    100.0  85.1   98.5
D&NH           73.5      90.6   78.0     100.0     68.4     76.3      68.2     89.5 100.0   37.9
D&D            92.1      99.6   94.4     99.3      89.4    100.0      87.7    100.0 100.0  100.0
Delhi          88.8      95.5   94.0      95.2     83.9     95.9     100.0    100.0  82.4   88.8
Lakshadweep    99.1    100.0    98.4     100.0    100.0    100.0      99.1    100.0   0.0    0.0
Pondicherry    88.3    100.0    93.9     100.0     83.6    100.0       0.0      0.0  96.9  100.0


Non-lagging
states         79.4      89.2   83.7      91.3     74.8     86.9      70.5     81.9  74.9   86.5
Lagging
states         69.7      79.7   75.9      85.2     62.6     73.1      56.4     71.6  60.3   74.7




                                                 A-43

      Table C3: Trends in Student and Teacher Absenteeism in 14 states: Government Primary Schools

                                             Student absenteeism       Teacher absenteeism
                                                2002    2006/7           2002     2006/7
                          AP                      30            27.3      25.3            21
                          Bihar                  61.5             58      37.8         25.4
                          Chattisgarh            39.5           32.3      30.6         24.8
                          HP                     11.1            5.4      21.2            20
                          Karnataka              28.2           13.8      21.7         13.7
                          Kerala                  13             9.0      21.2         11.5
                          MP                     39.4           27.9      17.6            33
                          Maharashtra            20.9             11      14.6            12
                          Orissa                 31.7           33.2      23.4            13
                          Rajasthan              36.4           37.3      23.7            19
                          TN                     12.3           11.6      21.3         13.1
                          UP                     46.7           42.6      26.3            22
                          Uttaranchal            30.9             26      32.8            17
                          West Bengal            43.5           24.3      24.7             4
Note: The two years of data were commissioned by different entities. Comparisons should be treated with some
caution. The baseline data for teacher absenteeism for MP for example, were most likely an underestimate (as
multiple studies give higher teacher absenteeism rates for this stae). Similarly the 96% teacher attendance for West
Bengal does not appear credible.




                                                     A-44

                      Table C4: State wise comparison from BAS to MAS (Language)
                        Base Line Achievement           Mid Term Achievement    Difference in Mean %
          State                 (BAS)                          (MAS)                 (MAS-BAS)
                      Mean %            SD            Mean %           SD
Andhra Pradesh          54.8            17.1            58.6          16.6               3.8
Arunachal Pradesh       61.3            16.4            52.1          15.7               -9.2
Assam                   49.2            12.6            51.9          13.2               2.7
Chhattisgarh            49.7            16.1            50.3          19.8               0.6
Delhi                   63.2            16.9            67.3          14.9               4.2
Goa                     44.7            14.3            52.5          17.5               7.8
Gujarat                 56.2            18.1            63.3          16.4               7.1
Haryana                 60.5            17.3            58.3          16.9               -2.2
Himachal Pradesh        50.0            14.3            63.9          15.2              13.7
Jammu & Kashmir         47.6            16.4            51.7          18.0               4.1
Jharkhand                 -              -              63.8          18.3                -
Karnataka               58.6            19.0            64.6          16.9               5.9
Kerala                  55.0            14.5            67.3          14.5              12.4
Madhya Pradesh          58.3            21.9            58.8          19.3               0.6
Maharashtra             62.1            20.0            65.6          18.2               3.5
Manipur                 73.4            13.6            62.1          16.2              -11.3
Meghalaya                 -              -              54.9          18.2                -
Mizoram                 66.9            10.4            66.7          12.0               -0.2
Nagaland                59.6            17.9            57.8          19.1               -1.7
Orissa                  60.7            17.9            63.8          18.4               3.0
Punjab                  58.0            15.8            57.8          16.5               -0.3
Rajasthan               60.7            17.4            59.7          17.9               -0.9
Sikkim                  50.3            13.1            49.7          14.9               -0.6
Tamil Nadu              71.1            17.5            59.8          14.5              -11.3
Tripura                 63.8            16.0            61.8          19.2               -2.0
Uttar Pradesh           50.2            19.2            61.8          17.9              11.6
Uttrakhand              56.4            17.6            55.3          17.8               -1.1
West Bengal             70.7            15.3            69.3          13.5               -1.4
A & N Island            54.5            16.0            50.6          17.9               -3.9
Chandigarh              56.0            15.3            61.1          15.8               5.1
Pudducherry             59.2            17.9            57.8          15.5               -1.5
Dadra & Nagar Haveli      -              -              49.4          17.0                -
Daman & Diu               -              -              58.1          16.5                -
Weighted Mean           58.9            18.3            60.3          17.6               1.4




                                             A-45

                     Table C5: State wise comparison from BAS to MAS (Mathematics)
                        Base Line Achievement       Mid Term Achievement (MAS)    Difference in Mean %
          State                 (BAS)                                                  (MAS-BAS)
                      Mean %            SD            Mean %          SD
Andhra Pradesh           43.5           21.0            47.4          17.8                 3.9
Arunachal Pradesh        53.5           18.6            48.4          19.4                 -5.0
Assam                    40.0           16.8            44.6          19.4                 4.6
Chhattisgarh             38.4           17.3            39.2          21.6                 0.8
Delhi                    48.2           19.8            45.3          17.5                 -2.9
Goa                      30.5           13.6            39.0          16.3                 8.5
Gujarat                  48.4           19.1            57.0          19.4                 8.6
Haryana                  53.3           18.5            48.5          18.3                 -4.8
Himachal Pradesh         34.4           13.6            47.6          18.6                13.2
Jammu & Kashmir          36.3           16.5            45.5          17.7                 9.2
Jharkhand                  -              -             57.4          21.4                  -
Karnataka                46.0           21.3            57.5          21.7                11.5
Kerala                   35.1           14.6            42.3          13.0                 7.2
Madhya Pradesh           49.0           22.7            46.5          19.6                 -2.5
Maharashtra              44.3           20.7            48.3          20.0                 4.0
Manipur                  74.5           19.7            41.1          18.7                -33.3
Meghalaya                  -              -             41.0          16.6                  -
Mizoram                  41.1           14.7            42.9          16.8                 1.8
Nagaland                 45.7           23.9            47.4          21.7                 1.6
Orissa                   41.0           20.8            46.8          19.5                 5.9
Punjab                   49.6           21.3            48.4          19.3                 -1.2
Rajasthan                49.4           20.8            47.6          20.0                 -1.8
Sikkim                   40.7           15.0            40.4          15.7                 -0.2
Tamil Nadu               58.4           22.8            50.5          18.8                 -7.9
Tripura                  52.7           22.6            52.8          24.7                 0.1
Uttar Pradesh            37.8           19.7            52.4          20.0                14.6
Uttrakhand               38.8           16.8            40.9          16.6                 2.1
West Bengal              60.1           21.9            61.0          20.1                 0.9
A &N Island              40.7           17.0            33.4          13.6                 -7.3
Chandigarh               45.0           13.8            42.2          17.3                 -2.8
Pudducherry              36.6           17.2            43.0          19.4                 6.4
Dadra & Nagar Haveli       -              -             40.8          15.9                  -
Daman & Diu                -              -             42.6          16.6                  -
Weighted Mean            46.5           21.3            48.5          20.0                 2.0




                                             A-46

                       Table C6: State wise comparison from BAS to MAS (EVS)
                       Base Line Achievement     Mid Term Achievement (MAS)  Difference in Mean %
          State               (BAS)                                               (MAS-BAS)
                      Mean %          SD           Mean %            SD
Andhra Pradesh          44.6         22.5            46.0           18.5              1.4
Arunachal Pradesh       60.4         21.1            54.0           20.5              -6.4
Assam                   42.9         18.3            45.2           17.1              2.3
Chhattisgarh            43.2         20.4            46.4           22.8              3.3
Delhi                   50.0         21.2            49.5           17.5              -0.5
Goa                     35.6         16.1            46.3           18.7             10.7
Gujarat                 52.4         20.9            59.6           19.5              7.2
Haryana                 53.2         21.6            46.6           18.5              -6.6
Himachal Pradesh        34.9         14.2            48.5           18.2             13.6
Jammu & Kashmir         39.1         19.6            46.1           18.5              6.5
Jharkhand                -             -             58.4           20.9               -
Karnataka               51.5         23.0            60.3           20.2              8.9
Kerala                  41.4         15.3            46.8           14.1              5.5
Madhya Pradesh          54.1         25.6            56.6           21.0              2.5
Maharashtra             52.8         22.6            55.9           19.0              3.1
Manipur                 73.6         18.2            55.1           19.6             -18.5
Meghalaya                -             -             46.5           17.4               -
Mizoram                 49.9         16.7            49.5           16.0              -0.4
Nagaland                50.1         23.1            48.8           22.4              -1.2
Orissa                  56.0         20.1            50.3           19.7              -5.7
Punjab                  50.2         20.7            49.7           20.3              -0.5
Rajasthan               50.8         24.3            50.2           20.8              -0.6
Sikkim                  48.2         18.0            48.4           18.1              0.2
Tamil Nadu              66.0         20.0            59.4           19.3              -6.7
Tripura                 54.5         23.8            56.2           24.6              1.7
Uttar Pradesh           41.5         22.3            56.2           19.2             14.7
Uttrakhand              43.3         19.9            45.4           18.4              2.1
West Bengal             58.7         23.1            59.9           19.4              1.3
A & N Island            44.8         17.9            39.7           17.0              -5.1
Chandigarh              41.8         15.2            44.1           18.1              2.3
Pudducherry             49.6         17.6            48.2           18.9              -1.4
Dadra & Nagar Haveli     -             -             45.3           16.8               -
Daman & Diu              -             -             51.1           18.5               -
Weighted Mean           50.3         22.4            52.2           20.0              1.9




                                            A-47

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

This annex provides: (i) updated cost benefit analysis; (ii) a discussion of cost-effectiveness of selected
interventions; and (iii) a fiscal sustainability analysis.

3.1. Cost-Benefit Analysis.

The economic analysis at appraisal projected and assessed the costs and benefits stream associated with
the project. It also estimated a prospective internal rate of return from and prospective net present value of
project benefits.

The costs of the projects were taken to be project costs plus the private costs of households for sending
children to primary and upper-primary school.

The benefits of the project were taken to be: (a) increase in the number of students who complete primary
and upper primary school who get higher wages as a result compared to the counterfactual; (b) increase in
wages of upper primary school completers due to improvement in quality.

The quality benefits of the project were expected to stem from its many innovative aspects. SSA provided
additional funds to be invested in the development of the sector, over and above the states' educational
budgets which get largely spent on teacher salaries. SSA lowered the costs of attending school by
providing access to schools, especially in rural and remote areas, and providing alternative schooling
strategies for hard-to-reach groups of children such as migrant and non-migrant child labor and children
with disabilities; and by reducing parents' school related costs such as on textbooks. SSA raised the
benefits from attending and completing primary and upper-primary schools by its focus on providing
better quality education through more teachers (for e.g., reducing the incidence of one-teacher schools),
better school infrastructure and more teaching-learning material and improved teacher training, teacher
support and pedagogy.

The discounted benefit stream over the working life-time of primary and upper primary school completers
under the project was then compared with total project costs. Using the cost-benefit framework, an
internal rate of return of 22.4 percent was estimated along with the net present value of economic benefits
of USD 8.7 billion (using a discount rate of 12 percent).

Cost-Benefit Analysis and Economic Rate of Return at Project Completion

We replicate the cost-benefit analysis done during appraisal with data for the years 2003-04 to 2006-2007.

The assumptions and data used in the present analysis are the following:

    a. Population data for the age-group 6-13 years is computed using the age-wise population
        projections from the Census for the years 2003-04 to 2006-07.
    b. Enrollment and completion rates are projected between the years 2003-2007 by using trend data
        from various rounds of the National Sample Surveys (NSS).
    c. Economic costs for the project which include: (a) project cost from 2003-04 to 2006-07 and (b)
        private costs for the students. The private costs are estimated with data from the 52nd round of the
        NSS 1995-96. These costs are Rupees 622 per year for primary school students and Rupees 978
        per year for elementary school students in 1995-96 rupees.34 These have been converted to 2003
        Rupees for the present cost-benefit analysis. In the analysis done for project appraisal, it was
        assumed that at least 20% of the target group was engaged in various forms of paid labor. Data
        from the 61st Round of the NSS however shows that a negligible percentage - less than half a
        percent, of children in the target age-group work for wages. Therefore, in the present analysis,
        private costs include only the cost of schooling.
    d. It is assumed that the benefits accrue to completed levels of schooling and not completed years of
        schooling.
    e. Data from the 61st Round of the National Sample Survey 2004-05 have been used to estimate age-
        earnings profile.


                                                    A-48

    f.  Similar to appraisal, it is assumed that there is an increase of 1% in wages due to improvement in
        quality for upper-primary school completers. We also present the no-quality improvement
        scenario for sensitivity analysis of estimates.
    g. A discount rate of 12 percent has been assumed in the present analysis for estimating the net
        present value of project benefits. This is the same as the appraisal assumption.
    h.   Unemployment rates of 5% and 10% have been assumed. The appraisal analysis was based on
        the assumption of unemployment rate being 5%. To assess the robustness of returns, this analysis
        presents results when the unemployment rate is doubled.
    i.  The present cost-benefit analysis has been done using the no-project scenario as the
        counterfactual. Trends for primary and upper primary enrolment were projected using increase in
        enrolment over time in the past to estimate the counter-factual. It is assumed that a similar
        counterfactual was used during the analysis done for project appraisal.

Internal Rate of Return and Net Present Value of Economic Benefits of the Project and Sensitivity
Analysis

Assuming an unemployment rate of 5%, a return to quality of 1% and no opportunity costs by way of
child labor, the estimate of the internal rate of return is 22% and a net present value of economic benefits
to the extent of USD 6.8 billion.

Sensitivity Analysis

How do our results shore up if we assume that there are no returns to quality and the unemployment rate
is 10%? The results are set out in tables 1 and 2 below. The cells in table 1 show IRR depending on the
assumptions regarding the unemployment rate and returns to quality. The cells in table 2 show the
corresponding present value of net benefits from the project. The IRR varies between 19%-22% on the
support, indicating the desirability of the project under a range of conditions. Compared to the rate of
return on physical investment, IRR of the project is always favorable.

                Table 3.1: Multi-scenario Rates of Return and Present Value of Net Benefits
                                      Multi-scenario          Multi-scenario Present Value of Net
                                     Rates of Return                         Benefits

       Unemployment rate             5%          10%               5%                     10%
       Quality Improvement           22%         20%          USD 6.38 billion       USD 5.89 billion
     No Quality Improvement          21%         19%          USD 5.90 billion       USD 5.44 billion


The estimate of the IRR of the project at completion is close to that under appraisal under a number of
scenarios, and the present value of net benefits from the project are lower. There are a number of
differences between assumptions underlying the analyses at completion and appraisal which affect both
the costs and the benefits sides.

1. Difference in the counterfactual used: The present analysis uses the absence of the project as the
    counterfactual, and the cost-benefit analysis equates net benefits to additional costs to estimate the
    IRR. It could be the case that the analysis done for project appraisal attributed all the increase to the
    project. We do not have the original tables of calculations and therefore cannot confirm the actual
    assumptions used.

2. Higher investment in the program: The project costs at completion were nearly double that assumed
    at appraisal reflecting the increased financing and accelerated implementation.
3. Child Labor: In the present analysis, based on data from the 61st round of the NSS, we have not
    included the opportunity costs arising due to child labor.

4. Higher completion rates: Completion rates for both primary and upper primary students were higher
    in reality than those projected at appraisal. Figures 1 and 2 below show the difference between
    projected attendance at appraisal and projected attendance at completion of children in the age-groups

                                                   A-49

     6-10 and 11-13 from 2001-2007. For primary grades, the difference between the two vary from 7 to
     12 points, and for upper primary grades, there is a 9 to 10 points gap.

                                    Figures 1 and 2: Gross Attendance Ratio, Actual and Projected

                  Gross Attendance Ratio, 6-10 Years                                       Gross Attendance Ratio, 11-13 Years
                                 Age-Group                                                                Age-Group

                95                                                                       90
      egat      90                                                                       85
                85                                        Actual               egat                                              Actual
                                                                                         80
          cenreP80                                        Projected                                                              Projected
                75                                                                 cenreP75

                70                                                                       70

                  2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007                                       2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007
                                  Year                                                                     Year


                                        Source: World Bank Staff Estimates from various Rounds of the NSS

5. Higher wages: Wage data for the present analysis has been derived from the 61st Round of the NSS
     (2004-05) whereas at appraisal, data was used from the 55th Round of the NSS (1999-200). Wages
     have increased between the two rounds.

Apart from the above sources of differences between project appraisal and completion the IRR of 22% is
still a lower bound on the rate of return. There are at least two reasons why this is so. Firstly, the IRR is
an under-estimate because it has not taken into account the increase in wages due to longevity in the
school system beyond the elementary stage. It is a robust empirical finding that improvement in quality of
education increases average years of schooling for a cohort that experiences good quality schooling; and
more years of schooling are rewarded with higher wages in the labor market. Secondly, it has been
computed without taking into account social returns due to positive externalities in health, fertility and
economic growth. The value of improved education is not limited to labor market outcomes alone. A
better educated cohort of children are likely to be healthier themselves and have fewer and healthier
children in the future; a more educated labor force is likely to be more skilled and readier to invent, adapt
and use new technology establishing the basis for higher and more sustainable economic growth; more
wide-spread literacy is also likely to lead to greater social participation and sense of community among
the people. Overall, better educated and healthier children become educated, healthy and more productive
work-force for the country.

3.3 Cost Effectiveness analysis.

Cost Effectiveness of Civil Works under SSA

Civil works accounted for about 44% of SSA expenditures. The following discussion illustrates how cost
effective technologies were encouraged, and provides available information on cost of civil works under
SSA compared to alternatives. A full cost effectiveness analysis would require more data than is available,
including in addition to construction and maintenance costs, benefits from energy savings and
environmental impact, benefits to local communities from community involvement, improved classroom
environment, and learning for example.

As per the SSA framework, the programme "will encourage use of local construction materials and low
cost technologies". This is based on the earlier experiences of Lok Jumbish, Basic Education Project



                                                                  A-50

(BEP) and DPEP and the extensive resource mapping exercise taken up under such programmes
identifying local materials.

India has a number of building materials like stone (sandstone, slate, granite, laterite), bamboo, tiles,
timber etc. available in abundance in various parts of the country. Use of such locally available material
not only reduces the cost of the building but also reduces the energy consumption of buildings. Materials
like burnt bricks and cement concrete are much more energy intensive. Local materials are being put to
excellent use in the school buildings of several states. Use of potentially hazardous materials like
Asbestos is consciously avoided and efforts are made to choose materials that cause a minimum depletion
to the natural resources.

SSA also promotes the use of alternate technologies like rat trap bond wall, filler slab roof and stub
foundations which have been tried out previously under BEP and DPEP. Key advantages of such
technologies are cost-effectiveness and the reduction in the consumption of cement and steel, which are
highly energy intensive. SSA also promotes use of various other alternatives like stabilized mud block, fly
ash bricks, brick corbelled structures, jack arch roof etc. The Technical Support Group of SSA is in
contact with other National Resource Institutions like HUDCO and CBRI for this purpose.

The primary consideration for the adoption of such alternate materials and technologies is maintainability,
replicability and durability of such structures. Cost effectiveness, rather than cost reduction, is the guiding
principle behind such initiatives.

Most states are using these cost effective technologies with use of local materials to make the building
environment friendly. In Uttarakhand, the State is using CC Block for walling, from the locally available
sand & gravel. Similarly, Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthan, etc are using
stones in super structure. In Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh use of stones slabs in roofing is very popular.
Assam and other Northern States are using bamboocrete walling. Kerala and other coastal States are also
using tiles in roofing. Arunachal Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, and Rajasthan also used pre-fabricated bamboo
structures. GOI is also advising the States to discourage use of non-biodegradable materials such as pre-
fabricated PVC components etc.

Apart from the above, community involvement in school building construction also resulted in saving
`contractor's profit' component. In public building construction programmes, this is typically 10 percent
of estimated building cost.

Recruitment of Teachers

About a fifth of the SSA costs were on the recruitment of teachers. Teachers recruited during SSA
constitute at least 1/5th of all government school teachers. These teachers in most states, especially states
with higher fiscal constraints and lower economic growth, were recruited mostly through decentralized
processes, and provided with salaries lower than regular salaries. The teaching force was thus increased
by at least 20 percent with under a fifth of the costs required compared to costs if the states been
recruiting regular teachers (increasing regular civil service cadre of teachers). For example, average
monthly pay of shiksha mitras in U.P. was 22% of the pay of regular teachers, but they were available in
school 20% more time than the regular teachers (Pandey, 2007). Similarl results were found for samvidas,
hired locally by the block panchayat in M.P. Many of these teachers were local recruits, younger, and
were used/ deputed less than regular teachers were for work outside the school or teaching profession.
There physical presence time in school was therefore better and they had more time to be engaged with
children (Sankar, 2007).

3.3 Fiscal Sustainability Analysis
1. Under the 10th Five Year Plan (FYP), SSA expenditures were shared between the Centre and the
States on the basis of a ratio of 25 percent state share and 75 percent GOI share. It was originally
anticipated that the cost-sharing ratio between GOI and the states would change to 50-50 during the 11th
FYP period (2007-08 to 2011-12). However in view of a concern that states, particularly the 9 lagging
states, may have difficulty allocating substantial increases for SSA, there is consensus emerging among
MHRD, the Planning Commission, and the Finance Ministry on the following principles:

                                                  A-51

        The cost sharing ratio of 50-50 would be in place by the end of the 11th FYP period.

        The cost sharing ratio of 75-25 would not remain

        There would be a gradual transition between the two cost sharing formulae, with a tapering
        towards 50:50 over the period of the 11th FYP period.

2. Based on these, the following cost-sharing path has been agreed upon:

2007-08: 65:35
2008-09: 65:35
2009-10: 60:40
2010-11: 55:45
2011-12: 50:50

3. The projected expenditures for FY07/08-FY09/10 are Rs. 12,000, Rs. 14,000 and Rs. 16,000 crores
respectively.35 To get an idea of the fiscal sustainability of the program, projections were done under
three different scenarios.

· Scenario I: States can continue to increase investments in SSA as they have done, but at a decreasing
    rate due to competing demands on their finances. This is also consistent with the fact that many states
    are closing infrastructure gaps so that increases in resource requirements will taper off. This scenario
    uses a pace of increase in nominal annual state SSA releases that declines over the five year period
    from 35 percent in 2007-8 to 16 percent in 2011-12.

· Scenario II: Total state expenditures will continue to grow at the average pace observed over the last
    five years (of 13 percent annually), with corresponding increases in SSA expenditures.

· Scenario III: Owing to fiscal constraints, all states will increase investments in SSA at a slower rate
    from 20 percent in 2007-08 to 5 percent in 2011-12. This is the most pessimistic of scenarios, as it
    assumes that states expenditures on education and SSA will actually decline over time, as a percent of
    overall state expenditures.

Results

4. Scenarios I and II show very similar results and so we have reported them together. These are
presented in Table 1 (for all states) and Table 1(a) (lagging states). The projections are consistent with
continuing increases in the pace of implementation of SSA, albeit at a declining rate. The cost sharing
ratio above is used to compute the central releases. Total funds available are then the sum of projected
state and central releases as well as the balance carried forward from the previous year. Expenditure
patterns are then projected on the assumption that the rate of utilization of SSA expenditures will continue
to improve36.

5. The total SSA expenditure projections in Table 3.2 thus reflect a composite measure of what states
can afford, as well as the absorptive capacity as represented by utilization of releases. What states can
afford is thus higher than the total resource need estimated by GOI or the 2007-10 period of DP support.




                                                  A-52

Table 3.2: Actual and Projected Releases and Expenditures in Rs. Crores for SSA (all states) under
                                             Scenarios I and II
                                                         Balance
                                State       Central        from        Total     Expenditure
           centre: state      release for    release     previous     funds        as % of          Total
Year            ratio            SSA        for SSA        year     available       release     expenditure
2001-02          75:25            65          474                       538                          108
2002-03          75:25            407         1528          264        2199                          1152
2003-04          75:25            872         2697         1150        4719          73.0%           3445
2004-05          75:25           1712         5043         1029        7785          78.3%           6099
2005-06          75:25           2587         7179         2672        12440         80.0%           9947
2006-07          75:25           3787        10857         2493        17139         84.4%          14709
2007-08          65:35           5119         9508         2429        17057         85.0%          14499
2008-09          65:35           6612        12281         2558        21452         86.0%          18449
2009-10          60:40           8212        12318         3003        23533         87.0%          20474
2010-11          55:45           9859        12050         3059        24968         88.0%          21972
2011-12          50:50          11499        11499         2996        25994         90.0%          23395

6. Table 3.2 (a) presents the results of the same exercise carried out for the 9 lagging states. As in the
case of the aggregate analysis, the proposed cost sharing arrangement is affordable and consistent
continued increases in the pace of implementation.

   Table 3.2(a): Actual and Projected Releases and Expenditures in Rs. Crores for SSA (lagging
                                      states) under Scenarios I and II
                                State                  Balance
                               release   Central         from         Total     Expenditure
            centre: state        for      release      previous      funds        as % of           Total
 Year            ratio          SSA      for SSA         year       available      release      expenditure
2001-02           75:25           33        220            0           254                           33
2002-03           75:25          218        759           177         1154                          544
2003-04           75:25          535       1648           775         2959          63.5%           1877
2004-05           75:25         1070       3103           642         4817          80.8%           3889
2005-06           75:25         2324       4911           1760        8996          71.3%           6412
2006-07           75:25         2613       7619           1823        12056         84.0%           10130
2007-08           65:35         3532       6560           1926        12019         85.0%           10216
2008-09           65:35         4562       8473           1802        14839         86.0%           12762
2009-10           60:40         5666       8499           2077        16243         87.0%           14131
2010-11           55:45         6802       8314           2111        17228         88.0%           15161
2011-12           50:50         7934       7934           2067        17936         90.0%           16142

7. Under scenario III, a more pessimistic picture emerges, as shown in Tables 3.3 and 3.3(a). In this
scenario, for all states and the lagging states the total expenditures remain at the same level as the FY06-
07 levels ­ which is below the projected SSA expenditure (especially in the latter years) and is likely to
hamper the pace of implementation.




                                                  A-53

Table 3.3: Actual and Projected Releases and Expenditures in Rs. Crores for SSA (all states) under
                                              Scenario III
                                                     Balance
                              State       Central      from        Total     Expenditure
             centre:       release for    release    previous      funds       as % of          Total
Year         state ratio       SSA       for SSA       year       available     release      expenditure
2001-02         75:25           65          474                     538                           108
2002-03         75:25          407          1528        264         2199                         1152
2003-04         75:25          872          2697       1150         4719         73.0%           3445
2004-05         75:25          1712         5043       1029         7785         78.4%           6099
2005-06         75:25          2587         7179       2672        12440         80.0%           9947
2006-07         75:25          3787        10857       2493        17139         84.4%          14709
2007-08         65:35          4545         8441       2429        15416         85.0%          13104
2008-09         65:35          5227         9707       2312        17247         86.0%          14832
2009-10         60:40          5854         8781       2414        17050         87.0%          14834
2010-11         55:45          6439         7870       2216        16527         88.0%          14544
2011-12         50:50          6761         6761       1983        15507         90.0%          13956

   Table 3.3(a): Actual and Projected Releases and Expenditures in Rs. Crores for SSA (lagging
                                       states) under Scenario III
                              State                 Balance
                             release   Central       from          Total    Expenditure
                centre:        for      release    previous        funds      as % of           Total
 Year         state ratio     SSA      for SSA        year       available     release      expenditure
2001-02          75:25         33         220          0            254                           33
2002-03          75:25         218        759         177          1154                          544
2003-04          75:25         535       1648         775          2959         63.5%           1877
2004-05          75:25        1070       3103         642          4817         80.8%           3889
2005-06          75:25        2324       4911         1760         8996         71.3%           6412
2006-07          75:25        2613       7619         1823         12056        84.0%           10130
2007-08          65:35        3136       5824         1926         10887        85.0%           9253
2008-09          65:35        3606       6698         1633         11937        86.0%           10266
2009-10          60:40        4039       6059         1671         11770        87.0%           10239
2010-11          55:45        4443       5430         1530         11404        88.0%           10035
2011-12          50:50        4665       4665         1368         10699        90.0%           9629

8. However, Scenario III would involve a reduction in state commitment to education and SSA, and
based on the trends over the past few years and continuing state commitment to education, this is unlikely
to happen.

9. Given that Scenarios I and II are more realistic, based on historical expenditure patterns by states on
SSA, in aggregate and state-wise, the proposed cost sharing arrangement appear to be affordable even for
lagging states.   The resource availability will continue to support an increased pace of SSA
implementation over the 11th plan period.




                                                A-54

    Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

    (a) Task Team members
           Names                     Title               Unit        Responsibility/Specialty
Lending
Rachid Benmessaoud        Operations Advisor                    Operations

Meera Chatterjee          Sr. Social Development
                          Specialist                 SASES      Social Development

Prema Clarke              Sr. Education Specialist   SASHD      Education issues
Gertrude Cooper           Program Assistant          SASHD      Administrative/Operations
Luis A. Crouch            Lead Education Economist   HDNED      Peer Reviewer
N.K. Jangira              Education Consultant       SASHD      Education issues
Nalin Jena                Operations Officer         SASHD      Operations
Venita Kaul               Sr. Education Specialist   SASHD      Co-Task Team Leader, Education
Sudesh Ponnappa           Program Assistant          SASHD      Program Assistant
Robert S. Prouty          Lead Education Specialist  HDNED      Peer Reviewer
Karthika Radhakrishnan    Program Assistant          SASHD      Administrative/Operations
Michelle Riboud           Sector Manager             SASHD      Management
Vandana Sipahimalani-Rao  Education Economist        SASHD      Economic Analysis
Deepa Sankar              Education Economist        SASHD      Results Framework, sector analysis
Venkatesh Sundararaman    Economist                  SASHD      Financial Analysis
Kin Bing Wu               Lead Education Specialist  EASHD      Co-Task Team Leader, Education
Shellka Arora             Legal Associate            SARIM      Legal
Sushil Kumar Bahl         Sr. Procurement Specialist SARPS      Procurement

Tapas Paul                Sr. Environmental
                          Specialist                 SASES      Environmental issues


Supervision
Philip Beauregard         Sr. Counsel                LEGMS      Legal

Meera Chatterjee          Sr. Social Development
                          Specialist                 SASES      Social Development

Mam Chand                 Sr. Procurement Specialist SARPS      Procurement
Prema Clarke              Sr. Education Specialist   SASHD      Education
Savita Dhingra            Team Assistant             SASHD      Administrative/Operations
Nalin Jena                Operations Officer         SASHD      Operations
Venita Kaul               Sr. Education Specialist   SASHD      Education

Tanuj Mathur              Sr. Financial Management
                          Specialist                 SARFM      Financial Management

Tapas Paul                Sr. Environmental
                          Specialist                 SASES      Environmental issues

Robert Prouty
Karthika Radhakrishnan    Program Assistant          ECSHD      Administrative/Operations
Deepa Sankar              Education Economist        SASHD      Economics
Lianqin Wang              Sr. Education Specialist   HDNED      Education
Kin Bing Wu               Lead Education Specialist  EASHD      Education
ICR
Ramola Bhuyan             Consultant                 SARFM      Finance
Mam Chand                 Sr. Procurement Specialist SARPS      Procurement

                                                  A-55

Amit Dar                                 Lead Education Economist             SASHD                  Economics
Savita Dhingra                           Team Assistant                       SASHD                  Administrative/Operations
Sangeeta Goyal                           Education Economist                  SASHD                  Economics
Shanker Lal                              Procurement Specialist               SARPS                  Procurement
William Anthony Lorie                    Sr. Education Specialist             HDNED                  Education Assessment

Tanuj Mathur                             Sr. Financial Management
                                         Specialist                           SARFM                  Financial Management

Bertha Mburugu                           Program Assistant                    SASHD                  Administrative/Operations
Reema Nayar                              Lead Economist                       SASHD                  Mission Leader
Priyanka Pandey                          E T Consultant                       SASHD                  Education
Lant Hayward Pritchett                   Lead Economist                       SASES                  Economics
Michelle Riboud                          Sector Manager                       SASHD                  Management
Venkatesh Sundararaman                   Economist                            SASHD                  Economics
Deepa Sankar                             Education Economist                  SASHD                  Economics
Venita Kaul                              Sr. Education Specialist             SASHD                  Education

(Note additional staff and skills from DFID and EC are not included here but complemented the overall DP team)


    b) Staff Time and Cost
                                                                          Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                Stage of Project Cycle
                                                               No. of staff weeks           USD Thousands (including travel and
                                                                                                           consultant costs)
    Lending
                             FY98                                                                                              7,007.00
                             FY99                                                                                             11,265.42
                             FY00                                                10.715                                       11,018.81
                             FY01                                                  .309                                        1,604.22
                             FY02                                                 2.245                                        2,653.83
                             FY03                                                17.990                                       25,407.94
                             FY04                                              129.734                                       407,751.05
                             FY05                                                                                                  0.00
                             FY06                                                                                                  0.00
                             FY07                                                                                                  0.00
                                                  Total:                       160.993                                        466,708.27
    Supervision/ICR
                             FY98                                                                                                  0.00
                             FY99                                                                                                  0.00
                             FY00                                                                                                  0.00
                             FY01                                                                                                  0.00
                             FY02                                                                                                  0.00
                             FY03                                                                                                  0.00
                             FY04                                                                                                  0.00
                             FY05                                                63.254                                     210,431.90
                             FY06                                                70.236                                      196,937.23
                             FY07                                                86.641                                      283,863.84
                             FY08                                               26.562                                        82,331.9
                                                  Total:                       246.693                                       773,564.87


                                                                      A-56

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
Not Applicable

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)
Stakeholder consultation is built not only into the design and implementation of SSA, but into supervision
mechanisms including JRMs which include visits to states, with a particular focus on lagging states.

In addition, a team of 21 Development Partners consulted extensively with officials at the national level
(from MHRD, NCTE, NCERT, and NUEPA, for example), as well as at state, district and sub-district
levels through field visits to 6 states and over a dozen districts in January 2007. The states visited were
Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Uttarakhand, and Uttar Pradesh and held discussions
with State, District and Sub-District officials as well as members of VECs, school committees, parents,
NGOs, private providers, and civil society among other stakeholders. Since the visits were held in tandem
with the Fifth JRM, the DP team joined several national education experts (from within and outside
government) in the discussions with local stakeholders. State teams made extensive presentations, and the
team also consulted with the stakeholders on several specific aspects of the program and to get first hand
information to complement the data analysis with regard to the main achievements of the project, the link
of project components, the roles and perceptions of stakeholders, challenges ahead, fiduciary issues, etc.
The emerging findings and lessons from the consultations are integrated into the ICR and were shared and
discussed with national level stakeholders in Delhi.




                                                 A-57

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

The borrower has provided a comprehensive evaluation (17 pages) which is summarized below in 10
pages.

2. The Context of Universalization

The Parliament of India endorsed the 86th Constitutional Amendment (2002) making elementary
education the fundamental right of every child. The Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA) was launched in the
year 2001-02 as a flagship program of the Government of India (GoI) to provide a comprehensive policy
and budgetary framework to achieve this goal of univseralization. The goals articulated under SSA, which
are consistent with the MDGs, the NPE and the fundamental right to free and compulsory education were
the following: (a) All children in schools/EGS by 2005; (b) Bridge all gender and social category gaps at
primary stage by 2007 and upper primary by 2010; (c) Universal retention by 2010; and (d) Focus on
elementary education of satisfactory quality with emphasis on education for life.

3. Programme Design

SSA builds on the experiences of a series of past interventions at the national and state levels such as
Operation Blackboard, Lok Jumbish, Bihar Education Project, Uttar Pradesh Basic Education Project,
Mahila Samakhya and District Primary Education Program (DPEP). The broad strategies central to SSA
design are: (a) Decentralized planning and implementation; (b) Emphasis on special focus groups; (c)
Community ownership; (d) Thrust on quality; (e) Institutional reforms; and (f) Sustainable financing.
A number of other centrally sponsored schemes (CSS) viz., the National Program of Education of Girls at
Elementary Level (NPEGEL), the Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalaya (KGBV), the Mid-Day Meal
Scheme, the Teacher Education Project and the Mahila Samakhya are either incorporated with or linked
to complement SSA.

4. The Background to External Funding: Development Objectives

In 2004, the World Bank, the Department of International Development (DFID) of the United Kingdom
and the European Commission decided to partially fund SSA. This was a Sector Investment Credit (SIC)
for which the Development Partners (DP) pooled funds with the GoI through a Sector-wide Approach
(SWAP). The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for India highlighted the achievements of
DPEP which had been earlier supported by DPs and recommended it's scaling up. Along with funds, the
DPs were also supposed to bring in considerable expertise and experience to the programme. Through the
mechanisms of the Joint Review Missions (JRM), this experience would be shared with SSA
functionaries at various levels; the DPs would also provide an independent critique to programme
implementation.
The partial funding of SSA by DPs was aligned to the SSA's long term goals of elementary education
universalization and programmatic goals, but limited to the period of engagement of 4 years. These
Development Objectives were: (a) To reduce out-of-school children by at least 9 million in the 6-14 age
group by increased enrollment; (b) To narrow existing gender and social gaps with girls and boys having
enrolment parity and SC and ST children having enrolment parity with other groups and increase in
enrolment of children with special needs (CWSN); and (c) To enhance the quality of education of all
elementary school students and to improve transition rates from primary to upper primary grades.
The Key Monitoring Indicators were: (a) the number of children in and out of school; (b) the number of
children in and out of school (OOS) by gender and SC/ST; (c) transition rate from primary to upper
primary; and (d) student achievement in language and mathematics in grades III, V, VII/VIII.


5. Achievements against Objectives

                                                A-58

I Objective 1: Reduction in the number of out-of-school children
In 2003, 25 million children were out of school (SSA Household Survey). From this baseline figure, a
reduction of 9 million was envisaged. As of October 2006, the number of out-of-school children was 7
million, with reduction of 18 million, being twice the target. Independent assessments in 2005 estimated
the number of OOS to be around 13.4 million, the reduction still being more than the target.
There has been a commensurate increase in enrolment both at primary and upper primary levels. As on
September 2004, enrolment at the primary stage had increased from 114 million to 130.8 million for the
6-11 age-group; and for the upper primary stage from 45 million to 51.2 million for the 11-14 age-group
(SES 2001-02; SES 2004-05). DISE data shows a further increase of 5.4% and 15.9% for primary and
upper primary stages respectively between 2004-05 and 2005-06.
The impressive reduction in OOS has been due to concerted effort on the part of GoI and the states to
identify such children and plan differentiated interventions to target them along with the opening of
2,40,000 new primary and upper primary schools. Differentiated interventions have ranged from EGS
centers, back-to-school camps, residential and non-residential bridge courses, mobile schools for girls,
migrant children and urban deprived children, home-based education for the disabled, formal education in
madrasas among others. NGOs and CSOs have also been actively involved in this effort: more than 2785
NGOs run EGS and AIE centers reaching out to the disadvantaged.

II Objective 2: To Reduce Existing Gender and Social Gaps
The base-line with respect to gender and social gaps are shown in the table below:

                                      Share      PS (%)      UPS(%)
                                      Girls      44          41
                                      SC         18.9        14.9
                                      ST         10.3        7.85
                                      CWSN       0.6

The targets envisaged for increases in the shares of girls, SC/ST, and CWSN over the project period were:
47% for girls; share of population for SC and ST; and 0.9% for CWSN.

    (i)     The share of girls had risen to 46.7% and 44.4% at the primary and upper primary stages
            respectively in September 2004 (SES 2004-05); and to 47.8% and 45.8% at the primary and
            upper primary stages respectively in 2005-06 (DISE). The gender gaps, after adjusting for
            sex-ratio, were 3.9 percentage points and 8.2 percentage points at the primary and upper
            primary stages respectively. Clearly, gender disparity in enrolment at the primary stage is
            largely addressed; at the upper primary stage it is relatively higher but declining.
    (ii)    The SC population as per the 2001 Census is 16.2% According to DISE data, the SC share in
            enrolment was 18.95% at primary and 19.42% at upper primary stages in 2005-06.
    (iii)   The ST population as per the 2001 Census is 8.2% According to DISE data, the ST share in
            enrolment was 9.56% at primary and 9.28% at upper primary stages in 2005-06.
    (iv)    From the above, it is clear that the SC and ST share in enrolment is higher than their
            population shares.

The number of children with special needs (CWSN) in education increased 0.56 million in 2002-03 to
1.65 million in 2005-06 (DISE), a three-fold increase. Lack of comparable data precludes estimating these
numbers as percentage share of enrolment; however, the increase is more than the 50% increase
envisaged due to constant focus at the national level, specific strategies at the state level and active
involvement of NGOs. The share of CWSN (1.54% of the total child population) is however lower than
their share of the population (2.1% in 2001) and a significant proportion of those identified (38%) are still
out of school.



                                                A-59

    III Objective 3: To enhance quality of education and improve transition rates

Even as the baseline transition rate of 75% from primary to upper primary was sought to be increased, the
PAD notes that "due to the short project duration, improvement in achievement may not be demonstrable
and intermediate indicators such as pupil-teacher ratios (PTR) and student and teacher attendance will be
used." The outcome indicators for the project also included setting up a national assessment system to
measure learning achievements in language and mathematics for grades III, V, VII/VIII. The assessments
would establish a baseline and track improvements over this over time.
The PTR improved from 39 to 36 between 2003-04 and 2005-06 due to the recruitment of 7.8 lakh
teachers under SSA (an additional 2.5 lakh teachers recruited in 2006-07 would have reduced the PTR
further). Alongside, the distribution of teachers has also improved: (a) percentage of single-teacher
schools declined from 12.93% to 12.17%; (b) percentage of schools with PTR > 100 declined from 8.38%
to 5.93% for primary and 7.08% to 5.3% for upper primary schools; and (c) increase in the average
number of teachers per school. Regular in-service teacher training now covers most teachers. In 2003,
student and teacher attendance rates were 67% and 76% respectively. Student attendance has increased to
70% and 75% at the primary and upper primary levels. Teacher attendance has increased to 80% and 81%
at the two levels respectively.
NCERT conducted a national pupil achievement survey based on sample test to assess learning
achievements. The first and second rounds of achievement levels for grade V are provided in the table
below:

                                                   Mean Achievement (%)
                                                                             Social
                       Grade            Language     Math      Science       Science
                       III (1st round)    63.12      58.25
                       V (1st round)      58.57      46.51    50.3 (EVS)
                       VIII (1st round)   52.45      38.47      40.54          45
                       V (2nd round)      60.31      48.46   52.19 (EVS)

The transition rate from primary to upper primary has improved to 83.36% in 2005-06.

6. Trends in Basic Education: Indicators and Processes

Apart from the achievements of the development objectives, it is important to note the overall trends
towards universalization. The progress with respect to key indicators during over the 10th Plan Period are:
        · The percentage of habitations with access to primary school increased from 87% in 2002 to
            96% in 2006. At the upper primary level, the percentage increased from 78.1% in 2002 to
            85.3% in 2006.
        · 2,40,000 new schools were opened, 6,70,000 additional classrooms were constructed and
            0.78 million new teachers were appointed under SSA since 2002.
        · The GER at the elementary level increased from 82.4 (2001-02) to 93.5 (2004-05). The GER
            at the primary level is 107.8 and at the upper primary stage is 69.9 (DISE).
        · The number of out-of-school children has declined from 32 million (2001-02) to 7 million
            (October 2006).
        · Drop-out rates have declined by 11.3 percentage points since 2001. This reduction has been
            greater for girls at 15 percentage points.

Of even greater importance are the systems and processes put into place to achieve the larger goals of
SSA as definitive steps towards improving education quality and with a distinct focus on equity and
inclusion.




                                                  A-60

Decentralized and Context Specific Planning
The SSA framework has a bottom-up, participatory planning process resulting in a need-based, context
specific plan for universalization; at the same time it defined norms for various interventions to ensure
uniformity of provisioning. Context specific planning has allowed more qualitative interventions; whereas
in underserved rural areas, physical norms have matched needs and facilitated filling in of critical access
and equity gaps.
In the initial years, AWPB process was largely guided by financial norms. As planning capacity has
improved at the state/district levels, the AWPBs began to respond more flexibly to specific requirements
of diverse groups/areas, thereby encouraging promising innovations. States with their classrooms and
teachers requirement largely met have started focusing on quality enhancing measures: during 2007-08
Tamil Nadu (58%), Karnataka (49%), Kerala (57%), Himachal Pradesh (56%) and Uttarakhand (52%)
invested a larger share of their resources on quality interventions.
The SSA framework has dynamically adapted itself to changing needs over time. Norms have been
revised based on feedback from the states. Districts with large infrastructure gaps had their civil works
ceilings enhanced to 50%. Similarly with the narrowing of rural gaps, urban needs were identified. The
AWPB process started looking at the million-plus cities and encouraged separate plans for them. The
concept of an urban resource center has been introduced for academic supervision and support for these
areas. Revised norms also allow greater use of resources to run EGS/AIE and more flexibility to states to
develop specific interventions for the hardest to reach children.
The use of data in the preparation of AWPBs has also improved over the years. DISE data is now used
not only for information but also for planning. The DISE data itself has improved in coverage and quality
over the years. The data is now regularly analyzed at the national level by NUEPA and TSG to look at
broad trends and identify gaps. Based on this data, an Education Development Index (EDI) has been
developed. This is a composite index of access, infrastructure, teachers and outcomes. The EDI will
induce healthy competition among states and help identify causes of low index values. At the district level,
data regarding infrastructure, single teacher schools, PTR, drop-out rates, out-of-school children,
SC/ST/gender differences etc are being increasingly used to determine physical infrastructure
requirements and specific interventions. States are also using independent sources of data such as surveys
and CSO assessments. The NSSO will include items on education such as attendance, type of school
attended and drop-outs in its 64th round in 2007-08 which will further enrich the planning data-base.
The planning process has also become more participatory over the years. At the national level, there is a
conscious effort to ensure that the various CSS within and outside the department (Mid-day meals,
Teacher Education, Mahila Samakhya, ICDS, Tribal Sub-Plan, Total Sanitation Campaign, Drinking
Water Mission, Labour Department etc) complement each other and work with synergy. Synergy between
government and NGO efforts is also evident at the state and district levels. Around 6,000 NGOs are
working with SSA in special focus areas such as girls and inclusive education, CWSN, community
capacity building and innovative school based programmes. At the sub-district levels, a number of
planning decisions have been decentralized though active participation is still lacking. In some states,
school improvement plans are being developed with participation of various stake-holders.

Community Involvement
Effective involvement of the local community in education delivery is mandatory in the process of
universalization and in ensuring the fundamental right to education. Community involvement as
envisaged in NPE has been emphasized under SSA. The process in practice has varied from state to state
and evolved over time.
Village Education Committees (VEC) were formed at the local level to transparently manage various
funds channeled to schools: construction funds, TLM, school improvement grants, thereby leading to
increased ownership. Many states formalized the system of community participation by making VECs
statutory bodies with wider representation from the community. Additionally, responsibility for
recruitment of local education volunteers, monitoring teacher attendance and bringing OOS children back
to school were added on, and these bodies by and large delivered as expected.
In SSA, funds for all school related expenditure constituting more than 50% of programme expenditure
flow through local community based bodies. Separate funds are provided for training of community

                                                  A-61

members. Engagement with the community has resulted in many positive outcomes. Community
mobilization has played a major role in enrolling OOS children. It has been possible to take up large scale
construction work through the community. Community based bodies have provided opportunity for
inducing greater transparency and for best use of local resources. In some states, additional resources for
schools have been raised from community members.
Many states have moved to school based bodies such as MTA (mother teacher association, PTA (parent
teacher association) and SMC (school management committee), instead of village based VECs with
increased responsibility of the latter. These bodies have greater stakes and took more interest in school
affairs. In Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra, these bodies are actively engaged in monitoring
student achievement and the teaching-learning process.
To avoid creation of parallel power structures, the SSA norm was revised to recognize centrality of the
PRIs. All tiers of the PRIs (village, block and district) are now required to be given specific roles of
supervision over elementary education programmes/SSA.

Equity: Special Focus on Disadvantaged Groups
SSA interventions are aimed at all children; however there are provisions for providing special/additional
benefits to disadvantaged children such as girls, ST/ST/minorities, urban deprived and disabled children
through affirmative action. Special financial provisions promote innovative approaches and context
specific interventions for such groups.
Education of girls has always received priority in policy planning ever since NPE articulated "education
will be used as an agent of basic change in the status of women." The Mahila Samakhya programme was
launched in 1988 to create an environment to promote women's and girls education. NPEGEL and KGBV
were launched during the 10th Plan Period to reach out to girls from marginalized social groups in 3000
educationally backward blocks. These programmes complement SSA efforts. There have also been efforts
to mainstream gender concerns in all SSA activities. Curriculum, textbooks, TLMs and training modules
are scrutinized with a gender lens. Special emphasis on OOS girls, provision of ECCE centres near
schools, free textbooks and uniforms, provision of girls toilets, recruitment of female teachers, formation
of Meena Manch etc are all strategies aimed at increasing girls' participation. Due to these efforts,
percentage of districts with gender gap more than 10% at the primary level has reduced from 47% (2003-
04) to 42% (2005-06). At the upper primary level, number of districts with gender gap more than 15% has
reduced from 159 to 117 over the same period.
Districts with high concentration of SC, ST and minority communities have been identified as special
focus districts for targeted interventions under SSA. In many cases, norms have been relaxed to allow for
context specific interventions. For example, EGS/AIE centres have been opened in tribal areas with fewer
children, maktabs/madrasas have been supported to teach formal curriculum, rules have been relaxed to
recruit local teachers (especially in tribal areas), development of primers in tribal languages, sensitization
of teachers to promote equitable learning and address social biases, development of Urdu language
materials, free textbooks have been promoted. DISE has been amended to include a category of Muslim
children from 2006.
There has also been substantial progress with respect to inclusion of children with special needs. A zero
rejection policy has been adopted under SSA to ensure that every child irrespective of the kind, category
and degree of disability is provided with meaningful and quality education. A system of inclusion is in
place which involves identification, functional and formal assessment, appropriate educational placement,
preparation of individualized education plan, provision of aids and appliances, removal of architectural
barrier, teacher training and resource support. All states have conducted household and special surveys to
identify CWSN. A total of 20.17 lakh CWSN have been identified of which 82.2% have been provided
access to education through formal schools, EGS/AIE centres and/or home-based education. Close to 700
NGOs spread across 29 states and UTs are currently working in partnership with SSA.
Affirmative action with regard to equity has thus created a positive environment for equal participation
of all children in school. However, inequities in society remain and impacts attitudes/practices inside the
school, and therefore creating an equitable education system will require more time and effort.

Quality Improvement Processes

                                                   A-62

The quality improvement framework in SSA is based on the following approach: (a) Ensuring basic
provisioning to create enabling learning conditions for all children; (b) Capacity building and academic
support of teachers; (c) Improved pedagogy; and (d) Monitoring learning outcomes.
Ensuring basic provisioning is a critical step. SSA emphasized a clear system of identifying teacher and
classroom requirements based on DISE data. Guidelines have been developed at the national level for
effective utilization of TLM grant, school improvement grant and maintenance grant. Expansion of mid-
day meal scheme and streamlining of the system of textbook printing and distribution are the other
significant steps taken to establish basic learning conditions.
SSA emphasizes building teachers' capacity through regular in-service teacher training and academic
support. Teacher training under SSA emphasizes child-centred pedagogy and competency based teaching
learning. States have started exploring innovative means for doing training including use of distance, self-
learning mode and use of educational technologies. NCERT has prepared a set of guidelines called `The
Reflective Teacher' that would help states to develop interesting and need-based training programmes.
Teacher training is supplemented by an elaborate structure of academic support through district (DIET),
block (BRC) and cluster (CRC) level resource centres. 6700 BRCs and 70,000 CRCs have been
established across the country to improve teachers' performance by providing professional support. A
national level research study is commissioned to ascertain the efficacy of these structures and findings
will strengthen them further.
The National Curriculum Framework (NCF) followed by a large number of states has been revised by
NCERT in 2005 following an extensively consultative process and which lays out a constructivist
paradigm of learning and teaching. The NCERT textbooks are being revised to incorporate the concerns
articulated in the NCF regarding gender sensitivity and a child-centred approach to learning. A Reading
Development Cell has been set up in the NCERT to promote reading and to serve as a research, training
and development unit for reading pedagogy. The cell will also encourage states to take up basic reading
programmes for critical primary classes. Participation of NGOs is being leveraged to develop and
introduce a variety of reading materials in schools. NCERT is also assisting states in setting up core
groups for reviewing syllabi in the light of NCF 2005.
State level academic resource groups have been set up in 24 states for developing a vision and
perspective regarding pedagogy and training etc., and participation of teachers in these groups is
increasingly evident.
The past few years have seen an increased emphasis on outcomes. Most states have initiated learning
assessment programmes followed up with remedial support. Some programmes started as pilots have
subsequently been scaled up to all schools. Examples include Maharashtra (EQIP), Gujarat (GAP),
Andhra Pradesh (CLIP and CLAPS), West Bengal (ILIP), Karnataka (KSQAO), school grading system in
Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Punjab, Assam (LAP), Madhya Pradesh (LTR), Jharkhand (Buniyaad)
and Tamil Nadu (ABL).
The results of various rounds of the National Pupil Achievement Surveys for classes III, V & VII/VIII
conducted by NCERT will also provide a good indication of the improvement in learning. NCERT has
developed a sourcebook on Learning Assessment to provide teachers with ideas and strategic options for
undertaking learning assessments in classrooms. Further all the states have their own systems of
evaluating Pupil Achievement which will feed into the system at the State/district level.
A set of performance standards for teachers and teacher trainers have been defined through a
collaborative effort between MHRD, states, NCERT and UNICEF (ADEPTS ­ Advancement of
Educational Performance through Teacher Support). Performance standards are along cognitive, social,
organizational and physical dimensions and levels of performance are also identified and defined.
Improving quality is a long process, especially in a country as vast and varied as India. Quality is a
function of specific inputs and processes that affect learning. The above discussion shows that inputs are
largely in place and the processes are being institutionalized.

Technical Support, Monitoring and Evaluation
The GoI and key support national level institutions have played a key role in supporting the
implementation of the programme. Along with the Department of School Education and Literacy and the
Technical Support Group (TSG), national institutes like NCERT, NUEPA and IGNOU have also been

                                                  A-63

actively involved in regularly monitoring project implementation. A number of manuals and documents
have been produced at the national level by TSG to provide guidance to states on different programme
areas: Planning & Appraisal Manual, Financial & Procurement Manual, Manual for Inclusive Education,
Guidelines for Teacher Training, and Document on NGOs role in Inclusive Education.
To encourage cross sharing across states, case studies and documents on good practices have been
developed and circulated. These include: (a) Documentation of 7 good practices in quality in
collaboration with NCERT; (b) Shiksha Sangam: A compilation of Innovations under SSA in
collaboration with IIM, Ahmedabad; (c) Empty Schools, Locked Homes: documentation on various
initiatives with migratory children in collaboration with America India Foundation etc.
The M & E system has evolved and strengthened over time. The monitoring system was geared towards
reviewing financial progress in the early years due to concerns over expenditure. Later physical indicators
were included. States had to submit monthly reports to GoI on key indicators and a detailed quarterly
report on inputs. With basic inputs in place, the emphasis shifted to outcome indicators. Learning
achievement surveys are conducted by NCERT every three years. DISE data and its analysis has also
improved over time to provide key insights into broad trends and program implementation.
A set of Quality Monitoring Tools developed in association with NCERT has recently been introduced
in the states which will provide quarterly and annual information on several quality related indices (both
input and outcome based).
Involvement of 42 Independent Monitoring Institutes has been a significant aspect of the monitoring
process. They have provided very valuable information on the status of programme implementation. The
programme has also gained a lot from independent surveys, and research and information provided by
CSOs.     Information from many sources prompted states to put in systems for tracking learning
achievements on a regular basis.
The programme is maintaining transparency and undertaking self-disclosure steps to place information
in the public domain. All information related to the implementation of the scheme is available on the
website www.ssa.nic.in. The Department also regularly places ads/spots in leading dailies and on TV to
provide information to the general public on various features and progress of SSA.
A number of research and evaluation studies have been commissioned as the programme moves into its
next phase such as on drop-out rates, student and teacher attendance, para-teachers, BRC/CRC
effectiveness, time-on-task, functioning of VECs, teacher training effectiveness etc to provide significant
feedback for future implementation of these components.
Regular review of programme implementation is done by the National Mission, the six Sub-missions and
the JRMs. Monitoring the quality of programme implementation at the sub-district level is going to be the
focus in future years.

7. Financial Aspects of the Programme
Budgetary allocation to elementary education in general and SSA in particular have significantly
improved in the past six years. The GoI released Rs. 498.37 crores for SSA in 2001-02; in 2006-07
releases were Rs. 10867.84 crores, a twenty-fold increase. Correspondingly, states' shares also increased
from Rs. 85.8 crores in 2001-02 to Rs. 3789 crores in 2006-07. States' share being a determinant factor of
outlay in SSA has ensured that states have provided their share.
Increased allocation was matched by increased expenditures. Quick transfer of funds to the lowest level
ensured smooth flow and better expenditure. GoI transferred funds to state societies through e-banking.
In major states, there is e-transfer of funds upto district and sometimes upto block and VEC levels. A
web-based financial monitoring system for tracking cash balance at state and district level has been
piloted in Andhra Pradesh and is being further extended to Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Pondicherry.
Both allocations and expenditures far exceeded the calculations done at the beginning of the project. For
2004-07, project costs were estimated as $3.5 billion with external funding to be $1.046 billion. Actual
expenditures during these three years have been $7 billion. By $2006, expenditures were $3.5 billion
exhausting all external funding within 2 years.
The project also puts in place sound financial management systems that helped proper and transparent
accounting of the expenditures. Accounting staff were appointed at all levels and provided training on
good accounting practices. A Financial Management and Procurement (FMP) Manual has been

                                                  A-64

developed to provide guidance on financial planning, budgeting, accounting, funding flow arrangement,
financial reporting, internal control and audit and procurement procedures and formats for financial
reporting. The manual has been translated into local languages and rolled out in all states. Additionally,
states/UTs have developed a simplified manual for use by VECs.
The project has put in place an extensive audit and financial review system. Internal audit systems are
operational in all states buttressed by annual external audits conducted by chartered accountants. The
Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) of GoI has also conducted a performance audit of SSA for the
period 2001-04. Separately, a mechanism for independent concurrent financial review has also been
instituted through the IPAI; 21 states/UTs have been reviewed and the remaining will be reviewed in
2007-08.

8. Development Partners Performance
The Development Partners played a very supportive role in SSA by appreciating at the onset in the PAD
that "SSA is technically sound. Owned by the GoI, it is designed for a large federal system with a
decentralized system of framework for service delivery and a built-in accountability mechanism at the
school and community levels. The SSA pays special attention to gender, social equity, and inclusive
education. The emphasis on quality reinforces the drive to improve access, efficiency and equity." There
was full faith thus, in programme design and its effectiveness in reaching the desired outcomes.
Through a system of bi-annual Joint Review Missions, the DPs closely reviewed the programme. These
JRMs alternated between a field-based in which they could get first hand information on programme
implementation and a desk-review that provided an opportunity for in-depth analysis of monitoring data.
The JRMs have been immensely helpful in getting an independent perspective on programme
achievements and challenges for GoI and states/UTs.
Coordination between the DPs for processing the JRMs and constructive approaches to issues which
emerged in the SSA was commendable. It made it more efficient and productive for the GoI to deal with
SSA implementation issues and way forward.
A preponderant role was played by the World Bank among the three DPs, especially in procurement
matters. Even though a SWAP model essentially is one which recognizes country systems as the basis for
operations, there was evidence that the World Bank has not yet evolved its financial management and
procurement mechanisms to align themselves to a country system such as India which is federal and has
decentralized elementary education to local bodies where there are robust and prudent rules and
regulations for finance, audit and right to information in place. There was little appreciation of country
systems in India for finance and procurement with tendencies to micro-manage for SSA. This area
remained a contentious issue throughout the duration of engagement with the World Bank.
Expectations from externally aided programmes include drawing upon international comparative
experiences that the DPs would bring to the table. These need not be structured but references and
detailed write-ups, sharing of case studies could have been useful. This was a big gap in SSA-I. There
was a tendency on the part of the World Bank to disassociate from Indian research institutions and instead
push an agenda for research by its own personnel aggressively.
The WB team for the ICR was poorly managed. The ICR members took a long time to appreciate SSA
design. They were fixated on drawing up a new SSA programme to further their own employees'
keenness to do research in India, with pre-conceived ideas that only evaluation and research can bring
quality outcomes, and a pronounced favour for private schooling systems without convincing evidence in
India.
There was an appreciation of its multi-faceted approach by the JRM teams of DPs on SSA's progress on
the improvement of quality of education. However, there appeared a sudden discordance and impatience
in the ICR team where a singular focus on measurement of learning outcomes was alone considered a
panacea for quality. Other inputs and process of quality improvement was appreciated more holistically
by other DPs and JRM teams.
On reflection, it also seems that 3 year engagement by DPs in a long term process oriented programmes
like SSA creates a disconnect between the DPs, particularly the World Bank, to show `results' in a short
time frame of engagement. The earlier experience with DPEP showed that at least 5-7 years of steady


                                                 A-65

investment and engagement is needed, and this lesson needs to be reinforced for the education sector in
the World Bank particularly.

9. The Continuing Agenda
The move towards universalization has been steady and impressive and systems are largely in place to
sustain this progress. The government is aware of the increased attention required in the following areas:
(a) strengthen upper primary education; (b) focus on the 6-7% hardest-to-reach children; (c) bridging
gender and social gaps; and (d) improving quality and enhancing learning levels. The SSA will continue
into the 11th Plan with the above focus.
As more children enroll and complete primary education, the upper primary segment needs to be
strengthened to allow for smooth transition from primary to upper primary and completion of the
elementary cycle. There are significant challenges in terms of gaps in availability of physical
infrastructure and teachers which leads to high drop-out and low student achievement.
The focus on quality and equity will continue, both at the primary and upper primary levels. Attempts
will be made to create capacity within schools for addressing the diversified learning needs of children;
curriculum and textbooks will be reviewed; academic support arrangements strengthened; teacher training
will become more differentiated in content and duration. The process of community participation will be
carried forward. Special emphasis will be accorded to the educational needs of tribals, muslims, urban
deprived and other disadvantaged children who contribute significantly to the OOS population.




                                                A-66

Annex 8. Comments of Co financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

DFID

The DPs' support to SSA is directly assisting India in meeting the education MDGs. Recent progress
towards these in India has been good, with the number of out of school children now officially given at 7
million in 2007, down from 25 million at the start of SSA . The Programme specifically targets these
children and is reducing the number by over 3 million annually. While the achievement of Universal
Primary Education is within India's grasp, a significant challenge remains and the Programme must now
successfully target the hardest of the hard to reach children. SSA addresses the persistent problem of the
poor quality of education, recognizing that enrolment is no guarantee of education, and that inadequate
learning is a major cause of dropouts. Interventions to improve the quality of schooling under SSA are
benefiting all of India's elementary school going population.

The SSA partnership between DP and the GoI is a model of aid effectiveness. The programmes's
performance against the agreed targets for the 12 indicators of progress for monitoring the Paris
Declaration on Aid Effectiveness is excellent. Donor harmonisation under the programme is extremely
well advanced:

           · analysis ­ the analytic work carried out in support of SSA is GoI led with the lead agency,
               the Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD), supported by the Joint Review
               Mission process, responsible for identifying issues for analysis, elaboration of Terms of
               Reference, commissioning of studies and dissemination and consideration of findings;
           · Objectives ­ there is only one set of objectives for the Programme and these are the GoI's
               and the states' ­ the DP share these objectives;
           · consultative processes ­ SSA incorporates several layers of consultative processes at
               national level, state level, district level and sub-district level and the mechanisms used to
               facilitate this consultation include six monthly Joint Review Missions (JRM); regular
               MHRD-state government interactions, national sub-missions; national resource groups;
               state resource groups; district resource groups; and sub-district resource groups;
           · policy dialogue ­ the policy dialogue between GoI and DP revolves around the six monthly
               JRM and the management letters that are exchanged following each of these and the
               occasional coordination meetings that take place between these events,
           · joint or complementary programming ­ there is now only one programme of external
               support for elementary education in India, SSA, and this is a joint one with shared
               objectives;
           · use of country management and financial systems ­ the programme only uses GoI and state
               government management and financial systems;
           · results frameworks, review processes or monitoring arrangements ­ there is one results
               framework that is used by GoI, state governments and DP.

The Programme is the Government's main strategy for universalising elementary education in the country
and is an integral part of the national Five Year Development Plans, medium-term expenditure plans and
annual work plans and budgets of the National and State governments. The programme is being
implemented within a strongly conducive political context. The current Government has a strong
commitment to education for all as a right and priority is also being given to the role that education is
seen to play in broader development in India. The discussion between DP and GoI in the past year on how
education will feed into India's 11th Five Year Plan and how the MHRD is responding proactively to
current development challenges, such as rural-urban and rural-rural migration, a rapidly expanding
economy, growing inequalities and urbanisation are examples of how the programme is enhancing

                                                   A-67

MHRD's leadership of the education sector and its ability to contribute to the wider development agenda
in India. There is an interesting question related to Aid Effectiveness on the extent to which
programmes are effective because they "fit" and flow with the current political forces or proactively
engage with and influence the flow. In the case of SSA it is possible to argue that the programme is made
more effective because the political will and climate supports it, there is a strong popular demand from
excluded groups and the programme itself is informing and channelling the political will.

The GoI, state governments and DPs can be proud of what they have achieved through SSA. It is in line
with best practice in the rest of the developing world. The challenge is now to make full use of what is
available to ensure that the remaining barriers to achieving the full benefits of elementary education for
all the children in the country are removed.

European Commission

The European Commission engagement, along with the World Bank and the DFID, in elementary
education goes back to the start of the District Primary Education Programme, the precursor to the
ongoing Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA) programme. It is heartening to note that international cooperation
in the sector has continued on a robust path, currently using a full-fledged Sector Wide Approach to
funding. The SSA has been consolidating gains and absorbing lessons learnt over time, and is arguably
one of the biggest elementary education sector programs in the world. The scale and scope of operations
in the sector, the sheer challenge of program management that covers over 600 districts in 35 States and
Union Territories illustrates this. While managing for scale, the programme has also catered to the
diversity that India represents ­ by identifying special target districts with high Scheduled Caste (SC),
Scheduled Tribe (ST) and Minorities population, and educational blocks with low female literacy or high
gender gaps, for greater attention and focused action. It is noteworthy that the SSA has been supported by
two different successive governments with enthusiasm and there has been a clear upward trend in
additional domestic resource mobilization for the sector. The 93rd Constitution Amendment Bill making
elementary education a fundamental right, the introduction of the Education Cess and the preponderant
focus on this sector in the 11th Plan allocations, have all contributed to putting elementary education in the
spotlight ­ these are opportune times to ensure that India is able to reach the MDGs in education.

The SSA programme has the characteristics of a highly aid effective SWAp from the point of view of
international support ­ it is based on a coherent and long term sector policy by the Government of India, it
is supported largely by domestic resources and coalesces allocations from the Centre and States to reach
the stated goals and objectives, has clear-cut monitorable indicators and is supported by harmonized
donor contributions that reinforce the country's own systems and procedures for planning, implementation
and monitoring.

It can be said that the SSA programme resonates very well the key principles and objectives of the
European Union's Development Policy which are articulated in the European Consensus for Development
of 2005:
     o There is exemplary ownership by the GOI in designing and implementing development strategies
         and programmes for improving elementary education: the strength of leadership provided by the
         Government of India and the State governments is a key factor in bringing about such robust
         international cooperation.
     o There are well structured platforms for dialogue both within the country between different
         stakeholders as well as between the Indian counterparts and representatives of the international
         Development Partners in support of program implementation and monitoring.
     o The programme includes participation of civil society in designing specific interventions,
         particularly addressing the needs of the most vulnerable groups of population. Civil society
         groups have played an active role in collaborating with the government, have helped to build
         capacities in the sector and have conveyed the voices and aspirations of the hardest to reach
         children.

                                                   A-68

    o The programme has actively promoted gender equality in education through all its interventions.

Efforts to promote the participation of girls in schooling and the attendant results are particularly
noteworthy and the EC would like to commend the efforts of the GOI and the State governments in
implementing a range of interventions for girls. The programme has facilitated mainstreaming gender
equality in education policies and supported financing measures that directly influence girls' participation
in education, such as incentives for girls to attend schools, free textbooks and uniforms and improving the
school environment through the construction of toilets for girls and so on. These are very much in line
with the EU policy on Gender Equality and Women's Empowerment in Development Cooperation37.

Turning to international participation in SSA, it can be observed that India was implementing the spirit of
the precepts of the Paris Declaration even before its adoption. The EU Code of Conduct on Division of
Labour in Development Policy38 that incorporates the principles of country ownership, alignment,
harmonization and management by results entailed in the Paris Declaration and which includes additional
objectives and values of the EC on Development are reflected in actual practice.

To summarize, it has been a fruitful and exciting journey of international collaboration to support the
home-grown program of reform in elementary education. Indeed, there is much to celebrate in terms of
success and progress: about 25 million children who were not in the education stream have been brought
into the ambit of schooling; girls' participation has increased substantially and gender gaps at the primary
level have all but vanished; in addition to increasing the enrolments of SC and ST children, the
programme is also steadily reducing barriers to education for children of migrant workers, the urban poor
and other marginalized communities; there are concerted efforts to reduce drop outs and increase
transition from primary to upper primary; classrooms and schools across the country are undergoing
transformation to include child friendly features, colourful teaching learning materials, learning corners
and so on; the pedagogy at elementary level is making a slow but determined shift from 'chalk and talk' to
child-centered and activity based teaching learning; quality in education is being increasingly brought to
the forefront.

These are not small achievements; however, they need to be sustained and consolidated. In the coming
period, it would be necessary to consolidate strategies of alternative schools that provide access to the
most difficult target groups; states would need to consider comprehensive strategies for teacher
recruitment, teacher development and their career management; a sharper focus at upper primary levels is
warranted, as also efforts to bring measurable improvements to quality and strengthen result oriented
monitoring. The current times are conducive to support these in terms of policy and resources and to
break further ground to improve results and impact.

As we move into the next phase of cooperation in SSA, we hope that there are opportunities to exchange
best practices and innovative approaches in education at different levels in the European context with
Indian institutions and to share EU-wide experiences in improving school education.




                                                   A-69

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Aide Memoire, Identification Mission, February 13-24, 2003
Aide-Memoire Joint Preparatory Mission, June 19-July 3, 2003
Aide Memoire and State reports, Ist Joint Review Mission, January 24 ­ February 7, 2005
Aide Memoire, 2nd Joint Review Mission, July 18 ­ 27, 2005
Aide Memoire and State reports, 3rd Joint Review Mission, January 11-24, 2006.
Aide Memoire, 4th Joint Review Mission, July 17- 27, 2006.
Aide Memoire and State reports, 5th Joint Review Mission, January 16-31, 2007.
Aide Memoire, 5th Joint Review Mission, July 16- 26, 2007.

Project Appraisal Document; Report No. 27703-IN, March 23, 2004

Ellison, Robin (2007), Technical Background Document ­ Discussion of possible enhancements to
Results Framework and Monitoring for SSA Phase II.

Development Credit Agreement (Elementary Education Project) between India and IDA, and attachment on
performance monitoring indicators, June 3, 2004

IMRB/SRI (2005): Survey Report on Out of School Children in India

MHRD (2007) Chapter on Elementary Education (SSA & Girls Education) for the XIth Plan Working
Group Report

MHRD (2003-07): Minutes of the Meeting of the Project Approval Board

MHRD (2005, 2006): Annual Work Plan and Budgets, 35 states/UTs, provided to the JRMs

Mehta, Arun C (2007) "Elementary Education in India: Progress towards UEE," Analytical Report 2005-06,
DISE, NUEPA

Mehta, Arun C (2007) "Student Flow at Primary Level : An Analysis based on DISE Data" NUEPA

Memorandum of Understanding among DFID, EC and IDA for SSA, December 16, 2004

National University of Education Planning and Administration (2007) "Elementary Education in India,
Progress towards UEE. Flash Statistics.

Pandey, P (2007) "Teacher Accountability and School Outcomes: Findings from Baseline Surveys in Madhya
Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Karnataka". Mimeo.

"Shiksha Sangam", Innovations under the Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan, Indian Institute of Management, August
2006.

Sankar, Deepa (2007) "What is the progress in elementary education participation in India during the last two
decades? An analysis using NSS Education Rounds; Background paper prepared for the SSA ICR, October.

Sankar, Deepa (2007) ""Financing Elementary Education in India through Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan:
Challenges in recent times", August.

Sankar, Deepa (2007): "Unraveling Teacher's time on Task: A study of three Indian states", October.




                                               A-70

                                                                     Endnotes




1India, Sustaining Reform, Reducing Poverty. World Bank Development Policy Review, 2003a.

2UNESCO, 2003, EFA Global Monitoring Report 2002. Paris, France.

3For a detailed discussion, see South Asia Human Development Discussion Paper Series, Report 4, World Bank.

4MHRD Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan Framework for Implementation

5Elementary education consists of primary education (grades 1-5) and upper primary education (grades 6-8).

6While the Development Partners' long-term objectives were aligned with the SSA program goals, for the purposes of the project which covered
the remaining years of the 10th plan (2004-2007), the GOI's SSA targets were stretched out over a longer period. Outcome targets within GOI's
SSA framework were ambitious and had already been missed ­ for example an estimated 25 million children were still out of school in 2003
compared to the target of enrolling all children in schools or alternative centers by 2003.

7Despite the final disbursement of the WB credit in July/August 2006, the ICR evaluates progress over the 2003/04- 2006/07 fiscal years because
(i) Engagement of DPs with GOI has continued through FY07 with the DP participation in the July JRM as well as through ICR and preparation
missions for SSA 2; and (ii) Dfid funding continued through FY07.

8These include: Operation Blackboard, Mid-day-Meal Scheme (MDM), Teacher Education and externally supported projects like Lok Jumbish
Project (Community Education), the Mahila Samakhya (MS) (Program for Women Empowerment), in addition to the DPEPs. The DPEPs,
perhaps the most comprehensive CSS's before SSA, collectively, covered nearly half of the 600 districts in 18 of the 28 states, focusing on
districts with female literacy rates below the 1991 national average.

9A very important development in India over the 1990s is the devolution of responsibilities to third-tier or local governments. In the wake of the
73rd and 74th Constitutional Amendments adopted in 1993, many states developed ambitious plans for decentralization that are at various stages of
implementation.

10The framework clearly says that the `..experiments in community participation under Lok Jumbish and DPEP in many States have been very
encouraging and such experiments will be further carried out.'

11Aide-Memoire of second JRM, para 3.14.

12As reflected in the stalled Right to Education Bill and omission of the issue in the section of elementary education in the 11th plan Approach
Paper.

13These are Assam, Bihar, Chattisgarh, Jharkhand, MP, Orissa, Rajasthan, UP, West Bengal.
14The strengthening of DISE data for example, however meant that baselines established on the basis of the existing SES data were not directly
comparable to those from the DISE data ­ for example for monitoring progress on gender equity. The availability of other surveys/analyses such
as the NSS that do not officially form part of SSA's monitoring plans facilitates monitoring of progress in these cases.

15DISE data would need to continue to be strengthened to address outstanding issues that are common in such school based data systems in
developing countries. The issues in DISE relate to non-coverage (especially of unrecognized private schools), non-response, incomplete
information, accuracy of information, and timeliness of reporting ­ that arise to a large extent due to uneven capacity particularly in non-DPEP
states and districts. See Ellison (2007)

16See "Shiksha Sangam", Innovations under the Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan, Indian Institute of Management, August 2006.

17For example several excellent case studies on third party monitoring and evaluation for quality assurance (Gujarat), utilization of contract
engineers for day-to-day supervision of works (Orissa), child friendly design (Haryana), innovative designs (Andhra Pradesh), effective
convergence for clean water and latrines (Rajasthan) were shared.

18There is no `big ticket' procurement under SSA, since most of the procurement is at the village/school level.

19The cabinet has recently approved a gradual transition in the cost sharing ration from the 75-25 under the 10th plan to the 50-50 originally
anticipated to be introduced in FY07/08, the first year of the 11th Plan. According to this, the financing ratio will be 65:35 in the first two years of
the 11th Plan, 60:40 in the third year, 55:45 in the fourth year and 50-50 by the final year.

20The NSS asks individuals if they are currently "attending" schools not whether they are "enrolled"; hence children not currently attending
(even if enrolled) are not included as participants.

21The GER and NER are from World Bank Edustat data, which draw primarily from UNESCO data. GER in secondary (which includes 3 years
of upper primary) also increased during this period from 47.9% to 56.6%. The grade 1 intake rate increased from 127.3% to 135.9%.

22The lagging states considered here include Bihar, Chattisgarh, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Orissa, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Assam and West
Bengal.

23The 55th round of NSS in 1999/2000 does not provide a breakup into public and private schools.

24This is the independent household sample survey commissioned by MHRD in 2005, carried out by the Social Research Institute.

25SFDs were identified as districts with more than 50,000 out of school children, with the highest gender gaps, and based on concentration of
socially disadvantaged communities and minorities. This for example, the xx SFDs included 51 districts with high SC population concentration,
75 districts with ST population concentration, and 99 Muslim concentrated districts. In addition, over 3000 blocks with low female literacy rates
and high gender gaps were high were designated as EBB.

26The PDO for quality on page 3 of the PAD reads "To enhance the quality of education of all elementary school students so that learning will be
improved and transition rates from primary education (Grades 1-5) to upper primary education (Grades 6-8) will increase." While this suggests
that improvements in learning are being sought during the project, the subsequent paragraph as well as Annex 3 clarify that it was acknowledged
that improving learning outcomes (and indeed even intermediate outcome indicators such as completion and transition rates) in the short term
would not be a realistic expectation. The PAD thus states for example, that "the project would be considered satisfactory if the targets for
reduction in out of school children and gender and social parity are achieved; it would be considered highly satisfactory if all development
objectives are met and the agreed targets are exceeded" (p. 3) and "Due to the short duration of the project, it would be difficult to measure
outcomes or show increase in completion rates..." (Annex 3). Performance indicators included in the legal documents thus included input and
intermediate outcome indicators.

27Some examples are the Children's Learning Improvement Program (CLIP), followed by Children's Learning Acceleration Program for
Sustenance (CLAPS) in Andhra Pradesh, 3 R's Guarantee Program, followed by Education Quality Improvement Program (EQIP) in Maharastra,
and the Tamil Nadu Ability Based Learning Program. Virtually every state has introduced such programs. See Shiksha Sangam, 2006 IIM(A)
publication on Innovations under SSA, SSA website http://ssa.nic.in, and state level websites for full descriptions of the programs and results of
available evaluations. Moving forward, MHRD intends to use the TC Fund to commission rigorous evaluations of many of these programs to
obtain feedback to inform further adjustments or scaling up.

28These are based on special sample surveys in a number of states ­ see Annex 2. As opposed to self-reported attendance or information from
attendance registers, these surveys report average attendance of students (or teachers) based on 3 random visits.

29See Aide-memoires of 3rd JRM and 4th JRM.

30See www.pratham.org. It should be noted that large changes between the two years for a number of states suggest caution in using these for
trend comparisons. The ASER tools play a valuable role in providing snapshots of education indicators, and more importantly mobilizing public
awareness, and have contributed to the national debate and demand for quality.

31The Bank's Implementation Status Report (ISR) rated progress towards achievement of Development Outcomes as Moderately Satisfactory,
noting that "while the project has made significant progress on the first two development objectives, there had been a delay on the third
development objective related to quality." It noted delays with assessment studies, technical concerns with the assessments and the still low
learning levels. The assessment in the ICR is based on more updated information on progress on the indicators of quality identified, including
updated information on completion rates, student and teacher attendance, and transition rates, and the preliminary results of the first follow up
survey (the MAS) for Grade 5.

32A recent evaluation of the impact of the KGBV program is now available on the SSA website.

33Examples included complementary provision of life-skill education, vocational education, health and hygiene camps etc., aiming to increase
parents' perception of the relevance of school and early childhood interventions to relieve girls of the burden of sibling care. Some of the better
known state specific initiative to promote girls' education include the "Meena Manch" in UP, provision of free uniforms in MP, free bicycles in
Haryana as an incentive to reach upper primary, and summer camps for remedial teaching in Bihar. See IIM(A), 2006 for a discussion of the
variety of initiatives.

34These are the best estimates available for private costs of schooling.

35For the lagging states these projected expenditures would be around Rs. 8,400, Rs. 9,800 and Rs. 11,200 crores respectively.

36The assumed pattern on utilization improvements is somewhat on the conservative side.
37Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament and the Council COM (2007) 100 final.
38Communication from the Commission to the Council and the European Parliament COM (2007) 72 final.




                                                                     A-2

