j3i1  JS  &6O L-  VC2
Documt of
The World Bank
FOR OmCLAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-6048-IVC
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERATIOL  DEVELOPMT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DMIECTORS
ON A
PROpoSED CREDIT OF SDR 12.3 MILLION
(US$17 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
TME REPuBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
FOR AN
ECONO0MIC MANAGEMET PROJECT
MAY 4, 1993
TN     T CIC}l.. : I`  .(I ')Y 
! epor-. Nn, P   Si;L,--       T
2 i1. .,f:1 r- T lNl   TN    .  i-tAN h! - l1èX;  h':     M  ,l)  -
A, i hr:  K A P)
Thbis documeut has a resticted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonrance of
tbeir official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
The CFA Franc (CFAF) is tied to the French Franc (FF) in the ratio of
FF 1 to CFAF 50. The French Franc is currently floating.
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DBC         Direction des Budgets et Comptes
DOGTx       Direction et Contr8le des Grands Travaux
DCPE        Directiqn de la Conjoncture et de la Pr6vision Economique
DCSSPPP     Direction du Contr8le du Secteur Parapublique, de la
Privatisation et des Participations
DIP         Direction des Investissements Publics
DGB         Direction Gen6rale du Budget
DGP         Direction G6n6rale du Plan
DPDR        Direction du Plan et du D6veloppement Regional
ENSEA       Ecole Nationale de Statistique et d'Economie Appliqu6e
EUROSTAT    Statistical Office of the European Communities
INS         Institut National de la Statistique
HElP        Ministry of Economy, Finance, and Plan
MECS        Ministry of Employment and Civil Service
MTF         Medium-Term Economic Framework
PAGE        Projet d'Appui a la Gestion Economique
PPB         Planning-Programming-Budgeting
PE          Public Enterprises
PMS         Project Management Secretariat
SDC         Sub-Department for Economic Monitoring
SDPBE       Sub-Department for Economic Forecasting and Budgeting
SDSN        Sab-Department for Macroeconomic Analysis
FISCAL AND PROJECT YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCIAL uSE ONMY
REPUBLIC OF CaOT DIVO
ECONOMIC MANAGEMEN PROIE (PAGE
C RED1T AND PROlECr SUMMARY
Republic of C6te d'Ivoire
Bne&ficiaiies:     Ministry of Economy, Finance, and Plan;
Ministry of Employment and Civil Service;
Ministry of Justice
Amount:            SDR12.3 million (US$17 million equivalent)
Terms:             Standard IDA tem  with 35 years maturity
-lending
iems:              Not applicable
Einacing Plan:    IDA:                     US$17.0 million
Government:            US$ 3.1 million
Total             US$20.1 million
nomc Rate
of Retum:          Not applicable
Staff Anisa
No separate report
This document has a rastrted dtribution and may be used by recipients only IL "Ot perfomance
of their official dutido Its contents may not otherwise be diclosed without World Bak authoriation.



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON r PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
FOR AN ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT PROJECT
1. *I submit for your approval the following memorandum and
recommendation on a proposed credit to the Republic of C8te dl'voire (RCI) for
the equivalent of US$17 million to help finance an Economic Management Project
(ProJet d'Appui a la Gestion Economique, PAGE). The credit would be granted
on IDA terms with 35 years maturity.
2.          Economic Settino. After a long period of sustained growth and
external stability, the RCI economy experienced a deep crisis in the early
1980s, a crisis that was prompted by a sharp deterioration in the terms of
trade for its major exports coffee and cocoa, combined with a slow internal
adjustment to this worsened external environment. The crisis relented somewhat
in 1985/86, when the terms of trade improved temporarily. However, since 1987,
GDP growth has been negative on account of a renewed fall in the terms of
trade and the appreciation of the real effective exchange rate. GDP in 1992
wae 10 percent lower than in 1986. Combined with the 3.8 percent growth in
population, this caused per capita income to fall by 27 percent between 1986
and 1992. External indebtness rose sharply and the debt burden of the economy
is very taxing (scheduled debt service in 1992 was more than half the amounts
of exports, while external debt equals 1.6 times GDP.) With a negative primary
budget surplus until 1991, RCI has been unable to service its external and
internal debt, resulting in large amounts of outstanding arrears. The level of
arrears has undermined external creditworthiness, required substantial bank
restructuring, and complicated the operations of the enterprise sector. Public
investment expenditures in recent years have fallen to 3 percent of GDP,
clearly inadequate to maintain the social and economic infrastructure of the
country, thereby jeopardizing future growth prospects.
3.          Policy Reaction. The policy reaction of the Government to this
situation has been a succession of austerity programs. In mid-1989, the
Government launched a stabilization program, supported by an 18-month IMF
stand-by arrangement, approved in November 1990, and by three World Bank
financed SEC.ALs in the agriculture, energy, and water supply and sanitation
sectors, which were approved between October 1989 and June 1990. A major focus
of the stabilization program was to improve budgetary results and reduce
internal arrears so as to improve the private sector's liquidity and
confidence. Major progress was achieved in implementing these reforms and in
reducing the fiscal deficit, which at the end of 1990 was at the level
targeted by the IMr program. However, the 1990 stabilization program did not
achieve a number of important objectives, particularly those related to the
reduction of internal and external arrears.
4.          Recognizing that a reinvigorated economy requires improved
economic and financial management and greater popular support, President
R.uphouet-Boigny introduced major political reforms starting in 1990. These
culminated in the first multi-party presidential and parliamentary elections
in October and November and the appointment, in December 1990, of a highly
respected international economist as Prime Minister. The ensuing



-2-
reorgan2zation of Governmeiit was wide rangings the number of ministries was
reduced from 40 to 20. Moreover, the number of Government departments was cut
from 144 to 111.
5.          In mid-1991, the newly appointed Government adopted a new
adjustment program: the medium-term economic framework (MTF). It addresses the
key tedium-term issues of competitiveness, including tax and regulatory
reform, financial sector reform, privatizat'on, human resource development and
restructuring of public debt. The MXTF Is designed to return the RCI economy to
a stable growth path of around 5 percent p.a. by 1995/96, consistent with
internal and external equilibria. The KTF is supported by three Bank/IDA
financed SECALs, approved between October and December 1991, in support of
reforms of the financial sector and human resources sector as well as reforms
in the regulatory area. The first tranches of these SECALs were disbursed upon
loan/credit effectiveness. lthile progress is being made towards meeting the
specific conditions for the release of the respective second tranches, the
Government has as yet t take measures to restore the country's overall
compatitiveness, another condition of tranche release.
6.          After detailed assessment of the executive capacity of the
departments and institutions involved in economic and financial management,
the Government has concluded that in many areas it lacks the "in-house"
expertise to ensure successful implementation of the MTF and any longer term
economic reform program. The Government has also concluded that the past
reliance on expatriate help - much of it in the form of substitution technical
assistance - has contributed to the lack of developing local capabilities in
economic and financial management. It therefore decided to drastically reduce
the number of foreign technical advisors from 1330 to 705 between 1990 and
1992/93. This reduction was accompanied by important annual savings of CFAF
2.3 billion (USS 8.6 million) which the Government had paid in housing
allowances for these advisors. It also freed foreign aid resources which were
used to cover salary costs of these advisors. While many Ivorians both inside
and outside of Government are well qualified, they are often not in the right
place to contribute effectively to the national effort. Moreover, until
recently there has been very little interchange between the Ivorian economic
research community and the Government.
7.          In order to respond to the above shortcomings and enable it to
prepare and implement the MTF, the Government turned towards the Bank and
asked for its support through the proposed project and a companion project
specifically focussed on management needs of the human resources ministries.
Taking into account RCI's long standing association with France in the area of
fiscal administration, support for the Ministry of Economy, Finance, and
Plan's (MBFP) Customs, Tax and Treasury departments would continue to be
included in the French technical assistance program, while the Bank's focus
would be largely on economic management. The project will also support reforms
in the statistics, civil service and legal and judiciary areas, in close
coordination with complementary activities supported by France. In the area of
economic planning, the project was designed in consultation with UNDP, so as
to avoid duplication and ensure complimentarity with UNDP-financed activities
in this area.
8.          Proiect Obiectives.  The key objectives of the proposed project
would be to assist the Government in creating the institutional capacity
necessary for implementing economic policy measures. To this end, it aims
towards establishing a more efficient and leaner administration, capable of
setting the stage for a restoration of RCIts competitiveness, growth and
creditworthiness. This entails: (i) promoting long-term improvement in
economic managqment; (ii) strengthening institutional capacity in civil
service administration while, at the same time, preparing the ground for
reducing the Government wage bill; and (iii) strengthening the legal and
judiciary apparatus so as to improve overall economic development. By
supporting a common agenda of macroeconomic reforms drawn up by the
Government, the project would foster improved coordination among various



Government departments and agencies. In addition, the project would be a
vehicle for bringing about improved coordination amongst donors, notably with
Franco and UNDP, in their technical assistance programs in support of economic
management. The project would also make use of the considerable pool of
existing national expertise to assist in the execution of key project
components.
9.          Proiect Descriotion and Financina: The project would providA
funding for short- and medium-term technical assistance and training, and for
a complement of computers, software and oritical office equipment as well as a
limited number of vehicles to help:
(a)   strengthen the capacity of MEFP (US$10.7 million or 53 percent of
total cost) to: (i) better manage the planning, programming and
budgeting cycle; (ii) provide timely national accounts and produce
reliable basic social, economic and demographic data; (iii) follow
up parapublic enterprises' finances; and (iv) upgrade skills of
key staff in MEFP directorates participating in the project
(Technical Annex, paras. 9 to 52);
(b)   support the Ministry of Employment and Civil Service (MECS)
(US$6.7 mi?lion or 32 percent of total cost) to better manage the
civil service and the wage bill and set the stage for a
comprehensive civil service reforn. To that effect, the project
will support measures aimed at reetoring effective control over
the wage bill and the management of the civil service
establishment by means of (i) the definition of the staffing plans
of most ministries; (ii) reforms of benefits and allowances; (iii)
a program to enhlance the management capacity of the Establishment
Control and Programming Division of MECS; and (iv) preparatory
studies and other activities preliminary to a major civil service
reform which would be undertaken following the completion of
several required studies included in the project (Technical Annex,
paras. 53 to 65); and
(c)   support the Government's efforts to create a legal and judiciary
environment more conducive to overall economic development and
providing adequate protection to business activities (US$3.0
million or 15 percent of total cost) (Technical Annex, paras. 66
to 70).
10.         An IDA credit of US$17 million equivalent would finance 100
percent of foreign and 52 percent of local cost, for a total of 85 percent of
project cost. The Government would finance the remaining 15 percent of project
cost. The Project is planned to be executed over four years, which, given the
lengthy preparation time, should be a sufficient time frame for introducing
the respective institution building efforts.
11.         Proiect Imolementation.  The project will involve three
ministriess (i) Economy, Finance, and Plan (MEFP); (ii) Employment and Civil
Service (MECS); and (iii) Justice. An interministerial secretariat (PMS),
chaired by the deputy director of the office (Cabinet) of the Minister of
Economy, Finance, and Plan as project coordinator, has been in place since
1991 and would be responsible for project management. The PM8 will also
consist of a full time NEFP project administrator, an accountant, a training
expert and a part time computer expert as well as the two coordinators of the
project components falling under the responsibility of MECS and the Ministry
of Justice. The PMS will also recruit support personnel as may be necessary
for its efficient operation. All these staff would be Ivorians.
12.         Proiect Sustainability. The project is the result of three years
of internal reflection on how to improve economic management, which coincided
with the departure of a large number of foreign experts. During this period,
the Government conducted a detailed diagnosis of the constraints the
administration was facing in carrying out the adjustment program. These



-4-
included studies of the proposed budgetary reform process and PR reform, a
detailed assessment of the training needs of the various NEF departments, as
well as several preparazory studies in the area of civil service reform. Terms
of reference for all experts to be recruited and training to be provided under
the project have been agreed upon. The intensive preparation and reflection
process has resulted in a high level of Government commitment to the operation
which also stems from the fact that the project will rely very little on
outside expertise. Staff involved in the project are highly motivated,
especially by their expectations of the benefits they will draw from the
project's important training component. Thus, on the basis of the development
of institutional capabilities within the participating ministries, it can be
expected that the project's results are sustainable.
13.         Lessona Learned from Previous Bank Involvement. The Bank Group's
previous experience with technical assistance operations in RCI has pointed to
the need for a more participatory process, implicating those Ivorians
ultimately responsible for implementation and emphasizing long-term capacity
building at the decision making stage. The PCO for the Technical Assistance
Project (Ln. 2059-IVC of 1981) concluded that its capacity building objectives
failed, largely because the project failed to address long-term institutional
development issues adequately. Building commitment and ensuring
internalization of economic management are the primary objectives of the PAGE.
From the initial stage of project preparation in early 1990, Goverlament
carried out its own assessment of the institutional weaknesses of the
administration. The Government also decided that the new project should rely
primarily on the availability of Ivorian staff and consultants and national
training facilities rather than foreign technical assistance which, in the
past, had mostly taken the form of substitution assistance rat?-er than
providing know-how to and training of local cadres. The Government mobilized a
major effort to identify its needs for institutional strengthening and
capacity building and submitted its analysis to the Bank prior to project
appraisal. Additional analyses were carried out during 1992 and early 1993,
some of which were supported by studies funded under the project's PPFs to
deepen Government's understanding of key issues. The preparation process has
contributed greatly to the internalization of the project's objectives and
should thus help achieve its success.
14.         Rationale for Bank Involvement.  In the course of the three years
of dialogue preceding the project, the Government came to realize that it did
not have the institutional capacity to implement the far reaching medium-term
adjustment program. This realization wau particularly reinforced when the
Government decided in late 1989 to start replacing a large number of foreign
technical advisors - some 700 advisors have since left Cote d'Ivoire -, many
of whom had assumed lead positions, often in line functions, in economic and
financial management; thus, in 1989, some 17 foreign advisors worked in the
office of the Minister of Finance of which only two remain in 1993. At this
stage, the Government turned towards the Bank to ask for assistance in
mounting a technical assistance operation which would focus on capacity and
institution building by making greatest use of Ivorian nationals and training
institutions. In agreement with the Government, the Bank approached France,
RCIs traditional partner and prime provider of technical assistance, to
ensure that support provided under the proposed project is consistent with
assistance provided by France and paves the way for a smooth transition for
the departure of a large number of foreign experts and the assumption of
respective responsibilities by Ivorian nationals.  Similarly, the Bank
approached other donors, notably UNDP, who have already provided or are
interested in providing technical assistance in the various project
components. Thus, the Bank is playing a key role in synchronizing overall
technical assistance to RCI and seeing to it that Ivorians are increasingly
taking charge of economic and financial management of Government affairs and
ensuring that the MTF will be successfully implemented. The project is an
integral part of the Bank's strategy for assistance to RCI.



- 5 -
15.         Aareed Ations. Given the lengthy and participatory project
preparation, there were only a limited number of understandings which had to
be reached. IDA and the Government agreed to the followings
(a)   maintain the Project Management 8ecr-tariat (PX8) at the level of
the cabinet of the Minister of NUFP, consisting of representatives
of the three participating ministries, i.e., MNFP, MUCS, and the
Ministry of Justice. The secretariat would continue to be staffed
with a full time project administrator, a part tine computer
expert as well as appropriate secretarial support. In addition,
the Government has agreed that, as a condition of effectiveness, a
full time training coordinator and an accountant will have been
appointed to the PMS. All PNS staff shall at all times during the
execution of the project be satisfactory to IDA; and
(b)   the PMS would review with IDA by December 31 of each year the
progress achieved in the execution of the project. Each such
review will be conducted on the bassis of the work prog?rim
approved for each year and include an assessment of the
effectiveness of services provided by experts and efficiency in
the execution of the training program funded under the project.
The purpose of the periodic reviews is to ensure that the project
does indeed provide the necessary support to the medium-term
adjustment program and that the capacity building efforts are
bearing fruit. A mid-year review will also be carried out to
provide for possible adjustment in the project concept and scope.
In order to facilitate this review, the Government will prepare
and furnish to IDA, not later than two months before the scheduled
date of this review, a report on project activities.
16.         Environmental Impact. The project does not present the prospect of
any detrimental environmental impact and, therefore, has been assigned a C-
classification.
17.         Prooram Obiective Cate2ories. The project corresponds to the
objectives of the Africa Capacity Building Initiative (ACSI) through capacity
and institution building in three key ministries, and its emphasis on hiring
of local consultants and involvement of local training institutions. The
technical assistance classification of the Project is Institutional
Development Technical Assistance (IDTA).
18.         Proiect Benefits.  Through its capacity building efforts, the
principal benefit of the project is its support to provide the Government with
the necessary institutional capacity to implement a complex and far reaching
medium-term macroeconomic adjustment program. The civil service reform which
is to result in a more efficient and leaner administration as well as the
legal and judiciary reform which is to improve the overall business
environment, are essez.tial parts of this adjustment program. Also, through its
substantial training efforts, including the use of Ivorian training
institutions, the project will ensure that Cote d'Ivoire becomes leas
dependent on outside technical assistance.
19.         Rigks.  There are several risks:  (i) a possible future change in
Government with the new leaders possibly no longer as committed to the program
as the current administration; (ii) the opposition of vested intirest to some
aspects of the reform program, especially those aiming towards the downsizing
of ths central Government; and (iii) contradictory advice and interventions by
other donors. However, the substantial preparation end lengthy internal debate
int to much internalization and ownership of the program. In this regard, it
to important to note that the project will focus more on training Ivorians and
lses on financing expatriate experts. Also, continuous coordination with other
donors should ensure their commitment to the current program.



- 6 -
20.         ISC3MMMA"Z-* I am gatigfled that the proposed credit would
comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend tnat
the Executive Directors apprOve it.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments
Washington, D.c*
May 4, 1993



SCNULE A
COTE D IVOIRE
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT PR3JECT
PROJECT COST AND FINANCING PLAN
_,..... ..........  ......._.
% Of               IDA
PROJECT COST                                        FOREIGE         LOCAL         TOTAL          TOTAL         FINANCIER
_ _ .......     ......        .....          ......
--..-(USS million equivalent) ...                        tUn  mllion)
Ninistry of Economy, Finance & Plan
.......... ....................................
Direction Generale du Plan                        0.5            0.1           0.6             3                0.5
Direction Generale du Budget                      2.1            0.3           2.4            13                2.2
National Accounts & Statistics (INS)              1.7            1.1           2.7            1S                2.3
Parapbtlie Ilmfnistration & Reform                 0.7           0.1           0.8             5                0.7
Training                                          0.2            1.5           1.7            10                1.e.
Ministry of Eaplotyent & Cfvii Service                  4.0           1.3            5.3            30               4.4
..........................................
Ministry of Justice                                     1.3           0.9           2.2             12                1.6
_.... .....................................
Project Nanwement Unit                                  0.3           0.5           0.8              4               0.3
_. ..... ................... ................................... - 
PPF Refinancins                                         1.5             0            1.5             a                1.5
..........................................
Be" Cost                                               12.3           5.7          18.1            100              15.1
Total Contingencies                                     1.6           0.4           2.0             11                1.9
~~~~.....                .....    .    . .....            .......... ...............
TOTAL PRWECT COST                                      13.9           6.2          20.1            111              17.0
X OF
VINANCINO PLAN                                      FOREIGN         LOCAL         TOTAL          TOTAL
_ _                                   ~~~~~~~    ~ ~~~~.......  .....  .....        .....
(tUSS million equivalent)------
Gover"I nt                                           0.0           3.1           3.1             1S
IDA                                                13.9            3.1          17.0            aS
TOTAL                                               13.9           6.2          20.1            100



-8-
SCHEDULE B
..........
COTE D*IVOIRE
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT PROJECT
PROCUREMENT METHOD
CUS* million equIvaIent)
TOTAL
PRoJECT
IUC        LIB         LCB      OTHER      U.S.F.        cOSt
,........ . ... ......   .......  .....   .......         .....
t. SERVICES
Tectnical Assistance - Resident Experts                                                  1.9                     1.9
(1.9)                  (1.9)
Technical Assistance - Consultants                                                       3.5                     3.5
(3.5)                  (3.5)
Training                                                                                 2.3                     2.3
(2.) ,(2.3)
2. GOMDS
Equipment, Supplies & Vehicles                        4.5         0.4         1.0        0.3                     6.1
(4.5)      (0.4)       (0.8)       (0.2)                  (5.9)
3.   OTHER
PPF Refinancing                                                                         1.5                     1.5
(1.5)                  (1.5)
UnalLocated                                                                             2.0                     2.0
(1.9)                  (1.9)
operating Costs                                                                                     2.8         2.8
(0.0)      (0.0)
TOTAL                        4.5         0.4         1.0        11.5        2.8        20.1
(4.5)      (0.4)       (0.8)      (11.4)      (0.0)      (17.0)
Note:     Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the IDA credit.
Numbers may not add up due to roundsng
U.B.F.:   Not Bank-Financed  (Goverranet)
,.............. ........ ....... .....          ...    ..  ... ....       .. .....       ...   ...    ....    ..
IDA DISSURSEMENTS
CATEGORY                                                                  USS NILLION              PERCENTAGE
..........           .......................
Technical Assistance
Residmnt Experts / Consuiltants                                         5.4                   100 X
Trainins                                                                        2.3                  100 X
Equipment, Suplies & Vehicles                                                   s.9                  100 X Foreian
)  8 % Local
PPF Refinancing                                                                 1.5                   --
Uwllocated                                                                      1.9                  100 X
17.0
ESTIMTED IDA DISURSENENTS                              FY94        FY95        F9         FY97        FY97        FY99
_._....................................               . ...       ....        ....       .... .. ....            ..... ..
(USS ion)
Auwal                                                    6.3 a/     4.S         2.2         2.0        1.0         1.0
Caulatfve                                                          10.8        13.0        15.0       16.0        17.0
a/ Includes PPF refinancing totalling US# 1,500,000.
Not:   Uwes my not add up du  to rounding.



-9-
Scx%edule C
Key Progessina _vents
Identification Mission                            February/March 1990
Prepared by                                       Government with Bank
assistance
Appraisal                                         June/July 1991 -
March 1993
Negotiations                                      April 29 - May 3, 1993
Anticipated Date of Effectiveness                 July/August 1993



_ 10 -                                   Schedule I)
REPUBLIC OF WOM D'IVOIRE
Stotts Of Bank Grop Operations In REPULIC O COTE D'IVOIRE
PVR5.- S&u=ry Statnent Of Loans and IDA Credits
(LO data as of 3/3093 - HIS data as of 05112/)
By Country
Country:   REPUBLIC OF CM! D'IVOIRE
Anott in USS million
(Less cmoellatlous)
Low or       Fiscal                                                                             Undis- Closiq
Credit t',.    Yter  Borrows                       Purpose                    Bank        IDA    bursed  Date
....... . ... ..._ ..... ......... ....... .......... ..........  ... ....  .....        .        ........ .......
creits
4 Credits(s) closed                                                                     107.50
C23a0-IVC     1992   REPULIC OF WOM D'IVOIRE        PRIVATIZATION SUPPOR                15.00      14.41  12/1/1995
TOTAL tuber Credits     I 1                                                               15.00      14.41
Loars
55 Lons(s) elose                                                           1,97.66
L26170-IVC    196    REPUILIC OF CWTE D'IVOIRE      IND. FIN. MM OEV.        30.00                  7.03 06M/30/9(R)
L26190-IVC    166   RPLIC OF eor D'IVOiRE           NEALIB 1                 22.20                  3.39 12/31/1993(t)
L26270-IVC    1986   REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVCIRE      PA  OtL V                13.40                  1.10 06/30/1994
L2660-lVC    1966   REPUBLIC OF OM D'IVOIRE        TELECN 11                24.50                   .53 06/3/1MC RI
L275VC        1967   REULIC OF WtE O'IVOIRE        AB.EXTENSION              34.00                  .34 06A0/1992
L2890ZIVC     196    IIEPUBII OF WCM D'IVOIRE       THIN, URWA PRCT         126.00                 15.66  12131/19/3C RI
L28740VC      1900   REPUBLIC OF CWIE D'VOIRE       RUBER V                  11.54                  1.64 12131/1993( R:
L31280.IVC    1990   REPOLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE       NMICIPAL MEWM.           66.00                 38.79 1/31/1994
L31550-IVC    1990   REPUBLIC OF CW! D'IVOIRE         i     EIV OPROECTI     21.90                  8.2  12n31/99
L3160.IVC    1990   REMLIC OF CMI D'IVOIRE          FORUE    SECTOR          80.00                 69.35 063011995
L32510-IVC    1991   REPUBLIC OF OWT D'I0OIRE       PILWT IE  II DEVT.        2.20                  1.59 06/30/1993
L34080-IVC (S) 1992   REPUBLIC OF CW   D'IVOIRE     FIN SECTOR ADJ          150.00                100.00 09/30199M
L34280SVC CS) 1992    EPBLIC OF WTI D'IVOIRE        IUUAN RESOURES ADJ      125.00                100.00 12/3131993
L34290-IVC CS) 1992   REPUBLIC OF WOM  D'IVOIRE     REWLATI  REFORM          M5.00                 50.00 09/30/199
TOTAL tmter Los u  14                                                         781.74                397.88
TOTAL~                                                      2,?59.18      122.50
of  idh repid                                               793.22         .75
TOTAL held by ak & IDA                                      1965.96      121.75
Ammt sold               5.10
of siidc repid        5.10
TOTAL umdisbursed                                                                   412.29
Nots:
....... _......
* Not Yet ffective
n Not yet signed
-- Total Appod, Repayemnts, and OutetawifW bealan  represent both ctiw  ad  nactive Loans a  Credits.
(R) indicates fally revised Closing Date.
CS) Indicates SL/SECAL Loans a d Credits.
The Met Approwd *id Bank R_psyumns ae historIc.l value, all othws are mrket value.
The Signin, Effective, ad Closing dates are bosed upon the Loam Depamnt officaL dat awd are not td
frm the Tak Btdgt file.



a    -X |tBSß                                                       t
=o                 ',8888888                                  j  *
ß,                  ||*8I  I,                              itsi
t:         a"S""5 a:                                                   a
-I1. pE            -, ooo 0                           z      
.0~~bu8bb I.                                  .       :
...  ~~~e       u  ,u  uu  u uj
IIJ~~ ~~~ !i                                             111 iW|0||{   



-     c -                             Schedule D
REP&UBl OF COTE DIVOIRE
SUMMARY OF IFC INVESTMENTS
1 . Jsimr 31∂
FImL                    T)~~~~              Or~terlll tress citm  t
1965/1m78      8oe ihriamw            Dev enl             *         0.42      0.U
197?           EtU. R.                Tetles I            -         0.u       0.
Banfrvvillo S&.A.
19 7           So.4d Itwo.o          FUeltizer            5.12      1.27       63
d't&Vei (SIVI
1960           Haulnd d               foda ro.d           2.90      O.L1      331
lud-Cul!               Precessiro
936           lw.. a.                Tnles 8             9.23       -         935
Saf11il L;A.           F1be
1967           Ontik  Chtsiqo         FOWd   Food         2.13      *          2.13
at cam itIqus          Precseealn
1967           see       des Il  -    Food A Fd           3.14      0.3        3.67
trfes AtiaUt.ira      I Preesing
et Lattite (144L3I)
1963           RiZmriat P.uiwIon    capital Naek          -         b'.a       0.88
Svi   (S
19             Pechaar CM)            Fed & food          *.47      *          0.47
1990         v     w. Tranfmt~i       Foed £ feed         0."       0.17       0.=
Altmntlre COTA)        Presesgi-
ClEF)
1990           SoeSif  du Srodus       ed a Foo           1.8       0.34       2.LI
ties Atemeiirs         Prescong
at Lattf ies (SALIN)
1991           tvusfemtlen ita    Ud &                    039        0.19      0.s
tedlle  vot            wood ProddIu
(78B301) CARP)
199            Pttvor* CM)            Fo  &      ain      1.06       *         1.0
1991            nr,t      CAf)        Food & As u.        1.00       -          .00
19n2             eif*-Cwf  WAf)       coffe Ca"    W.                La
Total rO# ComfIm                          23.06      5.05      33.13
Lem f.payoun*  u$tw-offs,                 13.4       2.09      15.30
mat  & sxehan  adjuwtuim
Itt Cot.m.nu hel4d S ZFC
I;Rewesm sed or wrtas oft.



- 11 -
Republ$c olf Cete d'Ivoire
EconomiC Manaeement Proiect
Technioal Annex
Table of Contents
Section A:        The Institutional Setting
Section B:        Detailed Project Description
Part It Support to the Ministry of Economy, Finance,
and Plan
1. Introduction
2. Planning, Programming, and Budgeting Cycle
3. National Accounts and Statistics
4. Parapublic Enterprise Administration and Reform
5. Training
Part IIs Support to the Ministry of Employment and Civil
Service
Part IIIs Support to the Ministry of Justice
Section C:        Project Administration and Implementation
Part I: Project management
Part IIt Procurement, Disbursement and Reporting
Attachment 1:    Training Plan
Attachment 2:     Resident Advisors
Attachment 3:     Key Project Activities
Attachment 4:     Annual Review Performance Indicators
Chart 1           Organization Chart of MEFP departments participating in
the project
The Economic Management Project was appraised in various stages between July
1991 and March 1993 - much time was spent in carrying out launching and
completing key studies, financed under three Project Preparation Facilities
(PPF) to help identify and detail key project components. Franz Raps
(Principal Country Officer, Task Manager and Mission Chief), David Steedman,
Loup Brefort, Pierre Morin, Ma. Nicole Klein (Public Sector Management
Specialists), Robert Ngong (Statistician), Amparo Ballivian (Economist),
Rashidi Radji (operations Officer), both in the Resident Mission, Jacques
Fremy (Training Expert), Jean Francois Dupuy (Senior Counsel), and Gisele
Magnon (Administrative Assistant) carried out the appraisal. Ladipo Ademalekun
(APTCB) is the Lead Advisor. The Director responsible is Olivier Lafourcade
and the Division Chief responsible is Luis Ernesto Derbez.



- 12 -
Section A: The Institutional Bettino
1.          The Republic of C8te d'Ivoire (RCI) is currently implementing an
ambitious and comprehensive adjustment program: the establishment of a medium-
term macroeconomic framework (MTF) to restore the competitiveness of the
economy and lead it to sustained growth and renewed creditworthiness. The
proposed project is designed to provide institutional support to the
Government for key components of this effort.
2.          During the first phase of adjustment - the stabilization program
(1989-90) -, the Government realized that improvement of the institutional and
policy framework were critical to success. Accordingly, in April 1990 an
Interministerial Committee for economic coordination was established to
strengthen the management of economic and financial policies. This was
followed in mid-1990 by the opening up of the political process and the
organization, in October and November 1990, of RCI's first multi-party
Presidential and parliamentary elections. In December, a man of proven
experience in economic and financial management was nominated Prime Minister
with wide ranging powers to implement reform. A smaller, more effective
Government was formed to give further impetus to adjustment efforts.
Concerned with improving the management of the public sector and increasing
its efficiency, the new Government carried out a major administrative
reorganization. Thus, the number of ministries was cut in half from 40 to 20,
the number of Government departments - "directions" - reduced from 144 to 111,
and the number of subdepartments - nsous directions" - from 382 to 340. Also,
the Government decided to drastically reduce the number of foreign advisors
and to rely increasingly on Ivorian staff. Thus, between 1990 and 1993, the
number of foreign advisors went down from 1328 to 705 - with resulting annual
savings of CFAF 2.3 billion (USS 8.6 million) for housing allowances. At the
level of the Ministry of Finance, after a peak of 17 technical advisors
working at the office of the Minister in 1989, only two advisors are left in
1993. These events have made it possible to develop and enhance democratic
transparency, debate and control. They contribute to ensuring that the
adjustment program is owned by the Ivorians and to strengthening overall
public support for the reform program. Financial support for the program is
being provided by, among others, three FY 92 Bank/IDA financed SECALs in
support of: (i) the financial sector; (ii) the human resources sector; and
(iii) improved competitiveness and regulatory reform.
3.          After detailed assessment of the departments and institutions
involved in economic and financial management, the Government has concluded
that in many areas it lacks the "in-house" expertise to ensure successful
implementation of the MTF and any longer term economic reform program. The
Government has also concluded that past reliance on expatriate help - much of
it in the form of substitution technical assistance - has contributed to the
lack of development of local capabilities in economic and financial
management. While many Ivorians both inside and outside of Government are
well-qualified, they are often not in the right place to contribute
effectively to the national effort. Moreover, until recently there has been
very little interchange between the Ivorian economic research community and
the Government.
4.          It is in this improved political and institutional context that
the Government requested the Bank's support for an economic management project
(Projet d'Appui & la Gestion Iconomique, PAGE), the subject of this report. In
order to avoid mistakes of the past, when foreign financed technical
assistance projects, including the 1981 Technical Assistance project (Ln.
2059-IVC), were largely donor designed and donor driven, the Bank suggested
from the initial discussions of the PAGE that the Government should itself
identify the areas in which and how the project could provide assistance. The
Government, thus, responded favorably to the Bank's request to carry out its
own diagnosis of institutional weaknesses, thus providing the basis for
Government ownership of the project. During 1991 and 1992, a large scale
effort was launched in two key ministries: the Ministry of Economy, Finance,



- 13 -
and Plan (HElP) and the Ministry of Employment and Civil Service (MECS) - it
administers the 118,000 civil service work force which represents the heaviest
weight on public finance - to analyze the functions as well as human resources
and equipment requirements of a selected number of directorates involved in
economic management of these two ministries. At the specific request of the
Prime Minister, a legal and judiciary reform component was added to the
project. It reflects the recognition of the Government that a well functioning
legal and judiciary system is essential to overall economic development.
S.          Where in-house expertise proved inadequate to come up with the
right proposals on how to strengthen the institutional capabilities of the
cXrectorates in question, studies funded under three Project Preparation
Facilities (PPF) in the total amount of US$ 1.5 million, approved between June
1990 and July 1992, provided the necessary back-up. PPF funding has supported,
among others: (i) jointly with the French Cooperation, financing of a census
of civil servants; (ii) a study to review the organizational structure of the
Government with the view to identifying areas of overlap and improving the
overall efficiency of the Government; both these activities are an essential
ingredient for a wider civil service reform initiative to be funded under the
PAGE; (iii) a study of the need to reinforce the Government departments in
charge of parapublic enterprise reform; (iv) a budgetary reform study; (v) a
study to identify the training needs of MEFP; and (vi) operational support of
the units in NEFP, MECS and the Ministry of Justice in charge of the PAGE. The
launching and preparation of some of these studies took substantially more
time than anticipated, which explains the long time for bringing this project
to fruition. Nevertheless, it can be argued that this process has greatly
contributed in the project becoming fully internalized. Project appraisal was
completed in March 1993.
6.          On the donors side, efforts were made since the project's
inception to coordinate possible interventions to avoid duplication of efforts
or, worse, contradictory advice.
(i)   UNP, the traditional donor in the area of technical assistance, has
until recently only had limited involvement in RCI in the area of economic
management: a program launched in 1988 aimed at enhancing the planning and
programming process. This program has achieved its main objectives, including
the development of a modeling exercise (Model ECODIV) which is aimed at
providing a coherent macro-economic framework and offers the possibility to:
a) calculate GDP by using detailed sectoral added values and analyzing
the supply response for each product as well as carrying out an analysis of
the competitiveness of Ivorian products;
b) link sectoral production to the marginal productivity of the
investment;
c) establish a consistent link between central Government operations
and sectoral policies; and
d) determine the balance of payments and the need for external resources
(including the possibility to incorporate exchange rate policy measures).
Since 1992, UNDP has been discussing with the Government the preparation of a
follow up to the 1988 program. Although a new UNDP intervention has not yet
been fully identified, it is likely to involve: operationalization of the
ECODIV model, establishment of a "tableau de bord social" at the national and
regional level, and conducting of economic analyses of the "filieres" and
fiscal policy impacts. Once fully developed, the future UNDP support would be
closely coordinated with the PAGE, especially as regards HElP's planning,
programming, and budgeting cycle (see paras. 9 - 21).
(ii) RCI's major donor in support of economic and financial management has
traditionally been France. Its assistance hae primarily taken the form of
long term advisors, many of whom assumed line functions and thus provided



- 14 -
substitute assistance. However, following an exhaustive assessment of French
technical assistance in 1989/90, both the RCI and French Governments came to
the conclusion that it had to be changed to allow for the assumption of
greater responsibilities by the Ivorians themselves. As a result, the number
of French advisors was substantially reduced (see para. 2). At the same time,
the French Government agreed to participate, through parallel financing, in
certain components of the proposed project. In consultation with the RCI
Government, a distribution of labor was agreed upon whereby, at the level of
MEFP, France, within the context of its own structural adjustment support for
RCS, would focus primarily on fiscal administration, involving especially
MEFP1s Customs, Tax and Treasury departments, while the Bank, in the context
of the PAGE, would support economic management. As it is impossible to draw
clear lines, the two donors agreed to consult each other in all aspects of
MEFP support under the project, notably as regards the common support to
statistics (paras. 22 to 29). As for MECS, France and the Bank already
collaborated closely and cofinanced the preparation and implementation of a
civil service census (see para 54). Finally, given the similarity between the
RCI and French legal and judiciary systems, this component of the project will
also be supported through parallel financing by France and the Bank (see paras
66 to 70).
(iii)       In an effort to broaden support for the project, various other
donors have been approached.  Thus, the statistical Office of the European
rQamBnitiL s (EUROSTAT) participated in the project appraisal by evaluating the
Government's plans to establish an autonomous National Institute of Statistics
(see paras 22 to 29). Financial and technical support to the institute are
under consideration by the Commission of the European Communities (EC) and by
EUROSTAT. Support from other donors to various project components is also
being discussed.
7.          As explained above, the project will finance activities in three
ministriess
(i)   MEFP, where support will be provided to: (a) the budgetary
process; (b) statistics and national accounts; (c) parapublic
enterprise administration and reform; and (d) an overall training
program for the Ministry;
(ii)  MECS, where support will be provided to: (a) the harmonization of
the payroll and civil service files; (b) analysis of staffing
plans and job requirements; (c) reform of benefits and allowances,
(d) the system of personnel administration and management;
(e) analysis of job requirements and staffing plans; and
(f) preparatory studies preliminary to a far reaching civil
service reform; and
(iiI) the Ministry of Justice, where support will be provided to: (a) a
general strengthening of the Ministry; (b) the management of legal
and judiciary data collection; (c) the modernization of economic
legislation; and (d) overall training.
8.          Proiect Manaaement.  Project preparation has benefitted greatly
from the early Government decision to appoint a senior Ivorian project
management team. Overall project coordination will be assumed by the Deputy
Director of the office of the Minister of MEFP. Day to day management will be
the responsibility of a full time senior MNFP administrator, assisted by a
training expert and an accountant, a part time computer expert and relevant
secretarial and office support. Two senior representatlves of MECS and the
Ministry of Justice will form part of the project management team (see paras
71 to 73).



- 15 -
SecoLon B. Detailed Project Description
Part I - Su=oort to the Ministrv of Economv.
Finance, and Plan (MEFPP
Introduction
9.          1EPP plays a key role in the Government's structural adjustment
effort of which the medium-term macroeconomic framework (MTF), which is to
help bring about improved competitiveness and a restoration of sustained real
growth on the order of 5 percent per annum by 1995/96, is the center piece.
The MTF includes policy actions in several key areas, including: external and
domestic competitiveness; public revenues and expenditures; monetary policy,
credit and the financial sector; management of public sector and debt. To
achieve and maintain a primary budget surplus, the Government intends to
reduce the role of the public sector in the economy and to improve allocations
by switching expenditures in favor of high priority economic and social
actions. In this regard, special attention will be given to expand the
current low level of central Government investment expenditures. However,
during the implementation of the 1989-1990 stabilization phase of the
structural adjustment program, the Government had come to the conclusion that
it does not, at present, have the institutional and material capacities to
fully prepare and implement the MTF. Thus, on the revenue side, both the
customs and tax departments of MBFP, partly because of inadequate human and
material resources, failed to tap important sources of revenue. On the
expenditure side, the huge Government wage bill represents a heavy burden,
complicated by serious inconsistencies between the personnel records in NECS
and the payroll department of MEFP. In an effort to reduce the weight of the
parapublic sector on public finance, the Government launched an ambitious
privatization program which is the subject of a FY 92 IDA financed
Privatization Support Project (CR. 2363-IVC of May 1992) - this project was
originally meant to form part of the PAGE. However, given that project
preparation of the privatization program was further advanced than the topics
addressed by this report, it was decided in December 1991 to process the
privatization program as a self-standing project, while making efforts to
rationalize those enterprises which would remain in the public domain.
Conscious that in order to restore confidence in the RCI economy it has to
normalize relations with its creditors, the Government also intends to prepare
itself for a debt reduction/restructuring program which is also supported by
the FY 92 TA project. The PAGE is designed to provide institutional support
in all the above areas not already covered by the Privatization TA project.
Plannina, Proarammina. andd Eudaetina Cycle
10.         Introduction. Numerous analyses carried out by the Government as
well as by the Bank, the IMF, UNDP and the French Cooperation have concluded
that the planning-programming-budgeting (PPB) cycle is not working properly
and is, thus, jeopardizing the successful implementation of any macro or
sector adjustment program. There are major shortcomings in terms of clear
attribution of responsibilities amongst the various concerned services of MEFP
and sectoral ministries, lack of adequate human resources, inadequacy of
training and shortage of essential materials and supplies. The lack of a
global coherence of the PIE cycle has been serioualy impeding both the
Government's capacity to better manage the allocation of scarce resources and
its ca'pacity to define and implement a structural adjustment program coherent
with growth-oriented macroeconomic and sectoral strategies. The Government's
resolve to make a radical shift towards sound economic and financial
management presupposes the restoration of a sound PPB cycle.
11.         Two general directorates are the key players in the PPB cycle: the
Direction G6nerale du Plan (DGP) and the Direction G6nerale du Budget (DGB).
The DGP consists of two departmentst the Department of Monitoring and Economic
Forecasting (Direction de la Conjoncture et de la Pr6vision Economique, DCPE)



- 16 -
and the Department of Plan and Regional Development (Direction du Plan et du
D6veloppement Regional, DPDR) (see chart 1). The complementary functions of
the two departments are to design and elaborate a growth-oriented
macroeconomic program and corresponding policy measures. The two departments
thus play a key function in the elaboration, implementation and monitoring of
the MTF.
12.         Structure and Resnonsibilities of tho Department of Monitoring and
Economic Forecastina (DCPR . DCPE consists of two sub-departments: the sub-
department for economic monitoring (SDC) and the sub-department for economic
forecasting and budgeting (SDPBE).
(a)   SDC Is in charge of the regular follow up on the Ivorian economy
and international events affecting it. For this purpose, it relies
heavily on statistics provided by MErP's Treasury and Customs
Departments and the National Institute of Statistics (INS). The
latter's problems (see paras. 22 to 29) have had a serious impact
on the reliability of the indices as well as other forecasts
produced by SDC. The strengthening of national statistics is ttus
an essential requirement for the availability of timely and
adequate economic forecasting. SDC also elaborates the economic
and financial report which accompanies the annual budget. The sub-
department is currently understaffed; to adequately perform its
mandate, the Minister of Finance agreed to staff SDC with three
additional higher level staff: one or two economists and one or
two statisticians.
(b)   SDPBE is responsible for preparing short-term macroeconomic
forecasts. Jointly with the sub-department for macroeconomic
analysis of DPDR, it is also in charge of producing the medium-
term economic plan. In assessing short- and medium-term economic
prospects, SDPBE, in close cooperation with DOB, has to project
Government receipts and expenditures and identify possible macro-
economic constraints which might have a budgetary impact. SDPBE
currently has two Ivorian higher level staff - an economist and a
statistician/ economist - and two foreign advisors - a tax expert
and an economist. The latter two are in charge of public
expenditure and receipt forecasts. In order to ensure the gradual
transfer of responsibilities to Ivorian staff, the Minister of
Finance agreed that at least three new staff will be hired: an
economist to reinforce the work on macro-economic projections, and
one economist each to take charge of public expenditure and
receipt forecasts.
13.         Structure of and Resronsibilitieg of the Deoartment of Plan and
Reaional Development (DPRD). DPRD is responsible for coordinating sectoral and
regional aspects of development planning and programming and to ensure their
consistency with macroeconomic development and prospects. In addition to its
role in elaborating the medium-term macroeconomic plan, DPDR is responsible
for preparing the broad outline of the public investment program and ensuring
coherence between sectoral and regional strategies and policies with
macroeconomic development prospects. To this end, DPDR has the responsibility,
in conjunction with sectoral ministries, of selecting and monitoring public
financed investment projects through the implementation of the three-year
rolling investment program.
14.         Following the merger of the Ministry of Plan with the Ministry of
Economy and Finance in December 1990, DPDR is probably overstaffed and
coordination with sectoral ministries is lax. As a result, the passage from
the planning/programming to the budget formulation stage is not
straightforward. The Government is addressing these problem, with UNDP
support, in the context of a management strengthening program (see para. 6).
Thus, the project's support to DPDR will complement UNDP-financed assistance
to this department.



- 17 -
15.         Prolect SupPort to DCaPE and DPDR (US$ .5 million). The project
will finance selected computer equipment and related software as well as other
office equipment necessary for both departments to carry out their
responsibilities. Training for between 30 and 40 higher level staff of the two
departments is included under the project's training component (see paras. 48
to 52). The project will also finance training by specialized institutions
such as the economic development institutes of th,, Bank and the IMF as well as
by Ivorian research and training institutions such as ENSEA and CIRES (see
below).
16.         Given the complementarity of the functiong of DCPE and DPDR, the
project will contribute to strengthen their macroeconomic analytical capacity
through a macroeconomic unit which has been established under the project at
the Ivorian Ecole Nationale de Statistique et d'Economie Appliquee (ENSEA).
The unit is made up of faculty staff, ENSEA and CIRES (Centre Ivorien de
Recherches Economiques et Sociales) researchers and senior officials of DCPE,
DPDR, the Treasury Department, the Central Bank and INS who are directly
involved in macroeconomic planning and analysis. The unit is expected to
provide continuous training in the use of macroeconomic models and other
policy tools to help in the design and monitoring of macroeconomic policies,
especially as regards the NTF. In order for ENSEA and CIRES to properly play
their role as trainers and researchers, the project will finance short term
visits of researchers and university professors as well as short term visits
of staff from both institutions to research centers and universities offering
corresponding courses or seminars. Both institutions will also be equipped
with relevant teaching materials including a limited number of computers and
software as well as specialized publications.
17.         Structure and Responsibilities of the Direction Generale du Budoet
et du Secteur Parapublic IDGB). Two of the three DOB departments are heavily
involved in the PPB cycles the Direction des Budgets et Comptes (DBC), i.e.
the Department of Buiget and Accounts, and the Directions des Investissements
Publics (DIP), i.e. the Department of Public Investments. The third department
responsible for the follow up on the parapublic sector is the subject of the
parapublic sector reform component of this project (see paras 30 to 45). DBC
is in charge of
-     the preparation, execution and control of the Budget G6neral de
Fonctionnoment (BGO), i.e. the Government's operating i iget, the
"budgets annexes" and the budget of the National Public Agencies;
-     the control of off-budget accounts;
-     the "inventaire du patrimoine de l'Etat".
DIP, in turn, is responsible for the budgeting of the State sponsored public
investments and the control of their execution (Budget Sp6cial des
Investissements de l'Etat, BSIE). Like the departments within DGP, both DGB
and DIP lack a number of qualified staff who are essential to allow the
departments to properly fulfill their mandate.
18.         With a view to introducing reforms necessary for a better control
of the economy and the nation's public finances, the Ivorian authorities
requested the IMF's assistance in performing a diagnostic study of the budget
function. A 1988 IMF mission revealed some significant "weaknesses in the
budget system," due to, among others, an excessive "dismemberment" of the
public finances plus the multiplicity of accounts, together with various
deficiencies in the monitoring and control procedures. The mission proposed a
18-point action program of which only a small portion was implemented between
1990 and 1992.
19.         The action program has since been reviewed in the context of the
PPF funded budgetary reform study. As a result, the Government has now come to
the following conclusions (i) the consolidation of the state budget, with a
view to arriving at a single budget, must be pursued; and (ii) the
rationalization of the budget system and the reestablishment of the planning-
programming-budgeting cycle will have to be accelerated.



- 18 -
20.         Following the above analysis, the budgetary reform component of
the project has the following objectivess
(i) restructure the Emergency Group responsible for monitoring the
budget reform program.
The IMF report had recommended the setting up of an *emergency
structure" responsible for monitoring the implementation of the 18 measures
action program. As a result, a "Technical Budget Group" reporting to the
Director General of the Budget and made up of a representative from each of
the five MEFP directorates was established in mid-1990, with secretariat
services provided by the "Budget Reform Office" of the DGB, headed by the
adviser to the Director General of the Budget. The Government has now decided
to:
- review the Group's composition; and
- review its working methods.
(ii) consolidate the state budget.
The preparation, in the medium term, of a "single budget" requires a
number of preliminary steps. The Government has therefore decided to:
- prepare and put in place the required tools for the consolidation
(nomenclatures, standard budget preparation dossier, project briefs, budget
framework); and
- put in place and maintain a single budget.
(iii) rationalize the budget system.
Much still remains to be done in this area. In particular, steps will
have to be taken to:
- rationalize the legislation and regulations;
= rationalize the budget preparation procedures; and
= rationalize the budget execution procedures.
(iv) rationalize MEFP structures and organization.
To facilitate implementation of the planned reforms, certain changes
will have to be considered in the current MEFP structures and organization
such as:
- after a supplementary study, a possible merger of DCPE and DGB, and
- reorganization, in the medium term, of all budget structures in the
context of the new single budget.
21.         Proiect suvDort (US$ 2.5 million).  The support provided by the
project for the budgetary reform will take various forms: (i) selected
studies; (ii) three person/years of long-term and 11 person/months of short-
term international consultancy services; (iii) 24 person/months of local
consultancy services; (iv) substantial training (see paras. 48 - 52); and (v)
computer equipment and related software as well as required office equipment.
A detailed report, including terms of reference for all the above and a
timetable for the various steps leading towards the unified budget, is
available in Project Files.
National Accounts and Statistics
22.         IntroductXpn.  In the 1960. and 70., RCI was one of the Sub-
Saharan African countries with a well developed statistical office and system.
However, the economic decline which began in the 1980a led to a gradual and
near total breakdown of this system; a breakdown that was manifested by a
marked deterioration in quality and timeliness of data produced. The reasons
for this deterioration are many and varied but follow a pattern that has been



- 19 -
seen in many statistical offices in sub-saharan Africa. These includes
(a) insufficient funding caused by the general economic decline and the
collapse of Government revenue; (b) gross imbalance between survey data
collection activities and other activities such as data analysis and
publication; (c) very selective donor support with a tendency to fund high
profile ad hoc projects; (d) poor management of both human and physical
resources; (e) technical advisory support provided by donors that tend to
substitute for Ivorians rather than provide support to institution building
and development of local capability; and (f) a failure to draw full benefit
from staff sent for overseas training due to heavy staff turnover and
departure. In addition, the almost complete lack of equipment to carry out
statistical functions has led to a highly demotivated staff which, in turn,
has been a major factor in the Direction de la Statistique et de la
Comptabilit6 Nationale (DSCN) inability to retain or recruit high quality
cadres. The above contributed to a total loss of confidence by the users of
data produced by DSCR.
23.         The absence of a well functioning statistical office has led many
ministries and organizations to come up with their own estimates for different
national economic and social indicators. Due to the heterogeneous methods and
concepts used, these were in most cases contradictory. The net result has
been an overall lack of confidence in the reliability of statistical data in
RCI and a general practice whereby ministries and organizations pick or
develop statistical indicators which best suit their needs.
24.         Past Technical Assistance.  As for technical assistance, DSCN has
in the past been quite successful in attracting donor support. However, such
support was mostly for specific projects - population census, migration
survey, fertility survey, SDA survey - which have been driven by the specific
interest of the concerned donors. Other technical assistance provided to INS
has fallen into four categories: (a) long-term technical support mainly by
France; (b) long and short-term technical support, training and equipment for
ad hoc surveys; (c) short-term support for ongoing programs; and (d) training.
25.         Since 1947, France has been the major donor in the area of
statistics. Its main emphasis has been on establishing a system of national
accounts; until 1977, this work was carried out almost exclusively by French
experts and, until 1991, DCSN still relied heavily on a large number of long
term French technical assistants. Since then, France has limited its
assistance to short term consultants.
26.         While France has been the largest donor, other multilateral and
bilateral donors have also provided assistance. Thus, support was provided by
UNFPA for a population census. USAID, Canada and EBC have funded various other
projects. As for the Bank, it has cofinanced the population census, funded
tho migration survey (1991-93), the "tableau de bord 6conomique", the
Permanent Household Survey and the surveys on the Social Dimensions of
Adjustment.
27.         Restructurina of the Statistical A=,aratus.  Cognizant of the
shortcomings of the current system, the Government has now decided to
fundamentally change its approach and strengthen the national statistical
system. The RCI economy has become more complex and diversified in its
activities in an attempt to cope with the rapidly changing socioeconomic
conditions both within the country and internationally. The Government needs
complete, precise and timely data to assist it in taking policy decisions as
well as in evaluating the impact of such measures. In early 1992, it
therefore decided to merge the DSCN and the Banque de Donn6es FinanciEres
under an Institut National de la Statietique (INS). INS is supposed to
operate as a semi-autonomous entity, thereby acquiring some independence from
the heavy bureaucracy of the central administration. It is expected to
achieve some self-financing in the medium term through sales of publications
and through execution of contracts to carry out surveys. Because of its
greater autonomy, it is anticipated that INS will be able to recruit higher
quality staff and produce higher quality products.



- 20 -
28.         In order to get an additional unbiased opinion on the structure of
INS prior to its establishment, the Government invited the Statistical Office
of the European Communities (EUR0STAT) to carry out an analysis of INS. A
EUROSTAT mission participated in July 1991 in the appraisal mission of the
project. Following its findings, EUROSTAT recommended that INS: (a) be given
a broad mandate in the production and dissemination of statistical data,
including national accounts; (b) in the short-term, limit itself to get back
on track rather than spreading support to other data gathering bodies in the
administration7 (c) after 18-24 months experience, review its organizational
chart; (d) strengthen its regional offices; (e) develop a medium-term work
plan; (f) compile a file of future projects; (g) reactivate and energize the
User Committee; (h) ensure that they are represented on all committees where
there is fundamental need for statistics; (i) harmonize statistical concepts
and definitions and carry out regular data collection from other data
gathering bodies; and (j) develop a comprehensive training program.
29.         Proiect Sugoort (US$ 2.0 million).  The project will support the
redynamization of INS. This will be a joint effort by France and IDA. France
recently approved a $1.6 million grant to help revitalize RCI's national
accounts, the most recently prepared national accounts dating back to 1987.
The Bank's support under the project is designed tos (a) build up its
administrative and organizational capacity through short term management
technical assistance; (b) reestablish the confidence of INS staff through
regular publication of series of key economic indicators. This will involve
light surveys and data collection by INS staff; (c) rehabilitate INS's
printing unit; (d) rehabilitate or replace INS's computer center; Ce) relaunch
INS's user committee; and (f) improve the price and data collection activities
of INS's eleven regional offices. Bank funding would thus be oriented towards
five person/months of international and 36 person/month of local short term
consulting services, computers (hardware and software), the printing press,
office equipment, training (see also paras. 48 to 52), and eleven vehicles for
INS's regional offices.
Paranublic EnterDrise Reform
30.         Backaround.  Parapublic enterprises (PEs) have played a key role
in RCI's development process. Following independence, many PEs were
established: (a) to enable RCI to gain control over key sectors in the economy
(e.g. utilities, banking, etc.); (b) to diversify and modernize agricultural
production; (c) to promote a sound infrastructure network and services in
sectors such as public utilities and transportation; (d) to undertake large-
scale capital-intensive projects and develop sectors where private
entrepreneurship was Insufficiently active; and (e) to encourage regional
development and housing.
31.         The statutory provisions governing public enterprises date back to
1962 (law on State-Owned Enterprises and law on State Representation within
Joint-Stock Companies in which the State has a financial interest). These
provisions were amended in 1970, establishing the status of companies in which
the Government has a financial interest, and subsequently by a decree of 1975
laying down the rules for supervision and management of the parapublic sector.
New regulations governing national public establishments and state-owned
enterprises were issued in 1980 and 1983. The law distinguishes primarily
between the National Public Agencies (Etablissements Publics Nationaux, EPNs),
State-Owned enterprises (Socift6s d'Etat, SEs) and Mixed Parapublic
enterprises (Socit6es d'Economie Mixte, SEMs), which are governed by different
rules depending on the degree of Government ownership set at 10 percent, 33
percent and 50 percent plus.
32.         Overview of the Parapublic Enterprise Sector.  During the first
half of the 1970s, the number of PEs increased very rapidly and came to play a
major role in the Government's development policy. The State is represented
in every branch of economic activity. The public sector's rapid expansion
contributed to a deterioration in public savings and rising external debt. In
1977, there were 113 SEs, EPNs and SiMs accounting for about one third of the



- 21 -
country'se total employment and producing 27 percent of value added. They were
responsible for 68 percent of capital formation, accounted for 45 percent of
the public investment program and amounted to almost 39 percent of the total
public debt. The Government has, over the period 1982-88, invested more than
US$500 million (net cumulative Investment) in the sector but the return on
this capital has been extremely low, averaging 2 percent per annum. The
parapublic sector still accounts for almost 44 percent of total value added in
the formal sector and its net drain on public finance, both direct and
indirect, hae reached almost 4 percent of GDP.
33.         Since 1977, the Government has implemented a broad program of PE
sector reform aimed at reducing the burden of the parapublic sector on public
finance and at improving the efficiency of enterprises. The program was
structured around three main objectives: (a) improving the monitoring and
management of the sector at the Government level; (b) rationalizing the
relationship between the Government and individual enterprises; and (c)
improving financial and technical management at the enterprise level. The
program of actions implemented in the framework of three SALs between 1981 and
1986 led to an improvement in the performances of some PEs, through
implementation of reorganization plans and contract plans for major PEs.
Financial control was also enhanced by the establishment of synoptic tables
(tableaux de bord) in the Ministry of Finance to monitor key financial and
performance indicators of 31 PEs.
34.         Despite the measures undertaken and the efforts to reduce the
burden of the PEs on public finance, major problems continued in the 1980s to
affect their performance. Among those: (a) lack of effective management by
the civil servants appointed to head PEs; (b) lack of any entrepreneurship or
incentives to boost productivity; (c) weakness of competent control bodies and
organs, both within the enterprises and outside; (d) overstaffing; (e)
inappropriate investment decisions, operational constraints and excessive
regulations; (f) institutional impediments, political and Government
interference in PE management and operational decisions; and (g) absence of a
real monitoring process and Management Information Systems.
35.         Government Strategy for the PEs.  Parapublic enterprise reform has
been implemented in three phases in RCI. In the first phase (1970-1980), a
diagnosis of the overall public sector was undertaken and a Minister in charge
of Parapublic Reform was appointed. In the second phase (1981-86), some PEs
were liquidated or merged and others were given a new legal status or economic
mandate. In the third phase (1987-89), divestitus-e became a clear option for
the Government and almost 30 PBs were privatized. A variety of divestiture
techniques were used, such as direct negotiations with private buyers, the
sale of shares on the Stock Exchange and inviting bids from potential
investors. The three phases were characterized by a lack of clear procedures
and guidelines for divestiture and a minimum of transparency in the process of
privatization. There was no specific list or target of PE candidates for
privatization. In most cases, the Government was privatizing following direct
requests from potential buyers who were offering cash. No opportunities or
strategic studies prior to divestiture were designed and preferences were
given to Ivorian citizens. Therefore, until early 1990, there was little
evidence that the privatization program was well managed and carried out in a
transparent way.
36.         A new approach towards privatization has been initiated since the
arrival of the new Government in late 1990 which, as one of its first orders
of business, adopted a privatization strategy. The Government's program is
supported by the US$15 million IDA financed Privatization Support project of
May 1992 (Cr. 2363 - IVC). In this context, the Government has already
privatized four enterprises; it is currently in the process of finalizing
studies and bringing another 20 companies to the point of sale during 1993.
37.         While great importance is given to a gradual Government
disengagement from all productive activities, the Government is fully aware
that the privatization program will take some time and some activities will



- 22 -
remain in the public domain. It is therefore determined to la'rnch a major
program of improved PE administration and reform.   The main thrust of the
program is to ensure that the PEs that remain operate more efficiently through
implementation of the following basic principles:
(a)   provide autonomy to PE management;
(b)   seek greater accountability from them; and
(c)   reward good performance and sanction poor performance.
38.         The reform program for improving the performance of those PEs to
be retained consists of:
(a)   institutional and legal reforms to ensure that PE managers have
autonomy in day-to-day operations; strengthening their
accountability to government through introduction of (i) a
suitable reporting mechanism; and (ii) an effective and efficient
supervision unit; and
(b)   improvement in PE management and efficiency through selection of
qualified Board members and executive officers, training programs
for managers and accountants, installation of appropriate
management information systems (MIS), and financial audits.
39.         Imnlementation arrangements.  Improvement in the management of the
PE sector requires that actions be undertaken at two levels:
(a)   at the Government level, to ensure (i) that the information
required to orient, monitor and evaluate the results of the PE
sector, at the individual and aggregate levels, is properly and
timely analyzed, and (ii) coordination and consistency in the
decision-making process; and
(b)   at the PE level, to reinforce the expertise and instruments
required for efficient management.
40.         The definition of the respective roles and responsibilities of the
Direction du Contr8le du Secteur Parapublic, de la Privatisation et des
Participations (DCSPPP), the department in charge within the MEFP, and of the
Direction du Contr8le des Grands Travaux (DCGTx), an agency reporting to the
office of the Prime Minister, and the reinforcement of the former, are
essential to allow the Ministry of Pinance to play its proper role vis-a-vis
the PR sector.
41.         In addition to the need to review the administrative arrangements
for Government supervision and monitoring of the PE sector, a key element in
support of the objectives of greater autonomy and accountability of PE
management is the design, implementation and centralized operation of a PE
monitoring system. This is required to ensure that timely, pertinent, reliable
and comparable financial and operational information is made available to all
concerned decision-makers, both at the enterprise and at the ministerial
levels. This, in turn, will require the enhancement of the quality and
timeliness of the accounting and financial reporting process in the PEs.
42.         The financial and operational monitoring system must be simple to
operate and focus on the key operational and financial data required to:
(a)   analyze the PEs' viability and financial health, and identify the
causes of success or failure;
(b)   monitor the respect of the policy governing the financial
relations between the Government and PUe;
(c)   assist in forecasting and evaluating long-term investment and
short-term working capital requirements;



- 23 -
(d)  monitor the evolution of the PEs' performance, profitability and
productivity at the individual, sectoral and macro levels; and
(e)   provide the concerned parties, bcth at Government and PR
management levels, with the required data on which to base their
action plans for improvement.
43.         Proiect obiectives. It is recognized that the introduction and
effective application of these reforms will take some time and will, thus, go
much beyond the time horizon of the proposed project. The objectives of the
project are therefore of a more limited nature, leading possibly to a self-
standing PR reform project. These objectives are as follows:
(a)   improve the supervision, monitoring and control functions of PEs
through the strengthening, including training, and restructuring of DCSPPP;
(b)   improve the collection and circulation of PZ related information
through (i) the establishment of a management information system (MIS) at the
level of DCSPPP; and (ii) improvement of information provided by the PEs, and
especially of their accounting and finance departments; and
(c)   increase the autonomy and accountability of Executive Officers and
Board members of PBs through management and personnel policy training, new
selection criteria for PE managers, and the introduction of incentive and
penalty policies to improve PE managers' performance.
44.         The reform of DCSPPP has been the subject of a detailed diagnostic
study, financed under the project's PPF. The study concluded that the major
shortcomings of DCSPPP are due to its lack of authority to obtain crucial
information from the P3s, especially audits and budget control data. The lack
of a clear delineation of its responsibilities, especially vis-a-vis the
Privatization Committee and DCGTx, hinder DCSPPP to get access to information
required to exercise its control functions and to participate in decision
making, especially as regards the PBs' budgetary process. Moreover, DCSPPP
lacks the necessary human - auditors are in special need - and material
resources to fulfill its mandate. As a first order of business, the Government
is currently in the process of defining the respective roles of DCSPPP, the
Privatization Committee and DCGTx and interactions among them. The diagnosis
also came up with the following recommendations:
- prepare an inventory of all rules and regulations governing PBs;
- establish a new sub-directorate for legal affairs;
- reorganize DCSPPP as a result of its redefined mandate;
- implement a general training program for the entire department; and
- increase DCSPPP's human and material resources.
45.         For some time, DCGTX has prepared a computerized data base system
to collect, manage and treat data of the major 21 PEs. An agreement has been
reached between the concerned parties that the data base should be transferred
to DCSPPP within about one year after the start up of the project. Meanwhile,
DCSPPP staff will work with DCGTx in consolidating the existing data base and
extending it over time to most of the other PBs. DCGTx will play an important
role in transferring the data base and training DCSPPP personnel in this
regard.
46.         In order to make the process for the selection of PE executives
and board members more transparent, DCSPPP will establish a data base of
potential candidates. The relevant board members will be appointed by the
technical Minister in charge of the PE in question on the basis of their
qualification and experience. Similarly, the selection of PE executives will
take place exclusively on the basis of competence, thus doing away with past
practice of rewarding often unqualified politicians or civil servants.



- 24 -
47.         Proiect aunoort (US$ .8 million) The project will support thiu
phase of the PE reform process through the following studies and related
actions:
(i)   an inventory of current legislation governing PEs and
proposals to modify said legislation on the basis of the
recent Government privatisation policy;
(il)  a review of cross debts and transfers between the State
and PEs;
(iii) the elaboration of a performance based incentive and penalty
system for PE managers;
(iv)  the preparation of a training program for PE executives and
Board members;
(v)   the establishment of a data base at DCSPPP for the selection
and appointment of PE executives and Board members; and
(vi)  consolidation and transfer of the PE data base from DCGTx to
DCSPP.
Terms of reference for these studies have been prepared. In
addition, as part of the overall MUFP training program (see paras. 48 - 52),
the project will support a training program for DCSPPP staff, terms of
reference, which have already been elaborated by specialized training experts,
as well as critically needed office equipment.
MUFP Trainina Proaram
48.         The Minister of Finance has recognized that a large number of
senior civil servants of his department are in need of upgrading their skills
in order to better perform the tasks to which they are assigned. However,
rather than continuing past practices whereby ill-focussed and expensive
training, often consisting of useless overseas trips, is being provided, the
Minister has decided to apply a more systematic approach to ensure that
trainable people are trained and that training results are constantly
monitored. To this end, a training needs assessment study has been funded
under the PPF. This study- was based on a detailed review of the duties and
organization of MUFP directorates participating in the project and on
individual meetings with department directors, deputy directors and senior
staff and individual or small-group discussions with grade Al and A2 staff
(the consultant met with over 140 persons). The purpose of the interviews was
to determine the activities, organization, main products of the various
individuals and their working units and identify the major difficulties they
are encountering in meeting their respective mandates. The discussions focused
on the activity of each staff and on the skills they require to perform their
respective missions. The objective of the study, which was carried out with
the full support of the Minister of Finance and the senior staff of the
Ministry, was to prepare a four-year staff training plan and to identify the
means and budget resources by which it could be implemented.
49.         The main points brought to light are the following:
-     the functions formally defined in the regulations governing the
responsibilities of MEFP are unevenly performed by the
directorates;
-     priority is given to fulfill pressing ad-hoc demands (urgently
required by higher authority, deadlines to be met, etc.) with
little advance warning, little planning, and with little, if any,
follow up;
-     material resources are insufficient or nonexistent or poorly
organized and used (inadequate office equipment, poor maintenance,
limited, if any, access to key data bases);



- 25 -
-     staff motivation is low. There is little delegation and what
little there is, is not well defined;
-     there is a general feeling of lack of training; and
-     staff qualifications seem generally to be appropriate; there are
of course relative weaknesses in certain areas (macroeconomics,
audit, etc.), but the problem is primarily one of skills being
poorly applied, with inadequate follow-up.
50.         In light of the above, the training needs assessment study
concluded that a training plan had to be drawn up that would focus on the
following essential characteristics:
-     a general redynamization of senior NEFP staff;
-     the establishment of appropriate working methods so as to ensure
that said staff and the organizational unit of which they form
part make effective use of the existing technical skills;
-     training is essential for ensuring the success of the reforms
envisaged under the project;
-     training courses must be relevant to the work of those who
participate in them; and
-     collective training should, initially, be emphasized in order to
create "training-oriented" behavior in each of the directorates
participating in the project.
51.         During the discussion of the results of the training needs
assessment study with MEFP management, the following became apparent:
=     there is a very strong desire for training, as is evidenced by the
interest displayed by staff during meetings with the consultant
and also the fact that training is seen as both a sign of
recognition and an opportunity for motivation; and
=     the directors and deputy directors who spoke up at the meetings
consider it essential that implementation of the training plan
begin with them; moreover, they consider that training in
methodologies should have priority.
These reactions therefore serve to validate the broad lines of the
study's findings and the plan's approach, while also underscoring the need for
implementation of the plan to be started as soon as possible. For further
details see Attachment 1.
52.         Project Suport (US, 1.6 million). Based on the training needs
assessment study, which is available in Project Files, about 30 detailed
training modules for between lE0 and 200 staff of MEFP directorates
participating in the project have been elaborated. These modules are tailor
made to the concerned MEFP departments. With only very few exceptions, the
training courses will be conducted in RCI and involve RCI training
institutions such as ENSEA and CIRES as well as individual RCI trainers. To
ensure the coherence of the training program, a full time training expert will
be attached to the project management unit (see para. 72). He will be assisted
by an international training consulting firm.
Part II - Su=port to the Ministrv of Emplovment and Civil Service (NECS)
53.         The  Context.  The Ivorian civil service is costly, too large for
the needs of the country and low in productivity. The cost of the civil
service rose during the period 1980 to 1992 from 34.4 percent to 48 percent of
overall Government revenues and from 21.8 percent to 26.5 percent of overall
expenditures. The wage bill accounts for about half of the operating budget
of the Government. The mean salary in 1993 is CFAP 120,000 per month or
around 10 times GDP per person; teachers, whose salary scales are even higher
than those of other civil servants and who represent 49 percent of civil
servants, receive mean salaries of CFAF 174,000 per month. This upward trend
prevailed, despite wage freezes in 1982, 1986 and from 1988 onwards, because



- 26 -
controls have not been implemented over automatic promotion to higher
categories or over the constantly increasing cost of benefits.
54.         The Government has proven unable to control the size, composition
or cost of the civil service because of lack of coordination and fragmentation
of responsibilities among the Payroll Service of MEFP, the MECS, the
individual ministerial personnel management services and the central computer
unit. This situation has meant that the Government has been operating without
the procedures and systems which are necessary in order to ensure consistent
control over all aspects of civil service management. This fragmentation
makes it difficult to estimate the total number of civil servants; the latter
are divided into many categories within the public and parapublic sector. The
February 1991 census of the basic civil service, which was funded by the Bank
-under a PPF- and by France, counted 118,000, which includes only the core of
permanent civil servants and employees of certain public administrative bodies
or commercial agencies. It excludes the large number of daily paid workers,
estimated at about 16,000 at the end of 1992, who are not civil servants;
military personnel of about 14,000; about 5,000 technical assistants; and the
large parapublic sector which comprises about 58,000 employees.
55.         Morale and productivity of the civil service have declined over
the last decade. Despite the nominal increase in the wage bill, the latter
declined in real terms by about 10 percent from 1980 to 1992. The instability
triggered by this phenomenon and the prospect of little hope for improvement
in the medium term encouraged several unfortunate trends within the civil
service, includingt a high degree of mobility as people strove to move to
positions with better benefits and perquisites; movement out of the core civil
service into a better paid teaching position or by secondment to a public
agency or a state enterprise; increased absenteeism combined with weak and
indifferent management and supervision; general neglect of all aspects of
civil service management and thus an increasingly unproductive environment in
which the normal channels of communication and normal distribution of tasks to
line managers are replaced by ad hoc and informal arrangements.
56.         Government Policy. The present Government has taken a series of
measures in order to address the serious problems of the Civil Service. In
November 1990, it reduced the number of ministries from 40 to 20, cut the size
of Ministers' offices and reduced the number of Directions and Sous-Directions
by about a third. The Government has also changed to a five day week, moved
to enforce attendance during working hours, and begun reactivating
disciplinary measures which had fallen into disuse in recent years. In his
pronouncements on the reform program, the Prime Minister has constantly
stressed the importance of efficient management, productive work, and the
enforcement of disciplinary procedures and he has called upon civil servants
to commit themselves to a high level of public service. In a major policy
document, the Minister of MECS announced in May 1991 the Government's
intention to reduce over the next few years the core Civil Service to 90,000
from the level of 118,000 established by the census done in the spring of 1991
and to persevere in its general efforts to enhance efficiency.
57.         The February 1991 census marked the first step in the Government's
efforts to assert control over the size and cost of the civil service. The
subsequent activities, funded by the PPFs and the project itself, are intended
to ensure that the solid base established by the census is maintained and
strengthened and that additional measures are put in place for a leaner and
more efficient administration. Some measures have already been taken in 1992
and others are being taken in 1993 to reduce the wage bill. Thus, the General
Statutes of the Civil Service were revised in September 1992 which calls,
among others, for the automatic retirement after 30 years of service. This
measure will result in some 4100 civil servants leaving the civil service in
1993, earlier than previously anticipated.
58.         The Government's main objectives in the area of Civil Service
reform are:



- 27 -
(a)  to exploit fully the opportunity provided by the existence of the
data base created by the census in order to rationalize and align
the computerized information sources of MECS and the Payroll
Division of the MEFP. This effort will entail the establishment of
an integrated multiple-access data base. Funding therefor is being
provided by France;
(b)  to design and implement systems and procedures for the control of
the wage-bill and the civil service establishment; and
(c)  to undertake preliminary studies for the planning of an overall
reform of the management of the civil service.
59.         Project Supnort (US$ 4.2 million). Project support will focus on
designing and implementing measures to control the wage-bill and the size of
the civil service establishment, elements which have a direct impact on the
size and evolution of the wage-bill. With this objective in mind, the
following activities are to be undertaken, one of which (a) has already
commenced with support from the PPF:
(a)   a study of the overall staffing plans of the various ministries
and other public sector entities;
(b)   an analysis of job requirements. All ministries, with the
exception of those responsible for defense, security, interior,
and justice - representing only 5 percent of the civil service -
are included in the study;
(c)   a study of the system of allowances and benefits; and
(d)   a plan for enhancing the management capacity of the Establishment
Control and Programming Division of NECS.
Terms of reference for the above studies have been prepared and bidding
documents are under preparation.
60.         Studies (a) and (b), which are expected to be completed by end
1994, are intended to determine the needs of the Government in terms of the
appropriate match between types and number of staff as well as the tasks or
functions of the Government. The studies will prepare the ground for matching
existing personnel with perceived needs and for creating a personnel planning
and forecasting system based on new staffing plans or cadre oraaniaue. It
should result in a leaner and more efficient Government. Civil servants no
longer required will be included in a voluntary departure program.
61.         The allowances and benefits accorded to civil servants account for
between 25 and 34 percent of gross salaries. The number of these allowances
and benefits has grown quickly in recent years as the Government has proven
unable to resist the pressures generated by its refusal to increase basic
salaries. The system is a source of injustice and abuse which must be brought
under control as soon as possible. This is the objective of study (c). As a
first step, the Government has already decided to replace car and housing
allowances of senior civil servants by a less costly indemnity system.
62.         Finally, study (d) is intended to equip the Government with the
skills needed to implement and manage its personnel planning and forecasting
system. The program includes an operational audit of the Division and the
elaboration of an institutional development and training plan. These efforts,
for which terms of reference, work-plans, and timetables have been prepared,
are expected to start shortly and continue well into the period covered by the
project itself.
63.         Another objective to be met by the project is the completion of
preparatory studies and related acttvities for an overali civil service reform



- 28 -
effort. This initiative would support analyses of those aspects of civil
service reform which will be carried out during a later stage. They includes
(a)   reform of the procedures, rules and regulations pertaining to the
management of the careers of civil servants: appointment,
evaluation, grading, promotion, training, retirement, salary
policy, etc. The results of study (b) are expected to provide an
important input for this reform; and
(b)   definition and implementation of a national training plan for the
employees of the Government.
64.         All in all, this component of the project will provide funding for
75 person/months of international consultant services required for the
carrying out of the studies referred to in para. 59 as well as five
person/years in long term international advisory services to assist the
Government in the implementation of the studies' recommendations. The project
will also provide critical office equipment to two key MECS directorates.
Microfilms, micro-computers, books and periodicals will also contribute to the
modernization of an administrative data bank which has been inoperative for
the last four years.
65.         Management of the Civil Service Component.  The Director of the
Studies Department of the NECS coordinates this project component. He will be
assisted by two foeeign long-term advisors, funded under the project, terms of
reference for whom have already been drawn up.
Part III - Sumcort to the Ministr= of Justice
66.         Introduction.  The Government has come to realize for some time
that an efficient and transparent legal and judiciary system is a key
ingredient of a well functioning economic management system and a revival of
private sector initiative. Of particular importance is the fact that, over
the last ten years, the judiciary system has been functioning poorly, and
failed to provide confidence to the private sector. The three main problems
afflicting the legal and judiciary system are:
(a) the inadequacy of commercial laws, many of which date back to the
colonial period, with respect to RCI's economic environment. The
legal framework is mostly outdated and too complex for modern
business transactions, particularly in the areas of contract and
credit;
(b)   commercial laws are not effectively implemented, and enforcement
is inefficient. Access to the courts is costly and procedures are
time consuming. Investors lack confidence that their claims and
transactions will be respected and enforced. Delays in
enforcement and uncertainty as to the outcome of a judgement
increase the risk of economic transactions as well as their cost.
The problem of bad administration of the judicial system is due to
several factors: (i) a shortage of magistrates because of the
overall budget crunch, and poor initial training. Magistrates are
not specialized and this is particularly critical in commercial
matters where many judges have difficulty in understanding
accounting and banking techniques; (Li) complex procedures which
allow defendants, such as a delinquent borrower, to object to
payment injunctions and cause delays in court proceedings for
several years; and (iii) the budget of the Ministry of Justice is
insufficient to allow for proper administration of justice.
Although access to the courts is expensive, available resources
are poorly managed. Magistrates are paid civil servants salaries
which are not sufficiently attractive to shield them against
corruption attempts. An inadequate budget leads to poor working



- 29 -
conditions in the office of the Clerk of the Court which is in
charge of the administrative side of trials. Court documents are
typed by underpaid personnel working with rudimentary equipment.
Documents are presented to the judges for review and signature
with long delays. Quite often they need to be retyped and are of
poor quality; and
(c) the lack of information regarding applicable regulations and
procedures reduces transparency and leads to inconsistent
treatment of investors or claimants. This contributes to the lack
of confidence by the private sector in the commercial law system.
67.        Government Strategv. As part of its program to improve the
business environment in RCI and in order to support economic development, the
Government has adopted in 1991, a three-year program for the strengthening of
the legal and judicial system. Structural reforms under the program are
progressing well. However, physical investments and recruitment of additional
magistrates are behind schedule because of budgetary constraints. The program
aims at strengthening the Ministry of Justice in the following areas:
(a)   design of measures for a more efficient use of the limited
resources available and strengthening of the existing structures,
particularly in the areas of budgetary planning and
inspection/control of judiciary servicesl
(b)  an action plan to strengthen the court system outside of Abidjan
has been prepared. It provides for the creation of courts in
secondary cities, an increase in the judiciary personnel (judges,
clerks, support staff), and the provision of essential equipment;
and
(c)   reorganization of the offices of the Clerk of the Court which is
one of the weakest points of the judiciary system in RCI. Their
lack of efficiency is the major reason for the long delays in the
issuance of final judgements and the resulting bottlenecks in the
system. The reorganization aims at changing the status of the
personnel to increase their motivation, computerizing the services
for a more efficient follow up of court proceedings, preparing
computerized standard forms and reviewing the structure and
management of the fees paid to the Clerks. Such fees are paid to
initiate proceedings, they are non-reimbursable and applied to the
amount claimed (not to the amount adjudicated or recovered) which
has the effect of discouraging large creditors such as banks to
sue delinquent borrowers. The execution of the reform of the
office of the Clerk of the Court is a condition for the release of
the second tranche of the FY 92 Financial Sector Adjustment
Program (Loan No. 3208 IVC).
68.         Proiect Sumoort (US$ 1.6 million). At the specific request of the
Prime Minister, the French Ministry of Cooperation and Development (MCD) and
IDA have been requested to provide support to the execution of the reform
program of the Ministry of Justice. An MCD grant in an amount equivalent to
about $1.3 million has been recently put in place. It covers the following
areas which were prepared in close collaboration with IDA (support was
provided under the PPF)s
(a)  Reform of the Office of the Clerk of the Court.  The MCD grant
will finance the modernization of the offlce of the Clerk at the
lower and appeals courts in Abidjan and Dabou, as well as the
training of the staff. ThLi includes acquisition of computers and
software specially designed for the work of the Clerks. The
Credit would finance additional computers and software for the
labor sectlon of the lower court of Abidjan, and the commercLal
section of the same court which is to be established to allow for
the specialization of judges in commercial matters;



- 30 -
(b)   Trainina.  This component would address, by order of priority, the
training needs of judges. The MCD grant will finance the training
in France of a team of trainers from the ministry, support the
initial training of judges, and organize specialized seminars for
judges in Abidjan. The credit would extend training activities to
clerks, lawyers in key ministries, attorneys and notaries through
the organization of seminars in specialized areas of commercial
law (banking law, maritime transport...).  Training would take
place in Abidjan at the existing judicial section of the Ecole
Nationale d'Administration; and
(c) Manaaement of Legal and Judicial Data. This component will be
carried out under the supervision of the directorate of the
Ministry of Justice responsible for documentation. It includes the
collection of legal data, its reproduction and dissemination;
(i)   Collection of local datas the Ministry of Justice has set up
a computerized legal data bank. It will be developed under
the project to include all legislation, regulations and
cases; and
(ii) Dissemination of legal and iudicial data: various codes
governing economic development will be prepared and
published. The project would also finance the acquisition of
law books for the tribunals, legal training centers, and key
ministries. In order to increase the transparency of the
judicial system, an effort must be made to publish court
decisions. The only Ivorian law periodical is the Revue
Ivoirienne de Droit whose publication stopped in 1986. It
publishes cases with commentaries and articles of doctrine
on Ivorian law. Its resumption of service would be supported
by the Project.
69.         In addition, the project gould finance the following activities
which are not covered by the MCD grant:
(a)   Modernization of Economic Leoislation.  The project would support
the revision of the commercial code, the company law, certain
provisions of the civil code dealing with contracts and the labor
legislation. The need for modernizing and simplifying these areas
of the law had been identified during the preparation of the FY 92
Competitiveness and Regulatory Reform Loan 8SCAL. They are also
on the agenda of a regional initiative to harmonize business
legislation in the Franc Zone. The project would finance the
works of the Ivorian experts participating In regional workshops.
In addition, the project would provide the necessary technical
assistance to develop new areas of the law such as computer law;
(b)   Zatablishment of an Arbitration Court for Commercial Disputes.
The Government has prepared a legal framework for arbitration of
commercial disputes. The Chamber of Commerce and Industry of
Abidjan has established an arbitration center to which the project
would provide logistical support and assistance for its initial
start-up; and
(c)   Sunnort to the Sunreme Court. The Supreme Court which is
conatitutionally separate from the Ministry of Justice is the
highest court in the judicial system. The project would extend
the computerization program of the Office of the Clerk of the
Court (described above) to the three sections of the Supreme Court
in order to strengthen its efficiency, and provide training for
its judges in commercial and financial matters. Also, the project
would support the puDlication of the decisions of the Supreme
Court to ensure their adequate dissemination among lower courts,
and develop doctrine.



- 31 -
70.        Management of the Loaal and Judicial ReforL Component. A unit has
been establiohed, with assistance from the PPJ, within the office of the
Minister of Justice to monitor the execution of the legal and judiciary
component of the PAGE. It is headed by the Technical Advisor of the Minister
and includes a research assistant and a secretary. The project would continue
to provide logistical support to the unit which falls under the overall
coordination of the project management secretariat described below.
Section C: Prolect Administration and ImleMentation
Part I  Pro1ect Managsment (US$ .4 million)
71.        A project management secretariat (PMS) has been established at the
level of the office of the Minister of NEFP. It is presided by the Deputy
Director of the office (Cabinet) of the Minister as project coordinator and
consists of a full time MECS project administrator as well as the two
coordinators of the project components falling under the responsibility of
MEFP and the Ministry of Justice. The administrator will be assisted by a
full time project accountant. Given the importance of training and computer
equipment provided under the project, the PWS will include (i) a full time
expert in charge of the project's training component (see paras. 48 to 52),
and (ii) a part time expert in charge of following the installation and
operation of computers. The PMS will also recruit support personnel or other
such staff as may be necessary for the efficient operation of the PMS.
72.         The project will provide the PMS with the financial and material
resources necessary to carry out its mandate in the most effective way. PMS
operating costs, including salaries of PSM staff and office space, will be
financed from Government's counterpart contribution to the project. A project
launching workshop will be organized in Abidjan soon after credit
effectiveness. The workshop will focus, among others, on agreed methods for
recruitment and periodic evaluation of locally and internationally recruited
technical assistance. A smaller seminar will be organised in Project Year 2
to draw the lessons learned from project implementation to date and agree on a
timetable for implementation of remaining project activities.
73.         Coordinaion. The coordination of all project activities,
including those falling under the MECS and the Ministry of Justice, will be
the responsibility of the MEFP Coordinator.
Part II. Procurement, Disbursement and ReEortina
74.         Procuremnt   IDA and the Government attach high priority to
mobilizing as much Ivorian expertise as possible which Is considerable by
regional standards. It is not possible, however, to rely entirely on the
local market to supply the expertise needed for all project activities. The
qualifications, experience, and terms and conditions of employment of all
consultants would be in accordance with Bank Guidelines for the use of
consultants and would be submitted to the Bank for approval. The threshold of
IDA's prior review has been set at the equivalent of US$ 100,000 for
consultant contracts awarded on the basis of a short list. However, prior
review will apply to terms of reference assignments and single source
contracts regardless of the value of the contract.
75.         Purchases to be financed from the proposed credit will be made
according to Bank Guidelines: (i) on the basis of international competitive
bidding for packages of computers, copiers, data processing and other
equipment as well as major office supply (on annual basis); (ii) on the basis
of limited international bidding - limited to the manufacturers represented in
RCI; and (iii) on the basis of local competitive bidding for small office
equipment, limited office supplies and other equipment. Contracts valued in
excess of USS 30,000 equivalent but less than US$ 100,000 equivalent per
contract and up to an aggregate total of US$ 800,000 equivalent will be
awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to
IDA. Procurement of small items financed from the credit and estimated at less



- 32 -
than US$30,000 equivalent and up to an aggregate total of US$ 200,000
equivalent will be done locally (by shopping) after solicitation of quotations
from no fewer than three eligible suppliers. The threshold for IDA's prior
review has been set at the equivalent of US$ 30,000. For items under this
threshold an ex-post review will be carried out by IDA. Procurement
arrangements are summarized in Schedule B.
76.         Disburgement.  The project is expected to disburse over a four-
year period. All disbursements would be fully documented except for payments
against contracts of less than US$20,000 equivalent, which would be made on
the basis of 80S8 and retained in the PNS office for review by Bank
supervision missions and independent auditors. Disbursement arrangements are
summarized in Schedule B.
77.         $9oial Account. To expedite implementation, the Government will
establish a Special Account at Caisse Autonome dAmortissement (CAA) to be
operated as a revolving fund for the Bank's contribution to the project. This
account will be financed with an initial deposit of US$300,000 equivalent from
the proposed credit upon presentation of a withdrawal application and
replenished in amounts equivalent to US$100,000 on the basis of fully
doc.umented reimbursement applications except for contracts under US$20,000
equivalent, which will be replenished on the basis of SOD.
78.         The PMS will be responsible for preparing withdrawal applications
and SOEe to be submitted to IDA by the CAA and will indicate on the 803E the
nature and origin of any goods and the payment date. These would be retained
along with all other supporting relevant documentation (invoices, evidence of
shipment, evidence of payment, etc.) for review by Bank supervision missions
and by the independent auditors.
79.         Auditing. The PMS would maintain accounts to record all Project
expenditures, commitments and reimbursements in accordance with accepted
accounting principles. At negotiations, assurances would be obtained that
Project financial accounts would be audited annually, and that the audit
reports would be sent to IDA no later than six months after the close of the
fiscal year. Overdue audits would be considered grounds for suspension of
disbursements under the credit.
S0.         Renortino and Monitor$na.  In addition to the annual progress
reports and training and work programs to be submitted through the PS to the
Bank, the PWS wills (a) submit brief but substantive quarterly reports on
project implementation} (b) prepare an annual report summarizing progress in
all key project areas of activity and defining a work program with monitorable
outputs for the following year; and (c) submit a Project Completion Report to
the Bank no later than six months after the closing date of the loan.



- 33 -
1.          Training is a key aspect of the yMistry of Economy, Finance and Plan
(MEFP) component of the project. It focuses on those MEFP departments
parcipating in the proect, i.e. the Direction Geneale, du Plan (DGP), the Diroctin
Generale du Budget (DOB), and especially its Direction des Budgets et Comptes
(DBC), Direcdon des Invesdssements Pubfics (DIP), Direction du Contr6le du Sectur
Parapublique, de la Privatisaion et des Participatns DCPPP), and the Institut
National de la Statstique (INS). The taiing prgram is based on a detailed trning
needs assessment study which was caied out by speialized consultants, under PPF
inancing, between October 1992 and March 1993. The consultant eaboated about 30
fferent training modules for the four-year proect period whch are tailor made to
the needs of the MEFP deprtmts.
2.          At the outset, a taining module focsing on the diectors and depy
directors of the p r     de        has bee drawn up so as to make them
aware of the tran  needs of their staff and, thus, enhance the success of trning.
The first trng module, schedul  for Octb  an November 1993 should form the
basis for launcing all the subsequent taining modules. Subsequent courses, all of
which vary between 3 and 10 days and which may be followed by addition  courses
depending on the identificaton of additiond trinin needs, have been developed on
the basis of   ed  taining needs of the departments in questim. Topics include
work oranization, methods and namet project analysis; planning,
programming and budgeting cycle; accounting and auditing; geneal meconomics;
public finance; mico-informadque; sistics and national acounts; etc.
3.          Given the availability of qualified Ivorian tainers and training
institutions, most of the raining will be pmrvided by Ivorian natoals. Two Ivorian
institutions are of particular importance: the Ecole Nationale Superir de Statistique
et d'Economie Appliquee (ENSEA), a depatment of the University of Abidjan, and
the Centre Ivorien de Recherches       eat Sociales (CIRES), an Ivorian think
tanMl CIRES will also be suported by a grant from the African Capacity Bilding
Facility (ACBI), an actvity closely coordinaed with the proect.
4.          Given the compleity of the taning progam, a full time training
expert will form part of the Project Management Secretari (PMS). His task is to
implement the taining plan in accordce with the established principles and priorities
and to ensure that the necessay adjustments are made in accordance with any changes
in the responsibilities or orgaization of the diffent diect. Three potential
candidates with adequate experience have been idntfied. Given the inportance and



- 34 -
the ambitious scale of the four-year training program, a consultant expert will assist
with the implementaton of the progam and the in-service tining of the program
of cer.
5.          It is envisaged that the consultant services will be reduced over the
years. The asignment would be as follows:
-    in 1993: 16 weeks for sefttng up the taining for dirMcrs and deputy
diretrs (validation of progams, organizaton, evaluation) and for
prepaing the start of the 1994 tinin plan;
-    in 1994: 24 week (equivalent to the consultant working part time).
This would involve preaation of the 1995 training plan and the
evaluation of the 1993/94 plan;
-     1995: 14 weeks, including the mid-term review;
-    in 1996: five two-week missions; and
-    in 1997: 8 weeks, maidng a total of 72 weeks in all.
6.         The detailed training needs assessment study is available in Project
Files.



- 35 -
AtNAo 2
ECONOMIC MANAGIMENT PRQEC -RSDENT T                   NIC.AL MISANCE
Mu$yof E2MMapy       An expatie adviso v11 ars" the           4 person.-years
Fiumce and Plan (MEPP    Executive Secretary of the 'Technical
Direction Gnerale du     Budget Group", which consis of five
Budget (DOB)             MEFP diretoaes, and who reponts
diroctly to the Directur General du Budgot,
in the budgeay efm  process during th
four yeur period designed to consolidate e
budget, rtion   the budget system, and
raionali  MFP stuctm s and
*;~rgnzain _            !_                                             __      _
Ministr9 of Emnlovment   (i) An expatiate advisor will assist the  (i) 2 pson-yoas;
and Civil Service fMCS'  Direction to  nslate the rsdts of the
(i) Direction des Etudes et  studies on overall staffing plans of various    (ni) 4 person-yoars.
do POrganisation         ministries and the analysis of their job
Adm ostrative;            equrements into a pesannel planning and
(ii) Direction de la     forecasting system based on new sTag
Progammation et du       plans or c       i
Caotr6le des Effectifs.  (ii) A  eptriate advisor will assist the
Direction in carqing out an operdinad
audit to enhance its mnagement capacity;
in elaboraing an institutional development
and training plan; and assist in the
implementation f oither MECS related
studies funded under the projec.



*1   24 .1 a55l{.    51
e 
a s~ 
7~~~ :f JJ1I-
1..
*111  I    *!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t



-38 -
- 1 : Economic managemet mid implementation         - indque planning,       g       and budget (PPB) cycle
of economic reform suffer from              - inadequate and unreliable staistical data
weakesmm at differet levels:               - a parapublic sector which is not adequately motitored and thus represents a maor drain on public finamce
- a ovetblown and inefficient civil service
- weak legal and judiciay system that ampers overall economc development
(ii) Strengthen national system    Assistance to the Instittt National  Improve the reliability and  INS                 -5 persoWnmontlR of
of statistius and natonal     de la Sta-g   (INS):            timeiness of key staist   data                             intenational and 36
ccountsX                                       .and make them available to                                               person/month of local TA in
- support the h                   erested uss.                                             statistical oanztion, aalys
hitgrdi  of INS with particua                                                              and publicaion of aviable
emphasis on the timely                                                                     data, copute  system, and
piqsation of key statistical data                                                                   tumaterial supply
aid natil accounts ad their                                                                ad trning.
dibuiaon to main utilizers.
(iii) -  ov spevion,          Prpe:                           - Oval imprved PE eficiecy,  Directio du Contrle du        -11 person/mont  in
monitoring and control        - veo  of cuen PB               with resuting positive impact on    Sectemr Parapublic, de la    in ai  and 8
functos of p_arpublic                                        Spublic finnoe;                   Privatisation et des      peason/mondhs ill local TA;
enerpie (PE);                 - review of eoss debts ad                                        participations (DCSPPPP)   triing and selected material
trafer betwe  PEs and State;    - prepare PEs in productive     of the Minist of Finance.  supplies.
- imprv collecton ald         - imcentive and penalty sydem to   sectots for eventu  privatiat
citealati  of PE inform;   encourae PE Board mneabers'
_ inrease autonomy and       - tiing pogram  for PE
accotability of PB Executive   extives and Board membs.
Offiacrs and Boad memb
(Iv) Upgrade economic         Folowmg detailed trining needs   Impove the quality of MEFP      MEFP (cabinet du          30 modules of taior made
u _aawgnt skills of higher   assessmet study of 140 MEFP      higher level staff.             Ministre).                  tnig courses for bdwee
level staff of MEFP          higher level staff involved in                                                              150 and 200 higher level
departmts participating in    PAGE spowored deparmnts,                                                                   MEFP staff. Traning courses
projec                        support for a detled kaining                                                               vary between 3 and 10 days.
progranm for said staff.



i g    l                 {  |   .  
I.1Ii?*
*s  ttit f 
I            .1'i .                   fii



-40-
Economnic managementand- nadequate planning. prormming and budget (PPB) cyce
Of eoonomic fdorms suffet filouk            - indequte and unlia  statst   data
w_dmems at differn levels:                 - a paalic  cor which is not adequately mo_ rd  and thms _pests a mnjor dtan an public finanso
- a overblown and ineficient civil service
-weak legal and judiiary sysem dt hamp    ovel eonomic development
________            _                                                                                      _                                           I~~~'.~  i - & '   .'   
(U) modenize                  revision of co_mmcial oode,      _modnize and smplify legal      my                         - I5 personmoa  of
legislation labor code, ompany law, and the  frarework for private sector                                            consulting services in
law regarding sociebs en        aeivitis                                                   repectv   fields of ezpesue
difficulteas;
.          ~~~local ding aod
prepation of compur law ndo
accompanying decrees___                                   ____                         ____
(iii) intodcton of abitrbtion   support th caion of an        - offer to the business community   M                       - 3 penc/moonts of
aratm center in te Chembre   a credible altnative to the court                             consdting services, and
de Commerm  et d'lndutie of     system for the semn of                                       cqon of es
AU                              co_mmeal dispu.                                            eq-



|- -:--<S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
i lA ll 1Xt_ I
i~~ |i i. XL



-43 -
(iii) Direction du ContrOle du oecteur   (a) Completion of an  (a) Intoduce revised PE   (a) Adopt revised PE        (b) Complebt caring up
PaMLic. de IaPrvatiation at des    invaitoy of laws and       legislatin;                leislation;                 of cross debts and eaume
b    !mdm D       Pregulations governing PBs;  (b) contnue review of css  (b) clear up fh    coss                   th at no futher crs debts
(b) reiew cross debts;    debts and iit  first       debts;                       s;
Te component would be consdered a   (c) daboe system of       rund of cleaing up debt;   (c) apply system hroghoiut   (c) ontine to apply
soace if at the end of              performae based           (c) introduce system on a  PEs;                       sydem toghout PBr.
implementation                     incve and penalty          trial basis is a sdected   (d) conine to make use of   (d) continue to mak us of
system;                   number of PEs;             data  ie n selecting and    data bass;
(a) legilati  governig the paapubli  (d) start draw up data base   (d) make use of data base    appointiwg PE executives and  (e) cote to keep data
ene  (P) sector has been revised  for PE executives and       in selecting and appointing   Board members;           base up to date.
to take account, amonag ot, of the    Board members;          new PE executives and      (e) keep PE data base up to
recent pdvatinston progm;           (e) consolidate PE data    Board members;            dae.
(1) CroS debts between the State and    base, train DCSPPP staff in  (e) keep PB data base up to
PEs ae cleared up;                 its use and transfer dat   date.
(c) a system of perfomanc based     b    fmm DCGTx to
hicntiv and penalty sstem for PE    DCSPPP.
execuives and Board members is in
plo and applied;
(d) a ddat baa. for selecto and
appointmet of PE ecutv  and
Boad mmbr is in place;
(e) the PB dat base is conslidaed
and trsfrred from DCGTx to
DCSPPP.



-44-
(iv) Thjjag                         Thining of directors and  Continus taining of the    Contiumus tiing.            Connuo   aini
sub-di_ectors of MBPP     typ desribed in the
Tkm omponent wotdd b couddered a   depapicipatig mn   documet do synthese,
ucoas if at do and of _opleamteli    the puiect bas been      dated Match 1993, of th
peiod MbPP staff paricipat  in dh   completd to  ake 1em       etuds do   o".
project are in a positon to flly    aware of the taining needs
pem thei resetv duties and,         of dbeit daff and %o
*  thus,                         ~~~~~~~benfit they will draw
fhm such taning.
(a) the P=nig, pregraing,
budget ceyce is functioning
Papedr.
(6) relable and up4to-dat statisic
aOd naboad accounts ae
(c) thr is an adequate follow up of
te PB sector.
Ministry of Employment and Civil   (a) Rtioaizaion and        (a) Establishment of       (a) Maintain an up-to-date    (a) Maintain an up-to-date
SONiwe (BCS)                       oagment of the             interatd payroll/personel  data b                      data baso;
computeried inlomai       files multipleccess data    (b) implement              (b) evalwe ovrment
Civil fSeic Reform                  sources of MECS and       base;                        of ewue                     rgatin  and
Payoll dhun of MECS;   (b) finalization of           des postes and contine      reoymen pogam;
71e component would be considered a   (6) completion of UN     qualitative phase of etude   reornization of cenal    (c) overall number of civil
succs if at di end of implementaton  quantitive phase of 'etude    des postes';          Goverment, includinig a     servants and Governzt
p~jden                                s postes';              (c) stabt to apply         daff redeployment prgm;   wage bil reduced on UN
(c) nitiaio of study of   ro etions of study    (c) apply nw alowane and   basis of 'etude des postes.
(a) a unified data base of do payroll  alowa  and benefits;   of allowances and benefits.   benefits scheme;
and p    _onn  files is m place and kept  (d) intitiationof qualtatve                    (d) initate volutary
up-to-date;                         phe of *etdo des                                     depatue progr
(6) UN Goerment has ben             postess.
redstued in such a way that
functions and saffing of vanous
inisttie hxve boee stmlined;
(¢) e system of allowances and
benefits has been reiewed and
nmodifled Sad
(4d) U  Govemen wage bil ha been
reduced                                                                                    _     _      _



-45 -
____________                                                 .          ,        ,                 VT  ktI           :      ';         '
Ministry of Jios                    Mainain satistical data on   (i) An adequte number of   (i) Staistical daa is kept up   (i) Statistical data is kept
court prcedigs to:        judges hae received        to dae                      up to date;
Law md idonlefom                   t( identify wbere detays   specalized training in     (ii) leisao    tion         (i) deays in cost
ocur,                      "droit des affairs' and   applica  to compnies,       pwroeings redced by -
Ib component would be conidered a   (ii) help ptepaie taining  Odit eccoomniW;           bankupty and labor bas      %;
success if at th. end of            pg s                      (ii) statistical data is kept    been  viedfdeveloped to  (iii) work    coimn    of
cmnbffim.                                             up to date;                better reflect econonic    judges (osta.
(iii) delays in court     ralies and seps have been   availability of adequte
i) wokig coons of judges have                                 proceding reduced by       takn fr taiing in tm        documenaio) have
imroed;                                                       30%.30%.eued-
d.issmtion f swl
fi) dlays in court proceedings bavelgaainaglto has
iv) kuoieg of judge i comuKrial,
and fln.cia mada , h  beoo
*d~~od∞
v) bla fat foir pva sec
rectities.bie   ~ ~ i



'-46-^
ghart I
Nfnhstry of Econmm, Finance. and Plan
greanlzatifn Chart of DeDartunts narti riiatlna in PAGE
Direction 66n*rmle du Plan |fr i i itfn adn65bFe dU  ]udw
(rW)                                                                    (06)
Direction du Plan et        Direction de la                           Direction des              Direction des            Direction du ContrBte
du D6v.Loppement            Conjoncture et de                         Budgets et                 Investissements          du Secteur ParapubIfc,
REgional (DPDR)              la PrOvision                             Comptes (DOS)              Publics (DIPS)           de Is Privatisation et
Economique (DCPE)                                                                             de Partic petiom (OCSPPP)
Sous-Direction       Sous-Direction de ta
de la                Prevision du Budget
ConeJoture           Econamdque (SOPUE)
(SDC)



