Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24060
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-25030)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 17 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
FOR AN
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
April 25, 2002
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = CFAF
US$ 1 = CFAF 50 as of May 1993
US$ 1 = CFAF 740 at ICR, April 2002
FISCAL YEAR
January I December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BTOR            Back to Office Report
CI              Cote d'Ivoire
CIRES           Centre International de Recherches Economiques et Sociales
CSR             Civil Service Reform
DAF             Department of Administration and Finance
DCPE            Director de la Conjoncture et Planification Economique
DO              Development Objective
ENSEA           Ecole Nationale de Statistiques et Economie Appliqude
ICR             Implementation Completion Report
ID             Institutional Development
IDA             International Development Association
INS             Institut National de Statistique
MECS            Ministry of Employment and Civil Service
MEFP            Ministry of Economy Finance and Plan
MIS             Management Information System
MJ              Ministry of Justice
OHADA           Organization pour I 'Harmonization des Droits d'Affairs
PAGE            Projet d'Appui a la Gestion Economique et Financiere
PE              Public enterprises
PMS             Project Management Secretariat
PPF             Project Preparation Facility
PSR             Project Supervision Report
QSA             Quality of Supervision Assessment
QAG             Quality Assurance Group
RCI             Republique de Cote d'Ivoire
SIGFIP         Integrated Financial Management System
TOR             Terms of Reference
TfL             Task Team Leader
UNDP            United Nations Development Program
Vice President:  Callisto Madavo
Country Manager/Director:  Mamadou Dia
Sector Manager/Director:  Brian Levy
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Rogerio Pinto



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
COTE D'IVOIRE
ECONOMIC MANAGEMEENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT TA
CONTENTS
Page No.
1.   Project Data                                                                 1
2.   Principal Performance Ratings                                                1
3.   Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry      2
4.   Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                         4
5.   Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                           7
6.   Sustainability                                                               8
7.   Bank and Borrower Performance                                                9
8.   Lessons Learned                                                             12
9.   Partner Comments                                                            13
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             15
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             16
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             18
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             19
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             20
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                21
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            22
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID:    P001187                                     Project Name:   ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Team Leader:  Rogerio F. Pinto                             TL Unit:      AFT2
ICR Type: Core ICR                                         Report Date: April 25, 2002
1.    Project Data
Name: ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                     L/C/TF  IDA-25030
Number:
Country/Departnent.j COTE D'IVOIRE                                             Region:  Africa Regional
Offce
Sector/subsector.  KY - Other Economic Policy
KEY DATES
.                      I Original          | Revised/Actual
PCD:      07/04/1987                           Effective:  03/09/1993           03/09/1993
Appraisal:    06/20/1991                              MTR:
Approval:    05/25/1993                             Closing:  06/30/2000           06/30/2000
Borrower/Implementing Agency: | GOVERNMENT/MINISTRY OF FINANCE/CIVIL SERVICE
Other Partners:  French Government, UNDP
STAFF                       Current                     At Appraisal
Vice President:             Callisto Madavo            Edward Jaycox
Country Manager:            Mamadou Dia                 Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Manager:             Brian Levy                  Ernesto Derbez
Team Leader at ICR:         Rogerio Pinto               Franz Kaps
ICR Primary Author:         Rogerio Pinto
2.    Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
[HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome:      U
Sustainability:   UN
Institutional Development Impact:  M
Bank Performance:     S
Borrower Performance:     S
Q AG if available)                ICR
Quality at Entry:                                s
Project at Risk at Any Time:  No



3.   Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The key objectives or expected outcomes of the Economic Management TA Project (Projet d'Appui a
la Gestion Economique et Financiere- PAGE) were to assist Government in creating "institutional capacity"
necessary for implementing economic policy measures, by establishing a more efficient and leaner
administration, capable of setting the stage for a restoration of RCIs competitiveness, growth and
creditworthiness. This entailed achieving certain outputs as: (i) promoting long-term improvement in
economic management through budgetary and public enterprise reforms, (ii) strengthening institutional
capacity in civil service administration while preparing the ground for reducing Government's wage bill, (iii)
strengthening the legal and judiciary apparatus so as to improve overall economic development. By
supporting a common agenda of macroeconomic reforms drawn up by the Government, the project would
foster improved coordination among various Government departments and agencies. In addition, the project
would be a vehicle for bringing about improved coordination amongst donors, notably with France and
UNDP, in their assistance programs in support of economic management. The project would also make use of
the considerable pool of existing national expertise to assist in the execution of key project components.
These objectives were set at a time when expatriate resident advisors were being phased out and government
was turning to national cadres for technical work.
Objectives were clear and central to Government's and the Bank's strategy of assistance to the
country. The project explicitly addressed the key finding of the assessment conducted by Government in-
regards to its capacity for undertaking economic management: the significant competency gap both in terms
of human skills and technology. In this respect the project was very clear. On another level, the project also
sought to correct some disconnects in key fiscal functions as the harmonization of the recurrent and
investment budgets, and the control of the size of government's work force and the wage bill.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Objectives were not revised
3.3 Original Components:
Under the Ministry of Economy Finance and Plan (MEFP)
* Planning, Programming and Budgeting
* National Accounts and Statistics
* Para-public Enterprise Reform
* Training Program
Under the Ministry of Employment and Civil Service (MECS), Civil Service reform (CSR)
* Personnel Database
* Wage Bill Reduction
Under the Ministry of Justice
* Legal and Judicial Reform
Under the Ministry of Economy Finance and Plan
* Project Management
At the time, these components fit well under the general category of economic management.
Although they were not all operationally interdependent, they captured the key functions to target under this
-2 -



category. The Civil Service reform component was included because of the substantial impact of the wage
bill on public finance, hence the links with the budget, and because capacity for economic management, to a
large extent hinges on the efficiency of the service. Ideally however, Civil Service reform of the type pursued
should have been a separate free-standing project as its technical content is quite distinct from the others,
contributing to a more focused set of interventions and mitigating project complexity. The same could also be
argued for the legal and judicial reform.
Components in the project originated from institutional assessments conducted by Government and
their inclusion in the project contributed to their ownership by Government. This feature was in response to
lessons drawn from earlier projects that did not succeed because components were chosen by the Bank with
little participation from host authorities.
3.4 Revised Components:
There were no formal revisions of components, although the activities of some changed during
execution. For example under the MEFP component the data base and macro economic model envisaged to
reside in the ENSEA (Ecole Nationale de Statistiques et Economie Appliqu6e) and the CIRES (Centre
International de Recherches Economiques et Sociales) were moved to DCPE (Director de la Conjoncture et
Planification Economique) Also, the project addressed the need to change the by-laws of the lNS, and the
extension of training to civil servants of category B, both areas not foreseen in the original plan of
implementation. The CSR component added the strengthening of the "Inspection General d'Etat" and good
governance as part of the overall goal of the component. The Legal Judicial Reform component included the
adoption of OHADA (Organization pour I 'Harmonization des Droits d'Affairs) standards as a key objective
under the commercial law activities, also not foreseen at the time of project preparation. Finally, the public
enterprise reform component became limited to revising the legal and regulatory framework for the PE sector
and setting up an information system and data base on PEs, their managers and especially in regards to
monitoring cross debts among them.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Preparation of this project preceded the Bank's practice of QAG's Quality of Entry Assessments.
However, a Quality of Supervision Assessment was conducted in 1999, shortly before the project closed.
Entry was characterized by: (a) a solid albeit lengthy preparation, based on a country driven diagnosis of
organizational and technical issues affecting the performance of key economic management institutions; (b) a
strategic technical focus -- not institutional -- framed in a clear set of goals and performance indicators with
target dates for the gradual achievement of component objectives; and (c) strong ownership by government
and a collaborative rapport with the Bank's project team at its inception. These factors and the timing of the
launch, when government had become more reliant on its own cadres, as opposed to expatriate experts,
provided a favorable context for the project's inception. Notwithstanding, at entry the preparation team failed
to realistically assess the complexities of introducing information technology on a large scale into most
components. The management of the changing technological environment, the demands on procurement of
hardware and software were underestimated, causing considerable delays in implementation.
The design of individual components was straightforward, albeit somewhat ambitious in the scope of
intended achievements. Taken as a whole, the design can be faulted for not having properly assessed the
institutional intensity of implementation and the demands it placed on the core government agencies.
Diversity of components and of participating agencies also strained the capacity of government to carry out an
integrated implementation of the project. The first component was at the core of economic management
however, the others were accessory to it and fell outside of the institutional purview of the MEFP. The
integrated management of the project under a single project management unit in the MEFP called for a level
of inter-agency coordination that proved problematic during execution. Moreover, the design failed to factor
-3 -



in the proper set of incentives and rules of engagement among implementing ministries, which would have
facilitated interagency coordination. The favorable context at entry and a strong initial phase of supervision
provided initial assurances that the project would succeed in meeting its development objectives. On the
basis of these considerations, quality of entry is rated as satisfactory.
4.   Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Although the project's stated objective was to achieve "institutional capacity': in effect it pursued
"technical capacity" to support its intended outputs such as improvement in budgetary and public enterprise
reforms, capacity in civil service administration, reduction of Government's wage bill and strengthening the
legal and judiciary apparatus, so as to improve overall economic development As the project did achieve the
important output of a level of technical capacity by government to undertake economic management and
implementation of economic policies, it is rated satisfactory in this limited sense of institutional capacity.
However, the central outcome objective of bringing about a system of rules and incentives that would harness
the acquired technical capabilities -- as "institutional development or capacity (ID) " is now understood -- was
achieved to a lesser degree and the project is therefore rated as marginally unsatisfactory in its outcome.
Among the reasons that may have accounted for the institutional capacity shortfall during project execution is
the alleged lack of continuous support by Government to the needed policy, and institutional changes in the
ministries concerned. Moreover, there were no significant changes of project content or design when it
became apparent that the institutional capacity required to sustain the acquired technical capabilities was not
being achieved. Instead, Bank supervision called for tighter and better project management, clearly not an
adequate response to that finding. Furthermore, the Bank appealed for a greater level of commitment on the
part of government, which was hesitating to move from studies to policy and organizational change.
Delays in project execution were attributed to the shortcomings of project management and Bank
supervision, mainly failure to adhere to the performance indicators and timetable laid out clearly in the project
document. For example, the successful achievement of a unified budget-a central objective of the first
component of the MEFP - was only achieved towards the end of the project. The combined outcomes of the
components support the satisfactory rating on the overall achievement of the project's objective.
4.2 Outputs by components:
MEFP Component.
The first sub-component under this component was the rationalization of the budgetary system. This
goal was achieved satisfactorily in that a unified budget, based on a revised and clearer nomenclature and
procedures, was reached in 1999, long after the set target date. The unified budget now rests on more rational
and transparent allocation of funds, driven by more reliable macroeconomic analysis and revenue forecasting.
Moreover, the related objective of a higher level of integration between the recurrent and investment budgets
was also achieved. I
The second sub-component was intended to revamp and strengthen the National Statistics Institute
(INS) so that it would deliver more reliable and timely statistics and national accounts. The outcome of this
sub-component was unsatisfactory because to date the national accounts have not been fully updated and
reliability continues to be questionable. While the by-laws of the INS were in effect revised, a master statistics
plan and a committee of users were established, the end result of reliable and timely statistics are yet to be
While the up-stream budget process was the objective intended at the time, current practice and standards point to
down-stream expenditure management, a goal actively being pursued by government at present.
- 4 -



achieved. This component was singled out by the borrower as having received the least technical back-stop
from the Bank during supervision.
The third sub-component on monitoring of public enterprises (PE) was also unsatisfactory in terms
of the intended end results. While the legal framework for the sector was revised, its application continues to
be problematic. Cross-debts among PEs were assessed but continued monitoring is required for sustainability.
The intended systems of rewards and sanctions, and the database of competences for the selection of PE
managers were designed but never put into effect. Finally, the computerized system to support the monitoring
and oversight of PEs was also designed but because of its complexity, application awaits simplification and
training on its use. Government is now planning to up-date and implement the system on its own.
The last sub-component on the training of staff concerned with economic management was largely
hailed as very successful as it trained more staff than originally planned and contributed to bringing about a
culture of professional excellence and greater readiness for change in economic management practices. While
this sub-component is rated satisfactory, there were short-falls in the training for statistical skills and in the
use of the PE monitoring system. Although the MEFP is the primary user of the problematic Integrated
Financial Management System (SIGFIP), that emerged during the execution of the project, it is not part of the
MEFP component.
Given the successful outcome of the key sub-component of budget unification, adoption of a modem
nomenclature and extensive training of civil service staff, overall, implementation of the MEFP component
was satisfactory, despite these unsatisfactory ratings of the two sub-components, discussed above. It should
be pointed out however that the unsatisfactorily rated sub-components are credited with having laid the
ground for future improvements of economic management, provided that follow-up assistance is forthcoming.
MECS Component
The first sub-component of this component is rated unsatisfactory. The comprehensive personnel
database agreed to and shared by both the MEFP and MECS, and the cross-referencing of personnel files
were designed and constructed after confronting substantial technical difficulty, yet they were never
operationalized. Moreover, the implementation of a system to manage benefits and allowances was also
unsatisfactory, as it was not adopted after designed. These critical objectives failed partly because of
differences of approach between the two ministries which were never reconciled during the long life of the
project, despite explicit commitments to do so. An attempt is now being made to use SIGFIP as a means to set
up and manage the personnel database, an effort that has been tested by the MEFP with some success.
The implementation of the second sub-component was partially satisfactory to the extent that the
wage bill was reduced from 9% to 4.9% of GDP and from 49.6% to 36.4% of the budget during the project's
life. By 1997, Government staff was in effect reduced from 118,000 to 105,000, short of the 90,000 target for
the project. This was attributed to the successful staff reduction, reclassification and reassignment program
made possible by the project. Whether the reorganization of government departments brought about greater
efficiency in government, remains an open question.
Given the successful outcome of the second sub-component and the progress made towards using the
SIGFIP as a basis to manage personnel data, overall the component is rated as satisfactory.
Judicial and Legal Reform Component
The implementation of this component was marginally satisfactory. Most successful among its
activities was the adoption of standards of the OHADA (Organization pour l'Harmonization des Droits
d'Affaires) in respect of commercial law and the operation of the judiciary on commercial disputes. The
5-



setting up of a center of juridical documentation and training for staff from the judiciary, attributed to the
successful cooperation between the project and the French cooperation program. Despite the dropping of
some of the planned activities of this component, by and large the competence and working conditions of
judges were improved, delays in court proceedings were reduced and legislation more widely disseminated.
These achievements were possible as a result of training and equipment provided by the project.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable
4.5  Institutional development impact:
"Institutional Development" was a central objective of this project and is reflected in its stated
objectives. However, the meaning of Institutional Development (ID) in the context of this project was
equivalent to technical skills, information systems and inter-organizational coordination, reflecting essentially
what is now called a "technocratic" approach. In terms of Institutional Development or Capacity (ID),
understood as appropriate systems of rules and incentives, the project did not fare as well. Project supervision
reports, mid-way into implementation, did flag that the ID required to underpin the intended technical
capacity was not being achieved and results were thin. ID failures were attributed in these reports to faltering
commitment of higher authorities to the fundamental institutional and policy changes along with new systems
and organizational structures in the key ministries.
Given the narrow, technocratic concept of Institutional Capacity adopted, the project design had no
provisions to deal with the institutional drawbacks that affected the achievement of its technocratic objectives.
For example, in regards to the failure of MEFP and MECS to effectively collaborate to achieve a unified
personnel data base, no incentives were put in place by the design -- or by reorientation by Bank supervision --
to reward both ministries for succeeding, or sanctions for failing to achieve this important objective. Similarly,
the interface between INS and the MEFP would have been more effective and the national statistics sub-
component more successful, if incentives and appropriate rules were set for INS to respond more effectively
to MEFP's requests for statistics. This shift in the institutional focus of the project however, was not captured
by any attempt to redefine the original development objective. It was simply introduced as a new expectation
by the second project Task Team Leader (TTL) and interpreted by the borrower as a change in the style of
supervision
In order to achieve ID, as is currently understood, the project design should have sought to understand
and to correct the system of rules and incentives that nurtured the compartmentalization between the two
institutions concerned with its implementation. There is evidence in Bank supervision reports of concern
about the project meeting ID conditions to support the technical capacity being built. On the other hand, the
Government's ICR intimates that the project was successful in bringing about an institutional culture of
professional competence and managerial awareness in keeping with higher standards of economic
management, which is consistent with the "technocratic" notion of institutional culture. This achievement
however was not assessed in any objective manner. On the basis of these observations, ID is rated as modest.
Overall, the technical capacity impact as intended by the project was satisfactory because it did raise the
level of skills of civil servants and introduced several information systems with different degrees of success as
well as creating greater awareness about the importance of following through with institutional development
(ID) measures.
- 6-



5.   Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
After the project was designed, major economic changes took place, mainly the devaluation of the
FCFA and the privatization of public enterprises, supported by another Bank project. These changes affected
the Government's policy orientations and focused its attention on dealing with the internal adjustments to a
devalued currency and away from the project. Political instability towards the end of the project's life affected
Government's ability to implement the training component, which had received a considerable increase of
funds from an unspent balance due to activity cancellation. The implementation of an expanded training
component was the basis for the approval of Government's request for the first project extension.
Changes in information technology, mainly the shift from Novel to NT software platforms and
antiquated hardware also had a significant impact on the computerized information systems that cut across
several components. The Integrated System of Financial Management (SIGFIP) was not foreseen in the
original project design but emerged as a result of the need to integrate the databases and information
requirements of several units in MEFP. In effect SIGFIP is still not fully operational and is seen as the major
cause of slow disbursements of externally funded projects. In regards to information technology, Government
relied on the expertise provided by the Bank through supervision to deal with the technology problems that
emerged during execution. Also not in the control of Government were the delays in implementing the IT
component due to the unrealistic estimations of the time required to put in place and render operational the
different computerized information systems, and their connectivity across different ministries. Clearly the
project miscalculated the managerial and time requirements to implement this critical element of most
components.
The technical backstopping by the Bank was deemed inadequate by Government and its
consequences were felt also in the marginal outcome of the IT element of the project. Multiple changes in
Bank TTLs (there were four during the life of the project), clearly had an impact on continuity of
implementation, as stressed by the borrower.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Lack of stability of government's political appointees as head and senior officers of the ministries was
seen as detrimental to the project's execution. Furthermore, the location of the Project Management
Secretariat (PMS) in the Minister's (MEFP) office, with the Deputy Director of the Office as the Project
Coordinator was another important factor affecting project implementation. While it was important for the
project to be strategically located in proximity to the Minister's office, it became apparent soon into
implementation that this centralized and high-level location had its drawbacks. After it was determined that
project management was being affected, given the many other responsibilities of the Minister's office, the
PMS was shifted to the Office of the Director of Administration and Finance of MEFP.
Arguably, the shift of Government's attention to the attendant policy implications of devaluation did
not justify the diminished attention paid to the project's implementation. The difficult collaboration between
the MEFPS and the MECS on the unified data base for management of personnel should have merited a
higher level of attention by Government to bring about a more constructive relationship between the two
ministries. Likewise, in the case of INS and MEFP Delays in implementation were also attributed to assorted
shortfalls of the managerial capacity of the PMS also under Government's control. Other than the shifting of
PMS location, there is no record of any specific action taken, especially after the explicit calls by Bank
supervision for improvements in the PMS as a result of the findings of the mid-term review of March 1996.
However, project management was seen by Bank supervision as marginally improved.
- 7 -



5.3  Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The lead agency was the MEFP which managed implementation through the PMS. Bank supervision
in its reports early on during implementation highlighted the main weaknesses of the PMS. While some were
corrected, others, such as flaws in the procurement and reporting function lingered on with detrimental effects
in terms of delays to implementation and warranted an unsatisfactory rating in several PSRs. According to
these reports, progress-reporting problems persisted during most of the project's life. Furthermore, the
problems of inter-agency coordination could have been addressed more forcefully by the MEFP.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The major cost event in the project's implementation was the use of an unspent balance of $881,000
towards the project's closure. Part of the unspent balance was caused by the failure of the Bank and the IMF
to agree on the terms of the contract of the consultant that was to assist with the budget sub-component, which
left $225,000 to be used for other purposes. The first request, for a one-year extension was based on the need
for additional time to complete the substantial training program which was in motion. The second request was
based on Government's intention of using the balance for activities considered of high priority and seen as
consistent with project objectives: financial audits, additional training of Government staff, additional
assistance to solve the many problems in the design and installation of the SIGFIP, and support for the
preparation of a Public Expenditure Review. Given the Government's highest priority for the financial audits
of the previous government, the Bank concurred by funding a special mission to assist in the preparation of
the TORs for the audits, with the understanding that, to secure ownership for this politically sensitive
undertaking, the TORs should be prepared by Government with assistance of Bank staff. For political reasons,
these TORs were not prepared and Government lost interest in this activity. Although the unspent balance
was somewhat reduced by the time the project closed, no record is available on the execution of the other
requested activities justifying the extension, during a period that overlapped with the suspension of Bank
activities in CI.
By and large the component allocations set in the project were observed and actual expenditures
closely matched them. Other than the request to reallocate the unspent balance in 2000, there were no other
needs for funding reallocation.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The project is rated as unlikely to be sustained. The probability that the underlying achievements of
most components can be sustained hinges on additional extemal assistance. Although the training component
did enhance the level of professionalism of the technical staff, the institutional development required for
sustainability was not achieved. Given the circumstances prevailing in CI in the economic management area,
additional assistance to ensure sustainability of the vulnerable and unfinished components is problematic.
Moreover, the new emphasis on economic management centers on a results orientation focused on poverty
reduction rather than on further technical improvements. To the extent that this new emphasis of extemal
assistance under the PRSP is not germane to the technocratic emphasis at the center of core economic
management agencies, sustainability through additional assistance of the same type is at risk.
While some budgetary provisions have been made to covef recurrent costs of such things as the
installed computerized systems and some additional training, it is also recognized that the fragility of the
budget during execution puts many of these items at risk of not being effectively funded.
- 8 -



6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Government provisions for transition to a sustainable level of improved operations of the functional
areas covered by the project hinges on additional assistance in the form of a follow up project. In fact,
Government's ICR contains a detailed list of the complementary measures to be taken with external assistance
to ensure the sustainability of the project's real and potential achievements. These measures, however, are
essentially complementary to component activities intended to pick up where they left and round out the
technical capacities sought by the project. They are not explicit about major institutional change in the
economic management area, as intended by current reform policy, which emphasizes good governance and
decentralized expenditure management. While Government is certain of this approach to ensure transition to
sustainable high performance of economic management, it is less certain as to what it can do on its own to
achieve this transition in the event of reduced external assistance.
A follow up project to ensure sustainability could only be endorsed if it were to reflect the more
current concept of economic management which emphasizes expenditure decentralization to subnational
levels, preferably to municipalities. The project's underlying approach to institutional capacity development
would also have to be revised and made current as discussed above. The focus of such a project would have to
be on poverty reduction and a system of monitoring and evaluation capable of tracking these results would
have to be put in place. The preparation of such a project could be undertaken in conjunction with an
assessment of the state of operations of the installed technical capabilities that this project sought. As to
institutional development, a follow up project would have to pay much closer attention to the political
environment and provisions would have to be made, to ensure that the rules and incentives were in place to
enable economic policy and implementation to be consistent with poverty reduction results. In any event,
Government clearly indicated that follow up external assistance would not take the form of another multi-
component project, managed in an integrated manner as was attempted with the PAGE
7.   Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank's performance was satisfactory in the up-stream phase of the project, mainly in preparation and
launching. Government concurs with this assessment and there is supportive evidence in the available project
documentation. A multi-disciplinary team was deployed at preparation and close collaboration with the major
stakeholders enabled the drafting of a concise and persuasive project document, largely reflecting the
economic management problem as diagnosed by the Government: the Memorandum and Recommendations
of the President of IDA. The team was kept intact during the first phase of supervision up to the mid-term
review, when the task leader of the project in the Bank was replaced. Project preparation reflected the state of
the art at the time, in regards to technical assistance to strengthen economic management capacity for
countries engaged in structural adjustmnent. The design flaws such as complexity, multiplicity of
implementation agencies, unrealistic achievement targets and the location of project management can only be
ascertained in retrospect, as at the time they reflected widely accepted practice. As project execution
advanced, some of these flaws became more evident and supervision attempted to deal with some of them.
7.2 Supervision:
Supervision of the project by the Bank is rated highly satisfactory during the first phase up to the mid
term review in 1995. It was sustained during the follow up phase with a new ITL which focused sharply on
the execution problems that were emerging at the time. Given the realization that the project was falling short
of achieving the desired institutional development outcome, the mid term review should have signaled the
-9-



need for a substantial reorientation of the project, to ensure a greater focus on the institutional requirements to
support the technical innovations being put in place. The second supervision phase, coinciding with the
second TTL, gave way to a third phase and a new TTL, characterized by less intensive supervision and less
thorough PSRs. This third phase starting in late 1998 coincided with political turmoil in the country followed
by suspension of Bank activities, due to the Government's arrears to the Bank, and a noticeable slow down in
project execution. The TTL then had multiple tasks and little incentive to proactively supervise a project
which had essentially run its course.
During phases one and two of supervision, budgets were adequate, supervision mission BTORs and
PSRs were thorough and contained sharp assessments of weaknesses in implementation, followed by specific
corrective measures to be undertaken jointly by the Bank and the implementing agency. Less evident in these
reports is the use made of the performance indicators contained in the project document which were
specifically designed to track the project's progress towards the intended results. According to reports of the
third phase of supervision, the rigorous supervision of phase two had a positive effect on the improvement of
project management. 2
A quality of Supervision Assessment (QSA) was conducted by the Bank in 2000 when the project had
passed its original closing date and was already winding down. Accordingly, supervision had become less
intense and somewhat more lax at a time of considerable political unrest in the country and when Bank
activities had been suspended in CI. Arguably, the timing of this assessment was ill advised as it was greatly
influenced by the lack of project activity on the side of the Bank as well as Government. As it was to be
expected, the assessment picked up on the laxity of supervision and gave it a marginal rating. The last PSRs
were in effect very scant and short of critical evaluative information, yet project implementation was
repeatedly rated as satisfactory in terms of achieving its DOs. Clearly, this rating was not consistent with the
evidence indicating considerable hesitation on the part of Government on the use of the unspent balances,
among other shortcomings.
The sharp difference in the approach of the TTLs towards the end of the project was singled out by
Government as one reason for the laxity of follow up supervision. As pointed out in the QSA, PSRs towards
the end of the project became rather scant, providing little information on implementation progress. No use
was made of the performance indicators to track the project outputs and outcomes, relating them to impact in
terms of DOs. Moreover, this project was particularly affected by changes of task team leaders.2/ 3In light of
these observations project supervision is rated marginally unsatisfactory.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall performance by the Bank is rated as satisfactory, despite the drop in supervision intensity
during the latter years of project execution, when the focus was on attempts to use unspent balances of project
resources. The obvious drop in the supervision effort by the Bank was to a great extent attributable to the
2   There were 15 PSRs during the life of the project. After the mid-term review, they were mostly incomplete and were
cursorily filled out with ratings of Satisfactory and I across the board Exceptions to this were in the case of PSRs 7
and 8 where project management, procurement, component and covenants were rated as Unsatisfactory. However,
the few forms 590s onfilefrom the start of supervision, were complete and very thorough in their tracking ofproject
performance. On the down side, it is noteworthy that the Bank did not pursue the training of Government staff
involved in the execution of the project, to improve their project management skills.
3 There were four MTLs during the life of this project and the last two were assigned the task under sub-optimal
conditions, given their other responsibilities. The misplacement of a substantial part of project files was a
significant draw back of supervision, attributable to the multiple TTLs and transition problems. This draw-back
rendered the preparation of this ICR particularly difficult
- 10 -



overall political context in the country, more than offset by the satisfactory Bank performance during
preparation and the first phase of implementation. Bank performance in regards to providing technical support
during supervision missions was not consistent across all components. The support provided to the statistics
and civil service components was seen as lacking while that for the remaining components was seen as
adequate.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Performance of borrower during preparation was satisfactory to the extent that it set up a project unit
which worked diligently with the Bank's preparation team and implemented the PPF without delays.
Together, they produced a very useful institutional diagnosis of economic management in CI. Government
commitment to the goals of the project at the start was unequivocal, but later during execution it became
weaker.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
As implementation advanced and policy action was required by government, commitment seems to
have weakened, according to supervision reports. This was evident in the civil service reform component
where some hard policy decisions were delayed indefinitely, to the detriment of the project's success.
Government remained committed to the policy goals which underpinned the project. However, on the more
difficult issues of staff reduction and rationalization of the system of civil service allowances, Government
lacked the decisiveness to fully support the corrective measures proposed under the project. Government was
supportive of the project by appointing a senior official: Deputy Director of the Minister's Staff (Cabinet) of
MEFP to the critical project coordination function and by designating as Project Administrator a senior
official from the MECS. Because the project lacked an inter-ministry steering committee, coordination among
ministries was problematic. Counterpart funds were forthcoming when required and were never a hindrance to
project implementation. The outcome of implementation was not entirely attributable to the Government's
performance, but to a combination of shortcomings on the side of both the Bank and Government. On the basis of
these observations, performance by Government during implementation is rated marginally satisfactory.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
While implementation was the responsibility of several ministries, with the support of the PMS, inter-
ministerial coordination was the responsibility of the Project Coordinator and proved to be a problem for
project implemientation as he lacked the authority to enforce coordination decisions across ministries, despite
being located at a high level in the hierarchy of government. Supervision reports and the Government's ICR
point to the detrimental effects of changes in component managers and their alienation from project
coordination activities, leading to duplication of efforts among components. Loose control of external
consultants and their work lead to some waste in the use of resources. The critical problem with the PMS,
aggravated by policy indecisiveness on the part of Government, was the difficulty to move from an emphasis
on the management of inputs, funded by the project, to the management and coordination of actions by
component managers to achieve results. As a result of this shortfall the PMS paid little attention to the
project's indicators of performance and did not track them, which, in turn, lead project supervision by the
Bank to disregard them. These problems were highlighted by supervision reports at the start of
implementation and caused the PMS to be moved from the Minister's office (Cabinet of MEFP). Being
located at the center of MEFP decision making, project management had to compete with the busy agenda of
such a centralized office. By moving the PMS to the Office of the DAF (Department of Administration and
Finance) the PMS operated somewhat more autonomously and was able to deal more expediently with
problems of coordination and use of external consultants. Towards the end of the project, when political
-Il-



unrest and suspension of Bank activities emerged, project implementation became somewhat inactive. Given
these shortfalls, implementation by Government was marginally satisfactory.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
On the whole borrower performance was satisfactory. After supervision, problems were brought to
the attention of Government and the PMS, some corrective measures were carried out and implementation
improved during the second phase of supervision. Clearly, towards the end of the project there was a drop in
Government interest in the project. Paradoxically, Government requested two one year extensions yet there
was considerable hesitation on the use of the unspent balance of project funds and the project closed with an
unspent balance of $792,000 from the IDA credit and a comparable amount from the Government's financing
of the project, for a total unspent balance of some $1.6 million.
8.   Lessons Learned
Six lessons were learned from the project:
*  On a strategic level, a project that seeks to invest in technical capacity should ensure that
government staff skills, education, management systems and equipment are underpinned by
institutional arrangements capable of creating incentives and rules to efficiently harness the fruit
of such investments. PAGE did not pursue such a strategy.
*  On a substantive level, the traditional multi-component TA projects, with multiple executing
agencies addressing a core government function such as economic management pose an inter-
agency coordination challenge. Having the key Ministry of Finance as the home for project
management is inherently risky as the short term problems and crisis management that these
ministries confront regularly is a constant source of distraction, detrimental to continued
commitment and to the smooth implementation of projects. Only those components that are
closely interdependent should come under common project management arrangements for the
purpose of integrated implementation. The outlying components should be brought under separate
project management arrangements, although implemented in parallel.
*  When a component of a high risk project, such as the PAGE, proves to be unmanageable or is
floundering, flexibility of execution should enable the component to be dropped. Resources that
are freed up should not serve the purpose of opportunistic applications to activities outside of the
project's scope, but should be shifted to components that are implementing well and that can
absorb additional funds productively. The case of the joint personnel database illustrates the
lesson learned.
*  Both the Bank and the borrower should be careful not to underestimate the implications of major
systemic changes and reforms. In this project, the implications of the computerized information
systems, common to most components, in terms of technological complexity, logistics and
maintenance requirements were underestimated. Moreover, supervision was not adequately
assisted by appropriate expertise.
*  Turnover in Bank project team leaders (TTL), borrower coordinator/administrator and component
managers are to be expected. In the case of this project the change of Bank TTLs was excessive,
especially in the last years as the project was winding down. These conditions compromised the
continuity and purposefulness of project execution. To avoid the detrimental effects of
discontinuity, a greater effort should be made to minimize TTL turnover, to ensure proper hand-
- 12 -



over of tasks, and especially the security of project files. The management units where TTLs
reside should ensure these conditions. The borrower should ensure that new component managers
are brought up to speed on the content and status of their components and be incorporated into the
project management team as quickly as possible.
For optimal use of costly external expertise, proper planning and arrangements should be made to
ensure that counterparts are made available to work alongside external consultants, and that they
are provided with incentives to stay committed for the duration.
9.   Partner Comments
Borrower/inmplementing agency:
Translation of Borrower comments:
On the whole the ICR provides a clear and fair representation of the development of the project and
we are grateful to the Task Manager of the ICR for the appropriateness of his analysis and the objectivity of
his assessment, albeit its severity given the contextual circumstances of the project.
The rich analysis and conclusions of the report would require a response and a debate going well
beyond the scope of this note. The modalities for success of a true Institutional Development program as
contained in the ICR would justify a special effort. In agreement with the essence of the report, our
observations are limited to those aspects which we feel call for comment or amendment.
1. Overall Achievement of Objectives: Institutional Development
We sustain that the project would have benefited by adopting the true managerial dimension of
"institutional development or capacity" in its current meaning. In practice the project adopted the
development of "technical capacities". Based on that, the project outcome is rated as "marginally
unsatisfactory" in the achievement of its outcome.
Quote from the ICR "however, the central outcome objective of bringing about a system of rules and
incentives that would harness the acquired technical capabilities -- as "institutional development or capacity"
(ID) is now understood -- was achieved to a lesser degree and the project is therefore rated as marginally
unsatisfactory in its outcome. "
This assessment seems rigorous in regards to the formulation of the project in its context, which the
ICR correctly points out:
"Institutional Development was a central objective of this project and is reflected in its stated
objectives. However, the meaning of Institutional Development (ID) in the context of this project was
equivalent to technical skills, information systems and inter-organizational coordination, reflecting what is
now called a "technocratic approach. "
Therefore, from our point of view, a rating of "marginally satisfactory" would better reflect the
achieved results relative to the formulation of the project.
2. The INS Component
The assessment regarding the national accounts and regular production of reliable statistics proves
controversial for the INS. Provisional national accounts for 2000 are available and were published in February
- 13 -



of 2002. These accounts are used by different national institutions for analysis and forecasting purposes. It is
true that final accounts have been issued with great delays in the past due to the adoption of new methods and
tools as a result of assistance from the French Cooperation. The final accounts for 1996 and 1997 were
generated by the new system. The catching up effort should allow the issue of the 1998 accounts in June of
2002 and those for 1999 towards the end of 2002. Relative to the past and at the beginning of the project this
outcome might have been rated as satisfactory and not unsatisfactory.
3. Institutional Development Impact (section 4.5)
The ICR prepared by the borrower contains key factual information on the implementation of the
project and takes into account the assessment made by the component coordinators. The observation that the
borrower's ICR suggests that the project was successful due to the development of a level of professional
competence as a result of greater managerial awareness is not correct. We would like to know which section
of the report gives that impression so that it be modified to avoid giving the wrong impression.
Quote from ICR "on the other hand... was not assessed in any objective manner."
4. Sustainability
The general assessment of the project's sustainability is considerably more rigorous than that in the
borrower's ICR. This is understandable if one has in mind the "institutional development" objective as
suggested in the report. The prospective measures contained in the borrower's report prepared in 1999 consist
of a set of preventive actions based on the expectation of a follow up to the project, with a view to a true
institutional development. In fact when that report was prepared, the main institutional options (such as
decentralization) were not included and consequently could not have been explicitly taken into consideration.
The ICR correctly focuses on the importance of institutional capacity development in the context of
decentralization and good governance. It goes on to outline the main features of a follow up operation (see
section 6.2). This section of the report could have been further developed from an operational angle with a
view to the preparation of a new project. As to the report on the whole, the borrower has no specific
comments. We view the six lessons learned from the experience as particularly pertinent. However, it might
have been useful to specify that the contributions of the Bank project team were appropriate and appreciated,
but that under certain circumstances greater accessibility, openness and attention would have enabled a better
dialogue. As far as lessons drawn from such complex projects are concerned, the quality of the dialogue
between the parties is a key factor. This dialogue should be put in place and maintained through frequent
contacts, and the installation of effective means of communication (such as the internet which has been
underutilized).
- 14-



Annex 1. Key Performance IndicatorsALog Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:     __
Indicator/Matrix             ProJected In last PSR           Actual/Latest Estimate
Budgetary reform                 Not available                   Budgetary Reform
i) Greater consistency between                                   i) Consistency achieved
planning/programming and                                      ii) Unified budget achieved towards
budgeting                                                        end of project
ii) Establish unified budget                                     iii) Local ENSEA fidly utilized in
iii) Use local institutions in macro                                project work
analysis
Statistics and national accounts  Not available                  Statistics and national accounts
i) Improved availability and                                    i) Marginally achieved, pending
reliability of statistics                                        work
ii) Continuous production of surveys                            ii) National accounts still behind
schedule and surveys not carried
___________  out regularly
Public enterprises               Not available                   Public Enterprises
i) Well-prepared privatizations;                                i) Legal framework revised and new
ii) Improved efficiency of remaining                                legislation issued
PEs;                                                          ii) Undetermined.
iii) Review of cross debts;                                     iii) Cross debts assessed and work on
iv) MIS for PE management                                           settling them on-going
iv) MIS designed and put in place but
not fully opermtional.
Administration reform            Not available                   Administration Reform
i) Reduced govemment wage bill                                  i) Achieved partially
ii) More efficient civil service                                ii) Undetemined
iii) Integrated personnel data base                             iii) Not achieved
iv) Computerized job descriptions;                              iv) Not achieved
v) Apply recomi2mendations of                                    v) Recommendations not adopted
benefits study
Judicial reform                                                  Judicial reform
i) Modemize economic legislation  Not available                 i) Partially achieved
and greater dissemination.                                    ii) Improvements achieved
ii) Working conditions of Judges  Not available                 iii) Improvements achieved
improved                                                      iv) Partially achieved
iii) Delays in court procedures and  Not available
case management
iv) Knowledge and competence of
Judges improved
End of project
-15-



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal       ActuaUlLatest
Project Cost By Component           Estimate         Estimate        Percentage of
USS million      US$ million       Appraisal
Ministry of Economy Finance and Plan         8.30             8.50
Ministry of Employment and Civil Service     5.30             5.10
Ministry of Jus_ice                          2.20             0.40
Project Management Secretariat               0.80             0.96
PPF Refinancinq                              1.50             1.50
Total Baseline Cost                         18.10            16.46
Physical Contingencies                    2.00              2.00
Total Project Costs                20.10             18.46
Total Financing Required                 20.10            18.46
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Methodl..
Expenditure Category                                                       Total Cost
ICB         NCB         Other2        N.B.F
1. Works                    0.00        0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                    4.50         1.40         0.30         0.00         6.20
(4.50)      (1.20)       (0.20)        (0.00)       (5.90)
3. Services                 0.00        0.00          7.70         0.00         7.70
(0.00)     .(0.00)        (7.70)       (0.00)       (7.70)
4. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00         0.00         2.80         2.80
Operating costs         (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous            0.00        0.00          1.50         0.00          1.50
PPF refinancing         (0.00)      (0.00)       (1.50)        (0.00)       (1.50)
6. Miscellaneous            0.00        0.00         2.00         0.00          2.00
Unallocated             (0.00)      (0.00)       (1.90)        (0.00)       (1.90)
Total                     4.50        1.40        11.50         2.80         20.20
._____________ -.(4.50)       (1.20)      (11.30)       (0-00)       (17.00)
! Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2j Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
- 16-



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method1
Expenditure Category                                                         Total Cost
ICB         NCB         Other2       N.B.F.
1. Works                  0.00        0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)      (0.0 (0(0.00)              (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                  4.13        0.63         0.00         0.00          4.76
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
3. Services               0.41        0.26         1.48         0.07          2.22
(.)         (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous          0.00        0.00         0.00         0.00           0.00
Operating costs       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous          0.00        0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
PPF refinancing      (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous          0.00        0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
Unallocated          (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                  4.54        0.89          1.48         0.07          6.98
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
1 Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2/ Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project fimds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of
Component          Appraisal Estimate       Actual/Latest Estimate        A praisal
Bank    Govt.   CoF.     Bank     Govt.     CoF.    Bank    Govt. CoF.
MEFP                  5.20    3.00             5.20     3.00      0.00    100.0   100.0
MECS                  4.00    1.30             4.00      1.30     0.00    100.0   100.0
MJ                    1.30    0.90             1.30     0.90              100.0   100.0
Project Mgmnt. Sec.   0.30    0.50             0.30     0.50      0.00    100.0   100.0
PPF Refinancing       1.50    0.00             1.50     0.00      0.00    100.0    0.0
Contingencies         1.60    0.40             1.60     0.40      0.00    100.0   100.0
- 17-



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable
-18-



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle              No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
(e . 2 Economists I FMS, etc.)
Implementatlon    Development
Month/Year               Count                Specialty                  Progress        Objective
Identification/Preparation
February/March 1990        12     1 Fiscal Economist                         S               S
I Public Sector Specialists
I Satistician
2 Public Enterprise Specialists
2 Operations Specialists
1ILegal Counsel
1 Jurist
I Training expert
I Economist
1 Administrative Assistant.
Appraisal/Negotiation
June, July, 1991          12      Same                                       S               S
Supervision
December, 1993             5      1 Fiscal Economist                         S               S
1 Public Sector Specialist
I Statistician
I Public Enterprise Specialist
1 Computer Hardware Specialist
ICR
April 2002                 1       1 Public Sector Management                S               S
Specialist
(b) Staff.
Stage of Project Cycle                     ActualLatest Estimate
No. Staff weeks               USS ('000)
Identification/Preparation        Not available
Appraisal/Negotiation               -do-
Supervision                         -do-
ICR                                  4'
Total
-19-



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Macro Policies                         M
Sector Policies                        NA
Physical                               NA
Financial                              NA
Institutional Development              M
Environmental                          NA
Social
Poverty Reduction                    NA
Gender                              NA
Other (Please specify)              NA
Private Sector Development             NA
Public Sector Management               M
Other (Please specify)                 NA
- 20 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                           Rating
Lending                                    S
Supervision                                 U
Overall                                    S
6.2 Borrowerperformance                        Rating
Preparation                                S
Government implementation performance      S
Implementation agency performance          S
Overall                                    S
- 21 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1.   Memorandum and Recommendation of the President of IDA to the Executive Directors on a Proposed
Credit for 12.3 Million SDR to the Republic of Cote D'Ivoire for an Economic Management Project,
May 4, 1993
2.   Development Credit Agreement for PAGE, June 1993
3.   Projet D'appui et de Gestion Economique PAGE, Rapport d'Achevement du Page Ministere de I'Economie
et des Finances, Jean Claude Courau en liaison avec lUnit6 de Gestion du Page, mai, 1999.
4.   Supervision Mission Back to Office reports and Project Supervision Reports.
5.   Mission Aide Memoirs
6.   Project Audit Reports
7.   Monthly Disbursement Summary Reports
8.   Category Recap Data from Integrated Controllers System
9.   ICR Guidelines
10.  Assorted Memoranda and Telexes from Project Files
11.  Assorted Project Management Reports.
-22 -



