Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2503 IVC
Development Credit Agreement
(Economic Management Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 14, 1993
CREDIT NUMBER 2503 IVC
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 14, 1993, between REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Page  2
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"CFAF" means the currency of the Borrower;
 
(b)
"DCPE" means Direction de la Conjoncture et de la Provision Economique, a 
department of MEFP (as hereinafter defined) responsible for economic forecasts;
(c)
"DGB" means Direction Generale du Budget, a department of MEFP (as 
hereinafter defined) responsible for budget;
(d)
"DPDR" means Direction du Plan et du Developpement Regional, a department 
of MEFP (as hereinafter defined) responsible for planning and regional development;
(e)
"ENSEA" means Ecole Nationale de Statistique et d'Economie Applique, the 
economics and statistics school of the Borrower;
(f)
"INS" means Institut National de la Statistique, the national statistical 
institute of the Borrower;
(g)
"MECS" means the ministry of the Borrower responsible for employment and 
civil service;
(h)
"MEFP" means the ministry of the Borrower responsible for economy, 
finance and planning;
(i)
"MJ" means the ministry of the Borrower responsible for justice;
 
(j)
"PMS" means the Project Management Secretariat established by MEFP's 
Arrete No. 846/91, dated July 7, 1991;
(k)
"Project Preparation Advances" means the project preparation advances 
granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to letters dated June 22, 1990, February 
27, 1991 and July 17, 1991,
sent by the Bank and countersigned by the Borrower;
(l)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(m)
"DCGTx" means Direction et Controle des Grands Travaux of the Borrower;
 
(n)
"DCSPPP" means Direction du Controle du Secteur Para Public et du 
Controle Budgetaire, a department of MEFP responsible for monitoring public 
enterprises performance; and
(o)
"CAA" means Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement - Gestion des Depots, a 
public financial institution of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies
equivalent to twelve million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
12,300,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Page  3
CFAF a special deposit account in CAA on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to the Bank the amount required 
to repay the principal
amount of the Project Preparation Advances withdrawn and outstanding as of such date 
and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized 
amount of the Project Preparation Advances shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of 
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
February 1 and August 1
commencing August 1, 2003 and ending February 1, 2028. Each installment to and 
including the installment payable on February 1, 2013 shall be one and one-fourth 
percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms 
of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association 
may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the 
amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with 
the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from 
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall 
not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment 
modification.
Page  4
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of 
repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) 
above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through PMS
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative 
and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall maintain PMS throughout the execution of the 
Project at the level of the cabinet of the Minister responsible for economy, finance 
and planning, with functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Association and 
staffed with a Project coordinator (MEFP), a Project administrator (MEFP), a training 
coordinator (MEFP), a Project accountant (MEFP); a computer expert (MEFP), the 
Director responsible for administration Reform (MECS), and a Technical adviser from 
MJ, who shall at all times during the execution of the Project have responsibilities,
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall by December 31 of each year, review with the 
Association, the progress achieved in the execution of the Project, each such review 
to be conducted on the basis of a draft annual work program, prepared by the Borrower 
and furnished to the Association not later than two months before the scheduled date 
of this review, which shall include an assessment of the effectiveness of services 
provided by experts and efficiency in the execution of the training program during the 
preceding year.
Section 3.05. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.01 of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower and the Association shall carry out a mid-term review 
of the progress
achieved in carrying out the Project not later than September 30, 1995. The 
recommendations of such review, once approved by the Borrower and the Association, 
shall be implemented by the Borrower with due diligence. In order to facilitate this 
review, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association, not later than two 
months before the scheduled date of this review, a report of Project activities of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested. The 
review shall cover, inter alia: (a) management of the Project; and (b) progress made 
in providing adequate support to the medium term adjustment program of the Borrower, 
and in achieving the Project objectives.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower 
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
Page  5
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, a certified 
copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account or payment out of the Special Account was 
made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing 
such expenditures;
 
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions, namely, that the training coordinator and the 
accountant referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement have been appointed.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for economy, finance and 
planning is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 
11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy, Finance and Planning
Page  6
B.P. V 125
Abidjan
Republic of Cote d'Ivoire
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINFIN
23747 MINFIN
Abidjan
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
By /s/ Charles Gomis
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)   Consultants'               3,900,000      100%
      services
(2)   Training                   1,700,000      100%
(3)   Equipment, supplies        4,300,000      100% of foreign
      and vehicles                              expenditures,
                                                85% of local
Page  7
                                                expenditures
(4)   Refunding of               1,100,000      Amounts due
      Project                                   pursuant to
      Preparation                               Section 2.02 (c)
      Advance                                   of this Agreement
(5)   Unallocated                1,300,000
      TOTAL                     12,300,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
provided, however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another 
country from the territory of which the goods and services are supplied, expenditures 
in such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign 
expenditures".
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in promoting long-term 
improvement in economic and financial management, through the strengthening of its 
budgetary cycle, statistical
system, civil service administration, and legal and judicial framework, and the 
monitoring of its parapublic sector.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Ministry of Economy, Finance and Planning
 
1.
Planning, Programming and Budgeting Cycle 
 
(a)
Strengthening of DPDR, DCPE and DGB in the planning, programming and 
budgeting cycle through the acquisition of selected computer equipment and related 
software, office equipment, and the design and implementation of training programs 
with a view to implementing a consolidated budget.
(b)
Establishment of a macro-economic unit at ENSEA to strengthen the 
macro-economic analytical capacity of the Borrower, and acquisition of teaching 
materials therefor.
2.
National Accounts and Statistics
 
Support to the redynamization of INS, including its  regional centers, in order 
to build up its management capacity and ensure a regular publishing of series of key 
economic indicators, through the rehabilitation of its printing unit and computer 
center, and acquisition of vehicles for the regional centers.
3.
Monitoring of the Parapublic Enterprise Reform
 
(a)
Establishment of a data base for the selection and appointment of 
executives of public enterprises and of a performance based incentive program, 
preparation of a training program for such executives and Board members, and carrying 
Page  8
out of preparatory studies for an upcoming reform of the public enterprise sector.
(b)
Strengthening the public enterprises monitoring system established within 
DCGTx and transfer of said system to DCSPPP. 
4.
Training
 
Improving the skills of professionals working in MEFP directorates responsible 
for executing any part of the Project.
Part B:
Ministry of Employment and Civil Service
 
1.
Design and implementation of measures to control the wage bill and the size of 
the civil service through a study of the overall staffing plans of the administration, 
an analysis of job requirements, a study of the system of allowances and benefits, and 
a plan for the enhancement of the management capacity of the Department of MECS 
responsible for programming and control, and acquisition of required office equipment.
2.
Improvement of administrative procedures for management of civil service 
personnel.
3.
Development of a National Training Plan aimed at improving the performance of 
the civil service, inter alia, through the carrying out of appropriate upgrading 
training for staff and identification of suitable financial resources required to 
implement the said National Training Plan.
Part C:
Ministry of Justice
 
1.
Acquisition of computers and software to computerize the registrar office for 
the following jurisdictions: the Labor Court of Abidjan, the Commercial Chamber of the 
Court of Appeals of Abidjan and the tribunal of Dabou.
2.
Design and implementation of training programs for the legal community in 
specialized areas of law.
3.
Assistance to the publication of codes and jurisprudence materials, and 
acquisition of law books and periodicals for courts and tribunals.
4.
Assistance for the revision of the commercial code, the company law, the labor 
code and other provisions relating to economic development.
5.
Establishment of an arbitration court at the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of 
Abidjan, and provision of logistical support.
6.
Strengthening of the Supreme Court through the acquisition of computers and 
office equipment and staff training.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1998.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
(a)
For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 
2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is delayed beyond the 
original bid validity
Page  9
period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for each week of delay by 
two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to the Association, one to be applied 
to all foreign currency components and the other to the local currency component of 
the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation.
(b)
In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part A, the Borrower 
shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank, with such 
modifications thereto as the
Association shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the Project. Where 
no relevant standard bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower 
shall use bidding documents based on other internationally recognized standard forms 
agreed with the Association.
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for the acquisition of computers, copiers 
and data processing equipment shall be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more.
3.
Goods shall be exempted from pre-shipment price inspection by a third-party 
inspection firm.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Cote d'Ivoire may be granted a margin of preference 
in accordance with, and
subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and 
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Items or groups of items for vehicles, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to 
$400,000, may be procured under contracts awarded through limited international 
bidding procedures on the
basis of evaluation and comparison of bids obtained from a list of at least three 
eligible suppliers acceptable to the Association and in accordance with procedures set 
forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55, 
2.56 thereof).
2.
Items or groups of items for equipment and supplies estimated to cost between 
the equivalent of $100,000 and more than $30,000 per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount equivalent to $800,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to 
the Association
3.
Items or groups of items for small office supplies and equipment estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $30,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount 
equivalent to $200,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under 
the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $30,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said 
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first 
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Page  10
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to be made on 
the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower in the execution of the Project, the Borrower 
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association 
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" 
published by the Bank in August 1981. For complex, time-based assignments, the 
Borrower shall contract the services of such consultants using the standard letter of 
invitation and form of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with 
such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Association. Where no relevant 
standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other 
standard forms agreed with the Association.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (3) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to CFAF 
75,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
Page  11
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association 
such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
