Document of
The World Bank    tlILE C PY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2809-COM
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
FEDERAL ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF THE COMOROS
FOR A
COCONUT REHABILITATION AND RODENT CONTROL PROJECT
May 14, 1980
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officid duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Comorian Franc (CF) - CFAF
(The CF is fully convertible into the French Franc at CF 50 - FF 1)
Calendar 1979                    March 1980
US$ 1           - CF 212.72             CF 201.91
CF  1,000       - US$4.70               US$4.95
CF  1,000,000   - US$4,701               US$4,952
(The Staff Appraisal Report is based on US$ 1 = CFAF 215)
ABBREVIATIONS
CADER       -  Centre d'Appui au Developpement Rural
CEFADER     -  Centre Federal d'Appui au Developpement Rural
FAO         -  Food and Agriculture Organization
IRAT        -  Institut de Recherches Agronomiques et Tropicales
IRHO        -  Institut de Recherches pour les Huiles et Oleagineux
UNDP        -  United Nations Development Programme
ODA         - Official Development Aid
CREDICOM    -  Societe de credit pour le developpement des Comores
GOVERNMENT OF COMOROS FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
COMOROS COCONUT REHABILITATION AND RODENT CONTROL PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:        Federal Islamic Republic of the Comoros
Beneficiary:    Ministry of Production and Industrial Development
Amount:          US$ 5.2 million equivalent
Terms:           Standard IDA terms
Project
Description:  a)  Objectives:  To assist the Government to extend and
improve coconut and copra production in the islands
of Grande Comore, Anjouan and Moheli through rodent
control, increased productivity of the existing stands
and improvement of copra processing and marketing; and to
contribute to Government efforts to improve the management
of agricultural development projects.
b) Major Components: (i) Establishment of a rodent control
unit on Grande Comore, Anjouan and Moheli; (ii) Creation
of a copra processing and marketing service; (iii) Estab-
lishment of seed gardens and nurseries for replanting and
new tree planting; (iv) Technical assistance and training;
and (v) Studies and field crop trials.
c) Benefits: Increased coconut production for local consump-
tion and copra export; improved health standards and
reduced food crop losses caused by rodents; strengthening
of planning, coordination and implementation capacity of
the Ministry of Production and Industrial Development.
d)   Risks:  Uncertainty over Government ability to execute
a major agricultural development project, a factor that
could result in implementation delays. Project could also
fail to generate and maintain farmers' involvement. Lower
yields of palm trees than currently expected.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Project Costs:
US$ thousand
Local Cost   Foreign Cost  Total Cost
Rodent control                                   192           185             377
Plant improvement                               324           300              624
Copra processing and marketing                    52           121             173
Project management and administration           767           900            1,667
Technical assistance (salaries)                    6          634              640
Training                                          14            20              34
Other (audit, studies and                       173            207             380
project evaluation)
Total base costs                              1,528         2,367            3,895
Contingencies:
Physical                                        217           340              557
Price                                           500           790            1,290
Total Project Cost, net of taxes         2,245         3,497           5,742
Financing Plan:
US$             Percent of
million              Total
IDA credit                              5.20                90
Farmers                                 0.20                 4
Government                              0.30                 6
Total                             5.70                100
Estimated
Disbursements:           IDA FY         1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985
(US$ thousand)
Annual          200   1,300      700      800   1,300      900
Cumulative      200   1,500   2,200   3,000   4,300   5,200
Rate of Return: 13.9 percent
Staff Appraisal
Report:         No. 2844 - COM, dated May 5, 1980
Maps:  IBRD 14833-35



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE
FEDERAL ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF THE COMOROS
FOR A COCONUT REHABILITATION AND RODENT CONTROL PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Federal Islamic Republic of the Comoros for the
equivalent of US$5.2 million on standard IDA terms to help finance a coconut
rehabilitation and rodent control project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "The Economy of Comoros: (Report No. 1626a-COM)
was distributed to the Executive Directors on July 26, 1977. An updated
version was published in red cover in July 1979 under the title; "The Comoros;
Problems and Prospects of a Small, Island Economy." Country data sheets are
provided in Annex 1 to this report.
3.        The Comoros archipelago, located at the northern end of the Mozam-
bique channel, consists of four islands: Grande Comore, Anjouan, Moheli and
Mayotte, about 100-300 km distant from one another. Following a referendum
held in December 1974, Grande Comore, Anjouan and Moheli declared independence
in July 1975. Mayotte decided to remain under French administration.
4.        The country is small and very poor.  The population of the archipelago,
including Mayotte, is estimated at 411,000 in 1980 and its land area at
2,166 square kilometers. The GDP per capita in 1977 was about US$160 and
the Comoros is considered to be one of the least developed countries by the
United Nations. The islands are volcanic in origin, fairly rugged and covered
with lush vegetation. They have a marine tropical climate and receive over 2
meters of rain in the rainy season stretching from November to April. Their
topography creates several microclimates as a result of which a variety of
crops can be cultivated.
5.        Agriculture occupies the vast majority  of the people, and over
80 percent of the population live in rural areas. Most cultivation is of
foodstuffs for local consumption, the main food crops being coconut, rice,
cassava and pulses.  However, about 10 percent of the cultivated area is
planted with high-value cash crops, the most important being ylang-ylang,
coconut, vanilla, and cloves. These cash crops and copra account for virtually
all the country's exports. The agricultural techniques used are inefficient
and yields are far below what experts believe can be achieved. As a conse-
quence, food imports absorb almost the entire export revenue. Protein foods,
especially meat and fish, form a small part of the diet and malnutrition is
common.



- 2 -
6.        Population pressure is a particularly serious problem in the Comoros.
It has led to extensive deforestation and erosion by inducing farmers to
extend cultivation higher up the slopes of the hills. Between 1968 and 1974
forest areas declined by 44 percent. In the most densely populated island,
Anjouan, the decline was 69 percent. Erosion is aggravated by the farming
methods employed, particularly the lack of terracing. Population growth also
increases the demand for firewood, imposing more strain on the forests. The
Government is undertaking a census, scheduled for September 1980, with assis-
tance from the Uhited Nations Fund for Population. However, more active steps
regarding the population's growth will require overcoming political and
religious obstacles.
7.        Non-agricultural activities in the Comoros are limited and consist
mainly of ylang-ylang distillation into perfume essences, a small soft drinks
bottling plant, a sawmill, a brickworks, a furniture factory and a soap
factory. The social sectors, notably education and health, were affected by
the economic difficulties of the country in 1975-78 but recently the situation
has started to improve partly on account of substantial external assistance.
Education had already started expanding rapidly before Independence and by
1978-79 enrollments in primary schools exceeded 80 percent of the population
of the ages 7-12. However, the system is patterned on that of France and is
not well suited to the Comoros' needs. There is also a severe shortage of
qualified Comorian teaching staff and a large number of teachers are being
provided by the Arab League and France as technical assistance. The health
system has been considerably improved through the assistance provided by the
European Development Fund, but it remains inadequate and lacks qualified
Comorian staff.
8.        Transport, both internal and external, has always been a problem
for the Comoros. International sea transport is rendered costly and irregular
by the smallness and isolation of the islands. This is aggravated by the
absence of a deep water port and the lack of a natural site for one. Hence,
large ships are reluctant to call at its ports and cargo has to be trans-
shipped through the ports of other countries, with more costs and delays.
Given the Comoros' dependence on foreign trade, this is a heavy economic
burden, mitigated only in part by the use of air freight for high value
export items. Sea transport between the islands depends mostly on small
steamers and dhows and is also hampered by the lack of adequate port infra-
structure. Inland transport is limited by the paucity and condition of
road connections between the coasts of the islands and their interiors.
Because of this, farmers have difficulty in bringing perishable crops in
time to markets. Recent assistance from several multilateral and bilateral
agencies, including IDA, is helping to improve the situation.
9.        The Comoros continue to suffer from extreme  shortage of budgetary
and foreign exchange resources. Just before Independence, France financed as
much as 70 percent of total government expenditure and exports covered only about
1/3 of imports. Local resources scarcely sufficed even for the most necessary
services. Shortly after Independence in 1975, differences between the two
countries led France to withdraw her aid and the Comorian Government tried to
cope by taking drastic steps to reduce expenditures, including dismissing its



- 3 -
civil servants and closing secondary schools, and by seeking new sources of
assistance. France has resumed her assistance since 1978 and aid from other
sources has also been growing. Nevertheless, the external debt of Comoros
remains relatively small in its amount and concessionary in its terms, owing
to the predominance of ODA transfers and the absence of commercial bank
lending. Recently the rapid rise in the price of natural vanilla, of which
the Comoros is the second most important producer after Madagascar, has
increased export earnings and receipts from export duties very sharply. Hence
in 1979, the balance of trade was in surplus for the first time ever and the
fiscal situation was more favorable than it has been in the past, though even
then over half of government expenditure had to be financed from external
sources. The overall effects of these developments on GDP cannot be assessed
with certainty since the Comoros do not prepare national accounts, but some
improvement in GDP is likely.
10.       The Comoros Franc has the same parity as the CFA Franc (CFAF
50 = FF 1) and its convertibility is guaranteed by France. The Comoros
currency board keeps its foreign exchange with the French Treasury and is
allowed overdraft facilities. There is only one commercial bank in the
Comoros. The currency board discounts eligible commercial paper subject to
credit ceilings for loan categories other than exports. In September 1979
these ceilings were sharply reduced since traders tended not to repatriate
export earnings and this measure was intended to oblige those seeking
financing for imports to bring in funds from abroad.
11.       The Comoros have potential for development.  Improvement of agri-
cultural techniques should, according to experts, increase yields by a mul-
tiple. There is scope for small-scale enterprises processing agricultural
products and for some import substitution. A possibility exists of attracting
a quality tourist trade. A prerequisite for progress in agriculture is
suitable training and an effective system of price stabilization that gives
farmers remunerative prices for their crops. Tourism will require a large
investment, particularly in infrastructure. The variety of crops cultivable
in the Comoros is also a valuable asset since this means that new openings
will often be there for the enterprising exporter and that export earnings
will not be entirely subject to the market for a single product. This is
illustrated by the experience of recent years when a depression in the ylang-
ylang market was offset by a rise in the price of cloves, after which vanilla
prices rose when the market for cloves declined.
12.       Several aid agencies are currently extending financial and technical
-       assistance to the Comoros.  Major donors include the African Development Bank
Group, IDA, Arab funds, the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and
the French Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique. Assistance is also
being provided by the European Development Fund. The Bank is Executing
Agency for a Planning Assistance Project being financed by the UNDP and the
implementation of the project is expected to start in mid-1980.



- 4 -
13.       The Comoros will have to continue to rely on fo-eign financial
and technical assistance, on terms as concessionary as pos ible.  Current
revenues are insufficient to run government services and il will take some
time before an adequate administrative base can be built tuj, and government
revenues increased. The administration experiences severe shortages of
qualified staff and has a very limited capacity for project preparation and
implementation. Aid agencies should be prepared to finance considerably more
than the foreign exchange costs, if the lack of local funds is not to impede
successful implementation of external assistance.
PART II - WORLD BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COMOROS
14.       Comoros joined the Bank in December 1976 and the Association in
December 1977. The first Bank Group operation in the Comoros (First Highway
Credit of US$5.0 million) sought to rehabilitate the country's road network
and improve its planning and administration. Project implementation is
proceeding reasonably well. The 3-year road maintenance and improvement
program has already met most of its objectives of establishing the basic
administrative structure, defining a work program and creating the necessary
equipment repair facilities. Construction of the Nioumakele road component,
financed by the African Development Fund is underway. However, lack of
Government funds could cause delays in project execution. An EEC Special
Action Credit of US$700,000 signed in January 1980 will help finance addi-
tional road maintenance needs and more technical assistance to the project.
15.       Future lending to the Comoros will concentrate principally on
agriculture and transport, emphasizing institution building and technical
assistance. We expect to appraise toward the end of 1980 an education
project to support primary education and vocational training. The Government
is also actively considering the establishment of a development bank and has
sought Bank Group assistance in this endeavor. Government project preparation
and implementation capability should improve with the start in mid-1980 of a
Planning Assistance Project financed by the UNDP with the Bank as Executing
Agency.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
16.       Agriculture dominates the whole Comorian economy with about 80
percent of the population depending on it for a livelihood; it accounts for
nearly 40 percent of the GDP and all export earnings. The average annual
total value of exports in 1976-78 was about US$10 million; imports, 38 percent
of them food, totaled US$17.8 million in the same period. There are relatively
few large plantations and the sector is mostly comprised of some 40,000 farm
families cultivating smallholdings of about 1.3 hectares on average.   Farming
techniques are traditional, based on manual labor using the hoe, pick and
machette. No fertilizers or improved seeds are used and hired labor is rare,
although a system akin to sharecropping exists on the larger holdings.



- 5 -
17.       The archipelago has a tropical marine climate, the seasons being
determined by the monsoon winds. Hot and humid weather brought in by the
northeasterly monsoon between November and April gives way to a relatively
cool, dry season for th e remaiBder of the year. The average monthly tempera-
ture varies between 23 and 28 Celsius on the coast and the average annual
rainfall is over 2 meters. As is usual with small mountainous islands, there
are a number of well-defined microclimates which permit the cultivation of a
wide range of crops. Moreover, the islands, all of recent volcanic origin,
have distinct geological and topographic features which further encourage a
diversity of vegetation.
Agricultural Production
18.       Major Crops.  Apart from the coconut, the Comoros' main crop are
ylang-ylang, cloves and vanilla, which are grown for export and staple food
crops such as cassava and pigeon peas which are grown at the lower elevations,
and rice and beans which are grown on higher slopes. In addition, some
papaya, avocado, coffee, cocoa and breadfruit are grown and, on land above 500
meters, cereals, potatoes and other vegetables are cultivated. Mountain rice
is grown widely in some areas. The Comoros accounts for 56 percent of world
production of ylang-ylang, an essence which is used to fix fragrances in
perfume and soaps. Recently vanilla has replaced ylang-ylang as the country s
principal export; cloves are the islands' third most important export. In
1977, the Comoros exported 95 tons of ylang-ylang essence, 115 tons of vanilla
beans and 320 tons of cloves. About 3,000 tons of rice are produced annually,
a fifth of the quantity that is imported.
19.       Livestock, Forestry and Fisheries.  Animal husbandry is not a major
activity and the Comoros is a net importer of meat. The national livestock
herd numbers some 40,000 cattle, 50,000 goats and 4,000 sheep; over half of
the livestock population is located on Grande Comore. Overstocking is a
problem despite the small numbers, herd off-take is low and annual meat
consumption per capita is estimated at no more than 5 kilograms. The primary
forest is much degraded near human habitation and deforestation is taking
place rapidly; annual per capita wood consumption (2.5 cubic meters, almost
entirely for domestic firewood) is estimated at twice that for Eastern Africa.
There is only one significant industrial forestry operation, a sawmill at
Karthala on Grande Comore which supplies construction wood from natural forest.
Some 3,500 Comorians are engaged in fishing, but with the exception of Mayotte's
coral lagoon, the waters of the archipelago are not rich in fish. Further out
from the coast there is a potential for tuna fishing, but nearly all fishing
is done from small outrigger canoes dependent on wind or human power and able
to operate only 200 days per year because of weather conditions. Most fish
caught is consumed locally on the coast with little reaching the inland
villages. The African Development Fund is currently preparing a fisheries
project for the islands.
20.       The Coconut Subsector.  Coconut is the Comoros' principal crop; it
is a source of food and drink, cooking oil, thatching material and wood while
its by-product, copra, is the Comoros' fourth most important export crop.
There are an estimated 1.6 million trees occupying some 30,000 hectares or



37 percent of the cultivated land (16,500 hectares on Grande Comore, 7,500
hectares on Anjouan and 6,000 ha on Moheli). About half the coconuts grown
are consumed locally and about 16 percent are processed into copra for export.
An estimated one third of total production is destroyed by rodents.
21.       The palms grown in the archipelago are of the "Tall" variety and
the planting material is quite uniform. The estimated average yield per palm
(46 nuts) is relatively high compared to palms grown elsewhere under similar
cultural methods (39 nuts per palm in Sri Lanka; 29 in Malaysia). On average
the nuts yield about 180 grams of copra and about 5.5 nuts are required to
make 1 kilogram of copra. The palms on all three islands are healthy,
although on the eastern coasts the effects of seasonal drought are apparent.
It is estimated that about 70 percent of the trees are over 50 years old and,
unless they are replaced over the next several years, yields can be expected
to decline significantly.
22.       A survey taken by the Institut des Recherches sur les Huiles et
Oleagineux (IRHO) in 1971 shows three general planting patterns: (i) Planta-
tions with 100 palms or more per hectare are of the common industrial type of
plantation with well aligned palms and well tended soil; they represent only a
small percentage of the palm acreage and are found mostly on Moheli where land
is plentiful. (ii) Industrial plantations where palms are intercropped with
other perennial crops are found in areas with good rainfall. In these areas,
trees average 70 palms per hectare. Trees are aligned and inter-planted
with ylang-ylang, cloves and sometimes vanilla. (iii) Coconuts grown by
smallholders for their own consumption and as a cash crop. The small farmer
plantation is the most common type of exploitation. Palm density averages 55
per hectare but can be as low as 20 and intercropping is widespread. This
type of land use is probably the most efficient under present circumstances
and it provides a year-round cover for the soil against erosion.
23.       Crop Damage.  Damage by rodents is the major pest problem in the
coconut plantations of the Comoros. There are no other pests or diseases of
economic importance. Extensive surveys were undertaken by IRHO in 1968 and
losses to rodents were then estimated at 37 percent of annual production.
It is believed that the extent of the damage caused by rodents remains within
the estimate of the IRHO survey. Several major rodent control campaigns
have been conducted in the past, but, with the exception of the most recent in
1972, no information regarding total area treated, application procedures or
impact remains. The 1972 campaign was to be the beginning of a six year
project but was called off at the end of the second month because of high cost
and difficulties arising from poor supervision, lack of accountability and
farmer involvement.
24.       Production, Marketing and Pricing.  Total production is estimated at
about 50 million nuts per year after adjustment for rodent damage. They are
principally used for subsistence food, drink and oil; only surplus nuts are
used to produce copra. Nearly all coconut farmers produce some copra and for
many it is the only source of cash. Both sun-dried and kiln-dried copra is



produced. The quality is generally mediocre. Most of the kilns for drying
copra are antiquated. Small farmers dry copra on the open fire; larger
farmers use thatch-covered facilities which produce a copra permeated by
smoke. Some singhalese-type kilns, introduced about 20 years ago, need repair
and the few still operating are inefficient and produce only average quality
copra. An unknown quantity of copra is wasted because of poor drying methods
and deterioration before the drying process begins. Sun-dried copra is used
in confectionery goods as well as for religious ceremonies in some countries
and can command a higher price on the world market than kiln-dried. However,
in the absence of quality control and because sun-dried copra is not presently
separated from kiln-dried copra, there is no incentive for exporters to seek
markets for sun-dried copra.
25.       There is no organized system for marketing of fresh nuts at the
village level. Copra is obtained from small farmers who dry the coconut meat,
either in kilns or in the sun. Copra marketing is organized by five principal
private trading groups. Under the present system, traders advance funds
to collectors who purchase copra from producers and transport it at their own
expense to the capital of each island where it is stored by the trader until
it is exported. Because of lack of storage facilities at the village level,
producers prefer to sell their copra as soon as it is dry. Prices of nuts
range between 8 and 25 CF with the lowest price on Moheli and the highest on
Anjouan. Price for copra at the farmgate varies between 55 and 65 CF per
kilogram. The collector usually receives between 5 and 8 CF per kilogram.
Exporters have indicated a willingness to buy directly from the producer and
pay a premium if they can be assured of securing 5 to 10 tons of copra at a
time. Due to its location and because of traditional commercial links,
about 80 percent of Comoros copra is sold to Madagascar whose yearly demand,
about 3,000 tons, exceeds the Comoros' supply. The average FOB price in 1979
was 118 CF per kilogram, with the producer receiving about 51 percent of the
export price.
Government Agricultural Services
26.       Ministry of Production and Industrial Development.  The Ministry of
Production is responsible for planning, directing and coordinating all activ-
ities in the agriculture sector.   It has three departments, one for agricul-
tural development, another for forestry and a third for agro-industries which
includes fisheries. The Ministry employs about 120 people, 80 of whom are
extension service staff.   There are 41 extension workers on Grande Comore, 24
on Anjouan and 17 on Moheli.   The Director of Agriculture is responsible for
three services including plant production, livestock and rural development.
He also oversees all agricultural research and training activities.   Rural
development services are offered at two levels, at the federal level where
planning, documentation, basic research, budgeting, and external aid coordina-
tion take place, and at the island level where field demonstrations and
various development projects are implemented.



- 8 -
27.       Sector Reorganization.  The Ministry of Production, with assistance
from the UNDP and FAO is in the process of reorganizing its agricultural
services. The first phase of the two-phase reorganization aimed at setting
up a Centre Federal d' Appui au Developpement Rural (CEFADER) on Grande
Comore and at least one Centre d' Appui au Developpement Rural (CADER) on
each of the three islands, is already underway. The federal center would
include one station for research, crop trials, pilot programs and training at
M'De and another station in Moroni, which will include offices, a quality
control laboratory, a conditioning station and storage facilities. At the
island level, the CADER, working through the local departments of the Ministry
of Production are to serve as the nuclei of development activities, including
training of the extension work force. Initially each support center will
cover twenty to twenty-five villages.   Most of the chosen locations were
agricultural stations in the past and are therefore readily available. The
process of decentralizing rural services is just starting and it is therefore
too early to judge its efficacy. Nevertheless, the strategy appears to be
sound in view of the limited human and physical resources of the Comoros,
although the need for greater coordination of activities may place a burden on
the somewhat thin central administration.
28.       Agricultural Research.   During the 1966-75 period, the Institut des
Recherches Agronomiques Tropicales (IRAT) started preparation of detailed
soil, land potential, and land use maps for the four islands. During the
same period IRAT carried out crop trials to determine the optimum cultivation
systems and cropping patterns for different soils, topography and microclimates,
and to test crop varieties best suited to Comorian conditions. The planned
federal research station at M'De will build on IRAT's extensive work.
29.       Agricultural Credit.  There is no formal agricultural credit system.
The local commercial bank (Banque Commerciale des Comores) finances cash crop
exports and seasonal working capital needs of agricultural commodities traders
but only 5 percent of its loan portfolio are for this type of activity. It
does not extend credit to farmers. The Comorian Government is presently study-
ing a proposal to establish a development bank to function along the lines of
the Societe de Credit pour le Developpement des Comores (CREDICOM), which was
established in 1974 with assistance from the French Caisse Centrale de Coopera-
tion Economique but stopped its operations in 1977. The bank's priorities
have yet to be announced but it may be expected to play some role in extending
agricultural credit.
30.       Coconut Subsector Constraints.  The Government is aware of the
need to control damage to crops caused by rodents, rehabilitate the existing
stand and increase the efficiency of copra processing and marketing so as to
guarantee sufficient supply of nuts for local consumption and maintain a
surplus for export of copra. Two principal issues require attention with
regard to the coconut subsector. The first issue relates to land tenure,
particularly on Moheli island which has the greatest potential for increased
coconut production. There are three types of land holdings in the Comoros.
The first type is the company estate established during the colonial period



and developed for export crops, mainly coconut and ylang-ylang. By the mid-
1960's, company estates made up about 20 percent of cultivable land but most
of these estates have been taken over by small farmers. The second type of
land holding is the individual private holding and holdings by a few local
companies. The size of the land under this type of holding averages 25
hectares for a total of about 15 to 20 percent of cultivable land. The third
type covers the remaining land which falls under a complex system of ownership
based on Islamic law and collective proprietorship transmitted within families.
A system akin to sharecropping has evolved on both the company estates and
private holdings under which villagers are permitted to harvest the crops,
mostly coconuts and ylang-ylang flowers, provided that they agree to sell the
harvest to the land owner at a price determined before harvesting starts. To
alleviate the land tenure problem, the Government intends to review the land
tenure system and define a plan of remedial action.
31.       The second issue concerns pricing of coconut products.  The prices
of coconut products have been quite low until recently when a combination of
favorable producer price policies by the Government, more competition among
local coconut traders and a steady demand for copra on world markets caused
them to rise substantially (see paragraph 25 above). Although current
market conditions are likely to sustain high prices for copra for the next
five or six years, there remains a need to protect the producer against wide
price fluctuatdons  in copra and other major export crops.  Plans are already
underway to revive the various commodity price stabilization funds previously
in existence, as part of Government's efforts to encourage more production.
The Government has agreed to establish by June 1981 a copra price stabilization
fund, including a mechanism for setting a floor price to the producer and to
consult annually with the Association on the structure and management of the
fund and on the pricing structure for copra (Section 4.05 of the draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
32.       A report entitled "Federal Islamic Republic of the Comoros - Coconut
Rehabilitation and Rodent Control Project - Staff Appraisal Report" dated
May 5, 1980, is being distributed separately. A supplementary project
data sheet is provided in Annex III to this report. The project was prepared
by the Bank Regional Mission in Eastern Africa in 1977 and 1978 and appraised
by an IDA mission in November 1979. Negotiations for the credit were held in
Washington, D.C. from April 28 to 29, 1980 with a Comorian delegation headed
by Mr. Moutare Ahmed Charif, Minister of Production and Industrial Development.
Oblectives
33.       The objective of the proposed project is to assist the Government to
extend and improve coconut and copra production on the three islands to meet
present and future coconut demand for domestic consumption, and to increase



- 10 -
the country's foreign exchange earnings through export of good quality copra.
The project would also contribute to the Government's efforts to improve
the financial management of agricultural development projects.
Description
34.       The proposed project, to be carried out over five years, comprises
the following components:
(i) establishment of a rodent control unit for each island to
treat during the project period 2,000 hectares each on Grande
Comore and Anjouan and 4,000 hectares on Moheli;
(ii) creation of a copra processing and marketing service to monitor
the construction of improved drying and storage facilities and
work with farmers to improve the quality of processed copra;
(iii) establishment of seed gardens and nurseries on each island
for the production of high yielding plant material for replant-
ing and new planting;
(iv)  management and administrative services for the project;
(v) overseas training for key project personnel and on-the-job
training for other project staff;
(vi) technical assistance for project implementation and to the
financial and administrative unit within the Ministry
of Production and;
(vii) studies, field crop trials and monitoring and evaluation of
project progress.
(i) Rodent Control Program
35.       Several rodent control campaigns, the latest in 1972, were organized
in the Comoros during French administration but without much success because
of lack of farmer involvement, limited financing and lax follow-up implementa-
tion actions. Under the proposed project, it is intended to set up a joint
rodent control program in which both the farmers and the Government would
participate. A project rodent unit on each island would develop rodent
control procedures, provide rodenticides, prepare the bait and, working
closely with farmers, provide guidance and supervision on its application.
Farmers' participation would be in the form of supply of copra as a food
carrier for the poisoned bait and provision of labor for its application.
Village and field demonstrations of baiting techniques would be carried out by
project staff.



- 11 -
36.       For baiting, it is proposed to use rodenticides such as anticoagulants
to be placed in a food carrier (copra) as the active ingredient. The use
of anticoagulants is supported by qualified opinion in the Bank since anticoa-
gulants are relatively inexpensive, and have a long history of effective and
safe usage. The first phase of baiting would start with a campaign at the
village level where rodent population densities are highest. Bait would be
placed at daily intervals for a week or longer during the first baiting,
depending on the degree of control achieved and villagers' cooperation. The
second phase of the campaign would extend rodent control activities to planta-
tions. During this phase, bait would be placed in the crowns of the palms
possibly at monthly intervals with 150 grams of packaged bait initially
applied to each tree, using bamboo or telescopic aluminium poles.
37.       There are risks associated with the use of rodenticides, but the
anticoagulants proposed for use under the project are considered least
hazardous. Anticoagulants are only slightly toxic to animals when taken in a
single dose. To be effective, anticoagulants require repeated intake over a
period of several days. To minimize the risks o*f exposure to nontarget
species.in villages, bait with active ingredient would be presented in
limited-access containers, made from whole coconuts, thereby eliminating
access by chickens, goats and other domestic animals. As children could get
into the bait container, barriers limiting their access to the room where a
bait container is located would be provided. Hazards to humans associated
with plantation baiting are almost nil.
38.       Previous rodent control programs in Europe and the United States have
shown that rodents may develop increasing tolerance or genetic resistance to
anticoagulants after continued exposure. It is therefore possible that greater
tolerance for a specific anticoagulant will develop in rodent populations of
the Comoros after continued exposure during the 5-year project period. This
will be closely monitored during project implementation.
(ii)   Copra Processing and Marketing
39.       To help alleviate the shortage of adequate copra drying instal-
lations and storage facilites, provision would be made under the project for
the construction of kilns, drying areas and storage facilites. A total of
19 drying kilns would be built at the rate of 10 on Moheli, 5 on Grande Comore
and 4 on Anjouan. IDA funds would finance the costs of cement, brick and tin
roofing needed to build the kilns, and the wages of specialized skills such as
masons and carpenters. The kilns would be collectively owned and operated by
the villagers who would provide the unskilled labor for their construction.
The construction of new copra processing facilities at specific village
locations will be conditional upon satisfactory arrangements being made among
the villagers concerned regarding the construction, management, operations and
maintenance of the facilities (Section 3.08 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). Each kiln would have the capacity of about 2,000 nuts or about
one third of a ton per drying. In order to encourage sun-drying, which
produces high quality copra, about 24 copra drying areas would also be con-
structed. A total of 29 storage houses, would be built and wherever possible,



- 12 -
drying kilns, drying areas and storage houses would be built at the same
location. Slide shows and possibly film projections would be organized by the
copra processing and marketing officer to illustrate the correct harvesting
and drying methods.
(iii) Plant Improvement
40.       Palms would be produced for each of the three principal growing
areas: the less favorable growing areas with stony soils and or dry weather
conditions; fertile areas where palms are interplanted with other tree crops;
and fertile areas where coconut plantations are found. For the less fertile
areas, nuts from good palms of the native Tall type and the Selected Comorian
Tall would be used. For fertile areas with intercropping, the Selected
Comorian Tall palms would be crossed in seed gardens with pollen from Tall
palms from outside the archipelago which have a proven high-yield potential
such as the West African Tall. For fertile areas with homogenous plantations
or where homogenous plantations could be started, the Selected Comorian Tall
palms would be crossed in special seed gardens with the Malaysian Dwarfs.
During the five-year project period, the basic structures for the breeding and
seedling production program would be established. Over a period of 12 years
from the beginning of the project, it is estimated that 1.6 million seedlings
would be produced, enough gradually to replace about 70 percent of the existing
palms and to increase the density of some existing stands. Healthy seedlings
would be distributed to farmers for replanting. Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that starting June 30, 1981 seedlings would be distributed to
farmers at a fee not exceeding 50 percent of production costs by the Govern-
ment and that the Government will from time to time consult with the Associa-
tion on the level of such fee (Section 4.03 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).  The principal investments would be for seed gardens and nursery
costs (labor, seed, planting, hand tools and equipment); development of
infrastructure, buildings and fencing, and operating and maintenance costs
during the project period. During negotiations, agreement was reached that
the Government will acquire the necessary land and rights to enable the
establishment of seed gardens and nurseries included in the project (Section
3.06 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Disbursement of funds for
the seed garden on Moheli island would be subject to acquisition by the
Government of 15 hectares of land for this purpose (Schedule 1 to the draft
Development Credit Agreement, para. 4(b)).
(iv) Prolect Administrative Services
41.       The project would be implemented by the Coconut Production Service
of the Ministry of Production and Industrial Development. The service would
coordinate and supervise all activities pertaining to coconut develop-
ment and copra production, notably rodent damage control, selection and
breeding of improved coconut varieties, copra processing and marketing; and
crop trials, monitoring and research. Provision is made for the construction
of project headquarters at M'De' near Moroni, including offices and housing.
Vehicles and equipment would be provided to ensure proper supervision and
project implementation. The Coconut Production Service would continue to



- 13 -
function after the completion of the project to oversee the execution of the
12-year plant improvement program.
(v) Training
42.       The project would provide for overseas training for the project
manager and the head of the copra processing and marketing service at the
Institut de Recherches pour les Huiles et Oleagineux training center in Port
Bouet, Ivory Coast, and for the head of the rodent control program at the
National Center for Crops Protection in Laguna, the Philippines. Training for
middle and lower level staff would be on-the-job, with the possibility of
providing short courses as appropriate. Training would be specifically
defined as a central responsibility of technical assistance personnel involved
in the project.
(vi) Technical Assistance and Financial and Administrative Unit
43.       Technical assistance would be required for project management and
to train Comorian staff to manage the project, because suitably qualified
Comorian staff are not available at present. Specialists to be engaged
include a coconut improvement adviser (48 man-months), a rodent control
adviser (24 man-months) and a financial adviser (18 man-months). The average
man-month cost, including salaries, fees, international travel and subsis-
tence, is expected to be about US$ 8,000.
44.       The Ministry of Production is currently implementing several
externally-assisted agricultural projects. By 1981, the Government expects
to have 7 agricultural projects under implementation. Presently the Financial
and Administrative Unit of the Ministry of Production does not have adequate
capability to monitor the financial flows in these projects. The proposed
project would include provision for a position of financial advisor to assist
the Financial and Administrative Unit in monitoring the preparation of project
budgets, project accounts, disbursements and the status of reimbursement
claims. The Unit would also ensure that Government contributions to projects
are included in the national budget and provide training for financial and
administrative staff working under various development projects in the use of
procedures established. The Government has agreed to maintain the Financial
and Administrative Unit under the direction of a head on terms satisfactory to
the Association (Section 4.04 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
(vii) Studies and Field Trials and Project Monitoring
45.       Studies on areas included in the project would be carried out to assist
project management in monitoring results and evaluating project performance.
Surveys would be conducted periodically to determine the impact of the rodent
control component, the amount and frequency of baiting and to determine rodent
movements and tree preferences. Trials would be carried out under the plant
improvement component to determine the most productive trees for selection and
the effects of fertilizer on and further development of intercropping. The
studies would be concerned with investigating better methods of harvesting and



- 14 -
drying of copra and the use of coconut by-products. Assurances were obtained
during credit negotiations that the terms of reference for the proposed
studies and trials would be submitted to IDA for approval before proceeding
with such studies and trials (Section 3.03 of the draft Develonment Credit
Agreement).
Prolect Cost Estimates
46.       Total project costs are estimated at about US$ 5.7 million equivalent,
net of taxes, of which US$ 3.5 million in foreign exchange or 61 percent.
Detailed costs are as follows:
US$ thousand
Local     Foreign      Total
Prolect Component
Rodent Control                                  192         185          377
Plant Improvement                               324         300          624
Copra Processing & Marketing                     52         121          173
Project Management and Administration           767         900        1,667
Technical Assistance (Salaries)                   6         634          640
Training                                         14          20           34
Other (Audit, Studies and Monitoring)           173         207          380
Total base costs                                   1,528       2,367        3,895
Contingency
Physical                                        217         340          557
Price                                           500         790        1,290
TOTAL PROJECT COST, NET OF TAXES                   21245       3,497        5,742
Financing Plan
47.       Financing of project cost would be shared by IDA, the Government
and the farmers involved in the project. The proposed IDA credit of US$ 5.2
million would be made to the Government of the Comoros on standard IDA terms.
The proceeds of the credit would finance 90 percent of total project cost,
including 100 percent of foreign exchange cost and about 77 percent of
local cost. The Government of the Comoros would contribute about 6 percent of
total project cost, consisting of an increasing proportion of local salaries
over the life of the project as shown in paragraph 2 of Schedule 1 to the
draft Development Credit Agreement. Farmers would contribute 4 percent of
total cost, mainly in the form of copra for baiting and labor for its applica-
tion. An advance of US$ 260,000, repayable out of the proposed credit, was
made to the Government under the Project Preparation Facility to meet the cost
of advance recruitment and overseas training of key project staff, in-country
training, project offices, a vehicle and advance recruitment of the coconut
improvement and rodent control advisors.



- 15 -
Project ManaRement and Implementation
48.       The project would be implemented over a period of 5 years and is
expected to be completed by June 30, 1986. The Ministry of Production and
Industrial Development would have the primary responsibility for overall
project implementation. A Coconut Production Service within the Ministry
headed by the IDA-assisted project manager and reporting to the Director of
Agriculture would be responsible for the day-to-day running of the project
(see paragraph 41 above). In addition to a project manager, the service would
include the head of the rodent control program who would be the deputy to the
project manager, the head of the copra processing and marketing program, the
three island project coordinators responsible for implementing all project
components in their respective jurisdictions, a project accountant and sup-
port staff. Studies proposed under the project and monitoring of project
performance would be the direct responsibility of the project manager.
Agreement was reached at credit negotiations that the Government will consult
with the Association regarding the terms of reference, qualifications, and
experience of candidates to fill the above posts, including the adequacy of
the number of support staff, and will exchange views with the Association
before making appointments to these posts (Section 3.02(a) and (b) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).
49.       At present there are no Comorians with sufficient experience to
manage and develop the coconut industry. For this reason, substantial
technical assistance would be required for project management at least during
the initial period. A coconut improvement advisor would assist the project
manager during the first four years of the project. His principal duties
would be to set up the breeding and seedling distribution program, determine
the most effective breeding, seed selection and production techniques. A
rodent control advisor would assist the head of the rodent control program
during the first two years of the project. The financial advisor would assist
in the operations of the Financial and Administrative Unit of the Ministry of
Production. In addition to providing technical support to key project staff
listed above, the advisors would be involved in on-the-job training of local
staff in their respective areas of competence. Given the crucial importance
of training, assurances were obtained at negotiations that the Government
will provide to IDA not later than March 31 each year a report on the progress
of the on-the-job training program (Section 3.05 (b) (iii) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
50.       Specific project implementation programs would be based on a
detailed annual work plan. This plan would be prepared by the project manager
and his staff each year and would be finalized by October 1, namely three
months prior to the commencement of each fiscal year. Detailed guidelines for
the preparation of the work plan were agreed upon with the Government during
negotiations (see Schedule 4 to the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Assurances were also obtained at negotiations that the work plan for each year
would be submitted to IDA for review and approval before October 1 of each
year, commencing in 1980 (Section 3.07 of the draft Development Credit



- 16 -
Agreement). The project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1986 and
the Government has agreed to prepare a project completion report containing
a detailed account of the project performance and benefits and submit such
a report to the Association not later than six months after the closing
date (Section 3.05 (c) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Project Accounts and Audit
51.       Project accounts would be maintained by a project accountant
employed by the Ministry of Production and located at project headquarters,
responsible for ensuring that adequate accounts are kept by the island
coordinators, coordinating these accounts and verifying them. Control
procedures would involve a budget established at the beginning of the fiscal
year under the supervision of the Financial and Administrative Unit. The
Government has agreed that satisfactory accounts would be maintained by each
island coordinator and consolidated accounts prepared by the project accountant
(Section 4.01 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). External auditors
would set up the accounting system and propose procedures to control disburse-
ments against statements of expenditure. The Government will submit to the
Association not later than six months after the end of each fiscal year a
satisfactory audit report on the project accounts (Section 4.01(c)(ii) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).
Procurement
52.       Contracts for the supply of materials and civil works, including
site development would be awarded following competitive bidding advertised
locally in accordance with the Borrower's procurement procedures which are
acceptable. Contracts for the supply of vehicles and equipment would be
awarded following Government procurement procedures which are acceptable.
Vehicles and other equipment would be purchased after quotations from all
suppliers represented in Comoros offering adequate guarantees of service and
spare parts. The rodenticide used in rodent control would be procured on the
basis of limited international tendering acceptable to the Association.
Disbursement
53.       The proposed IDA credit will be disbursed against 100 percent of
total expenditures for equipment, materials, chemicals and vehicles; 100
percent of total expenditures for the establishment and development of seed
gardens and nurseries; 100 percent of total expenditures for consultant
services (technical assistance); 100 percent of total expenditures for
studies, research and training; 100 percent of total expenditures for project
operating costs other than salaries. With regard to salaries, IDA will
finance a declining share over the life of the project while the Government
will cover an increasingly larger percentage, namely 20 percent in 1981, 25
percent in 1982, 50 percent in 1983, 60 percent in 1984 and 80 percent in
1985. In order to allow overseas training of key project management staff,
mobilization of required technical assistance and completion of prepara-
tory activities for the project, up to US$ 260,000 was made available to the



- 17 -
Government under the Project Preparation Facility. The advance will be
reimbursed to the Association out of the proposed credit upon its effectiveness.
54.       Disbursements for equipment, materials, vehicles, civil works
and foreign expenditures for project operating cost would be fully documented.
Disbursements for local operating expenditures would be made against statements
of expenditure certified by the project manager, the project accountant
and the Ministry of Finance. The statements would be retained by the Borrower
and made available for inspection by IDA in the course of project supervision
and each fiscal year would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to
the Association in accordance with appropriate auditing principles (Section
4.01(c)(i) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
55.       Because of the anticipated difficulty that the Government may have
in pre-financing expenditures to be reimbursed under the IDA credit, a
revolving fund of US$ 0.3 million would be established in an account opened
in a local commercial bank for the purpose of meeting the day-to-day expenses
of the project and operated under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. IDA
would replenish the account from the credit amount upon receipt of evidence of
disbursements from the revolving fund for allowable expenditures. The closing
date for the credit account is set at December 31, 1986 (Section 2.04 of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).
Benefits and Justification
56.       The proposed project is expected to yield benefits in several
areas. Benefits resulting directly from project investments would consist
of increased production of fresh nuts for both local consumption and for
transformation into copra for export. In the absence of the project, deficits
in supply for local consumption of about a million nuts a year would occur by
1986. These annual deficits would increase to about 6.4 million by 1990, 12.5
million by 1995, 17 million by the year 2000 and level off at 19 million by
2006 when it is assumed that population growth will stabilize. Coconut
presently provides an estimated 27 percent of annual protein intake per
inhabitant. Deficits of the proportions indicated above would mean that
food, oil and building materials would all have to be imported to substitute
for products provided by the coconut palm, all at considerable cost to the
Comorian economy. The coconut rehabilitation component together with the
rodent control program should ensure that there would be sufficient quantities
of nuts for local consumption and a surplus for the export of copra. The
coconut rehabilitation component, after allowances for rodent damage, should
result in an estimated annual incremental production of 0.3 million nuts
in 1990, 8.2 million in 1995, 27.0 million in year 2000 and 31.0 million
in year 2010. Export earnings from the sale of incremental copra at the
end of the project period would be about US$700,000 per year in 1979 constant
prices and would increase to about US$1.8 million 10 years later when the
planting program reaches full production.



- 18 -
57.       The economic rate of return from directly productive elements of the
project is estimated at 13.9 percent over 30 years. This reflects the long
gestation period for new plantings. Alternative investment opportunities are
limited in the Comoros at this stage and rehabilitation of the coconut stands
is essential to the economy of the Comoros. The rate of return was tested for
sensitivity. If costs increased by 10 percent, the rate of return would be
reduced to 12.3 percent. If benefits were to be delayed by one year, the rate
of return would be reduced to 12.0 percent.
58.       Additional benefits which are not quantifiable include under the
rodent control component improved health standards and reduced losses of
stored food crops, particularly rice and cassava; under the copra processing
and marketing component, improvement in copra quality and the introduction of
a grading system which would separate sun-dried from kiln-dried copra and
should lead to higher prices for sun-dried copra; under the plant improvement
component, contribution to prevention of increasing soil erosion, and increase
in coconut shells which are used as fuel in cooking and coconut tree trunks
and palms which are used as building materials. In addition to agricultural
and health benefits, the project would assist the development of basic
agricultural services and improve planning and implementation of development
schemes and services to farmers. The development of sectoral administrative
institutions and training of staff and farmers will favorably affect future
agricultural activities in the Comores. The project is also expected to have
beneficial effects on employment and income redistribution. An estimated
20,000 low-income farm families would benefit from the plant rehabilitation
and rodent control components. A limited number of new jobs would be created
as a result of the project construction activities and additions to Government
sector services.
Risks
59.       The project could encounter significant problems during implementa-
tion as it would be IDA's first agricultural project in the Comoros, the
Ministry of Production not being familiar with IDA's procedures. In addition,
under the new federal constitution, the respective administrative responsibil-
ities of the federated islands and the Central Government have not yet been
clearly worked out. Some coordination difficulties could arise between the
Central Government and the island governments which could have an adverse
effect on project implementation. There is a risk that yields might be lower
than expected but the seed production program proposed under the project has
been carried out successfully in neighboring Madagascar where conditions are
similar and yields have been satisfactory there. Another important risk is
that farmers' initial enthusiasm for the rodent control program might wear off
after the first year. Although the project may face the above difficulties,
its short term impact on quantities of copra available for consumption and
export and long term impact on the coconut palm, clearly one of the archipe-
lago's most important resources, outweigh these risks.



- 19 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
60.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Fede-Al Islamic
Republic of the Comoros and the Association, and the Recommendation of the
Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agree-
ment of the Association are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. The draft Development Credit Agreement conforms to the usual
pattern of agreements on coconut development projects. Special conditions of
the project are listed in Section III of Annex III to this report.
61.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
62.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 14, 1980



-  20  -
Annex I
TAILE SA
ComCRoS - 57CSAL INDICATOrS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA THOUAND  O. I)  CREFERENCE GROUPS (AJUSTED Ag]RAGtS
LOAD                2.2                                                    - HDST RMCENT ESTIMATE) -
SAME       SANE      NET HIGHER
ACGICVLTUl,AL                                        MD.1  NST RECENT  GEOGRAPRIC    SNCONE    INCOME
1960  lb    1970 /b LSItATt /b      REGION /c  GROUP /d    CROUP /!
CNu *n CAPITA (USs)                    ..          ..    190.0            306.1      209.6       467.5
ERGY CONSVUMTION PERU CAITA
(ILOGRAMS O  COL  QUALENT)         24.0        46.0      59.0            80.6       83.9       262.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATIOF. MID-TEAR (MILLIONS)     0.2         0.28      0.37
UnaE POPULATION (PERCENT 0 TOTAL) 4.6          7.8       9.5            17.1       16.2        24.6
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION aN ruA  2000 (XSLLIONS)                      0.58
STATIONART POPULATION (MILLIONs)                        1.38              .
YEA  STATIOARtY POPULATION IS REACD                  2135
POPULATION DESIT
PEn SQ. Kt.                      95.0       130.0    170.0             18.4       49.4        45.3
PER SQ. KK. AGRICULTURAL LAND    205.0      270.0    350.0             50.8      252.0       149.0
POPULATION ACE STRUCTUM (PERCENT)
0-14 nts.                        42.6        42.5      43.0            44.1       43.1        45.2
15-64 YRs.                        54.1        5*.5      54.0            52.9       53.2        51.9
65 Ts. AND ABOVE                   3.3         3.0       3.0             2.8        3.0         2.8
POPULATION GROM  IRATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             2.9/f       3.3/f     3.9/f           2.7        2.4         2.7
URBAN                             5.2         8.S       7.5             5.7        4.6         4.3
CUDE BIM  RATE (PER THOUSAND)    4.4           46.0      40.0            46.3       42.4        39.4
CKUDK DEATH UTZ (Ptl THOUSAND)    28.6         20.0      18.0            17.2       15.9        11.7
GRLOSS UPRODUGTION  AT               ..          ..       2.5             3.1        2.9         2.7
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTLS, ANNUAL (THOUSADS)        ..          ..        ..
usERs (PRCENT or MARRID  WOmN)    1. ..                  *.              *-       12.2        13.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDCX OF F(M PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71.100)           ..       100.0      99.0            94.3       98.2        9.6
PeR CAPITA SUPLY oF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIRNZrS)                      ..          ..        ..            89.5       93.3        94.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS rER DAY)           ..          .         -             55.8       52.1        54.3
OF WHICH ANIML AND PULSE         ..          ..        ..            17.9       13.6        17.4
CHILD (ACES 1-4) NDItTALITY RATE   32.0        29.0      27.0            22.3       18.5        11.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPEcTANcy AT BIRTH (EARS)    35.0        44.0      46.0            47.0       49.3        54.7
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            ..          ..        .               ..      105.4        68.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATE (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..          ..      50.0            20.3       26.3        34.4
URBAN                              ..          ..      53.0            53.9       58.5        57.9
RURAL                              ..          ..      20.0            10.1       15.8        21.2
ACCESS TO EXCUITA DISPOSAL (PERCENT                                                  /
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..          ..      50.0            22.5       16.0        *0.8
'AN                                ..          ..        ..            62.5       65.1        71.3
RIURAL                             ..          ..        ..            13.9        3.5        27.7
POPULATION PER PHYSICIN          838.0/   12630.0          ..         17424.7   11396.4       6799.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    3500.o0Z    2050.0   2020.0/h         2506.6    5552.4       1522.1
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           500.0/&    500.0         ..           502.3    1417.1        726.5
URBAN                              *-        60.0        ,.           201.4      197.3       272.7
RURAL                              ..      1280.0        ..          1403.6    2445.9       1404.4
ADtISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..        17.8         .            23.4       24.8        27.5
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              ..          ..        ..             4.9        5.3         5.4
URBAN                              ..          ..        ..             4.9        4.9         5.1
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..             5.5        5.4         5.5
AVERAGE  UMSER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              ..          ..        ..
tRBAN                              ..          ..        .
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCE.NT
OF OWLLINGS)
TOTAL                              ..          ..      20.0/i            ..       22.5        28.1
tlR3A!,                            ..          ..        ,.-             ..       17.8
RURAL                .. _



-21-                                                   Annex I
Page 2
c0oIs) W-MUL IDICATOU  DTA SLT
~~ueomos  ~REFRECX GAOUPS (ADJUSTED AYJRAES
M_OST UC  ESTIS.E T
nDST RECENT     GROCGI.APC    INCOME       INCOE
1960 Lb     1970  k 1ST7LTE /b       3tCON  c   GROUP /d    QOUP /e
EDUCAION-
JU5tD MOLLIENT RATIOS
PRDAY:    .TOTAL                   14.0        36.0      51.0/h           59.0       63.3         82.7
muLE                 23.0         49.0      71.O7            64.2       79.1        87.3
PEKALE                4.0         22.0      32.076           44.2       48.4        75.8
StCONUARi:   TOTAL                  1.0         3.0       7.0/h            9.0       16.7         21.4
MAIL                  2.0          5.0      L2.07-5          12.0       22.1        33.0
FEMAg                 0.2          2.0       3.0Z            4.4        10.2        15.5
VOCATIONL  IROL. (X Of SEONSI?)    ..              ..         ..             7.0        5.6          9.5
PP IL-TRACER LATIO
WKARTY                             41.0        42.0      42.0L            42.2       41.0         34.1
SECO*DAR                           17.0        20.0      25.0             22.9       21.7         23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (nXEIT)            ..          ..      20.0             20.8       31.2         54.0
CONSIUMTION
iZADEU cAgs PEt TEouSRI
POPULATION                           ..          ..         ..             4.0        2.6          9.3
UDtO ucV9RS PER TImOus
POPULATION                         3.0         87.0     116.0             44.3       17.2         76.9
TV UCCIVEtS PnE TwOUSD
POPUtATION                           ..          ..         ..             2.9        2.4         13.5
NEWSPAPER ("DLILY CEAL
INTERUST") CIRCULATION  E
TmUSAZD POPULATION                     ..          ..         ..             5.6        5.3         18.3
CIMA ANNUAL ATSENDAIIDC  tU  CAPITA  0.1          0.4         ..             0.4        1.1          2.5
LABOR FIORCE
*YALLAORI FORCE (TWOU5AI)              ..        140.0    I14.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   36.7        35.6      35.1             31.9       24.8         29.2
AGRICULTUM  (PERCENT)              70.4        67.1      64.7             77.6       69.4         62.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 18.7        20.8         .              7.9       10.0         11.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                41.0        38.6      37.3             40.8       36.9         37.1
MALE                                 52.9        50.4      49.0             53.9       52.4         48.U
FEULE                                29.5        27.2      25.9             25.6       18.0         20.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY tATIO                           0.9       0.9              1.2         1.2         1.4
INCOME DISTRIRUTION
niCuT or PrIVATE iNCOlE
RRCEIYED sr
RlGHEST 5 PERCENT Of IOUSEEOLDS       .          .                                                15.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCET OP ROUSEIOLDS                                .                        .        48.2
LOWEST 20 PERCENT Of iOUSIEOLDS                                      .                            6.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT Or HOUSUxOLDS       .          ..                                               16.3
POVERTY TAMGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED UISOLDt POVER   INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                .                                   187.6       99.2       241.3
RURAL                                 .                                   f .8       78.9       136.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCM
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URN                                  .                                   138.4       91.9       179.7
RULAL                                 .                                   71.0       54.8        103.7
ESTI1MATED POPULATION SELOW ASSOLCTS
POVERTY INCOM  LEtVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                                                     34.5       44.1        24.8
RURAL                                                      ..             4.7        53.9        37.5
Not available
Ntc applicable.
VMS
/s    The adjusted sroup averages for each indicator  are populstioo-weithtad geometric mana, excludiag the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in *ach group. Coverage of countries mong the
indicators depends ou availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimte, between 1974 and 1977.
/c  Africa South of Saeara;   /   Low Income ($280 or less per capita, 1976);  /.  Lower Middle Income
(5281-550 per capita, 1976);  /f  Due to immigration population growth rate is higher then the
race of natural increaee;   /c 7962;  /h 7973;   L   as percencage of population.
Most Recent Estimate of GNP per capita is for 1978.
August, 1979



-22-                                                   Annex  I
Page 3
ECONOMIC INDICATORS - COMOROS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1975 /                                    ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (Z. constant prices)
US$  Mln.     _                 1970-75             1975
GDP at Market Prices                         70.1        100.0                1.8              -12.7
Gross Domestic Investment                    16.6         23.7               -2.5              -42.2
Gross Domestic Saving                         0.6          0.1              -11.5              -75.9
Balance of Trade                             17.3         24.7
Exports of Goods, NFS                        10.5         15.0                2.0               -2.3
Imports of Goods, NFS                        27.8         39.7                6.1              -12.1
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1975
Value added           Labor Force V        V. A. per Worker
US$ Mln.      Z          Thous.      X         US $       X
Agriculture                                  26.7         38.1        150      87            178      44
Industry                                     14.8         21.1          5       3          2,960    725
Services                                     28.6         40.8         17      10          1,682    412
Unallocated
Total/Average
70.1       100.0        172    100.0           408    100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government
US$ Min.                % of GDP
1975  1978          1975       1973-75
Current Receipt                              8.0    6.6           11.4         11.3
Current Expenditure                         11.5    9.8           16.4         16.2
Current Surplus                             -3.5   -3.2           -5.0         -4.9
Capital Expenditures                         2.8    6.9            4.0          4.0
External Assistance (net)                    1.9   15.2            2.7          2.7
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES
1976     1977      1978
(Million CF outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                      2076      1960      2311
Bank Credit to the Government              -299       381     -412
Bank Credit to Private Sector 1/           1119      2002      2169
(percentage or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP
General Price Index (1975 = 100)
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index
Bank Credit to the Government (net)         -62       227     -208
Bank Credit to Private Sector               -47        79          .1
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the
period covered.
1/ Latest available data for national accounts.
2/ Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation. "Unallocated"
consists mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first job.
3/ Includes public enterprises.
Not available
Not applicable
April 30, 1980



ANNEX I
-23 -                                      Page 4
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                 MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1916-1978)
1976   1977   1978                                      US$ Min   %
(Million US $)      Perfume essences                   2.6      28.0
Vanilla                            3.2      35.0
Exports of Goods, NFS        10.8   10.8   11.1   Copra                                0.7       8.0
Imports of Goods, NFS       -15.2  -18.9  -24.3   Cloves                               2.2      24.0
Resource Gap (deficit -)   - 4.4  - 8.1  -13.2
Interest Payments (net)    - 0.05 - 0.13 - 0.24
Workers' Remittances          0.31   0.21 - 0.42  All other commodities                0.5       5.0
Other Factor Payments (net)   ..    ..        ..        Total                          9.2    100.0
Net Transfers                  4.2    6.4   15.1
Balance on Current Account   0.1  - 1.6    1.2   EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1970
Direct Foreign Investment  - 0.17 - 0.33 - 0.21                                       US$ Min
Gross MLT Borrowing:
Disbursements             14.1    4.4   12.8   Public Debt, incl. guaranteed   37.7
Amortization               0.01 - 0.14 - 0.65  Non-Guaranteed Private Debt          *-
Subtotal                  14.1    4.3   11.7   Total outstanding & Disbursed   37.7
Capital Grants      1/        2.0    2.3    5.1                                  2/
Other Capital (net)-            ..     ..     ..   DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1978-/
Other items n.i.e.          - 8.5  -10.6  -11.5
Increase in Reserves (j)             12.9  -11.6                                                 %
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                8.0
Gross Reserves (end year)  - 6.0    6.9  - 4.3   Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Net Reserves (end year)    - 5.8    7.7  - 4.2   Total outstanding & Disbursed                   8.0
Fuel and Related Materials                          IBRD/IDA LENDING, (March 31, 1980)(Million US$)
Imports
of which:  Petroleum    1.8    2.1    1.0                                        IBRD     IDA
Exports
of which:  Petroleum      *         *         Outstanding & Disbursed                     2.8
Undisbursed                         ,      2.9
outstanding incl. Undisbursed              5.7
RATE OF EXCHANGE             1976   1977   1978
US$1.00 = CF                238.98 245.7  225.6
CF 1    = US$               0.0042 0.0041 0.0044
1/ Error* and omissions
2/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
not available
not applicable
April 30, 1980



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COMOROS
A. Statement of IDA Credits (as of March 31, 1980)
Amount US$ million
Credit No.            Fiscal Year  Borrower  Purpose       IDA      Undisbursed
852-COM                  1979       Comoros   Highway      5.0          2.2
30-COM (EEC Special
Action)          1980      Comoros   Highway       0.7          0.7
Total  5.7          2.9
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of March 31, 1980)
none



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
C. Prolects in Execution 1/
Credit No. 852-COM:  First Highway Project:  US$ 5.0 million Credit of
October 13. 1978; Date of Effectiveness: January 15, 1979;
ClosinR Date: December 31, 1982.
Credit No. 30-COM:   First Highway Project: US$ 0.7 million Credit of January 23,
(EEC Special Action) 1980; Terminal Date of Effectiveness: June 23, 1980;
ClosinQ Date: December 31, 1982.
The project is in its second year of implementation and is progres-
sing satisfactorily. The 3-year road maintenance program has already met most
of its initial objectives of establishing the basic administrative structure,
defining a work program and creating the necesssary equipment repair facil-
ities. Procurement of equipment and spare parts is nearly completed and the
scope of maintenance and road improvement works is expected to reach the
level anticipated during appraisal by mid-1980. Construction of the Nioumakele
road, financed by the African Development Fund, is underway since mid-1979.
The feasibility study for the Miringoni-Nioumachoua road is completed.
Shortage of local counterpart funds has, however, emerged as a major constraint
for project implementation. To alleviate the problem, the Association has
agreed to assume a higher proportion of local cost financing than originally
anticipated.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action taken to remedy them.
They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that they
do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses
in project execution.



- 26 -
ANNEX III
COMOROS
SUPPLEMETARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)     Time taken to prepare project                 two years
(b)     Preparation                                   Government, IDA and consultants
(c)     Initial discussions with IDA                  April 1977
(d)     Appraisal mission                             November 1979
(e)     Negotiations                                 April 1980
(f)     Planned date of effectiveness                 September 1980
Section II: Special Implementation Actions
An advance under the Project Preparation Facility of up to
US$260,000 was approved in January 1980 to advance project commencement.
The proposed project will be subject to close supervision during
implementation.
Section III: Special Conditions of the prolect
(i)   The  Government shall submit an annual work plan to the
Association for review and approval, not later than three
months before the beginning of each year's program (para. 50).
(ii)   The Government shall establish by June 1981 a stabilization
fund for copra, including a mechanism for setting a floor
copra price to the producer (para. 31).
(iii)   The construction of new copra processing facilities at
specific village locations will be conditional upon satis-
factory arrangements being made among the villagers concerned
regarding the construction, operations and maintenance of the
facilities (para. 39).



IBRD 14833
E   0      -                  '                       '                                                                                  FEBRUARY .QFO
%  ?00  0       -h,: =    K.)U@ 
' 0  O   Z   =   :  F  t 4 + < 7 2 X C X Z- 
a-                                       Z 7Q -  I              gZ  t , 0
t_ R 4                                USQ 0.~-                 a                                                           0 F  .;c:ksC
. :E                             c .          XS,_                                     r;,U                                        S
=~~~~~ 'a
-o~~-
E                                     N 3 <  E
0      oo~  *0b <Z 0 g t    E
<                        0 <                                 43~~r  ~  ~o'o -
ZZ-
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~ L
uO 0
0  0     --0
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0  0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0






IBRD 14834
I  4- 15'        COMORO  ISLANDS                                                                        4220                                                 44:30                      FEBRUARY 1980
ANJOUAN
COCONUT REHABILITATION AND
RODENT CONTROL PROJECT                                                                                                 sir>
iOdO ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CCont trees e cr 
A    ostig  pins kciS                     70 trees                                                                                   7-'>        Jimiimo           ci
ProposeO new Wals                      0 tros                                                                                                 A            P, h*
P Proposed drying orOes            '    Prinoipti City
CJ      Other tfowns                                                                                           '
Poved roodo;
Completed                                                                                                                      Htb
- - ---    Under copostrncto                                                                            /       rtS
.............  Plonned
EarthE nods                                                                      Owan
Thermo e-nid, ond thpdroelectri
power plonts- pepbio niod privote
4,    Port
+e   Airport                                                                                               )k(y  4
'K  1                                        _- co-  Elevateon cort-ors in nneters                         MUTSAMUD U            U      '.                         !
la'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               120r->\
}~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ s                                                                                                    7  7o
ofnrreoormorn,no  oiGronr,nrobirosonOr or.omoo.a 
Aro
.02r 05J
4) t    ,1 <> U.>' .                                                                                                                                                                   2, A0        /*t :EXm                        
V;  S/iiovg                                          Moe'         ,Myo '~ 'S 7:   M' R~''                                                                                                                          ni3anh<F r  .G     f TI-   u
MAt.         *                           n-            IS;  ANDSjMoy&,  J' .'    sf02                                                462           'k                                                                        ifrht8t
L ~ ~ ~         ~        ~         ~        ~       ~       ~        9                                                                                                  '1 g'> fl      eeoetlhvSrsg.                 t                           -_
1w2                                                          , 3 Av'3           '                  tp*                                            4_0=                                          S       _ _       " "          i2 *42 <5 >43
'2 ~ ~    ~    ~    B..
3,                                                                                                                                                                       dO 30~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 






IBRD 14835
43'40'                                                    43-45                                                       4350                                                  FEBRUARY 1980
COMORO ISLANDS
M   C   H   E  LI                                              Coconut frees per acre:
COCONUT  REHABILITATION AND                                                           IO0 trees
RODENT CONTROL VPROJECT                                                           70 trees
-12 'f1 S                9j5  '                                                                    ::               0                           *   E xistingakiins                y  P rin c ipa l  city                     12'15 t
4A   EXisting kilns                           Other towns
BoCT Z /( ]    6    Bte'                                                   A :   :  :  :   *   Proposed new kilns  Paved roads:
3                                                                         Proposed  drying area                Completed
Under construction
......Planned
0    ~~~~~~~~~~BO ~~~~~~~~~Earth roads
Port
tForrel.+ -f Airpori
6                                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rivers
'-600  Elevaition contours, meters
Miringoni                                                                                                     D    z
KILOMETERS
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Oualla I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Bu 
MeA   l.                                                                            a nomoido                                              1220
M>souzIfRo < L 0                         43'50
M'Boszi l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'hc .
Magnuni l.7~~~~~~~~~~~~~77  I    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ Bougo I.                       .1            T~~~~~~~~~~~~aN4ZANIuzA1
,1,,$   7  1    9   O oenefgu  Chondz i  I.                                                                                    G <  ;   T   A   f  2    A   fil i   A     9    Comora de 
wBouzi L'o ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~Lk                                                                           Mrni~omr
Canzoni.                                                                             . i                                                      Moheli   SAnj2an1
-12-25'                                      bJT12'25-  S   Ij                                                                            OZA             BtQJV                     COMORO    tMayotte
1225'     ~~~~~~~~~~1I  40    r                                       I ~~~~~~~~~~~~ILANDS ltaot                                                                                     2
ThiS mpar b, rDen, ple5ped rbr thte Wodd 8.,k' s taff r.cru,imlr f., the tovrsnefMALA                :     .r:s   
.ald-  thent jM ~,h,mva -dw and/: th                                                             *t 0         f  ;25Kin,  Z A M   B / a u E  ;4:C,
43-40'    @   cp~    of u m.,h b-r, -                                                          3,6a;;V  4~' b 



