Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24017
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(TF-21609; IDA-28560; PPFI-P9070; PPFI-P907 1)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$56 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
FOR A
SOCLAL ACTION FUND
June 27, 2002
Human Development 1
Country Department 2
Africa Region
This documcnt has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 1995)
Currency Unit = Malawi Kwacha (MK)
MK 1.00 = US$ 0.0649
US$ 1.00 = MK 15.4
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
(July I - June 30)
(as of July 1998)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I meter (m) = 3.281 feet (ft)
I kilometer (k1m) = 0.621 miles (mi)
I square kilometer (sq km) = 0.386 square miles (sq mi)
I cubic meter (m3) = 264.2 U.S. gallons
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DDC           =      District Development Committee
CAS           =      Country Assistance Strategy
CSP           =      Community Subprojects
DDF           =      District Development Fund
DEC           =      District Executive Committee
EPA           =      Extension Planning Area
GDP           =      Gross Domestic Product
GNP           =      Gross National Product
GOM           =      Government of Malawi
ICB           =      Intemational Competitive Bidding
IDA                  International Development Association
IEC           =      Information, Education, and communication
lIHS          =      Integrated Household Survey
MASAF         =      Malawi Social Action Fund
MEPD          =      Ministry of Economic Planning and Development
MU            =      Management Unit of MASAF
NCB           =      National Competitive Bidding
NEC           =      National Economic Council
NGO                  Non-Governmental Organization
NSO           =      National Statistical Organization
PAP           =      Poverty Alleviation Program



PIM           =     Project Implementation Manual
PMSF          =      Poverty Monitoring Support Facility
PRSP          =      Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PSC           =      Project Steering committee
PSIP          =      Public Sector Investment Programme
PWP           =      Public Works Program
SCC           =      Systematic Client Consultation
SOE           =      Statement of Expenditures
TWC           =      Technical Working Committee
VAM           =     Vulnerability Assessment Monitoring System
WFP           =     World Food Program
Vice President:  Callisto Madavo
Country Manager/Director:  Darius Mans
Sector Manager/Director:  Dzingai Mutumbuka
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   N. Mungai Lenneiye






MALAWI
SOCIAL ACTION FUND
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    I
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   I
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              7
6. Sustainability                                                                 10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                  11
8. Lessons Learned                                                                13
9. Partner Comments                                                               14
10. Additional Information                                                       23
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                              24
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                              25
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             27
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             28
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components              30
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                 31
Annex 7. List of Suppordng Documents                                              32
Annex 8. Public Works Program Targeting Mechanisms                                36
Annex 9. Government ICR                                                           37
MAP:
IBRD No. 31950
IBRD No. 31951






Project ID: P001668                                      |Project Name: SOCIAL ACTION FUND
Team Leader: Mungai Lenneiye                             I TL Unit: AFTH1
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       IReport Date: June 27, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: SOCIAL ACTION FUND                            L/C/TFNumber: TF-21609; IDA-28560;
PPFI-P9070;
PPFI-P9071
Country/Department: MALAWI                                              Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: SA - Social Assistance
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   10/01/1994                             Effective: 05/30/1996
Appraisal:  03/05/1996                               MTR: 07/01/1999            03/01/1997
Approval:  05/09/1996                              Closing: 12/31/2001          12/31/2001
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: GOVERNMENT/GOM
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Callisto E. Madavo                        E.V.K. Jaycox
Country Manager:     Darius Mans                               Barbara Kafka
Sector Manager:      Dzingai B. Mutumbuka                      Roger W. Grawe
Team Leader at ICR:  Nginya Mungai Lenneiye                    Norbert Mugwagwa
ICR Primary Author:  Mirey Ovadiya
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The objective of the project was to contribute towards poverty reduction in Malawi t.hrough (i)
provision of additional resources for programs targeted to the poor; (ii) promotion of a new approach to
rural development by community participation in project preparation and implementation; (Hi) a labor
intensive public works program targeted at the poorest (food deficient) districts; and (iv) strengthening the
poverty monitoring and assessment system.
The project objective was appropriate given pervasive poverty rates, with about 65% of the population
living below the poverty line and very poor social indicators including low enrollmnent rates, poor health
status, poor access to clean water, food insecurity and poor infrastructure. The project objective and design
were in line with the main elements of the Country Assistance Strategy: poverty targeted :nvestments and
development of human resources, together with programs of macroeconomic stabilization, fiscal
restructuring and deregulation, private-sector led growth, and capacity building and decentralization.
Malawi Social Action Fund (MASAF) also complemented Government of Malawi's Poverty Alleviation
Program, announced in 1995, whose objective, among others, was to improve access to education through
elimination of school fees and uniforms in order to promote universal coverage of prim ary education, and
re-orientation of public expenditures to social sectors and service delivery mechanisms which benefit the
poor.
The "poverty reduction" objective of this project may appear to be quite broad when viewed in isolation. It
should be noted that the project was conceived as the first and "learning" phase of a ser_s of such projects,
which would be expected to achieve certain development outcomes over a longer period. MASAF was
designed to, and did provide a number of lessons on how to implement flexible, process- criented (as
opposed to "blue print") projects; how to build social capital at grass roots levels, and how to generate a
process of community-driven development. These are all Bank/IDA priorities in the Africa Region.
Furthermore, during implementation, MASAF provided a series of lessons which are now fMly
incorporated in the on-going MASAF 11 and are being systematically included in the proposed MASAF III
which is now under preparation. These lessons concern management of strong community demand for
sub-projects; the need to agree on and build monitoring and evaluation systems around poverty reduction
key indicators; methods to sustain community based or local govermment supported maintenance of assets;
and capacity building techniques to foster inter-agency cooperation and collaboration.
The project design supported the creation of community level social and economic infrastructure to benefit
the poorest as well as promoting community participation in identification, selection, imp)ementation and
maintenance of such infrastructure with assistance from NGOs, private sector and local govemment. This
was a new and welcome concept for a country coming out of 30 years of a highly centralized era of a
single-party regime. The project was intended to inject cash into the rural economy, supplement incomes of
the poorest households, and improve food availability in food deficient areas. It also supported a labor
intensive rural public works program targeted to the poorest and most food deficient districts to improve
their livelihoods through cash transfers whilst improving economic infrastructure. Given that Malawi is
prone to natural and economic shocks, and has large numbers of poor and limited resources, it is crucial to
be able to monitor poverty in order to make informed policy and expenditure decisions with limited public
resources. The project aimed to strengthen the poverty monitoring and assessment system and capacity in
the country. Given the novelty of the project concept, and uncertainty about in-country capacity for
implementation, the project design was flexible enough to allow for learning and evolutior of procedures
and institutional roles in response to community demands and capacities (p.34, Staff Appraisal Report).
Thus, although the development objective was broad in terms of targets, it is assessed as responsive to
- 2 -



Borrower circumstances and development priorities. Although the project was fairly demanding in
geographic coverage and institutions involved, use of an autonomous implementing agency, which
improved over time, provided the necessary inpetus for the project Based on the above, the development
objectives and design of the project are assessed as satisfactory.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Project objectives were not revised.
3.3 Original Components:
The project had the following three components.
Community Sub-projects (CSP) component financed activities (such as upgrading/construction of
comrnunity infrastructure for education, health, water and transport, among others) identified, prepared and
implemented by the communities with or without assistance from facilitators of their choice who may be
government officials, NGOs, private organizations or individuals; this included financing for institutional
capacity building to ensure appraisal and supervisory support by financing the management unit (MU)
staff, field offices, transportation, equipment and operational costs. An information, education and
communication campaign to inform communities and other participants about the demand-driven processes
oftbe project was also financed under this component. cemmurity project committees were trained in
project management and implementation.
Public Works program (PWP) component financed a safety rnet operation in poor and food deficient areas
through labor-intensive public works construction including rehabilitating and maintaining economic
infrastructure such as rural roads, minor irrigation, afforestation and land development works. This
component intended to provide temporary employment and nrral minimum wage rate equivalent earnings
for those poor with no off-farm income eaming opportumnities. The works were to be implemented jointly by
local government staff and MASAF MU where private sector participation in the supervision and execution
of works was encouraged.
Poverty Monitoring Support Facility (PMSF) component financed (i) capacity building in institutions to
coordinate, collect, analyze, disseminate and use data relevant to poverty reduction policies and programs;
(ii) the development and implementation of an Integrated Household Survey Program at the National
Statistics Office; and (iii) a poverty analysis program. The component was to be implemented by a
Technical Working Committee for poverty monitoring.
The design of all components was clearly linked to the objectives described above and recognized the
administative challenges involved in implementing a nationwide demand-driven community development
program.
3.4 Revised Components:
The project components were not revised.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
No formal quality at entry review was done for this project. Based on the following assessment of
various elements of project design and preparation, quality at entry is rated satisfactory.
Project Concept, Objectives and Approach. As noted above, the design of the project was consistent
with the objectives of the CAS and govemment priorities and poverty alleviation strategy. In addition,
documentation indicates that MASAF design took on board international experiences from other social
- 3 -



funds, pilot projects implemented through the Project Preparation Facility, and findings from
systematic client consultations conducted during preparation. Although outcome indicators, not
included during the design, were introduced at mid-term, the absence of baseline information meant that
data collected could not have been analyzed meaningfully.
Institutional Capacity. Given the lack of capacity at local govemment levels, and the public sector's
inexperience with community driven development, an autonomous MU, under the guidance of a
National Steering Committee, was set up. It would coordinate and work with district level technical
and political bodies, and NGOs at the local level to inform and assist communities to apply for and
implement sub-projects. This approach was appropriate as the project was received enthusiastically by
local governments and communities and generated tremendous demand for sub-projects. Although not
many NGOs were involved in project implementation, private contractors were involved in
implementation of community sub-projects.
Readiness for implementation. While the project concept was sound, community demand for the
program was underestimated, resulting in an initial inability of the MU and district staff to process
sub-projects in a timely manner. However, the design allowed for technical, financial management,
operational and supervision capacity to be adjusted over the life of the project to smooth
implementation. Although a monitoring and evaluation framework was defined, and the necessary
resources were available, a cohesive and effective management information system was not in place
until later.
Technical and economic assessment. An economic rate of return (ERR) analysis was presented in the
Staff Appraisal Report, using economic returns to education, roads and water sectors, and was
prepared with the best available data; however, experience shows that it is not best suited to evaluate
economic benefits of a social fund. A cost effectiveness (including technical quality aspects) analysis
and financial benchmarks would have been more appropriate.
Risk Assessment and sustainability. Overall, a fairly accurate assessment of risks involved in
implementation was undertaken and mitigating measures were included in the project design. However,
expectations with respect to capacity building requirements from resource-poor local administrations
for supervision of sub-projects as well as prompt cooperation from line ministries on operation and
maintenance were not realistic. This contributed to implementation delays and maintenance problems
downstream. These problems were by and large overcome by strengthening the MU implementation
capacity, and enhancing sensitization at the district and community level; however, budget support for
recurrent requirements of health and roads interventions continued to be erratic.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Achievement of objectives of MASAF is rated as satisfactory, notwithstanding the absence of outcome
indicators initially, and the absence of baseline data to inform on indicators identified during project
implementation. This assessment is inferred through the achievement of output targets, qualitative and
quantitative information from beneficiary and impact assessments conducted during project
implementation. While the satisfactory rating on the outcome depends on inferences on achievement of
outputs, these are not contentious. For example, it is assumed that the 2,146 number of classrooms
built by MASAF at the request and with the participation of beneficiary communities has resulted in
improved educational attainment within the assisted communities, given the fact that these classroom
blocks were fully staffed and equipped. Similarly, it is inferred from the construction of about 1,000
- 4 -



safe water points that there have been improvements in the quality of life of beneficiary communities
including reduced labor for girls and women, and improved health outcomes due to reduced incidence
of waterborne diseases. MASAF also generated improved ability on the part of the communities to
plan, implement and monitor community based projects and more generally to charge of their own
lives.
More specifically, with respect to the first and third activities supporting the objective, although
adequate statistical data is unavailable on the poverty impact of the project on community and
household welfare status, the Beneficiary Assessments conducted (1997, 2000) in 25 representative
project sites note the following as project benefits: reduced distances to schools, health centers, and
water points resulting in improvements in school enrollment/attendance, access to clean water and
health services and employment opportunities created by the sub-projects. Based on the project
surpassing its output targets, in most instances, in infrastructure created, person-days of employment
created, and number of beneficiary households, these objectives were achieved.
With regard to the second activity supporting the objective, the initial slow sub-project
implementation/completion trends, and drop-outs, point to weaknesses in the participatory mechanisms
under MASAF. Qualitative data suggests that the systematic application of participatory
methodologies at the community level for project identification only took root during MASAF
implementation due to the initial inadequate outreach, training and monitoring. Nonetheless, a large
number of community project committees (> 1,300 with 10 people each) were trained in accounting,
project implementation, supervision, and direct contracting through which they were able to manage
their own development activities. Experience from other social funds indicate that community led
development requires time to take root and is a process in evolution; MASAF has done considerable
groundwork in introducing a new way of doing business at the sub-district level. Therefore this
objective was largely achieved.
As regards to the fourth objective, in support of PMSF, it has only partially achieved its intended
objective. As a result of the advocacy under this component, the govemment provided resources for
the staff and other recurrent costs of undertaking an Integrated Household Survey (IHS) in 1997/98;
consequently most of the IDA and Danida grant funds were used for the purchase of complementary
equipment, design and implementation of a series of complementary panel surveys, as well as small
policy studies to stimulate the local analysis of data, and intemational technical assistance to train and
build capacity in poverty analysis and data use locally. The data and analysis produced under this
component has since formed the basis for Malawi's PRSP, the latest public expenditure review, and the
development of a more robust targeting system for the safety nets strategy for the country.
Nonetheless, implementation start-up was slow, marked by a poor working relationship between the
management unit for the PMSF and the MU for MASAF. Furthermore, in regard to the use of the
poverty analysis in policy making, while progress has been made as evidenced above, there is much
wider scope for promoting the use of this information in policy making across sectors.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Community Sub-Projects (CSP) (US$48.03 million). This component is rated satisfactory; 1,392
sub-projects were approved (original target was 800), and 93% of these were completed with the
incompletes being carried over to MASAF 11. Of these, 46 % were in the southern region (where 47 %
of the population reside), 36 % in the central region (where 41% of the population reside), and 18 %
were in the northem region (where 12% of the population reside); with the majority of the projects
benefiting the southem region which is the poorest in the country. This component also supported
- 5 -



training for 1,131 community project committees on project implementation. According to project
progress reports, an estimated I million people benefited from CSP projects, with 52% of these being
females, as well as 30% of project management committee members being female. Projects under
CSP were heavily skewed towards the education sector (54%), and this was a reflection of the needs in
that sector following the launch of Govemment's Free Primary Education Policy in 1994.
Public Works Program (PWP) (US$19.47 million). This component is rated satisfactory. PWP
built/rehabilitated over 5,000 miles of roads, provided over 13 million persondays of employment,
benefiting over 136,000 households (over 680,000 people). Both geographic and wage rate targeting
were used to direct benefits to the poorest and food deficient areas of Malawi. Firstly, Extension
Planning Areas (EPAs) where household food shortages were most severe were identified using the
Vulnerability Assessment and Mapping (VAM) system, utilizing information gathered by agricultural
field officers, WFP and USAID Famine Early Warning System,, and district level key poverty
indicators. Secondly, district teams were to identify projects in consultation with communities in EPAs
with the highest poverty incidence. At the third level, a daily wage rate lower than minimum rural wage
rate was to be used to self-target poorest households in the selected EPAs. About 1.2 million are
reported to have benefited directly (through cash transfers) and indirectly (through access and use of
infrastructure) from PWP projects. On average, wages for unskilled labor constituted about 48% of
project costs, versus the target of 36%, the average achieved by other public works programs in Africa.
Over 680,000 people (188,000 actually employed) benefited from the program, again, above the
estimated targets of the program. Available data suggest that about 60% of PWP projects were
implemented in the Southem Region where poverty incidence is highest in the nation; although not an
output indicator, about 30% of unskilled labor employed were women.
Poverty Monitoring Support Facility (PMSF) ($1.51 million). This component (to strengthen the
poverty monitoring and assessment system to collect and analyze and use poverty data to improve
effectiveness of targeted interventions) is rated unsatisfactory. Between 1996 and 2000, over eight
policy studies, one national Integrated Household Survey, and a complementary panel survey series
were carried out. Technical and financial support were provided to the national Technical Working
Committee for poverty monitoring, and for training of staff from the National Economic Council,
National Statistics Office and the Center for Social Research (CSR). However, overall, output targets
under this component have not been achieved. Achievement of outputs was adversely affected by a
number of factors: disconnect within the Bank implementation team where the "main" project
supervision missions did not incorporate supervision of the PMSF, which was regarded as a component
supporting not only the project, but the CAS as a whole and supervised separately for the most part;
staff turnover both in NEC and on the Bank team, and poor working relationship between MASAF and
NEC.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The assumptions used to calculate the economic rate of return to primary education, water and road
(earth/gravel) sectors in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) were not found to be realistic as the analysis
fails to capture the magnitude of immediate benefits accruing to communities as well as the positive
externalities involved due to the public nature of the infrastructure created or maintained. Hence, it was
agreed that the ICR will focus on a cost effectiveness and efficiency analysis, comparing MASAF use of
resources with Government agencies and other donors for creation of various infrastructure. The economic
analysis is attached in Annex 3.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
No financial rate of return was calculated for the project at appraisal and the ICR did not compute the
- 6 -



FRR
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project's institutional development impact was substantial. The SAR indicates that "there will be
continuous trial and upgrading of procedures as the community driven development approach takes
root as well as continuous evolution of institutional roles" which is the essence of the workings of a
social fund to allow flexibility and maximum impact. MASAF was launched as a participatory,
demand-driven approach to community development that empowered communities, and to some extent
district administrations, in voicing their needs and formulating solutions, and Malawians responded
enthusiastically. MASAF re-established a link of trust and started a dialogue on development between
the govemment and the people of Malawi. It has also, to some extent promoted and achieved
cooperation across sector ministries through implementation of sub-projects. However, building social
capital and engaging communities, private sector, and local govemments in development planning is a
process that evolves and improves over time with continued financial and human resources. MASAF
planted a seed of partnership between communities, district administrations, private sector and others
in development planning and implementation. Different elements of its institutional development impact
include:
*   Over 13 million person days of employment were created through labor intensive works, which
relied on, and cultivated development planning and management capacity at different levels of
govemment and communities. Examples include communities leaming negotiating skills, local
authorities and contractors becoming more accountable to communities, sector ministries becoming
more responsive to community demands in allocation of recurrent expenditure budgets, Malawi
Broadcasting Corporation oriented itself towards rural reporting, and the "sub-project
implementation cycle" becoming the way of doing business at the district level.
*   The MU, through its working relationship with other government agencies and ministries, has
advanced, and continues to advance, the community development, decentralization, and social risk
management/social safety net agenda in Malawi.
*   Community development has been brought to the forefront of Govemment's Poverty Reduction
agenda and fostered (i) a service delivery culture at the local govemment as well as responsiveness,
transparency, and accountability towards communities where there was practically none prior to
the program; (ii) ownership, culture of self-help and taking charge of one's life at the community
level; and (iii) improved understanding, at the central level, of community driven development,
working across sectors, and devolution of powers to lower levels of govemment for effective
service delivery.
*   Lessons/experiences under MASAF will enable Govemment to make informed choices and expand
the range of social safety net interventions offered.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
HIV/AIDS. The HI V/AIDS incidence among adult population has increased (currently at about 19
percent) eroding further the human capital base of Malawi, increasing the pressures on extended
families to take care of increasing number of dependents.
Structure of the economy and external shocks. During the period of project implementation,
- 7 -



Malawi's economic performance has been highly variable mainly because of its excessive dependence
on weather pattems and agriculture, mainly tobacco, tea and sugar as its main exports. There were
floods and droughts which deteriorated the food security situation in the north and south of the country
During this period also, Malawi remained vulnerable to exogenous shocks like decreases in
intemational commodity prices for its exports; i.e. tobacco, coffee, tea and sugar. Macroeconomic
instability, high rates of inflation, coupled with sustained depreciation of the kwacha had adverse
impacts for large scale agriculture and small-holders.
These adverse conditions resulted in (i) greater demand for sub-projects which was much higher than
envisaged during project preparation, resulting in initial delays in project approvals, completions and
poor technical quality of sub-projects; (ii) depreciation of the Kwacha which put pressure on local
currency denominated budgets and required periodic adjustments to sub-project costs to keep up with
depreciation and inflation; (iii) PWP wage rates not always keeping up with inflation thereby
constantly eroding program impact; and (iv) slower implementation as a result of weather conditions,
especially in Southem and Northem regions.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Making budgetaryprovisionsfor recurrent expenditures to support social and economic
infrastructure created. Social expenditures per capita and as a percent of total govemment
expenditures have decreased from 97/98 to 99/00 whereas the Govemment with programs similar to
MASAF has been building social infrastructure in response to increased demand. This, in tum, means
that Govemment is not providing commensurate resources (recurrent budget) in support of the
infrastructure built; i.e. teachers, fumiture, training materials, etc. As an example, only 5 out of 56 of
health posts (about 10%) built under MASAF have medical staff although 100% of the school blocks
built are staffed. (MASAF switched to other sectors once the problem became evident; see p. 10)
Delays in completion and lapses in quality in PWP and CSP projects indicate lack of consistent and
adequate technical support by sector ministry staff at the district level on sub-project appraisal and
implementation, lack of adequate resources to operate and maintain assets post-completion, and
inability to manage staff tumover at the district level; most of these can be attributed to inadequate
budgetary resources being made available.
Poor technical quality of infrastructure. Until 1999, there were shortcomings in desk and field
appraisal, project costing, and supervision during and after completion of sub-projects due to
inadequate technical capacity at the MU and district levels. There was a mismatch between existing
and required institutional capacities at different levels of the project cycle. MASAF MU took a number
of measures to strengthen its technical capacity, including hiring of technical supervisors, providing
training in project costing, and hiring additional staff at the MU towards the end of MASAF to improve
technical quality and implementation of sub-projects. Subsequently, there have been substantial
improvements in costing, implementation completion (from an average of 18 months in the beginning to
8 months at the end) and on1 the structural quality of projects.
Coordination and coherence between community level interventions. Govemment needs to ensure
community level targeted interventions are not following multiple and conflicting procedures that give
conflicting messages to communities. Misunderstandings with respect to other Govemment or donor
supported development programs such as food-for-work and starter-pack programs [a national
program that distributed farm inputs to rural households partly to mitigate the effects of removal of
subsidies and price increases] adversely impacted implementation especially since CSP was designed
around self-help, targeting of poorer communities and community contribution concepts as opposed to
- 8 -



having universal coverage and no access criteria.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Limited Technical and Operational Capacity at MASAF MU. Overwhelming community demand,
beyond initial projections, caused implementation delays. This was due to limited capacity at the
MASAF MU especially for procurement, technical services and operational staff such as zone officers.
There were delays in disbursements for community sub-projects as well as wage payments under the
public works program. MASAF MU adjusted its organizational set-up and staffing to speed up
processing of larger volumes of sub-projects and to facilitate disbursements.
Effectveness of outreach and awareness campaign. Overwhelming demand from communities attest
to the extent of the outreach that MASAF was able, from the start, to feed back its successes into its
messages and national image. Despite the successes of the Information, Education and Communication
campaign, Beneficiary Assessments and discussions during field visits suggest that there is still lack of
understanding on key issues such as community asset maintenance, responsibilities for project
management and supervision, targeting principles of MASAF and environmental guidelines.
Adequacy of communityparticipation. Beneficiary Assessments and project documentation suggest
that systematic application of participatory methodologies at the community level for project
identification has taken root mid-stream during MASAF as a result of inadequate outreach, training
and monitoring. Some of these shortcomnings seem to have been rectified over the life of the project
Ineffective management information systenm Two information/motoring systems (an effective
financial management system, and a poor project tracking system) exist in MASAF; it does not have an
integrated management information system. These cannot provide combined data on physical and
financial indicators. Key performance indicators are cumbersome to obtain, and this diminishes
MASAF's capacity to respond to changing needs in a timely manner.
Effectiveness ofpoverty targeting andpoverty impact. The PWP was intended to target the poorest
and food deficient but questions have been raised by district officials and communities about the
reliability, accuracy and transparency of VAM data. More attention should have been devoted to
confirming data with district officials and communities as well as wider dissemination of targeting
criteria. Use of a higher program wage rate than minimum wage rate, the second level targeting tool
for the "poorest" to self-select into the program, has probably diluted the poverty impact of the
program. However, in the absence of baseline data and systematic data collection on changes in welfare
of beneficiary households through impact evaluations of MASAF programs, it is not possible to
ascertain the effectiveness of poverty targeting, and poverty impact
Working relationship between the imptementing agencies for MASAF: There was poor
communication and tensions between the MU, a semi-autonomus/semi-public agency, for the CSP and
PWP components and the National Economic Council, a government agency, responsible for the
implemnentation of the PMSF. Tensions were due to different pay-scales and rules and regulations
goveming the two. There was also high staff tumover with four different heads of the Poverty
Monitoring Unit during the five years of project implementation. This meant that key decisions had to
keep being revisited.
5.4 Costs and financing:
MASAF was designed utilizing PHRD funding, and a Project Preparation Facility supported the
piloting of activities, in order to inform on the design of the Project. The project cost at appraisal was
-9-



US$71.3 million, to be financed through an IDA credit of US$56 million, counterpart funds from the
Government of Malawi in the amount of US$5.99 million, in-kind/cash community contributions
equivalent to US$8.3 million, and US$1 million to be financed by the World Food Program. IDA
disbursements amounted to US$51.7 million, as a result of exchange losses. Government's counterpart
funding amounted to US$2.7 million, and communities contributed US$8.3 million. Support from the
World Food Program was provided at a later date, and as parallel financing. DANIDA pledged
co-financing of US$1.8 million in support of the PMSF; US$1.64 million was disbursed. IDA funds
were fully committed by December 2000, and disbursed by November 2001. Total project cost at the
end of the project equaled US$63.7 million.
MASAF was able to deliver more than the projected number of sub-projects as a result of the
depreciation of the kwacha. Reallocations were also made from the PMSF component, as DANIDA
co-financing (as well as IDA funds from the Fiscal Restructuring and Deregulation Project) was
available to support that component.
Substantial delays were encountered in the provision of counterpart funds which affected the
disbursements to contractors and completion of works at times. By the end of the project, the full
amount of counterpart funds required in kwacha terms was received; however, it was less than the
appraisal estimate in dollar terms due to the depreciation of the currency against the US dollar. Also,
community contributions (in kind and cash) were not systematically reflected in overall project
accounts thus actual contributions appear lower than reported at sub-project appraisal. Nonetheless,
community contributions were usually 20% or more (in some cases up to 40%) of sub-project costs as
reported in project proposal documents.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The project overall enjoyed commitment from the Government of Malawi. Community sub-projects and
public works components were designed to support Malawi's Poverty Alleviation Program to improve
services and delivery mechanisms which benefit the poor. The majority of education and water
facilities rehabilitated or built are reported to be in working condition (staffed and equipped) by
supervision missions even though the understanding of maintenance requirements has not been
consistent across the board. There are, in general, operations and maintenance (O&M) committees
and/or parent-teacher associations to ensure day- to- day operation of these facilities. The track record
with roads, bridges and health facilities is not as good due to weak community ownership when in use
by several communities ("free-rider problem"), inadequate technical and financial support from local
administrations, and weak coordination and linkages with line ministries. As a result of concems about
sustainability, MASAF has avoided health projects since it could not ensure the sustainability of assets,
and has, in its social mobilization, placed greater emphasis on project implementation, including O&M.
MASAF sub-projects also initially suffered from lapses in technical quality due to shortcomings in
desk and field appraisal, project costing, and supervision during and after completion of sub-projects.
However, the MU took a number of measures including hiring of technical supervisors, providing
training in project costing, and hiring additional staff at the MU to improve technical quality and
implementation of sub-projects. Through the afore-mentioned measures, the viability of community
initiatives improved over time even though maintenance of assets remained a weaker area of the
MASAF program. Thus, overall sustainability of assets created under the program is rated likely.
- 1 0 -



With respect to PMSF, a number of studies have been produced, quantitative analysis done and
considerable capacity has been built in various institutions. The govemment has chosen to implement
this component using existing govemment structures and staff within the NEC and the NSO funded by
the government's budget It also financed the IHS from the budget rather than relying on IDA or other
external funding. While these features of the PMSF are encouraging signs regarding the sustainability
of the activities under the component, the challenge will be to continue the work in the absence of
extemal funding. Now that the PRSP is finalized, the implementation of the PRSP may consolidate the
commitment of the Ministry of Finance and National Economic Council to sustaining the poverty
monitoring system since monitoring and evaluation is a crucial pillar of the PRSP program.
Overall, the sustainability is rated as likely, especially since the Bank is supporting two follow-on
operations (one under preparation) designed on the basis of lessons leamed from this project. It is
expected that the operation under preparation will build on the MASAF demand driven and
participatory planning framework to strengthen linkages between central and local governments and
communities moving closer to a decentralized governance system.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Seeing the gains made in a short period through the community driven development approach, and
realizing the work remaining to be done at the local level, the Government requested a follow-on
operation, MASAF 11, which became effective in February 1999. It built on the localized development
process initiated under MASAF, and increased emphasis on improved local governance, participatory
processes, improved technical quality and sustainability of assets created as well as targeted
interventions for vulnerable groups. MASAF Ill, currently under preparation, is expected to support
capacity building at the district level with a view towards decentralization. These interventions derive
from the Poverty Alleviation Program, the PRSP and the National Safety Net Strategy which focus on
long term poverty reduction through growth, improving the quality of service delivery in the social
sectors through effective deployment of qualified staff coupled with provision of adequate recurrent
budgets and basic supplies, and improving the quality of life of the most vulnerable.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance during project preparation is rated satisfactory. The project was designed in
response to a government request, in line with the CAS and Government priorities, for a targeted
program to improve services and service delivery mechanisms which benefit the poor. It was prepared
in 14 months (from identification to Board presentation) by a team with diverse technical skills
including sector and operational expertise which assisted the Govemment with major design issues and
ensuring consistency with Bank policies. Many of these activities were supported by a PHRD Grant.
The Bank staff also facilitated the use of a Project Preparation Facility which was used to set up the
project management unit, pilot CSP and PWP projects, and to conduct systematic client consultations
and workshops all of which contributed to project design and are reflected in the SAR. Risks associated
with the project were well articulated and, for the most part, counter-balanced with mitigating measures
included in the design.
However, better guidance could have been given during project preparation on (i) adequacy of staffing
and skill mix of the Management Unit (MU) especially on operational and technical staff required for
processing and supervision of sub-projects, (ii) setting up a management information system, and (iii)
monitoring and evaluation of outcomes rather than output targets.
-11 -



7.2 Supervision:
Bank performance for supervision is rated satisfactory. The Bank team spent over 170 staff-weeks for
supervision of the project with a team composed of operational and technical staff . Eleven supervision
missions were undertaken over the life of the project, and reasonable continuity among the task team
and the task team leader. Supervision paid particular attention to financial management and
procurement, and provided regular guidance on sub-project implementation including on
communication strategy. The team made use of the flexible project design and allowed for re-allocation
among components as well as improvements in institutional set-up to maximize use of credit resources
and allow for the project processes to evolve over time.
More timely and better advice could have been given on re-defining the outcome indicators, balancing
responsiveness to demand with quality, adherence to the sub-project cycle, technical quality of
infrastructure, and establishing an effective MIS system. Technical audits of MASAF suggest that
quality-and therefore sustainability-- has been compromised in favor of speedy implementation and
maximum number of beneficiaries. Nevertheless, for the most part, Project Status Reports (PSR) have
identified implementation bottlenecks, and suggested and followed-up on solutions.
Supervision of the PMSF appeared to be disconnected from that of the rest of the project; even though
there were dedicated staff in charge of this component. Towards the end of the project period, there
was also staff tumover in the sub-team supervising the component. The major concem, however, is
that the findings from the supervision missions probably did not receive due attention from the rest of
the Bank's task team. This resulted in delayed resolution of implementation bottlenecks, especially
with regard to areas (such as procurement) where the MASAF MU and the NEC needed to work
together. NEC, the implementing agency for this component, also noted this disconnect as a major
factor for delays in implementation. Thus supervision of this component is rated unsatisfactory.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory in view of the intensive preparation effort and fairly
comprehensive supervision effort as reflected in the PSRs and Aide Memoires .
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Government of Malawi prepared and appraised MASAF jointly with the Bank. Along with trust fund
(PHRD) resources, the Govemment requested a PPF to carry out systematic client consultations and
stakeholder workshops, and to pilot sub-projects and test project design before project approval. The
pilot experiences provided both Govemment and Bank teams with lessons to improve project design
before project launch. The preparation team included staff of relevant sector ministries and agencies.
The preparation of the credit by the borrower is rated satisfactory.
7.5 Government implementation performance.
Overall, Govemment of Malawi has been supportive of the MASAF program through, although
sporadic, provision of counterpart funds and recurrent expenditures. The program has been strongly
embraced by the President and political leadership as a national program benefiting the poor. Support
at the district level for project appraisal and implementation has not been consistently strong primarily
due to resource constraints, but also lack of a clear national local governance framework although it
has improved through project implementation. Govemment's performance is therefore rated as
satisfactory.
- 12 -



7.6 Implementing Agency:
In general, MASAF MU operated with a high degree of efficiency, and was able to remain largely
protected from political influences over the life of the project. However, high level political
endorsement and high visibility of the program, and the national IEC campaign preceding program
launch, heightened public expectations leaving MASAF MU confronted with vast demand which it
could not cope with effectively due to staff constraints at headquarters and local levels. Initial demand
put enormous pressure on the MU to move very fast which resulted in compromising technical quality,
and adherence to principles of participation-community and local govemment-in implementation.
However, over the life of the project adjustments in staffing and procedures to improve implementation
and project effectiveness were made successfully. Therefore, the MU's perforrnance is rated highly
satisfactory on CSP and PWP.
On the PMSF, the MU and NEC, responsible for the implementation of the PMSF component, were
not able to establish a good working relationship which adversely impacted the outputs and the
achievement of the outcome.
7. 7 Overall Borrower performance:
Borrower's performance is rated satisfactory in view of the achievement of the targets set for the
program.
8. Lessons Learned
Need to strike a balance between objectives of reaching the maximum number ofpoor and creating
sustainable assets. Social funds always face a trade off between aiming for quality of assets, and
thorough dissemination and application of community driven development concepts or responding to as
many communities needs as possible within the shortest time period possible. However, sustainability
of assets created and community driven development taking root depends on success in creation of
adequate social capital and understanding of participatory development processes at different levels.
Ensure an accurate understanding of existing capacity and capacity building requirements during
project preparation. The extensive lEC campaign created very high expectations on the part of
communities as well as parliamentarians and other elected officials. This put a lot of pressure or. the
MU to deliver rapidly without due attention to agreed processes at all times, i.e., field appraisal,
ensuring sector ministry support, insufficient focus on post-completion maintenance and the essence of
the project was compromised.
Socialfunds should make use of Information Educationi and Communication (IEC) campaigns as
tools to rationalize community demand, and at the same time foster participatory community
development. Under MASAF, the lEC strategy started out as more of a public relations tool. It,
however, became progressively an education and outreach tool disseminating community development
principles and program access criteria more systematically.
Need to improve technical quality. There is need to improve technical quality of infrastructure by
providing increased technical support and training to communities for planning, design, supervision,
contracting and accounting of funds.
Lack of an effective and responsive management information system throughout project
implementation has hampered the program's ability to identify implementation problems in a timely
manner, to react to changing conditions rapidly and monitor and evaluate program impact promptly.
- 13 -



To be able to draw definitive conclusions on the economic effectiveness and impact of the program
social funds should ensure that (i) a comprehensive management information system is in place; (ii)
baseline data are collected; (iii) outcome indicators and scope of impact evaluations are well defined
prior to project effectiveness; and (iv) collected data is analyzed and fed back to management at regular
intervals.
Need to ensure strong linkages between central, local government and socialfund management
units. Social fund operations need to ensure continuous focus on maintenance of assets and availability
of resources (e.g. teacher salaries, furniture, teaching materials, health staff, drugs, etc) to operate
assets effectively through memoranda of understanding with govemment ministries, and support from
district administrations. Requirements for effective operation and maintenance of assets should be
outlined in the operational manual and be part of the sensitization and capacity building for
communities and district administrations. Also, increased training and sensitization for district level
staff improves the viability of community assets created through more consistent support from district
staff.
Choice of institutional set-up may determine extent and timing of development impactfor social
fund operations. Social funds also face a trade off between extensive sensitization, capacity building
targeted at communities and district administrations; adhering to participatory methods thoroughly;
giving more responsibility to district govemments; and speed in implementation through more
centralized functions of a large management unit. MASAF operated closer to the first model where
management unit was the center of all processes whilst local govemments were marginally involved in
sub-project cycle processes partially due to the absence of a clear local govemance framework at the
time, and partially for sake of speedy implementation.
Ensuring effective targeting and wide-spread understanding of eligibility criteriafor safety net
programs to maximize impact with available resources. Justifying targeting in a country with the
majority of its population living below poverty, especially in rural areas, is difficult. If there are certain
groups of people identified as more vulnerable in face of certain shocks (i.e. drought) and as deserving
govemment support, then every effort should be made to ensure effective targeting and wide
dissemination of eligibility criteria to dispel any questions of favoritism.
Supportfor Poverty Monitoring and Analysis as a component under socialfunds does not produce
long-term results unless there is strong leadership and commitmentfrom the Government. Poverty
monitoring and analysis needs commitment and oversight from Government; otherwise, Bank efforts
usually associated with social fund operations do not go farther than supporting household surveys,
equipping national statistics offices and training a few staff
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Summary of MASAF Government ICR
1.1.      Introduction
The trickle down approach that Malawi had assumed would reduce poverty did very little to have
meaningful impact as evidenced by the 1993 Situation Analysis of Poverty. Social and economic
indicators were among the worst in the world. Low access to basic necessities including safe drinking
- 14 -



water and food supplies in most parts of the country were some of the basic indicators of high levels
of poverty.
Following the 1994 general elections, government raised the poverty alleviation agenda to the
centre-stage in its development policy framework. This lead to the formulation of the Poverty
Alleviation Program (PAP), and subsequently an implementation framework in which, MASAF was
one of the key instruments for operatianalising the program. The MASAF became effective on May
15, 1996, as a result of a long series of consultations.
It was envisaged that MASAF would contribute to the goal of poverty alleviation through:
(a) the upgrading of community infrastructure by rehabilitating and constructing education, health,
water, and transport and communication assets,
(b) improvement to the delivery of and access to social and economic services,
(c) fostering grass root initiatives (social action) intended to enhance the technical and managerial
capabilities and attitudes to self-managed development, and
(d)reorienting and building capacity of actors in community development including communities,
extension workers, NGOs, the private sector and religious groups to equip them with skills in
participatory methods for planning and implementing poverty alleviation interventions.
1.2.     MASAF 1 Components
The MASAF 1 objectives were to be achieved through three operational components: the
Community Sub-Projects (CSP) component, the Public Works Component (PWP) and the Poverty
Monitoring Support Facility (PMSF).
1.2.1    Community Sub-Projects (CSP) component
The CSP component was the largest and accounted for 71 percent of the funds under MASAF I,
was designed to provide financial and technical resources for programs targeted at the poor by
funding the creation of community assets and provide an opportunity for communities to effectively
participate in the identification and implementation of their own development projects in
collaboration with relevant collaborators. The project processes would empower communities by
creating opportunities for communities to revive the spirit of self-help, enabling them to take control
over, and be accountable for their own development.
1.2.2    Public Works Program (PWP)
The PWP component accounted for 27 percent of the financial resources under MASAF I and was
designed to transfer income, through the creation of employment opportunities by funding labour
intensive public works, and in the process, build economic infrastructure that would be beneficial to
communities.
1.2.3    Poverty Monitoring Support Facility (PMSF)
The PMSF component accounted for 2 percent of MASAF I financial resources and was managed by
- 15 -



the National Economic Council (NEC) to support the poverty reduction policies and programs by
bridging poverty-related gaps and developing analytical skills in government and private institutions.
The aim was to enhance collection and analysis of data relevant to track progress in poverty
reduction.
In addition, there were support divisions and units such as Administration Division, Finance Division,
Internal Audit Unit, Information Technology Unit, Technical Services Unit, and the Information,
Education and Communication (IEC) unit. All these played an integral part in the realisation of
MASAF 1 goals.
1.3 Analysis of Achievements
1.3.1    Design Assumptions
MASAF I objectives were met satisfactorily in that they addressed issues that have a direct bearing
on poverty, at the centre of government and community priorities. They were relevant to and
consistent with the Malawi Government's poverty alleviation policy fiamework (PAPF) for achieving
poverty reduction through asset and economic empowerment, gender balance and environmental
protection.
In general, the design of the project could be rated as highly satisfactory and appropriate for attaining
the set objectives. Transparency, accountability, community participation, gender sensitivity and
direct community financing that MASAF embraced in its design were principles that would
contribute to a program geared towards empowering the poor. The design of the MASAF assisted to
enhance decentralisation by applying community level decentralised planning processes and
collaboration. The geographical and individual or household targeting mechanisms and the labour
intensity principles enshrined in the design of the PWP component were appropriate for a safety net
operation. As a result, the component was able to effectively reach its intended beneficiaries.
The design of the PMSF component was to a large extent appropriate. It emphasised capacity
building efforts that would be critical for sustained analysis of poverty related data in the long term.
The overall Project objective was to contribute to poverty reduction. Although the level of
contribution to poverty reduction was not quantified, the Project development objective was
substantially achieved. An estimated 2.0 million people (or 20 percent of the Malawian population)
directly benefited from investments in the education, health, water and sanitation, transport (roads
and bridges) and afforestation sectors; and the transfer of income through the PWP component.
In total 1,864 sub-projects were approved, of which 1,392 projects were under the CSP component
and 472 projects under PWP component. Under PMS, training for key personnel at the National
Economic Council has been undertaken In addition, equipment for data analysis has been procured
for the National Statistical Office (NSO) and National Economic Council (NEC).
- 16 -



1.3.2    Project Impacts
There is ample evidence that shows significant improvements in the welfare of a common man
especially in the rural areas.
* Reduction in incidences of water borne diseases.
* Increased enrolment in primary and secondary schools.
* Improvement in Socio-economic Status through safety nets transfers and assets created.
* Improvement in communication and access to social and economic facilities.
* Stimulation of the rural economy.
* Fostering of a Collegial Spirit towards community development efforts.
* Building capacity for local level planning and development management.
1.3.3    IMPLEMENTATION RECORD
Community Sub-projects
Achievement of objectives under the CSP component has been highly satisfactory. Against the
projected 800 projects to be approved under the CSP in its entire life, 1,392 projects were approved.
The component made significant contribution in the areas of health, education, bridges, water and
sanitation and capacity building.
The sectoral distribution of the approved projects was as follows: education 735; water 307
involving the drilling of 921 boreholes and construction of 80 water kiosks; transport and
communication 120 bridges; health 56 (under-five clinics/maternity units and health centres); and
other projects 13. Projects in the education sector involved the construction of 2,146 new
classrooms, 854 staff houses; 56,445 school desks and 4,478 VIP latrines.
Public Works Component
Achievement of the safety net objective was highly satisfactory. The (USD13.7 million) PWP
component financed district level safety net operation that has benefited poor people in food deficient
Extension Planning Areas (EPAs). A total of MK185 million (US$2.5 million) I US$ = MK73.00 in
cash has been transferred to 188,000 people through creation of temporary employment. This has
been achieved through the financing of a total of 472 labour intensive projects such as roads,
community dams and afforestation projects. The benefits arising from the PWP component have
directly reached approximately 680,030 people or about 7.6 % of the Malawian population.
However, considering that utilization at the household level would benefit more people than those
directly participating on the project, the benefits reach more people than captured here.
The projects approved under the PWP have translated into the following outputs: 188,000
employment opportunities created, 5,064 kilometres of earth roads constructed; 252 bridges, 17
earth dams, and (59) community-owned forests have been established where a total of 1,500,000
- 17 -



trees have been planted.  The community earth dams that have been rehabilitated or constructed
across the country are acting as reservoirs for 100,000 cubic meters (1 l1km) of water in the rural
areas.
Poverty Monitoring Support Facility (PMSF)
Achievement of the poverty-monitoring goal through the PMSF has been satisfactory. The PMSF has
been instrumental in monitoring the poverty trends, gathering and analysing the necessary
information for informed action among development agencies. It has also been key in establishing a
PMS through provision of technical and financial support to the TWC and training of staff from
institutions involved in poverty monitoring such as the NSO and NEC.
Between 1996 and 2000, over eight (8) studies have been carried out, key among which were the
following: (a) the Integrated Household Survey (I.H.S) which was a situation analysis of poverty in
the country, (b) Indicators on Poverty and Living Conditions, (c) Determinants of Transition out of
Poverty and (d) Smallholder Supply Response to Agricultural Policy Changes.
The studies have been useful in bringing to the fore issues that need to be accorded priority in the
targeting and designing of development programs, or poverty related initiatives.
1.3.4    IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCES
In general, the Project enjoyed support from both communities, sector ministries and local and
national leaders. MASAF I one was e very good learning ground in that most of its experiences are
the backbone to the success on subsequent phases. Notable issues are summarised below:
i. Multiple Approaches to financing community based development initiatives tended to
generate confusion and anxiety amongst communities and at times, led to temporary delays of
sub-project implementation.
ii. Exclusion of some categories of the vulnerable people such as the aged, orphans, those
infected and affected by HIV/AIDS who could not organise themselves into a distinct group proved
to be unwelcome in MASAF I.
iii. Low Participation of women CSP and PWP.
iv. Delays in production of final accounts for completed projects.
Experiences by Component
a. Community Sub-projects
* Overwhelming Demand for Project Assistance was a direct result of the demand driven
principle of the Project, which was articulated by the IEC campaign. As a result, 50 percent of the
funds under the comrponent were committed one and a half years after Project effectiveness.
* Capacity of Community versus size of projects: It was found that appraisal of sub-projects did
- 18 -



not adequately consider the capacity of communities to implement the project, there were long delays
(up to 24 months) in completing the projects. Large sub-projects tended to take long to complete.
* Technical support to the communities: supervision for quality assurance for construction of
facilities to communities was initially found to be inadequate.
* Concentration of projects in the education sector: the projects under CSP were heavily skewed
towards the education sector, which accounted for 54 percent of all the projects approved under the
CSP component.
* Drop out of PMC members: There was considerable drop out rate in PMC members. This was
due to the fact that initially, only four members of the PMC were trained.
* Delays in servicing completed facilities on Health Sector Projects.
* Low Uptake of Projects in the peri-urban and urban areas.
b. Public Works Program
* Targeting: Geographical targeting using the vulnerability assessment mapping (VAM)
methodology in some instances was found not to be reliable in determining vulnerable area due to
time lags between the generation of the data and its actual use.
* Remuneration on PWP projects: throughout the implementation period, beneficiaries have
perceived the wage rate to be low especially in areas where well paying alternatives, though
inadequate, managed to pay slightly better.
* Predominance of road projects to be funded under PWP presented an implementation challenge of
accessibility especially during the rainy season.
* Time spent by beneficiaries on the project: it was found that initially, when the beneficiaries were
spending close to eight hours working on the project, they did not have time to work in their fields.
* Institutional Issues: the implementation of the PWP relied heavily on a collective effort between
key departments at the district level, capacity of whom varied between districts.
1.4      FACTORS AFFECTING PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Factors affecting implementation can be summarised as controllable, uncontrollable and other factors.
1.41     Controllable Factors
* Limited Capacity in MASAF due to the overwhelming demand for project assistance especially at
zone level.
* The Justification Process was delayed due to district and community level capacity inadequacies.
* Difficulties in mobilising community contribution in some projects dues to distances from source
and community cohesiveness.
* Lack of capacity at District Level to timely service the projects and beneficiaries.
* Ineffective Computerized Project Tracking System that makes project tracking difficult.
- 19 -



1.4.2    Uncontrollable Factors
* Depreciation of the Malawi Currency during the entire project life time.
* Breakdown in Security leading to loss of property, equipment and some service providers closing
rural offices and making project management a bit difficult
* Inadequate Capacity for Borehole Drilling:.
* Weather and Poor Road Conditions also affected the speed of implementing sub-projects.
* Staff Turn Over, inadequate staffing levels and lengthy government recruitment procedures
resulted into a slow start to the implementation of the PMSF component at the National Economic
Council (NEC).
* Effects of the lilV/AIDS Pandemic Malawi continues to experience loss of productivity through
deaths of the mostly productive people at all levels.
* Multiple and Conflicting Procedures among community development Agencies:
Misunderstandings with respect to other development initiatives such as the starter pack This was a
targeted Govemment that distributed farm in -puts in the rural areas. Inevitably, some community members did not
benefit from the program, hence the controversy and attendant negative impact on community participation it
generated. or food for work, affected implementation of some projects especially under the CSP,
which thrives on the self-help spirit of communities.
1.4.3    Other experiences
(a)FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT ISSUES
In general, the system has operated well and successfully. Accountability levels have been very high,
especially on community sub-projects. However, some aspects that affected the arrangement which
needed improvement. Firstly, the volumes of tranches, especially the first tranche was so small that it
could only achieve a small proportion of the works.
Secondly, changes in the macro-economic environment such as the fluctuation of the Malawi
Kwacha against the US dollar and high inflation rates, brought about considerable pressure on the
sub-project budgets which were denominated in Kwacha. This led to some of the sub-projects'
targets being reduced in order avoid incurring overruns on the sub-project budgets.
Thirdly, the counterpart contribution from Government was coming in drips and would not match the
speed of funding requirements in MASAF.
Fourthly, PMC s took a long time to account for the funds once disbursed.
Fifthly, although the level of community contribution was captured during sub-project appraisal, it
was not reflected in the Project accounts during implementation. The actual contribution was only
captured at the end of each sub- project.
(b)      PROCUREMENT
- 20 -



In general, procurement at both the MU and community level was satisfactory done. Procurement
under community participation, despite some operational challenges such as PMCs being cheated by
unscrupulous traders, the judgement by PMC s on what to buy and when, was highly satisfactory
However, there was inadequate capacity at MU level to handle procurement issues. There was only
one procurement officer who was also responsible for other technical functions in his office and this
usually delayed submission of requests for the processing of procurement related documents such
as requests for proposals and contracts. The result was delays in carrying out critical steps that were
a requirement of procurement.
(c)SUSTAINABILITY
MASAF I facilities are likely to be sustained. However, there are selected reported cases where some
assets especially roads have suffered maintenance problems once MASAF funding ceases. This is
because of lack of community ownership influenced by free riders and the fact that some roads pass
through several villages.
1.5BANK AND BORROWER COUNTRY PERFORMANCE
(a) Bank Performance
The Bank's performance can be rated satisfactory. It has responded to specific issues at a fairly good
pace. Bank staff have been instrumental in providing technical advice in regard to project
management and procurement issues through their supervisory visits. The Bank staff accorded
MASAF a conducive environment that allowed management to apply Project procedures flexibly, in
line with a process oriented project.
(b) Borrower performance
The Government of Malawi's performance in the implementation of the MASAF Project is rated as
satisfactory, as evidenced by its full commitment to the Project. Government has shown full
commitment in project preparation and fulfilling its obligations for counterpart funding. The high
profile that the MASAF Project assumed is also attributable to His Excellency, the State President
Dr. Bakili Muluzi's support.
The capacity and commitment of the district assemblies has facilitated smooth implementation of the
projects at district level. However, in some district there were experiences of low commitment by
Government staff which undermined the implementation speed of projects and accountability of
Project funds.
The MU staff demonstrated throughout MASAF I their ability to work towards the achievement of
set targets. In fact, the set targets were overachieved, which was indicative of the level of
commitment of the MASAF staff. The performance based job evaluation system that was introduced
- 21 -



in MASAF contributed to the high level of staff delivery of intended accountabilities, and in turn the
Project Goal.
1.6      MAJOR LESSONS LEARNT
i. The need for flexibility in the application of procedures, and the adoption of continuous learning
as an integral strategy of project management.
ii. Need for supporting mechanisms for community led development.
iii. Need to balance the demand driven principle with Poverty Reduction
iv. Need to strike a balance between accountability requirements and realizing speed in the
implementation pace
v. Need to Match Government's Capacity to Service Project Outputs
vi. Need for Robust Procedures to ensure financial accountability
vii.Role of an effective IEC in supporting a demand driven approach.
viii.    Need for Effective Quality Assurance and project activities tracking Mechanisms:.
ix. The need for an expanded menu of projects to be funded under safety net in integrated and
holistic manner.
x. Need to take into account other household or individual productive activities when designing a
safety net operation
xi. Application of national level data for Targeting purposes:
xii.Need for a special focus on peri-urban and urban areas:
1.7FUTURE OPERATIONS
The overlap between MASAF I and MASAF II operations has meant that lessons learnt would not
be separated by period of implementation. However, most of the lessons that have arisen from
implementing the MASAF I Project have been actively included in the Project processes under
MASAF II.
i. Future operations should focus on actively integrating environmental issues.
ii. The issues of sustainability should be adequately addressed for some types of projects such as
roads whose benefits are not localised.
iii. Monitoring and evaluation mechanisms should be enhanced.
iv. Adequate capacity for the Project Procurement function should be put in place.
v. Community contribution levels need to be captured and reflected in project accounts during
project implementation.
1.8 Conclusion
Annexes will include detailed tabulations and support information. Since this is only a summary of the
ICR, a detailed ICR will be available for more information.
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
- 22 -



10. Additional Information
- 23 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
Anld'1tQfMatrix                      PVQjrtSd In last PSR                  Actual[atest Estimate
Reduced poverty levels through higher  280 education subprojects implemented  735
literacy and awareness levels especially for
girls and women - longer stay in school, -
through primary and secondary school
attendance -
Improved quality of life through better health, 320 water and 80 health projects  477 water and 56 health
low morbidity and mortality, higher life  implemented
expectancy, low fertility through access to
safe water and health facilities
Access to markets and economic activity  120 subprojects implernented        120 economic infrastructure projects
through improved roads and bridges
Improved skills and community organizabon, 800 CPCs trained and 25% of CPC  924 CPCs trained, 307 CBMs trained
particpation and involvement through  members are women
training of Community Project Commttees
and indusion of women in CPCs
Poverty mapping and better targeting, -  5 BAs carried out                   2 BAs carried out
surveys done, reports prepared, numbers of
the poor reached, changes in poverty levels,
depth and distribubon, clients using servies.
Note 1: End of project as projected in the SAR
Note 2. These indicators were introduced in agreement with the Government mid-stream during the project
and do not accurately reflect outcomes that can only be attributable to MASAF. Thus, outcome indicators
monitored during project implementation (second column) are not necessarily reflective of the outcomes
(first colum). The ICR team believes that the choice of outcomes reflect unfairly on the performance of
MASAF as they are very general and certainly contingent upon many many exogenous factors other than
MASAF.
Output Indicators:
lndIcatofIMatrli                    Projected In lastPSR                  ActuatiLatest Estimate
Number of CSP subprojects approved    800 subprojects approved               1,392
Miles of rural road equivalent        6,000                                  5,036
builtVrehabilitated
Persondays of employment created       12,096,000 persondays                 13,600,634
Percentage of unskilled labor cost to total  36%                             48%
subproject cost
Number of households benefiting from   120,960                               136,006
employment
Populabon to benefit from the employment  604,800                            680,030
created
Total wage income transferred          MK252,000,000                         MK165,000,000
Number of studies (PMSF)               14                                    13
Review of impact of CSP and PWP        10                                    3
Integrated Household Survey           2                                      1
End of project
Note 1: End of project as projected in the SAR.
- 24 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ mnillion equivalent)
Appralsal   Actual/Latest  IPercentage of
Esttmiate     Estimate      Appralsal
Project Cost By Coomponent            US$ miiion   US$ million
Community Subprojects                               48.03          47.80           99.5
Public Works Program                                19.47          12.50           64.2
Poverty Monitoring Support Facility                  1.51           0.40           50.6
Administration                                       2.31           3.00          129.9
Total Baseline Cost                                 71.32          63.70
Total Project Costs             71.32          63.70
Total Financing Required             71.32          63.70
Due to exchange losses, the IDA credit amount was in US dollar terms was less than envisaged at
Appraisal.
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method'
Expenditure Categoly      NCS          NC                        N..F.      Total Cost
1. Works                     0.00          3.00        14.47         2.00         19.47
(0.00)        (2.85)      (13.95)       (0.00)      (16.80)
2. Goods                     0.00          0.22         0.09         0.00         0.31
(0.00)        (0.22)       (0.08)       (0.00)      (0.30)
3. Services                  0.00          0.00         2.81         0.00         2.81
(0.00)       (0.00)        (2.81)       (0.00)      (2.81)
4. Subprojects               1.00          7.32        27.23         10.33       45.88
(0.95)       (6.95)       (26.05)       (0.00)      (33.95)
5. Incremental Operating     0.00          0.00         2.14         0.71         2.85
Costs                       (0.00)        (0.00)       (2.14)       (0.00)       (2.14)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
.______________________  (0.00)  (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                      1.00         10.54        46.74        13.04        71.32
(0.95)       (10.02)      (45.03)       (0.00)      (56.00)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equival nt)
Proctwement- Mdethd
Expenditure Categoiy      1C PM                                 N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                     0.00         0.00         12.50        0.00         12.50
(0.00)       (0.00)       (I 1.90)     (0.00)      (1 1.90)
2. Goods                     0.60                       1.70        0.20         2.50
(0.60)         0          (1.60)       (0.20)       (2.40)
3. Services                  0.00          0.00        2.90          1.07        3.97
- 25 -



(0.00)        (0.00)        (2.90)       (1.07)        (3.97)
4. Subprojects                 0.00          0.00         35.00          8.00        43.00
(0.00)        (0.00)       (34.30)        (0.00)      (34.30)
5. Incremental Operating       0.00          0.00          3.00          0.50         3.50
Costs                         (0.00)        (0.00)        (2.70)        (0.50)       (3.20)
6. Miscellaneous               0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                       0.60          0.00          55.10         9.77         65.47
(0.60)        (0.00)       (53.40)        (1.77)      (55.77)
Note 1: Project cost includes US$ 1.8 million parallel financing from DANIDA for the Poverty Monitoring
Support Facility.
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, workshops, studies and incremental operating
costs related to (i) managing the project. It also includes conmnunity participation activities under works and
subprojects.
Project Financing by C mponent (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Component             Appraisal Estimate         Actual/Latest Estimate
IDA      Govt.     CoF,   II.A         Govt.    CoF.     IDA   Cvt,   CoF.
Community Subprojects*  36.10     11.93              39.80     10.00            110.2   83.8
Public Works Program    16.80     1.67      1.00     12.50     0.60              74.4   35.9   0.0
Poverty Monitoring**    1.00      0.51               0.40      0.00      1.80    40.0   0.0
Administration          2.10      0.21               3.00      0.40              142.9  190.5
TOTAL***                56.00     14.32     1.00     51.70     11.00     1.80    92.3   76.8  180.0
* Govemment contribution in the SAR under the Community Subprojects component includes USS8.33
million community contribution. GOM provided all the required counterpartfunding (US$2,775,303)
over the life of the Credit; however, the amount of actual community contribution has not been thoroughly
tracked and accounted for over the life of the project. Thus, we are unable to report an exact additional
amount for community sub-projects government/community contribution even though it is estimated at
about 20 percent of CSP costs.
** A World Bank administered DANIDA trust fund (USS 1.8 million) financed the Poverty Monitoring
Facility under the CSO.
*** Due to the high demand for CSP projects through the life of the project, some bottlenecks with the
implementation of PWP projects in certain areas, and grant funds having become available for the PMSF,
more funds were allocated towards the CSP projects
- 26 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
A cost effectiveness analysis (" Position Paper on Project Cost Effectiveness in MASAF -Analysis and
Comparativeness", MASAF Technical Services Unit, August 2001) done by the Technical Service Unit
of MASAF indicates that MASAF funded infrastructure; i.e. school blocks, pit latrines, staff
housing, dispensary block, roads, bridges, etc. is 20 to 70 percent less expensive than
government or other donor supported infrastructure. However, this analysis does not provide
cost per square meter comparisons, but rather unit cost comparisons at not always constant
prices. Thus, the results have to be interpreted in light of these limitations. More accurate
data was not available at the time of this report. Technical audits indicate quality of
infrastructure to be "fair" with deficiencies in technical input (engineering designs, plans),
supervision, infrastructure. Although, there is no quantitative data to confirm these
observations, quality in some instances may have been compensated with lower costs.
Based on international experience, overhead costs [Administrative or overhead expenditures include
staff costs, consultants and other services, equipment, transportation, rent, utilities, supplies, communication
and other non-subproject expenditures. Some socialfunds categorize capacity building and training as
investment costs whereas other do not.] of social funds range between 5 to 15 percent which is
usually lower than other (government agency or donor supported) programs (Letting
Communities Take the Lead, A cross- Country Evaluation of Social Fund Perfornance, Laura Rawlings et al,
2001.) MASAF operating costs were about 6 percent of total project cost (not including
capacity building and training costs) which places it at the lower end of the spectrum among
social funds in terms of efficiency.
In terms of other measures of program efficiency-speed of execution and leverage of
community resources-- MASAF has performed moderately well. Completion of projects took
up to 24 months (according to MASAF progress reports) in the first two-three years of the
project although it has been reduced to 8 months towards the end of the program.
Sub-project implementation period was foreseen between 12 to 18 months in the SAR.
Community contributions (cash or in-kind) were foreseen as 20 percent of total sub-project
cost for CSP projects; however, were not monitored accurately during sub-project appraisal
and implementation. Thus, overall community contribution is estimated at about 13 percent of
total MASAF program costs as opposed to 11.7 percent as foreseen by the SAR.
Overall, MASAF has functioned fairly effectively and efficiently compared to its peers in the
world and other national programs.
- 27 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty            Perforrnance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
Month/Year     Count          Specialty                      Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
12/94                       9    Economist (2), Operations          S             S
Officer, OA, social scientist, TTL
Appraisal/Negotiation
11/95                            TTL, Economist (2), 00,            S             S
OA, IEC specialist, social
scientist, Financial Mnrngt.
specialist
Supervision
7/96                         4   Economists (2), OA, VTL            S             S
12/96                        4   NGO coordinator, economists        S             S
(2), TTL
3/97                        11   Operations officer, OA, FA,        S             HS
social economist, NRM, IEC,
architect, sociologist, economist,
VT L
10/97                        4   FM, economist, architect, VTL      S            HS
12/98                        5   FM, economist, architect, IEC,     S            HS
MIS, TTL
10/99                        8   Operations officer, economist,     S            HS
IEC, AG specialist, FMS,
procurement analyst, architect.
MIS
4/00                         4   lEC, architect, FMS,               S             HS
procurement analyst
11/00                        3   IEC, RD, procurement analyst       S            HS
3/01                         4   HIV/AIDS specialist,               S             HS
environmental specialist, RD, PH
ICR
11/01                       4     TIL, Op.Officer, Fin.             S             S
Mngmt Spec., Agric. Serv.
Spec.,
02/02                        3    Op. Officer, Agric Serv.          S             S
Specialist, Fin. Mngmt.
Specialist
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle  [                Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              USs ('000)
- 28 -



Identification/Preparation               115                         350
Appraisal/Negotiation                     80                         200
Supervision                              173                        480
1CR                                        6                          25
Total                                    374                       1,055
-29-



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Fl Macro policies                        O H   OSUOM      O N   * NA
L Sector Policies                        O H   OSUOM      O N   * NA
O Physical                               * H   O SU O M   O N   O NA
O Financial                              O H   O SU O M   O N   * NA
O Institutional Development              0 H   0 SU 0 M   0 N   0 NA
O Environmental                          O H   O SU * M   O N   O NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction               O H   O SU * M    O N  O NA
O Gender                          OH OSU-M ON ONA
O Other (Please specify)          O H   * SU O M    O N  O NA
Participatory/Demand driven development
L Private sector development             0 H   O SU O M   0 N   0 NA
OJ Public sector management              0 H   O SU O M   0 N   * NA
1 Other (Please specify)                 O H   O SU * M   O N   O(NA
Local Government Capacity
- 30 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                 Rating
E Lending                                           OHSOS OU OHU
E Supervision                                       OiHS*S       O u    O HU
El Overall                                          OHS OS       Ou     O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
F Preparation                                       OHS OS       O U    O HU
? Government implementation performance             OHS OS       O U    0 HU
II Implementation agency performance                O H1S 0 S    0 U    0 HU
1 Overall                                           OHS *S       OU     OJ HU
- 31 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Achievement of PMSF
Achievement I Indicator      Description                                        Time
The Malawi National Social   Collection of Infornation on indicators that measure te  1995
Indicators Survey            general well being of the children of Malawi. Indicators on
health, water and sanitation and education.
Indicators on Poverty and Living  A report that presents a set of various indicators of poverty  1995
Conditions                   and living conditions in the period 1990-96
The PMS newsletter          Bi-annual newsletter on current poverty issues       1995
Vulnerability assessment and  A targeting document of poor people done with the PMS  1996
mapping                     technical committee, FEWS and WFP.
Determiinants of the transition out Policy study                                1996
of poverty
The social economic effect of  Policy study                                      1996
structural adjustment policies.
Small-holder Supply Response to Policy study                                    1996
Agricultural Policy Changes in
Malawi.
Development of a Research Policy Policy study                                    1996
and the operational Definition of
Poverty in Malawi
The integrated household survey Situation of poverty in Malawi                  2000
The Vital Registration System  A system to ensure generation of data on births and deaths  2000
(VRS)                        on a continuous process.
Harnonisation of data Collection  A standard reporting procedure for all collectors of  2000
information on poverty.
Annual Report on poverty                                                         Annua
I
Statistical Booklet on Poverty  A pocket on statistical indicators of poverty   2000
Capacity Building for PMS I  Capacity building on data collection, monitoring and  2000
TWC members                  analysis on poverty
Construction of a central Data  A central Data Bank of all poverty indicators to be located at 2000
Bank                         NEC
Table 10: Studies Conducted
Study / Consultancy                Date        Details     By whom   impact     Cost
Management and Functional review   1997        _           MIM        Rejected
Financial management Review        1997                    Iman       Inproved
Develop-   Financial
ment       Manage-
_ment
Production of MASAF quarterly      1997                    Shire      Wider
newsletter                                                 Conrnuni-  Disemina-
cation     tion and
feedback
Organisation and automnation of MASAF 1997                 H. Gausi  Improved
publications and records                                   and W.     filing and
Dzoweda    access to
- 32 -



records
IEC consultants                     1997                     Shire      IEC
Communi-   outreach to
cation     stake-
holders
Borehole drilling supervision                                Manjoo     Improved
Consulting  SPN and
quality
Quarterly audits                    1997                     Various    Trans-
films      parency,
account-
ability
lEC Radio consultancy               1998                     MBC        lmproved
awareness
of project
processes
Review and Evaluation of MASAF safety 1997                   Wadonda    Improved
net programmne                                               Consult    targeting
Needs assessment of MASAF peri-urban  1997                   R. Fatch   Prep. study
community                                                    and team   for
MASAF 2
CSP impact on the social economic   1997                     Gill       Prep. study
status of beneficiaries                                      Enterprise  for
Cons.      MASAF2
Policy and regulatory framework in  1997                     C.         Prep. study
urban                                                        Simwaka    for
MASAF 2
Service provider study              1997                     A.J.C.     Improved
Kawonga    service
delivery
Supervision of borehole drilling    2000/2001                           Establish-
programme                                                               ment of
systematic
SPN
schedules
Ground water management system.     2000                                Improved
boreholes
planning
and
drilling
Architectural and quantity surveying  1999/2000              Khorandji  Reviewed
consultancy                                                  an &       drawings,
Macharia   and BoQs
Kamal
Technical assistance, MASAF website  2000                    WiSS       Wider
development.                                                            dissemina-
tion and
feedback   _
Project Tracking system             1999                     Fady       System
installed
and pilot
tested
- 33 -



Technical assistance in MASAF MIS    2000                      Kamal       Production
Siblini     of designs
Technical assistance in MASAF Local                            Afcor       Introduced
Area Network                                                              the LAN
MASAF lEC Impact Assessment          2000                      Chilowa     Wider
and         dissemina-
Associates  tion and
feedback
Technical assistance in MASAF        2000                      MIM        Impact on
Beneficiary assessment.                                                    benefi-
ciaries
PWP Beneficiary Assessment           10/7/00 -                 Wadonda     Same as     $86,320
20/10/00                              above
CSP Beneficiary assessment           1/11/99 -                 Bunda       Same as     $94,219
30/6/00                   Team        above
Environmental Impact Assessment                                Millenniu   Produced
m           ElA
guidelines
Client Consultation study                                                 Apprecia-
tion of the
baseline
informa-
tion of
benefi-
ciaries
Baseline survey for PWP                                        Wadonda     Apprecia-
tion of
baseline
info for
post-
evaluation
Bi-Annual Audits Consultancy                                   Graham      Project
Carr,       audits for
Mwenelup    improved
embe,       financial
Delloite &  manage-
Touch       ment
Management Development Review        10/3/00 -                             Improved    $49,736
30/7/00                               manage-
ment and
staff
appraisals
Radio Consultancy                                              MBC         Airing of
radio pro-
gramrnes
on MBC
Radio 1, 7
times a
___ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  .w eek
Video Consultancy                                              Malawi     Not
Institute of  finalised
Education
- 34 -



MASAF 1 Review Consultancy                                   Graphic     Profes-
McCann      sional
review of
the project
MASAF News Consultancy                                       Champion    Wider
Publica-    dissemina-
tions;     tion and
Ministry   feedback
of
lnforma-
tion
Television Programme Consultancy                             TVM
Production of IEC materials                                  Montfort
Press;
Litho
Publishing
Co.
Dzuka
Printing               .-
- 35 -



Additional Annex 8. Public Works Program Targeting Mechanisms
To ensure distribution of program benefits to the poorest and achieve maximum impact, public works
programs, in general, rely on "self-targeting" of beneficiaries by using a wage rate which is slightly
below or around the minimum wage rate. This wage rate would only attract those who do not have
better employment opportunities elsewhere, and would not attract people away from other more
productive economic activities. The impact and success of the program, transferring income to the
poorest, will depend, among other things, on setting the appropriate wage rate.
The PWP program wage rate was revised a number of times to adjust for inflation and changes in
living conditions. However, throughout the life of the project, the program wage rate seems to have
been higher than the national weighted average poverty line, and the minimum wage rate. The initial
program wage rate 7.50 MK per day (1996 prices) was lower than the wage rate paid to unskilled
workers by Ministry of Works, but higher than the poverty line, 6.82MK (1996). In 1997, program
wage rate was revised to 10.50 MK per day.. In 1999, program wage rate (task rate for about 4 hours
per day) was revised to 15.80 MK whereas national weighted average poverty line was about 15.0
MK and minimum wage rate was at 15.90 MK (for an 8 hour work-day). Program wage rate at
closing (2001) was 25.0 MK (for a four work-day) whereas poverty line was at about 20.6 MK (2001
prices) and minimum wage rate was at 37 MK (for an 8 hour work-day). Thus, program wage rate has
consistently been above the poverty line and about twice the minimum wage rate. It is argued by
MASAF MU that the minimum wage rate has not been reflective of the rapidly deteriorating living
conditions thus was not used as a benchmark.
This, in turn, is likely to have adversely impacted the poverty profile of individuals/households
self-selecting into the program; i.e. beneficiaries were not always the neediest. As a result, in the
absence of a systematic survey of poverty incidence of beneficiaries, it would be difficult to say with
confidence that the PWP only benefited the poorest of the poor. In rural areas, with wage rates almost
double the poverty line and the minimum wage rate (due to task rates as opposed to daily rates), PWP
probably attracted more than just the poorest.
- 36 -



Additional Annex 9. Government ICR (full text)
* In addition to borrower comments included in the main text, the full Government ICR is attached
as an annex because of the quality and comprehensive nature of it
GOVERNMENT OF MALAWI
OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT AND
CABINET
MINISTER OF STATE RESPONSIBLE
FOR POVERTY ALLEVIATION
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (1CR)
FOR
MALAWI SOCIAL ACTION FUND PHASE 1
(MASAF 1) 1996 TO 2001
Dated: Monday, 10 June 2002
- 37 -



The Ministry of Finance                       The National Economic Council
P.O Box 30049                                P.0 Box 30136
Capital City                                 Capital City
Lilongwe 3                                   Lilongwe 3
Tel: (265) 789 355                           Tel: (265) 789 390
MASAF MU
Private Bag 352
Lilongwe 3
Malawi
Tel: 755 666                   Email:
masaf(namasaf.org
1.0 BACKGROUND
Since 1964, when Malawi attained independence, the country emphasised maintaining
macroeconomic stability, with a lot of emphasis on the agriculture sector as the lead industry in the
development strategy. Poverty was to be addressed through a trickle down effect. However, this
approach did very little to reduce poverty, as economic growth stagnated starting from the late
1970's through the 1980's. Drought and unfavourable prices for agricultural products in the world
market greatly affected the performance of the economy, and led to instability in the economy.
Against this background, stabilisation and poverty reduction had emerged as central objectives of
economic management.
In 1993, a situation analysis of poverty revealed that poverty in Malawi was very pervasive and deep.
The country's social and economic indicators were among the worst in southern Africa and the world
in general. Low access levels to safe drinking water (at 53 percent of the population), high infant
mortality rates (134 per 1000 per births), poor socio-economic infrastructure and widespread
deprivation reflected the deep levels of poverty in the country.
In addition, the lack of alternative off-farm income earning opportunities and persistent food
deficiencies in most parts of the country, and particularly those in the rural areas meant that people
were in a severe state of distress as they could not easily meet their basic needs for the sustenance of
life. An autocratic environment, with development approaches that did not adequately allow for the
participation of communities in the development process also held in check the social energies that
would lend themselves to sustainable development at the local level.
Following the 1994 general elections and open acceptance of the extent of poverty in the country, the
incoming government raised the poverty alleviation agenda to centre-stage in its development policy
framework. This led to the formulation of the Poverty Alleviation Program (PAP), and subsequently
an implementation framework in which MASAF was one of the key instruments for operatianalising
the program.
The MASAF design was the result of a long series of consultations among which were the
- 38 -



participatory poverty assessment (PPA) with communities and a systematic client consultation (SCC)
with major stakeholders such as NGOs and communities in early
1995. A pilot phase was undertaken from mid 1995 and generated a wealth of experiences that fed
into the design of the mainstreamed phase of the Project. The Project was appraised by the World
Bank, then the sole source of funding for the Project, in November /December 1995 and became
effective on May 15, 1996.
1. OEvolution of MASAF
It was envisaged that MASAF would contribute to the goal of poverty alleviation through: (a) the
upgrading of community infrastructure by rehabilitation of old structures and construction of new
ones in education, health, water and transport and communication sectors, (b) improvement to the
delivery of and access to social and economic services, (c) fostering grass root initiatives (social
action) intended to enhance the technical and managerial capabilities and attitudes to self-managed
development, and (d) reorienting and building capacity of actors in community development
including communities, extension workers, NGOs, the private sector and religious groups to equip
them with skills in participatory methods for planning and implementing poverty alleviation
interventions.
2.0 MASAF I OBJECTIVES AND COMPONENTS
The interventions under MASAF I were perceived to fall into the two main categories
(a) Social Infrastructure and Assistance: that would involve the construction and rehabilitation of
primary schools, distant education centres, teachers houses, water supplies, sanitation, improving
sewerage and drainage systems in urban and semi urban centres, construction and repair of health
centres, clinics and staff houses; and (b) Economic Infrastructure: that would boost the productive
capacities and create employment opportunities for the poor. Projects included small-scale irrigation
schemes, village access. The objectives of the Project were thus set as follows:
* To provide additional resources for programs targeted at the poor, that is, fund the creation of
village level assets, which will be directly beneficial to the poor through investments in primary
education, peripheral health services and safe water.
* To promote a new approach to rural development by involving communities in project
preparation and implementation, while encouraging government agencies, NGOs and private
institutions to assist communities when needed.
To support a district level program of labour-intensive construction to be targeted at the poorest
districts as safety net operation..
* To strengthen poverty monitoring and assessment systems through financing a Poverty
Monitoring Support Facility (PMSF).
2. INSTITUTIONAL SET-UP AND PROJECT COMPONENTS
Implementation of the Project was to be done through a Management Unit, comprising of a head
office and zone offices that would work with district level staff. A Project steering Committee
- 39 -



comprising of key sectoral ministries, one traditional chief, and independent members, provided
overall policy guidance. Sub-projects would be implemented at community level through a
community project committee (PMC), which was delegated functionary of the community.
The MASAF 1 objectives were to be achieved through three operational components: the
Community Sub-Projects (CSP) component, the Public Works Component (PWP) and the Poverty
Monitoring Support Facility (PMSF). In addition, there were support divisions and units such as
Administration Division, Finance Division, Internal Audit Unit, Informnation Technology Unit,
Technical Services Unit, and the Information, Education and Communication (IEC) unit. The PMSF
was coordinated by National Economic Council (NEC) through the Poverty Monitoring System
(PMS) Technical Working Committee (TWC) composed of data users and producers. All these
played an integral part in the realisation of MASAF I goals.
2.1.1    Community Sub-projects (CSP)
The CSP component accounted for 71 percent of the funds under MASAF I, was designed to meet
the first two objectives.. Firstly, it would provide financial and technical resources for programs
targeted at the poor by funding the creation of community assets and secondly, it would promote a
new approach to community development by providing an opportunity for communities to effectively
participate in the identification, preparation and implementation of their own development projects in
collaboration with government agencies, NGOs and private institutions. The project processes would
empower communities by creating opportunities for communities to revive the spirit of self-help,
enabling them to take control over, and be accountable for their own development.
2.1.2    Public Works Program (PWP)
The PWP component accounted for 27 percent of the financial resources under MASAF I. It was
designed to transfer income, through the creation of employment opportunities by funding labour
intensive public works, and in the process, build economic infrastructure that would be beneficial to
communities. The activities included construction, rehabilitation and maintenance of economic
infrastructure such as rural roads; small-scale irrigation systems; improved natural resource
management through afforestation, terracing and rainwater harvesting.
2.1.3    Poverty Monitoring Support Facility (PMSF)
The PMSF component accounted for 2 percent of MASAF I financial resources and was managed by
the National Economic Council (NEC). The PMSF supported the poverty reduction policies and
programs by bridging poverty-related gaps and developing analytical skills in government and private
institutions. It financed the essential building blocks for collection and analysis of data relevant to
track progress in poverty reduction and to help guide poverty alleviation policies and guidelines.
3.0 ASSESSMENT OF THE PROJECT
This section assesses the MASAFI Project objectives, design and implementation. The assessment of
- 40 -



the objectives and design of the Project are done with reference to their relevance to Government
development priorities, and the prevailing conditions at the time of design. The assessment of
implementation is done against the extent to which the Project was able to meet its stated objectives.
3.1Assessment of project objectives
The MASAF I objectives as stated in the Staff Appraisal Report of 1995 did not change in the course
of implementing the Project. The objectives would be rated as satisfactory. They were relevant to
and consistent with the Malawi Government's poverty alleviation policy framework (PAPF) for
achieving poverty reduction. The community development financing objective addressed shortfalls in
the provision of social sector services such education, water and health, which are critical for poverty
alleviation. The benefits arising from investments in the social service sectors would accrue mostly
to the very poor, given the pervasive nature of poverty in Malawi. Furthermore, facilities such as
water points (mainly boreholes) and school blocks were envisaged to benefit women and children
directly, who are amongst the groups identified as being most adversely affected by poverty in the
PAPF.
The safety net objective aimed at ameliorating hardships faced by individuals and households in food
insecure EPAs, was relevant and sound in an environment where there was limited alternative
opportunities and chronic food shortages. It would contribute to meeting the basic requirements such
as food for the very poor who otherwise would not be able to weather the impact of extreme poverty
and within a difficult economic environment.
The poverty monitoring objective directly addressed gaps in the systematic collection and analysis of
poverty related data and build capacity in policy analysis. It was therefore consistent with, and
would contribute to strengthening of the Poverty Monitoring System under the PAPF.
3.2Project Design
In general, the design of the project could be rated as highly satisfactory and appropriate for attaining
the set objectives The quality of the design was greatly improved by input from international and
domestic experience with social investment funds, and the lessons learnt in the pilot phase of the
Project. Transparency, accountability, community participation, gender sensitivity and direct
community financing that MASAF embraced in its design were principles that would contribute to a
program geared towards empowering the poor.
In particular, under the CSP, a strategy that emphasised the participation of the poor in a country
emerging from the shadows of a generally inhibitive environment was consistent with a people
centred development approach and the spirit of the PAPF. Financing communities directly and
allowing them to identify their needs and prepare project requests allowed for the communities'
effective participation in the Project activities and development efforts. In addition, district level
processes such as desk and field appraisal and monitoring and supervision offered a framework
through which Government, Project beneficiaries, NGOs and MASAF would work together to meet
community development needs.
Under the PWP, the geographical and individual or household targeting mechanisms and the labour
intensity principles enshrined in the design of the component were appropriate for a safety net
operation. As a result, the component was able to effectively reach its intended beneficiaries.
- 41 -



The design of the PMSF component was to a large extent appropriate. It emphasised capacity
building efforts that would be critical for sustained analysis of poverty related data in the long term.
It would contribute to program learning and lead to improvements in the design of poverty related
interventions.
4.OACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVE
The overall Project objective was to contribute to poverty reduction. Although the level of
contribution to poverty reduction was not quantified, the Project development objective could be said
to have been substantially achieved. An estimated 2.0 million people (or 20 percent of the Malawian
population) directly benefited from investments in the education, health, water and sanitation,
transport (roads and bridges) and afforestation sectors; and the transfer of income through the PWP
component An approach that actively involved beneficiaries also fostered a collegial spirit (which
was hitherto adversarial) in community development efforts between communities and Government
agencies.
In total 1,864 sub-projects were approved, of which 1,392 projects were under the CSP component
and 472 projects under PWP component. Under PMS, training for key personnel at the National
Economic Council and various studies have been undertaken. In addition, equipment for data analysis
has been procured for the National Statistical Office.
In regard to promoting a new approach to development, there have been discernible effects,
particularly in shifting the perceptions of the major stakeholders in the Project and the attendant trust
the approach has generated. The Project demonstrated that it is a viable and effective approach for
channelling project assistance to communities. For instance, although there is no information to
indicate that the MASAF approach has been replicated within the country, commercial banks such as
then National Bank of Malawi and the National Bank of Malawi have channelled funds through the
Project to finance water kiosks in Blantyre and Lilongwe districts. The direct financing principle,
along with transparency and accountability requirements have been key in the promotion of this new
paradigm in the country.
4.1Project Impacts
A socio-economic impact study of the CSP (MASAF 1997 ) and the PWP (MASAF 2000) on the
beneficiaries and communities showed that project effects were to be seen in the following areas:
Reduction in incidences of water borne diseases: in communities where water facilities such as
boreholes have been completed, beneficiaries have reported that outbreaks of cholera and diarrhoea.
For instance, in Chatha community in the outskirts of Blantyre, cholera which was yearly occurrence
in the community was never experienced again after the completion of the piped water project in the
community. Other communities country-wide have reported similar experiences.
* Increased enrolment: in the second CSP BA, in 9 of the 25 study sites, there was increased
enrolment of pupils in schools. Beneficiaries cited reduced distances and improved learning
environment as a result of the new class rooms.
- 42 -



Improvement in Socio-economic Status: The PWP second BA revealed that participation on
the PWP safety net operation led to improvements in the quality of life of the beneficiaries. Seventy
percent of the sampled beneficiaries felt that their economic status had improved due to their
paTticipation in PWP. Descriptions of the improvement in economic status included from ability to
purchase basic necessities, saving up some of the proceeds from the wages, owning small businesses
and owning more assets than was the case before participation in the PWP.
* Improvement in communication and access to social and economic facilities: under the CSP
and the PWP, the construction of roads and bridges has improved communication and access to
schools, markets, postal agencies and other services, which was not possible before the completion of
the projects. This has faciliitated business and education among others.
* Stimulation of the rural economy: project activities under both the CSP and PWP are
stimulating the rural economy through employment. Although not quantified, the Project activities
create demand for goods and services in the rural economy. For instance, construction activities are
generating employment and demand for goods such as timber. The income earned from these
activities brings about a multiplier effect as it in turn generates demand for other goods such as food
and clothing.
Fostering of a Collegial Spirit towards community development efforts: the project
processes, re-enforced by the IEC has engendered a collegial spirit and strengthened the social bonds
between communities, their leaders and Government officers in development efforts. Communities,
and Government are now better able to work together in a joint effort towards satisfying community
development needs than was the case before. In the past, and as a result of an autocratic
environment and the top- down approach to community development, the relationship between
communities, leaders and Government was one of mutual suspicion and adversarial
Improved poverty data collection and analysis: the project has for the first time assisted
government to collect up to date information on poverty status of Malawians. It has also imparted
technical and analytical skills in analysing the data as input into policy formulation. Further, the
project has built capacity of the institutions under the PMS through short and long-term training.
5.01MPLEMENTATION RECORD
This section assesses the implementation record of the MASAF I Project by component. Overall,
achievement of objectives on all the three component was satisfactory. Table A below is a summary
of achievements on end of project output indicators. Details of achievements on each component are
offered in annex 9.
Table A: Achievement on Project End Output Indicators by Component Notes:
Under PWP, employment created refers to that of unskilled workers
Exchange rate at time of World Bank Project Appraisal was $l=MKl5.0
An average household was assumed to consist of 5 members. The total population benefiting is
derived from that size of the household.
-43 -



Beneficiary Assessments were envisaged to be done under PMSF. However, in the course of
implementation, they came to be done by the MASAF MU.
Component/ Indicator        Project End   Achievement     Achievement (% B
Target        (Absolute          of A)
(A)          Terms)OfA
(B)
A.   Community     Sub-projects
(CSP)
Number of projects Approved     800            1392           174
Number of completed projects    800            1288           161
B. Public Works Program (PWP)
Kilometres  of   Rural   Roads 4,563.2        5063.9          110.9
Completed in '000
Number of households benefiting 120.96         136.0          112.4
from employment created in '000
Population  to    benefit  from 604.8         680.0           112.4
employment created
Total Wage income transferred (MK 252         184.7           73.3
million)
C. Poverty Monitoring Support
Facility
Beneficiary Assessments (number)  5           2               40.0
Studies Completed               14            13              92.9
Source: World Bank (1996), Staff Appraisal Report for the Malawi Social Action Fund Project and
the Current MASAF I Status Reports.
5.1 Community Sub-projects
Achievement of objectives under the CSP component has been highly satisfactory. Against the
projected 800 projects to be approved under the CSP in its entire life, 1,392 projects were approved.
The overachievement is attributed to four main factors:
(a) As a result of the overwhelming demand, the number (20) of projects under implementation in a
district at any one time was surpassed during implementation with the number rising to an average of
60 projects per district,
(b) The estimated average cost for a typical CSP sub- project varied from district to another
depending on the component package, sources of materials and distances from the main trading
centres. There is evidence that that more sub-projects were implemented that originally estimated.
- 44 -



(c) The depreciation of the Malawi Kwacha on the US dollar led to an accumulation of addition funds
on the original amount earmarked for the CSP, and enabled the component to approve more projects,
and
(d) Funds carried forward from the pilot phase and other expenditure categories in the mainstreamed
phase that were likely not to be spent before the end of the project were transferred to the financing
of additional sub-projects.
The sectoral distribution of the approved projects was as follows: education 735; water 307
involving the drilling of 921 boreholes and construction of 80 water kiosks; transport and
communication 120 bridges; health 56 (under-five clinics/maternity units and health centres); and
other projects 13. Projects in the education sector involved the construction of 2,146 new
classrooms, 854 staff houses; 56,445 school desks and 4,478 VIP latrines.
The benefits accruing to the beneficiaries from the assets financed under the CSP include improved
learning and increased enrolment rates in the project sites than was the case before construction of
new classrooms; non-occurrence of water and sanitation related diseases such as cholera in project
areas; and improved access to other social and economic facilities as a result of roads and bridges.
These have been beneficiaries' perceived effects as revealed by both the two Beneficiary Assessments
(BA s) and the Socio-economic Impact Studycarried out on the CSP component.
In addition, a cadre of enlightened individuals has been created at the community level for local
management of development initiatives. The successful implementation of sub-projects, with high
levels of financial accountability by PMCs is testimony to this. In total, 19,140 people at the
community level have been trained in project implementation management and community based
management of water facilities. Fifty percent of this figure is composed of women. In PMCs, the
representation of women is 30 percent while in Community Based Management committees for water
facilities, women account for 60 percent of the members.
5.2Public Works Component
Achievement of the safety net objective was highly satisfactory. The PWP component (USD13.7
million) financed district level safety net operation that has benefited poor people in food deficient
Extension Planning Areas (EPAs). A total of MK185 million (US$2.5 million) 1 US$ = MK73.00 in
cash has been transferred to 188,000 people through creation of temporary employment. This has
been achieved through the financing of a total of 472 labour intensive projects such as roads,
community dams and afforestation projects. The benefits arising from the PWP component have
directly reached approximately 680,030 people or about 7.6 % of the Malawian population.
However, considering that utilization at the household level would benefit more people than those
directly participating on the project, the benefits reach more people than captured here.
The projects approved under the PWP have translated into the following outputs: 188,000
employment opportunities created, 5,064 kilometres of earth roads constructed; 252 bridges, 17
earth dams, and (59) community-owned forests have been established where a total of 1,500,000
- 45 -



trees have been planted.  The community earth dams that have been rehabilitated or constructed
across the country are acting as reservoirs for 100,000 cubic meters (11 lkm) of water in the rural
areas. The dams have enabled communities to establish small-scale irrigation schemes, which have
facilitated agricultural activities such as vegetable gardening in the project areas. The dams have also
provided the areas with water for domestic use and for livestock consumption. These dams also
check water run off and thereby control soil erosion. See Annex 9 for details of achievements under
PWP.
The second PWP BA, which focused on the socio-economic impact of the PWP component on
beneficiaries and communities found that over 80 percent of the beneficiaries used the income eamed
from working on PWP projects on basic necessities like food and health. Thus, the PWP represented
a major source of additional income that was accessed by poor people who would not otherwise
meet their food requirements. In addition, 70 percent, of the sampled beneficiaries in the second BA
felt that their economic status had improved due to their participation in PWP. With the income
earned from participating in the PWP they were now able to purchase basic necessities, saving up
some of the proceeds from the wages, owning small businesses and owning more assets than was the
case before participation in the PWP.
Facilities such as roads have also greatly improved access to markets and schools that were hitherto
inaccessible. Benefits from afforestation and community dam projects will also be significant Apart
from improving soil conservation and replenishing the stock of trees in the project areas, woodlots
will be sources of wood-fuel at community level at convenient distances.
5.3Poverty Monitoring Support Facility (PMSF)
Achievement of the poverty-monitoring goal through the PMSF has been satisfactory. The PMSF has
been instrumental in monitoring the poverty trends, gathering and analysing the necessary
information for informed action among development agencies. Another funding from the Danish
government complemented MASAF assistance to NEC. It has also been key in establishing a PMS
through provision of technical and financial support to the TWC and training of staff from institutions
involved in poverty monitoring such as the NSO, CSR, Ministry of Health and NEC.
Between 1996 and 2000, a number of activities have been carried out with the support from the
PMSF. Over thirteen (13) studies have been carried out, key among which were the following: (a)
the Integrated Household Survey (I.H.S) which was a situation analysis of poverty in the country, (b)
Indicators on Poverty and Living Conditions, (c) Determinants of Transition out of Poverty and (d)
Smallholder Supply Response to Agricultural Policy Changes. In addition, the PMS Technical
Working Committee members were oriented on poverty monitoring related issues. See table 12 for a
list of reports and studies under the PMS.
The studies have been useful in influencing policies and also bringing to the fore issues that need to
be accorded priority in the targeting and designing of development programs, or poverty related
initiatives.
- 46 -



6. IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCES
In general, the Project enjoyed support from both communities, sector ministries and local and
national leaders. This section highlights implementation experiences in MASAF I:
6.1 Overall Project Experiences
Multiple approaches to financing community-based development initiatives: this tended to
generate confusion and anxiety amongst communities and at times, led to temporary delays of
sub-project implementation. In some instances, there was duplicate funding with other donors.
Exclusion of some categories of the vulnerable people: groups such as the aged, orphans, those
infected and affected by HIV/AIDS due to the fact that could not organise themselves into a distinct
group that would be assisted under MASAF. In view of this, the Project included as one of the
components the Sponsored Sub-projects to specifically target interventions to these groups under the
second phase of MASAF.
Low participation of women CSP and PWP: under the CSP, it is estimated that although women
held senior positions in the project committees (e.g. chairperson, treasurer, secretary) they
constituted only up to 30 percent of the PMC membership, with similar levels recorded under PWP,
especially on road works. The Project embarked on targeted IEC to encourage women to participate
in the Project. Results have been minimal though, especially under the CSP where the proportion of
women participating in the PMCs has not changed.
Low participation by members in TWC meetings (PMSF): over time there was poor
participation of members in TWC meetings. NEC, NSO and CSR remained core institutions of the
PMS and other members took back sit role in PMS activities.
Delays in production of final accounts for completed projects: considerable delays were
experienced in the production of final accounts for completed projects under both the CSP and PWP.
This in turn led to delays in declaring the projects completed, although physically the projects had
been completed and in use. Under PMSF delays were also experienced in the disbursement of funds
and procurement of equipment. Transfer of funds between Citi Bank in Washington and Central
Bank in Malawi in most occasions took long time to process and access. Further, there were delays
at MASAF office in the procurement of equipment such as computers and vehicles. The project also
experienced late recruitment of Technical Assistance from IFPRI.
6.2Experiences by Component
6.2.1    Community Sub-projects
Overall, communities were able to effectively manage the implementation process, including
- 47 -



accounting for funds. Activities under the component enjoyed support from the communities and
their leaders, both traditional and political. Although this translated into capacity constraints and
pressure on MASAF to maintain its reputation and trust from communities, it contributed to the
smooth and quickened pace in implementation of the CSP component. The following is a summary of
experiences under the CSP component:
Overwhelming Demand for Project Assistance: This was a direct result of the demand driven
principle of the Project, which was articulated by the IEC campaign. The Project found itself
inundated with project applications within the first year of its operations in the mainstreamed phase,
which it could not fully meet given the resources available at that time. As a result, 50 percent of the
funds under the component were committed one and a half years after Project effectiveness.
* Capacity of Community versus size of projects: It was found that when appraisal of
sub-projects did not adequately consider the capacity of communities to implement the project, there
were long delays (up to 24 months) in completing the projects. Large sub-projects tended to take
long to complete. In this connection, subsequent approvals were based on the demonstrated effective
demand for a Project. This was determined by the actual amount of community contribution available
Technical support to the communities: supervision for quality assurance for construction of
facilities to communities was initially found to be inadequate. The assumption that technical skills
would exist at community level did not hold for the CSP program. In order to overcome this
problem, technical supervisors based in each district were engaged and the quality of the structures
improved to expected acceptable standards.
* Concentration of projects in the education sector: the projects under CSP were heavily
skewed towards the education sector, which accounted for 54 percent of all the projects approved
under the CSP component. The second BA for the CSP component established that this was a
reflection of the needs in that sector which was largely occasioned by Government's Free Primary
Education Policy launched in 1994.
* Drop out of PMC members: There was considerable drop out rate in PMC members. This was
due to the fact that initially, only four members of the PMC were trained. This created despondency
and alienation among the members that did not go for training, and led to their dropping out of the
PMC. The effect of this was delayed implementation of sub-projects as the remaining four mernbers
became overburdened. The project switched to training all the ten members of the PMC, and the
drop out rate was greatly curtailed
* Delays in Servicing Completed Facilities on Health Sector Projects: delays were experienced
in operationalising most of the completed health projects such as dispensaries and maternity units.
Once completed, the Ministry of Health and Population (Mop) could not immediately be staffed,
reflect severe capacity limitations in that sector. This was despite endorsement by sector
representatives the projects should be approved and that they would be serviced. The Project had to
temporarily suspend the approval of facilities such as dispensaries and maternity units, pending
resolution of the difficulties in the sector. The Mop has now put in place a strategy to have these
- 48 -



facilities staffed.
* Low Uptake of Projects in the peri-urban and urban areas: there were very few projects that
were implemented in the urban areas. Projects approved for the urban areas under MASAF I were
less than 2 percent of all the projects approved. The main reason for low uptake was the low level of
social cohesion in the urban areas, as compared with the rural areas. Mobilization for creation of
public facilities was therefore problematic.
6.2.2    Public Works Program
The PWP component has been instrumental in targeting the poorest of the poor thereby having a
direct impact on poverty reduction. More importantly is the fact that PWP, besides the cash, has
contributed towards the creation of physical assets such as access roads, community owned forests,
community earth dams and bridges. The implementation experiences under the PWP included the
following:
* Targeting: overall, the targeting mechanism was efficient, and most of the beneficiaries
participating in the project were indeed vulnerable. According to a baseline survey carried out in
1998,seventy-nine percent (79%) of the beneficiaries cited poverty and lack of alternative income
earning opportunities as reasons for participating in the PWP projects (MASAF, 1998). Geographical
targeting using the vulnerability assessment mapping (VAM) data in some instances was found not
to be reliable in determining vulnerability due too the fact that there was time lag between the
generation of the data by the famine early warning systems (FEWS) and its actual use. Where this
was the case, District Implementation Teams (DTs) were allowed to choose alternative EPAs that
were deemed to be more vulnerable than the VAM data indicated.
* Remuneration on PWP projects: throughout the implementation period, beneficiaries have
perceived the wage rate to be low. The initial policy was to keep the wage rate below the official
Government minimum wage rate, which was consistent with the principle of a safety net. However,
due to the depressed nature of the wage rate coupled with high inflation rates, the wage rate had to
be set above the official minimum wage rate.
* Menu of projects to be funded: a predominance of road projects on the menu of project to be
funded under PWP presented implementation challenges. For instance, during the rainy season, it
proved extremely difficult to implement road projects in most parts of the country due to heavy rains,
which occasioned stoppage of works due to rains. However, the period during which works were
suspended was when there were food deficiencies and when most poor people needed the income
from PWP. The menu of projects has had to be expanded with the diversification of projects into
afforestation, community dams and valley tanks.
* Time Spent by Beneficiaries on the Project: it was found that initially, when the beneficiaries
were spending close to eight hours working on the project, they did not have time to work in their
fields. There was therefore the possibility that there vulnerability would worsen as they would not
have food in the following season. Instead of doing an eight hour job, the procedure was modified so
that the work became task based as opposed to time based and beneficiaries worked on the project
- 49 -



only for an average of three hours. This arrangement gave them time to work in their fields.
* Institutional Issues: the implementation of the PWP relied heavily on a collective effort between
key departments at the district level in its design. This meant that capacity gaps in terms of human
and financial resources obtaining at that level affected implementation of the component. Although
capacity building efforts such as training of the district teams were undertaken, areas such as financial
accountability problems were only partially resolved. With a system where subsequent funding to
district teams was made in tranches, speed in implementation was held back.
6.2.3    Poverty Monitoring Support Facility (PMSF)
The PMSF has been instrumental in monitoring the poverty trends, gathering and analysing the
necessary information for informed action among development agencies. It has also been key in
establishing a PMS through provision of technical and financial support to the TWC and training of
staff from institutions involved in poverty monitoring such as the NSO, CSR, Ministry of Health and
NEC.
7.OFACTORS AFFECTING PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
While the implementation of MASAF in general could be rated as highly satisfactory, there were a
number of factors that affected smooth implementation. Some of the factors were within the control
of the Project, while some were not. This section highlights the factors that negatively affected the
implementation of the Project.
7.1 Controllable Factors
These largely related to capacities within the MASAF Management Unit, the district assemblies and
the communities. These are summarized below:
* Limited capacity in MASAF: due to the overwhelming demand for project assistance, there
were capacity limitations in processing and the management of operations under both the CSP and
PWP components. The number of zones under the CSP was thus increased from 9 to 12, while four
zones were introduced under PWP. This assisted in speeding up the processing and implementation
of sub-projects.
* The justification process: there were delays in replenishing sub-projects accounts arising from
capacity constraints at MASAF and community levels. Delays in processing justification reports by
PMCs and District Teams, coupled with inadequate staffing levels at MASAF MU to verify
authenticity of sub-project expenditures in turn led to delays in the implementation of projects.
Improvements in the training content and an addition of staff in the Justification unit helped in
resolving the problem.
* Difficulties in generating community contribution: In some communities, it was difficult to
generate materials that are ordinarily perceived to be locally available such as stones and construction
sand, which would normnally be found outside the project area. This had varying effects on projects
including delayed implementation. The Project had to allow for transportation of such materials
- 50 -



where this proved to be the case.
* Lack of capacity at district level: PWP projects experienced delays in funding. Beneficiaries in
some projects waited up to a month before they getting their wages. This was closely connected to
the problems of lack of transport by the District Assemblies. This also contributed to problems of
inadequate supervision by the supervisors and therefore quality assurance lapses in some projects.
The Project had to provide funds for running the District Assembly vehicles in a bid to limit the
problem.
* Ineffective computerized project tracking system: the development of a computerised project
tracking system took long, and was affected by long periods of lack of staffing. This meant that
trends in project progress could be monitored effectively on an aggregate level. The Project had to
have recourse to departmental data bases for storing data that would assist in monitoring progress.
* Management problems under PMSF: a lot of management problems were experienced both in
NEC and World Bank offices in Washington and Lilongwe mainly due to staff turn over, break down
in communication and lack of feed back and follow-up on important issues.
7.2Uncontrollable Factors
The following were factors outside the control of the Project which affected implementation:
* Depreciation of the Malawi Currency: The exchange rate of the Malawian Kwacha has been
depreciating since 1995. This resulted into pressure on the Malawi Kwacha denominated budgets and
in some instances, led to the cutting off of agreed components on sub-projects when the problem was
first experienced. This also had a deleterious effect on the income earned by PWP beneficiaries,
which remained constant for some time in the face of general rise in prices as a result of this problem.
PMSF project implementation activities and procurement of equipment were also affected by the
depreciation of the Malawi Kwacha.
* Breakdown in Security: This also had a strong negative affect on implementation of MASAF 1
projects. A spate of armed robberies saw commercial banks closing down in some districts. As the
banks are key in facilitating project transactions, closure of the branches slowed down
implementation pace of the projects in those areas considerably. In addition, the Project lost two of
its zone vehicles to these armed robberies, and for a time, this affected project operations in the two
affected zones (Karonga and Zomba Zone).
Inadequate capacity for borehole drilling: there were severe capacity limitations to drill
boreholes in the country. In the first one and a half years of the Project, boreholes on some approved
stayed up to a year after approval without being drilled.
Weather and poor road condition: Poor road conditions in some parts of the country,
particularly in the Northernmost district of Chitipa and parts of Machinga and Mangochi in the
Southern Region of the country also affected the speed of implementing sub-projects. During the
rainy season, this problem was compounded and projects had to be stopped until the rains subsided
- 51 -



as it was difficult to bring construction materials to the project sites by vehicle.
* Staff turnover: The implementation of the PMSF was particularly affected by this. The high staff
turnover and inadequate staffing levels at the National Economic Council (NEC) resulted into a slow
start to the implementation of the PMSF component. Lengthy Government recruitment process did
not assist in resolving the problem. In addition, MASAF I the decentralisation process which was
also being implemented at the same time as MASAF saw a number of district staff being transferred
from one district to the other. This brought uncertainty and instability at the district level which
affected the implementation of the PWP projects which relied heavily on district staff.
Effects of the HIV/AIDS pandemic: Just like any other Sub-Saharan country, Malawi has
experienced loss of productivity through HIV/AIDS related deaths of the mostly productive people
at all levels. This has had devastating effects on project implementation at national, district and
community levels.
Multiple and conflicting procedures among community development agencies:
Misunderstandings with Tespect to other development initiatives such as the starter pack This was a
targeted Government that distributed farm in -puts in the rural areas. Inevitably, some community
members did not benefit from the program, hence the controversy and attendant negative impact on
community participation it generated. or food for work, affected implementation of some projects
especially under the CSP, which thrives on the self-help spirit of communities. Community members
who did not benefit from the programs demanded that those who received the starter pack for
example, should do the work. Misunderstandings were also prominent in areas where some donors
had a different approach to project financing and implementation. This was slowly sorted out with
more vigoTous IEC on MASAF activities.
8.00ther experiences:
8.1 FINANClL> MANA GEMEWNT ISSUES
MASAF I was funded to the tune of USS 56 rnillion. The IDA contributed US$ 51.4 million and the
Malawi government contributed US$8.3 million through community contribution and US$2.9 million
in cash. Disbursement from IDA was done to MASAF in tranches into the special account. As at
June 2001, a cumulative total of USD34.2 million was disbursed out of the total allocation of
USD34.1 million on the CSP, representing 98.5%.. A total of USD13.3 million had been disbursed
under PWP representing 96 % of the total component allocation of UDS 12.8 million.
The initial float from the IDA into the MASAF Special account was US$1.5 million. However, due
to the high rates of disbursement to the to sub-projects, this amount had to be adjusted to USD3.0
million in order to meet the demonstrated disbursement capacity of the Project.
Disbursement of project funds to community sub-projects and PWP projects was done in tranches
with the subsequent tranche coming after funds in the previous tranches have satisfactorily been
accounted for. Funds for PWP were disbursed to assemblies while under the CSP, funds were
channelled directly to the benefiting communities through elected PMCs. Initially, the tranches were
- 52 -



done as follows: 25 percent first tranche, 40 percent second tranche, 25 percent third and 10 percent
fourth tranche with a possibility of a supplementary tranche where necessary. At the MU, financial
management was done using a computerized system. A Justification Unit, supported by an Internal
Audit system worked to   ensure that accountability requirements were met. Due to delays
experienced as a result of the justification process, the number of tranhes was reduced to three, and
their volumes changed to 30, 40, and 20 percent as first, second and third tranches respectively.
In general, the system has operated well and successfully. Accountability levels have been very high,
especially on community sub-projects. However, some aspects that affected the arrangement which
needed improvement. Firstly, the volumes of tranches, especially the first tranche was so small that it
could only achieve a small proportion of the works. This was compounded by the fact that the time
between submission of reports by PMCs and receipt of next tranche took on average, a period of two
to three months during which projects would be at a standstill. In order to ensure sustained flow of
incomes to projects with a view to speeding up implementation pace, the tranching arrangement was
changed to be as follows: 30, 40 and 30 percent representing first, second and third tranches.
Secondly, changes in the macro-economic environment such as the fluctuation of the Malawi
Kwacha against the US dollar and high inflation rates, brought about considerable pressure on the
sub-project budgets which were denominated in Kwacha. This led to some of the sub-projects'
targets being reduced in order avoid incurring overruns on the sub-project budgets. To resolve this,
the budget at approval was denominated in dollar terms so that they could be cushioned from the
deleterious effects of these changes.
Thirdly, the counterpart contribution from Government was coming in drips and would not match the
speed of funding requirements in MASAF. Although the Government fully met its obligations in the
end, there were occasions when the Project could not receive the full funding requirement from the
World Bank due to inadequate matching funds from government. This affected implementation of the
Project.
Fourthly, PMC s took a long time to account for the funds once disbursed. This posed serious
problems when the accounts for sub-projects that were completed needed to be closed.
Determination of completion of sub-projects was therefore problematic and IEC through messages
to PMC s, District Teams and communities on the need to promptly account for funds was deployed
as a strategy to resolve this.
Fifthly, although the level of community contribution was captured during sub-project appraisal, it
was not reflected in the Project accounts during implementation. The actual contribution was only
captured at the end of each sub- project.
Total funding under the PMSF was US$lmillion. These resources were to be used for supporting
capacity building in small policy studies, training and procurement of equipment and vehicless.
However, disbursement was dome through MASAF and Treasury.Due to late start of the project, the
project was extended for another year in order to finalise outstanding activities.
- 53 -



8.2      PROCUREMENT
Procurement under MASAF I was done using various methods and in conformity with the World
Bank guidelines for procurement of goods, works and selection of consultants. Project Equipment
such as computers and vehicles was done centrally at MU using international competitive bidding. In
regard to sub-projects, procurement was done using a method called community participation.
Procurement under PMSF was also done using MASAF procedures..
In general, procurement at both the MU and community level was satisfactory done. Procurement
under community participation, despite some operational challenges such as PMCs being cheated by
unscrupulous traders, the judgement by PMC s on what to buy and when, was highly satisfactory
However, there was inadequate capacity at MU level to handle procurement issues. There was only
one procurement officer who was also responsible for other technical functions in his office and this
usually delayed submission of requests for the processing of procurement related documents such
as requests for proposals and contracts. The result was delays in carrying out critical steps that were
a requirement of procurement.
8.3      SUSTAINABILITY
MASAF I facilities are likely to be sustained. Communities under the CSP are aware of their
operation and maintenance (O&M) responsibilities as revealed by the second BA. Increased
ownership created by the project processes and the substantial contributions to the projects by
communities will guarantee sustainability of the assets created. In addition, sustained service delivery
from the assets created will be assured by the participation of sector ministries who endorse the
creation of the facilities at sub-project appraisal.
The existence of committees such as the parents and teachers associations (PTAs) and water point
committees (WPCs) responsible for O&M at the community level in the education and water sectors
is also mechanism that will assure sustainability of the facilities created. Experience with such
committees in the past has indicated that they are able to operate and maintain community level
facilities such as school blocks staff houses, boreholes and wells. In addition, MASAF provides
community based management training (CBM) of water facilities as part of the sub-project package.
This is done in order to increase the capacity for long term O&M of water facilities. Under PWP,
natural resources management committees (NRMC) exist at community level and are responsible for
the O&M of assets such as community woodlots and dams.
In regard to roads bridges under PWP, district assemblies have the responsibility for O& M, but only
for those roads that are gazetted. In view of this the PWP component stopped the funding of projects
that are not gazetted and fall within the purview of the district assemblies. This means that the
sustainability of road and bridge projects that have been funded outside the responsibility of the
communities is suspect. However,  some chiefs such as Group Village Headperson (GVH)
- 54 -



Mang'omba on the Chigumula - Mang'omba Road project are able to mobilise communities to
maintain roads. In this connection, more targeted IEC on sustainability issues would help re-enforce
this spirit in communities.
PMSF played a very important role of analysing the poverty situation in the country. However, the
PMSF could have been sustained if there was a sense of ownership and full participation by all the
TWC members.
9.OBANK AND BORROWER COUNTRY PERFORMANCE
9lRBank Performance
The Bank's performance can be rated satisfactory. It has responded to specific issues at a fairly good
pace. The Bank moved quickly to appraise the proposed MASAF Project in December 1995, and
again in 1998 to appraise a second phase of the MASAF Project. following a request by the
Government of Malawi.
During implementation, Bank staff have been instrumental in providing technical advice in regard to
project management and procurement issues through their supervisory visits. The Bank staff
accorded MASAF a conducive environment that allowed management to apply Project procedures
flexibly, in line with a process oriented project. Response to procurement related issues such as
review of procurement activities and responding to requests for "No Objections" has also been quick,
and facilitated speedy procurement of goods and services for the Project. The Bank's support to the
Project has, therefore, contributed to the success that the MASAF Project has achieved.
9.2Borrower performance
The Government of Malawi's performance in the implementation of the MASAF Project is rated as
satisfactory, as evidenced by its full commitment to the Project. During Project preparation in 1995,
it prepared the Project Concept Document (PCD) which was the basis for the World Bank's
appraisal of the Project. It also participated in the subsequent appraisal process with the World Bank
officials. In 1998, the Government again prepared a PCD for the second phase of the Project.
In addition, the Government was able to provide counterpart contribution to the Project and allowed
the MASAF MU operate without improper influence from those in power. The high profile that the
MASAF Project assumed is also attributable to His Excellency, the State President Dr. Bakili
Muluzi's support.
The capacity and commitment of the district assemblies has facilitated smooth implementation of the
projects at district level. However, in some district there were experiences of low commitment by
Government staff which undernined the implementation speed of projects and accountability of
Project funds.
- 55 -



The MU staff demonstrated throughout MASAF I their ability to work towards the achievement of
set targets. In fact, the set targets were overachieved, which was indicative of the level of
commitment of the MASAF staff. The performance based job evaluation system that was introduced
in MASAF contributed to the high level of staff delivery of intended accountabilities, and in turn the
Project Goal.
10.0     MAJOR LESSONS LEARNT
The key lesson that was learnt throughout the implementation of the MASAF I Project was the need
for flexibility in the application of procedures, and the adoption of continuous learning as an integral
strategy of project management. In a heavily process and people oriented project, the rigid
application of procedures would have certainly derailed the successful implementation of the Project.
In this connection, challenges provided the learning points in the course of project implementation.
The following is a summary of the main lessons learned from implementing the MASAF I Project:
Need for supporting mechanisms for community-led development: in order to assist
communities realise their development needs, efforts such as training and technical supervision are
vital. Not only did they contribute to the successful sub-projects, but also contributed to quickening
the project implementation pace of sub-projects.
Need to balance the demand-driven principle with poverty reduction goal: the implementation
experience of MASAF I demonstrated that communities that are less endowed in terms of natural
resources and leadership skills could be left out of the benefits from the project if the demand driven
principle is strictly applied. There is need to deliberately target areas that do not take up projects in
order to achieve national equity in the distribution of Project benefits.
Need to strike a balance between accountability requirements and realizing speed in the
implementation pace: the justification process proved to be a potent mechanism for ensuring that
Project funds were used for their intended purpose. However, it was also the cause of considerable
delays in project implementation. The changes that were instituted to reduce the number of tranches
and to increase volume of each tranche represented a mechanism that recognized the need for
maintaining the high level of accountability, while at the same time allowing for quick implementation
as a result of increased flow of funds to sub-projects.
Need to match government's capacity to service project outputs. The experience with the health
units that took time to be staffed brought to the fore the need to match Government's capacity to
service project outputs. This is recognising that the construction of new facilities necessarily
represent an additional demand on its recurrent budget.
Need for robust procedures to ensure financial accountability: In a project where a bulk of
funds is channelled directly to communities where there were no formal mechanisms for financial
accountability required a robust system that would ensure that funds were satisfactorily accounted
for. The justification system, along with other sub-project processes such as the launch and the
internal and external audits have ensured that lapses are detected in time and resolved. A
computerised financial tracking system has also been key in ensuring that sub-project specific
- 56 -



financial issues are resolved in time.
Role of an effective IEC in supporting a demand driven approach: the IEC under the Project
played a critical role in ensuring that communities countrywide knew of the funding opportunities in
MASAF. It played a catalytic role in mobilising communities and other stakeholders for community
development with MASAF assistance. It also assisted in clarifying project processes and procedures
that contributed to the smooth implementation of the Project.
Need for effective quality assurance mechanisms: where quality assurance mechanisms are
inadequate as was the case in the early stages of the Project, facilities tend to be of sub-standard
quality. Under the CSP, supervision capacity was assumed to exist in the communities and in sector
ministries at design. Implementation experience revealed that that capacity was lacking or severely
limited. The recruitment of 27 Technical Supervisors and deployment of consultants to supervise
borehole drilling assisted in removing these gaps and led to significant improvements in the quality of
the facilities constructed..
The need for an expanded menu of projects to be funded under safety net: Projects under the
PWP consisted only of roads. Occasions when roads could not be done such as during the rainy
season or when in the targeted area there are no roads to be done, implementation of the safety net
operation could not be done. The PWP menu had to be diversified in order to overcome this
challenge.
Need to take into account other household or individual productive activities when designing a
safety net operation: In the initial stages of the Project, it was found that beneficiaries were
spending most of their time working on PWP projects and this meant a reduction in the amount of
time they spent in their own fields. This led to low yields and a perpetuation of the beneficiaries'
vulnerability. Norms and amount of time spent on PWP by beneficiaries was reduced in order to
afford them time to work in their gardens.
Application of national level data for Targeting purposes: while the vulnerability assessment
mapping (VAM) methodology was a good guide for geographical targeting under PWP, the
implementation experience revealed the need to support such data with district level knowledge of
vulnerability to increase the effectiveness of targeting.
Need for a special focus on peri-urban and urban areas: the low uptake of projects in the urban
areas point to the need for a special focus on these areas. This especially considering that there are
unique problems in those areas that render them unable to access MASAF assistance, although the
level of services such as water are low.
11.0     FUTURE OPERATIONS
There is need for improved communication and management between World Bank and NEC. Need
for more TA on policy analysis. This is important in the sense that the data generated under PMSF
need to feed into policy formulation. The overlap between MASAF I and MASAF II operations has
meant that lessons learnt would not be separated by period of implementation. However, most of the
- 57 -



lessons that have arisen from implementing the MASAF I Project have been actively included in the
Project processes under MASAF 1. Suggestions for the future operations have also inlcuded
experience from PMSF activities. The suggestions for future operations are summarised below.
13.1 Future operations should focus on actively integrating environmental issues. The environmental
impact assessment procedures that were introduced after the mid-term review were not fully utilised
partly due to lack of capacity both in MASAF and district levels.
Secondly, other vulnerable groups require programs that specifically target them. In this regard,
under MASAF II, a sponsored sub-project (SSP) component that would target the vulnerable
groups such as orphans and people with disabilities was introduced. It targets marginalized and
vulnerable groups who were not adequately addressed by MASAF 1.
13.2 The issues of sustainability should be adequately addressed for some types of projects such as
roads whose benefits are not localised. The experience under MASAF I showed that such projects
became "no body's" baby after completion if mechanisms are not worked out before hand about how
they will be operated and maintained. In addition, there should be support to a process of instituting
local level O&M of facilities through capacity building efforts such as training. The IEC campaign
should vigorously project community level O&M as a key issue in project implementation.
13.3 Monitoring and evaluation mechanisms should be enhanced. Under MASAF I this aspect, has
been found to be weak. The computerized project tracking system should represent a major aspect
of developing a comprehensive monitoring and evaluation system. Such a monitoring system should
be able to aggregate project related data that shows the impacts of the Project activities.
13.4 Adequate capacity for the Project Procurement function should be put in place. This would
ensure that delays arising from inadequate staffing and job overloading of staff responsible for
procurement are minimised, and speed in procurement of goods and services achieved.
13.5 TWC composition and objectives (PMSF) need to be reviewed in order to reflect interests of all
the members.
13.6 Finally, community contribution levels need to captured and reflected in project accounts during
project implementation. A mechanism that captures community contribution either on a monthly or
quarterly basis should be developed.
- 58 -



MAP SECTION






32'            t             34'                          36-
To D., Es a~7.7N.,
K            ToDar  E   s    CX                      9zuzu  ZONE OFFICES (9)
-tPa -i o sekenge        -  ZONE BOUNDARIES
K-NGA R              PRINCIPAL ROADS
MALAWI                          Nkhow 5             RIVERS
SOCIAL ACTION                           Thilum            TOWNS
(D  DISTRICT CAPITALS
FUND (MASAF)                           Livingstonia   *  NATIONAL CAP TAL
COMMUNITY SUBPROJECTS:                                   --K--o- DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
ZONES, DISTRICTS AND                                -   - INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
PLACEMENT OF ZONE OFFICES
V                E sofio'M,b  i Lake  TANZANIA
,,~~~~~~E         MZUf oL Ag. e_       /)              g
~~ 2       .~~~~Bay - 
MZIMB, NsKHATA / J_
- 12                                     6  '   Chizum/10                            12'
~~~~~~~1 ~ ~ ~  ~     w
AX   X    'M   w,w: \M twi 
   J MOXalwi   o20 40 60 80 100
V   5 (  Chuluo  0-tf W  q  i  2   KILOMETERS
Nkhotokoto
ZAMBIA                                  c ,J,S I 3- (    MOZAMBIQUE
X              ~~~ ~ ~   ~   ~    ~~To Losolsol     L Mcini
-1                         ,    2   '   1        >   {  XY  k  \s     v          14'U-1k
_  - -         I I    _              X          /  \ S   9   X c a h k e  t1
DEM0OCRATIC  B WAKNDj-~  XOLIA                                   6OAB5tE~
FIEPUBEIC OF  /  N,~~~~~~~~~~~LIONWE5                       . -
CON GO    TANZANA   INDIAN                              20  A
r S k  ,  i,   2, OCrN        t toTee _ / ^      BE            'n ?'  PHAOMB
ANGOLA >'  MX\s><X1 w  ;>(|   ;   X  - ;   jJ     9  Chikwawac  n ULA NJEA
DEMOCRATIC  ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~Chkosa              C fZO  ILNDE             6
BU ZAMBIA                              QUE? oKone Thypo     BTmss dd
- ,./t_< ! 93 < RE f X \ i4.                                      MaP DesigMUBLIC  of The Wold Bank
'r r  \  21MBAEWE /  g  t  )  P/   eo,      v 3t~~~~~~~~~~~~~'I  this maJp do nOt imply, on the porf of
ffi  I   D   }  l   j   l  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~<   \  Mvm ~~~~~~~The World Bonk Group, any 1odgment 
z  r~ BTWN                  WAA  A                                    on the legol stalus of any territory, or
i              \~                                              * \  sassnfe  any endorsement or acceptance of
< / SOUTH  '7  ,5    i   rJ                      )  (       such boundaries
C G       AFRICAA
JUNE 2002






IBRD 31951
32           ,3                                                   36'
7o Dor Es Solorr
M k                        UU ZONE OFFICES f12)
rlipo) 0etPa,_8 ogelenge        ZONE BOUNDARIES
- i  h RPRINCIPAL ROADS
MALAWI                           NXkhwwo                   RIVERS
SECOND       SOCIAL                           Chilumba           TOWNS
   DISTRICT CAPITALS
ACTION      FUND     (MASAF IIJ)                   vnsoi             @  DSRCC>TL
ACTION   FUND (MASAF 11)         RUMPHI  I vngstontiO         NATIONAL CAPITAL
COMMUNITY SUBPROJECTS:                  KotoH ' Mu              ----- DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
ZONES, DISTRICTS AND                    h                      --- INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
PLACEMENT OF ZONE OFFICES
Eu      E0^sLlmbo /F>E%enile& Lake  TANZANIA
X   zr  ? (\ {H -)-Xt ~~~St. A   fguWneT
12'                               )                                                              12
X        _t~~~~~- ); 7  g~~~  (L?koma
Ma wi          0 20 6o 60 80 100
MCrtINJI '  DO A Dowo  A~~A 
L/LO            M ( Chulunkey Sff,A,  iKILOMETERS
')     \  !  s>42>  /glN khotc X~~~~~~~ khotao 
ZAMBIA                       J)           -         t    .  (
D                8/n Noc MOZAMBIQUE
--~        32'+                                        - >       Malocnbo  Chlulor
RWANDAkS -     KENY  IMI /                             <      |)ACI-INGAj--
DEMOCRATIC  -~~~~~~~~~~~t      MOZ  MBIQL/E~~~~4  le a
REPUELIC OF    z                           MZMIlaE            <_       i     ok
ANZANIA t7   INDIAN                          I
r S t  rg  X   t; OCEAN         0 /       + t { tht? X~~~~~~~~~~ 10  PI-ALOM8E<
1 A?O<' ;--/><                                                      Bay~/                         14 6   / 11' - iE,   ('
g  ZAMBIA  to;, $3>MOZAMDIQUE       </            ? Macko2dLeake I     \' r
t. S   '~~~C\ (CSJ  / r,K, ,~~~~  \     \~~' 12 (t4(       This mop wosn produced by the
--_-32- _- 0   \ ~t,\/  Aot  d   <        iNIga6u4>,,     T Mc ouna reC, ,olors, denominations
a  r   \   ~~~~ZIMBABWE  r,{                                    ,i   Chr7 X ramoa d oronyather informao;;on shossnonl
zNr- goTswANA  z<   \  MADAG CAR                                  on the        terrtry, or
ZI' ROTTH WAN    _~~'(                                                * s> <<Ns  n endorsement or acceptance of
R    O      AFRICA f_                        _     _    _      __          ___                _
JUNE 2002






IMAGING
Report No.:         24017
Type:     ICR



