Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15345-MAI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MALAWI
SOCIAL ACTION FUND PROJECT
APRIL 12, 1996
Human Resources Division
Southern Africa Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(as of December 31, 1995)
Currency Unit = Malawi Kwacha (MK)
U.S.$1.00= MK15.4
FISCAL YEAR (FY)
April I to March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I meter (m)  = 3.281 feet (ft)
I kilometer (km) = 0.621 miles (mi)
I square kilometer (sq km) = 0.386 square miles (sq mi)
I cubic meter (m3) = 264.2 U.S. gallons
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
DDC           =      District Development Committee
CAS           =      Country Assistance Strategy
CDA           =      Community Development Assistant
CONGOMA   =          Council for Non-Governmental Organisations in Malawi
CSP           =      Community Subprojects
DDF           =      District Development Fund
DDO           =      District Development Officer
DEC           =      District Executive Committee
DHS           =      Demographic and Health Survey
DMO           =      District Medical Officer
DRIMP         =      District Roads Improvement Program
EPA           =      Extension Planning Area
FHH-=                Female Headed Households
GDP           =      Gross Domestic Product
GNP           =      Gross National Product
GOM           =      Government of Malawi
ICB           =      Intemational Competitive Bidding
IDA           =      International Development Association
IEC           =      Information, Education and Communication
IHSP          =      Integrated Household Survey on Poverty
MASAF         =      Malawi Social Action Fund
MEPD          =      Ministry of Economic Planning and Development
MOHP          =      Ministry of Health and Population
MOW           =      Ministry of Works
MU            =      Management Unit of MASAF
NCB           =      National Competitive Bidding
NGO           =      Non-Governmental Organization
NSO           =      National Statistical Organization



NSSA         =     National Sample Survey of Agriculture
ODA         =      Overseas Development Agency
PAF         =      Poverty Analysis Fund
PAP         =      Poverty Alleviation Program
PC          =      Project Coordinator
PCD         =      Project Concept Document
PHN         =      Population, Health and Nutrition
PIM         =      Project Implementation Manual
PMSF        =      Poverty Monitoring Support Facility
PSC          =     Project Steering Committee
PSIP        =      Public Sector Investment Programme
PWD         =      Public Works Division
PWP         =      Public Works Program
SCC         =      Systematic Client Consultation
SOE         =      Statement of Expenditure
TA          =      Traditional Authority
TWC         =      Technical Working Committee
VAM         =      Vulnerability Assessment Monitoring System
WFP         =      World Food Program
UNDP         =     United Nations Development Programme
UNICEF       =     United Nations Children's Fund
USAID       =      United States Agency for International Development






REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
SOCIAL ACTION FUND PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ............................i
1. BACKGROUND .
A. Macroeconomic Setting .
B. Poverty in Malawi                                        .2
C. Sectoral Issues                                        .4
D. Project Rationale                                       .8
2. THE PROPOSED PROJECT.1  
A. Objectives and Summary .1
B. Detailed Description and Processes .12
C. Lessons Learned .27
D. Special Project Issues .31
3. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .34
A. Systematic Client Consultation .34
B. Institutional Setup .34
C. Project Costs and Financing Plan .39
D. Procurement .40
E. Disbursement .44
F. Accounts and Audits .47
G. Monitorable Indicators .47
4. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS .49
A. Project Benefits .49
B. Project Risks .50
C. Project Viability .53
5. CONDITIONS, AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS .55
This report is based on the findings of a Bank appraisal mission which visited Malawi in November/December 1995,
comprising Messrs./Mmes. Norbert Mugwagwa (Senior Population Specialist and Mission Leader), Jay Chaubey
(Consultant), Hope Phillips (Operations Analyst), Ghazali Raheem (Information Technology Specialist), P.C. Mohan
(Information Education & Communications Specialist), Ingeborg Kleppe (Consultant-Social Survey Specialist), Solomon
Ayalew (Consultant-Public Health Advisor), Noel Kulemeka (Economist), Jim Smith (Deputy Resident Representative),
John Kandulu (Infrastructure/Procurement Program Officer), John Quinley (Consultant), Rob Kafundu (UNICEF),
Clare Barkworth (Consultant), and Elliot Kazembe (Consultant). In addition, input to the report was given by
Messrs./Mmes. Helena Ribe (Principal Poverty/HR Operations Officer), Mulugeta Wodajo (Senior Education
Specialist), Marguerite Salah (Operations Officer), Ricardo Silveira (Senior Economist), Trina Haque (Economist), Dan
Fullerton (Agriculture Economist), Michael Macklin (Senior Agriculturalist), Paul Siegel (Consultant, Econ-Rural
Poverty Specialist), Ebenezer Aikins-Afful (Senior Sanitary Engineer), Naa Dei Nikoi (Operations Officer), John
Shepherd (Water Resource Management Specialist), Ahmad Ahsan (Economist), Hartwig Schafer (Economist), Jaime
Roman (Procurement Adviser), Arthur Fields (Procurement Specialist), Arif Zulfiqar (Resident Representative), Dan
Owen (Social Anthropologist), Hilary Cottam (Consultant) and Audrey Cox (Staff Assistant). Mmes. A. Patricia
Samuel, Rhodora Mendoza Paynor, and Vinnette Gordon provided administrative support. Mr. Steen Jorgensen was the
Lead Advisor and Ms. Julia Van Domelen and Mr. Alexandre Marc were the peer reviewers. Mr. Roger Grawe and
Ms. Katherine Marshall are the managing Division Chief and Department Director, respectively.



List of tables
1.1  Distribution of Households by Poverty .........................................................3
1.2  Poverty Prevalence Among Male- and Female-headed Households .....................................3
1.3  Cross-country Comparisons of Education Financing per Student .........................................5
1.4  Indicators for 1992 ........................................................6
3.1  Summary of Project Costs .......................................................                                                              39
3.2  Project Financing Plan ........................................................                                                               40
3.3  Procurement Table ........................................................                                                                    43
3.4   Allocation  and Disbursement of IDA   Credit .......................................................                                         45
3.5  Disbursement Profile .......................................................                                                                  46
List of boxes
1    Field  Observations during  Pre-appraisal Mission .........................................................5
2  Defining the Community ......................................................... 14
3   Criteria for Community Facilitation ........................................................                                                    15
4   Zones and Placement of Zone Offices .......................................................                                                     36
5   Sample of Indicators to be Monitored .......................................................                                                   48
List of annexes
1  Inter-Country Socioeconomic, Health, Nutrition, and Population Indicators ....................... 57
2   Status of MASAF Pilot Projects ........................................................                                                         59
3    Project Implementation  Manual Table of Contents ........................................................                                       60
4  MASAF - Project Cycle .......................................................                                                                    62
5  Malawi Social Action Fund - Community Project Application Form ................................... 63
6  MASAF Requirements ........................................................                                                                     65
7    Selection  Criteria for Community  Subprojects ........................................................                                       66
8  Desk Appraisal Form .......................................................                                                                     67
9  Field Appraisal Form .......................................................                                                                    69
10 Public Works Program Selection Criteria and Principles of Implementation ....................... 71
11 Schedule of MASAF Project Indicators ........................................................                                                   73
12  PMSF: Institutional Arrangements and  Study  Cycle .......................................................                                      76
13 Work Plans for CSP and PWP .......................................................                                                              79
14 Organizational Structure of MASAF .......................................................                                                       89
15 Public Works Program  Institutional Roles ........................................................                                              90
16 MASAF Project IDA Estimated Disbursement Schedule ..................................................... 94
17 MASAF Annual Report Format .......................................................                                                               95
18 MASAF and IDA Supervision and TA and Training Services Plans .................................... 97



i
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
SOCIAL ACTION FUND PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                    Government of Malawi
Implementing Agency:         (i) Malawi Social Action Fund -Management Unit,
and (ii) participating Ministries, namely Ministries
of Economic Planning and Development,
Education, Health, Water and Works
Beneficiaries:               Rural and urban communities, economic and social
sector agencies
Poverty Category:            Program of Targeted Interventions
Amount:                      SDR 38 million (US$56 million equivalent)
Terms:                       Standard IDA terms with a maturity of 40 years
including a 1 0-year grace period
Commitment Fee:              0.50% on undisbursed credit balances, beginning 60
days after signing, less any waiver
Onlending Terms:            Not applicable
Financing Plan:              See para. 3.19
Net Present Value:           Although MASAF is a demand driven fund, an
economic rate of return (ERR) was calculated at
about 22% based on the expected distribution of
funds by sector and sector-specific ERRs.
Map:                         IBRD 27747
Project Identification No:   1668






1. BACKGROUND
MACROECONOMIC SETTING
1.1   Ranked on the basis of Gross National Product (GNP) per capita, Malawi
(US$140 in 1994) is the ninth poorest country in the world. Ninety percent of its
population lives in rural areas and depends mainly on subsistence agriculture for
livelihood. Of total arable land, 40 percent is held in the estate sector which mostly
produces export crops, mainly tobacco, sugar, tea and coffee. The remaining area is
shared by 1.8 million smallholder households. More than 40 percent of these cultivate
less than 0.5 hectares. Land constraint in the smallholder sector is daunting and is a
major factor in rural poverty. In addition to having a poor resource base, with agriculture
being the mainstay, Malawi's average population density of 106 persons per km is one of
the highest in Africa.
1.2   Since it attained independence in 1964, Malawi emphasized maintaining
macroeconomic stability and growth of infrastructure and estate agriculture as the main
elements of its development strategy. Poverty was to be dealt with by "trickle-down
effects". This strategy proved effective initially in promoting growth and macroeconomic
stability, but did very little to reduce poverty. During the 1960s and 1970s, the real Gross
Domestic Product (GDP) more than doubled and per capita income increased by 3
percent a year. However, since structural weaknesses persisted and the economic base
remained narrow--tobacco continued to be the dominating produce, accounting for 70
percent of foreign exchange earnings--the economy remained highly vulnerable to
external and internal shocks. Much of the growth momentum was lost in the mid-1980s
when a series of destabilizing factors came into play. The problem began with declining
tobacco prices in the international market, and civil strife in Mozambique, which
increased international transport costs and brought large refugee and security-related
expenditures. The drought of 1992 caused the economy to contract by 8 percent,
reducing the smallholder output by 37.4 percent. This was followed by another drought
in 1994 when the economy contracted by 12 percent and the production of maize, the
main staple, fell by about 50 percent. Government expenditures continued to rise, adding
to the instability. These factors created serious macroeconomic instability and brought to
the fore inherent structural weaknesses of the economy, shown by the sharp depreciation
of the exchange rate, high inflation (35 percent in 1994), widespread poverty and food
insecurity.
1.3   Against this background, stabilization and poverty reduction have emerged as
central objectives of economic management. These are also the objectives of the Country



2
Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Malawi. Strengthening the nexus between growth and
poverty reduction is the main emphasis of the strategy. Poverty-targeted investment and
development of human resources, together with programs of macroeconomic
stabilization, fiscal restructuring and deregulation, private sector-led growth, particularly
in agriculture, and capacity building and decentralization, are important elements of the
strategy. The new Government (GOM) has shown strong commitment towards these
objectives. It has adopted firm remedial measures and the macroeconomic situation,
though still fragile, has improved. The introduction of cash budgeting and measures to
track public expenditure, such as the Medium Term Expenditure Framework as
instruments to improve expenditure control, have contributed to lowering public
expenditures significantly. New revenue measures and improved monetary management
have further contributed towards fiscal balance. While fiscal and monetary restraints
have succeeded in reducing the rate of inflation and stabilizing the exchange rate, the
sustainability of the adjustment process and economic growth will depend on continued
efforts toward restructuring incentives to: spur growth in output and export, limit
vulnerability to external shocks, increase private sector investment, control runaway
population growth, develop human resources, and adopt effective strategies to translate
economic growth into poverty reduction. Establishment of the Malawi Social Action
Fund (MASAF), under the oversight of the Ministry of Economic Planning and
Development (MEPD), is an important step towards achieving these objectives.
POVERTY IN MALAWI
1.4   Poverty in Malawi is pervasive and has several aspects. The country has low
average incomes which are distributed highly unequally; the poorest of society face acute
deprivation. A Poverty Profile' completed as part of MASAF preparation established that
the Gini coefficient for Malawi is 0.62, the highest for any African country with available
data. For the poorest 20 percent of households even the most basic food needs are not
fully met and are generally so pressing that families are at an irreducible minimum of
non-food consumption. The indicators of social sector development (Annex 1) are
similarly unfavorable for the nation as a whole and worse for the poor. Infant mortality
rate (134 per 1,000 live births), child malnutrition, stunting and wasting (48.7% and
5.4%), maternal mortality (620 per 100,000 births) and prevalence of disease including
the spread of Human Immuno-Deficiency Virus and Acquired Immune Deficiency
Syndrome are very high compared even to other Sub- Saharan countries.
1.5   There is a significant rural-urban, geographical, and gender bias in the incidence
of poverty in the country; Table 1.1 shows the rural-urban distribution. Ninety-five per
cent of the total Malawian poverty gap is found in rural areas. Most of the poor, and
nearly all the core poor are among the smallholder households. Even among the poor
"Malawi: Human Resources and Poverty: Profile and Priorities for Action", World Bank, November
1995.



3
households, inequality is significant. The bottom half of the smallholder households
receive only 15 percent of the income, while the top 10 percent receive 35 percent.
Table 1.1: Distribution of Households by Poverty
Percentage of all    Percentage of all     Percentage of all
households       households below the  households below the
20th percentile      40th percentile
Rural                 90                    95                   94
Urban                  8                     4                    4
*BOMAs                  2                     2                    2
Total                 100                  100                   100
Note: Expenditures are all adjusted for differences in costs of living between urban and rural areas.
Source: HESSEA 1990/91
* Towns where district headquarters are located.
1.6    Regional variation of poverty is equally significant. The Southern Region which
is most populous and accounts for 51 percent of total households in the country, has a
higher share of poor households (66 percent). Some of the pockets of most severe
poverty and highest densities of the poor are found along the Mozambique border.
Poverty differential by gender is similarly significant. Female-headed households
(FHHs) have generally less income and a higher dependency ratio. Male-headed
households constitute 75 percent of all households in the country. Yet the chance of a
male-headed household being among the poorest 40 percent is only one in three while
that of a FHH being in this group is one in two. As can be seen from Table 1.2, rural
female-headed households also account for a much larger share in the national poverty
gap than their representation in the total population.
Table 1.2: Poverty Prevalence Among Male- and Female-Headed Households
Location/source         Male-headed households   Female-headed households
Percentage of households below
tile 40th percentile
- national (HESSEA)                     37                        50
-rural households (NSSA)                35                        50
Percentage of the poverty gap:
within smallholders (NSSA)               58                        42
Sources: HESSEA 1990/91, NSSA 1992/93
1.7   Household Food Insecurity. Looking at the sectoral dimensions of poverty, one
finds that food insecurity is a pressing problem for the poor. Most smallholder
households run out of food nearly four months before the next harvest. Labor demand in
rural areas is minimal, and farm income is the mainstay of the poor. Yet constraints to



4
smallholder productivity continue, perpetuating poverty and hunger. The small size of
holdings and restrictive land laws which prevent pooling, poor quality of land
exacerbated by continued soil erosion, a conspicuous lack of irrigation making agriculture
vulnerable to the low and unreliable rainfall in the country, lack of agricultural equipment
and limited credit availability that prevents adoption of improved seeds and fertilizers--all
these have kept yields very low and farm outputs insufficient for basic food needs of the
poor. For many people in rural areas, coping mechanisms include partial hunger.
1.8   The level of off-farm rural incomes has been falling due to declining real wages
and slow growth in labor demand. The minimum wage, a good proxy for market wage in
rural areas, has declined consistently in real terms. The demand for ganyu (casual labor)
is growing much slower than the rate of population growth. A long run food security
strategy for Malawi would require improving both smallholder productivity and labor
demand in rural areas. In the short- and medium-terms, this would call for an effective
and well targeted safety net to mitigate seasonal and chronic poverty, while at the same
time contributing to long-term development goals.
SECTORAL ISSUES
1.9   Education. Malawi's education system is hampered by poor access, poor
infrastructure, high repetition and drop-out rates, and inequality. Approximately thirty
percent of boys and 47.9 percent of girls of school-going age do not enroll. In 1994 the
Government eliminated school fees for primary education to improve access. Malawian
households responded overwhelmingly with an increase in enrollment by 62 percent,
taking primary school rolls from 1.8 million to nearly 3 million. While this reflects
communities' priority for education, and GOM's commitment, it has overcrowded
classrooms. The Government has recruited an additional 22,980 teachers, but the school
system still has an enormous teachers' training need and an acute shortage of classrooms,
water and sanitation facilities, and teachers' houses. This increase in enrollment came
when the primary school infrastructure had become over-stretched. In 1992/93, for
instance, there were 103 students on average per classroom; this obviously obscured a
considerable regional variation, with some schools operating under acute constraints.
The latest shortage of classrooms is estimated at 38,000 units. A snapshot of the problem
is presented in Box 1.



5
Box 1: FIeld observations during the Pre-appraisal Mbslon
The mission visited two primary schools. One of them is a two-grade community school with a roll of
2,612 pupils. Only one of its 42 teachers isfully qualified There are only 6 roofed sheds with mud
floors, each accommodating at most 25 pupils. Practically all classes are held in the open and when it
rains the children are crammed into the sheds and those not accommodated seek shelter in the nearby
villages. Three standard I pupils were sharing a textbook. there were no booksfor standard 2 pupils.
The other is afiul primary school built to accommodate two streams in each of its 8 grades. This year
it has 6,042 pupils and a staff complement of 105 teachers, only 43 of whom are fully qualified The
headmaster, who appeared to be a first rate professional and manager, said that it was impossible to
educate pupils under these conditions. He said that the pupils should be divided into at least four
schools and that the three additional schools have to be carefully sited after a sound school mapping
analysis. On average 5 pupils were sharing a textbook Standards 3 and 4 had no textbooks. All the
school's pit latrines were flil and the headmaster was very concerned about the danger of an outbreak
of disease.
1.10   In recent years, serious efforts have been made to improve the share of education
in government expenditures. A greater emphasis has been placed on primary education.
The share of education improved from 11.1 percent in 1990/91 to 17.5 percent in
1993/94. Because of the policy shift in 1994/95, public recurrent spending on education
more than doubled in real terms between 1990/91 and 1994/95. In spite of these efforts,
enormous gaps still exist in quality and infriastructure at the primary level. As can be
seen from Table 1.3, primary education has long suffered from a skewed distribution of
sector resources which favor university, tertiary and secondary education. Even before
enrollment jumped in 1994, historical under-funding of infrastructure and supplies had
placed Malawi's primary public schools among the most poorly equipped in Africa.
Table 1.3: Cross-country Comparisons of Education Financing per Student*
Primary Student Equivalent Subsidy
Country       GNP/capita                                            Education
(USS)    Primary   Secondary  Tertary Univensity (%GDP)
Malawi 1992            220***       1           4         71       103       7.5
Madagascar (1993/4)      230        1           4         22       22        2.6
Lao P.D.R. (1992/3)      230        1           4         24        -        3.6
Kenya (1992/3)           310        1           3         41       41        9.2
Guinea (1994/5)          510        1           2         35       58        2.0
South Africa (1993/4)    2,670      1           2         5         5        7.3
Mexico (1992/3)        2,976      1             2         5         5        4.5
* Human Resources and Poverty in Malawi, a Profil and Priorities for Action, AFIHR, 1995
* The prnimary student equivalent subsidy expresses te number of primwy school sudent that coud be finuiced per
each student in higher levels.
**This petains to 1992. The per capita GNP for 1994 is substantially lower at USS 140 due to deavaluaion of the
domestic currency.



6
1.11  To meet the extraordinary challenge of increased enrollments, GOM has
committed an additional MK73 million to the primary sector in the fiscal year 1995/96,
but this amount will mostly finance new teachers' salaries' The Government depends
largely on external funding for infrastructure improvement. The International
Development Association (IDA)-assisted Primary Education Project, to be approved in
1996, will build 2,000 classrooms as an urgent initiative. Building contractors have been
identified and the design selected. This will assist in alleviating the most pressing needs.
However, for an adequate and enduring solution, further investment in quality and in
building new classrooms, with greater community participation, is essential to improving
primary education.
1.12 Population and Health. In general, the health status of most Malawians is poor
and is worsening. Social and health indicators for Malawi (see Annex 1 for inter-country
comparison) continue to be low: life expectancy is 44/45 years; 50 percent of children are
about two standard deviations below expected height for age; the leading diseases;
malaria, respiratory infections, and abdominal and gastrointestinal tract disorders, have
not been contained. Acute infections (pneumonia and measles), cholera, diarrhea, and
chronic infections (especially tuberculosis) continue to be serious problems, while
sexually-transmitted diseases and Acquired Immune-Deficiency Syndrome are spreading
rapidly; Table 1.4 gives some indicators for 1992.
Table 1.4: Indicators for 1992
INDICATOR                                  1992
Infant Mortality Rate (per 1000)                         134
Maternal Mortality Rate (per 100000)                     620
Total Fertility Rate                                     6.7
Contraceptive Prevalence Rate (per 1000)                  7
Crude Birth Rate (per 1000)                              47
Human Immuno-Deficiency Virus + Cases            approximately 12.1%
Source: Demographic and Health Survey (DHS) 1992.
1.13 High levels of morbidity and mortality (see Annex 1) among infants, children and
mothers are the result of poor nutritional status, food insecurity, high prevalence of
preventable diseases, poor hygiene and sanitation, low access to health and social
services, and high illiteracy and fertility rates. These are manifestations of the poverty
condition of Malawi--more widespread and deeper in rural areas than in peri- and urban
areas. The mismatch, in the past, between the emphasis on curative, high technology
urban-based service provision and the predominant disease pattern characterized by
preventable (low cost), infectious, communicable and nutrition-related diseases
exacerbated the situation. Ongoing efforts under the IDA-assisted Population, Health and
Nutrition (PHN) Sector Credit have focused health policy and resource allocation in favor
of low cost, effective, preventive-promotive health measures targeted at the rural and
urban poor. The Ministry of Health and Population's (MOHP) Health Policy Framework



7
advocates, among other things, targeting resources to priorities identified by the
communities.
1.14 Constraints faced by Malawi with respect to PHN continue to be related to
physical infrastructure, goods and services and human resources. The poor distribution
and location and lack of health centers, inadequate staff housing, scarcity of potable
water, and unavailability of drugs and other support goods and services are constraints
that deter health staff from the periphery. Since the communities endure the burdens of
these inadequacies, the communities can well identify them--waiting mothers' shelters,
health centers, clinic dispensaries/maternity, staff housing, boreholes--as priorities for
funding from MASAF. Some activities which lend themselves to immediate funding
include: pit latrines, refuse disposal pits, clean water supply or drug revolving funds.
MOHP policy on facilities, staff deployment, drug supplies and commodities, and
standard designs will need to be sufficiently flexible to allow facilities to be constructed2
and drugs to be procured and sold by communities.
1.15 Water. The water resources in Malawi are abundant, yet the access to safe water
is as low as 53 percent (1991) of the population. Aside from the lakes and Shire River,
availability depends largely on the seasonal rainfall. Groundwater potential is currently
exploited for drinking purposes by 9,700 boreholes and 5,600 shallow wells. While the
present coverage is clearly low, an additional problem is inadequate maintenance and
repair. Recognizing these issues, GOM in May 1994 adopted a comprehensive Water
Resources Management Policy and Strategy which comprises policy reform and
institutional restructuring, and recommends transforming the organization and processes
for rural water supply to a more community-driven approach. The ongoing IDA-assisted
Water Project addresses the sector as a whole, with major emphasis on restructuring and
financing of urban water systems. Its coverage of rural water supply is limited.
Additional investment in rural water supply, promoted through community co-financing
and participation, is essential for the better health of the rural population.
1.16 Agriculture and Environment. Rural Malawi has limited scope for
smallholders to increase their incomes substantially through agriculture alone, given their
limited physical, human, and financial asset base. Smallholders are constrained by the
size of their land holdings, limited tools and equipment, and poor assets (such as
livestock) available for exchange to meet urgent food or investment needs. Since most
smallholders do not produce enough food or cash crops to achieve basic household food
requirements, it is critical to adopt policies, programs, and projects that improve and
enhance their endowments over time, while generating increased income and exchange
opportunities in the shorter term. The project could increase incomes in both the short-
and long-term and improve exchange opportunities by lowering transaction costs for poor
smallholders.
2  A simplified design for construction of health facilities under the Project has been agreed to.



8
1.17 Infrastructure. Communication facilities in rural Malawi are minimal. Rural
transport is largely under-developed for lack of rural roads. Villagers have to walk long
distances to attend markets and health clinics. Women are known to carry headloads as
far as 30 kilometers in a day, and twice a week, for milling maize. Lack of transport
infrastructure places greater burdens on poor and remote communities. Public works
projects, targeting infrastructure improvements (roads, irrigation), would have the dual
benefit of increasing incomes in the short-term and helping increase the potential
agricultural production in the long-term by lowering production and marketing costs and
improving access to new technologies and services. These could also increase the overall
level of agricultural and non-agricultural activity in rural areas.
1 .18 Safety Nets: Drought and Public Works Program (PWP). Incomes in rural
Malawi are so low that most households are very vulnerable to shocks, in the economy
and in the weather. This is illustrated by the sharp devaluation and fiscal restraint
undertaken during 1994 which brought about two kinds of difficulties for the poor. High
inflation together with demand contraction, led to a decline of real wages for unskilled
workers--and for other salaried income groups--and loss of employment. It also increased
agricultural input costs for most smallholders who are net buyers of food grains. Drought
compounded the problem. This situation calls for an effective safety net for the poor;
existing poverty-oriented programs which are mostly credit-based, have only limited
coverage. Their impact is marginal because of low coverage, high administrative costs,
marketing constraints and poor targeting. Labor-intensive public works, which would
normally be appropriate, are all but non-existent. A well-targeted public works program
could be an important option for a safety net operation, mitigating temporary hardships
and contributing to long-term development. For example, improved natural resource
management achieved through planting vegetative cover (trees and grasses), terracing,
and water harvesting, all highly labor-intensive activities, can have significant public and
private benefits.
1.19  To enable the rural poor to fully participate and share in the potential benefits
from market liberalization, the pump of the rural economy needs to be primed. Some of
this will come from the liberalization of agricultural product and factor markets.
However, because of their low asset base, the rural poor would be worse off if paying
higher prices for food and basic necessities, and lacking new employment and income-
generating opportunities. Public Works Program would provide supplemental income
with which poor households can choose to buy food, or inputs to produce more food or
cash crops, or to finance cash outlays for non-food basic needs (such as health and
education costs).
PROJECT RATIONALE
1.20 Poverty is clearly widespread and severe in Malawi and the condition of human
resources is dismal. The incomes of most rural Malawians are not sufficient to meet their
minimal needs, and health and education indicators are among the worst in the world.



9
Past reliance on a growth strategy that did not lay sufficient stress on strengthening the
human resource base, and the over-centralized development administration that failed to
elicit wider non-governmental participation, have contributed most to the present
situation. Recognizing the situation and the constraints, the Government has made
sustainable poverty reduction its central objective. This project constitutes an important
step towards ameliorating the current poverty in the country. The project is a vital
component of the CAS, and complements other IDA-supported investment projects and
long-term growth objectives while creating additional productive employment in rural
areas. The Project addresses three most critical poverty concerns.
1.21  First, it allocates resources for programs targeted at the poor. Investment in
education, health and nutrition for the poor is essential for sustainable poverty reduction.
We have seen that the quality of primary education, which was already poor, has declined
critically. The gap in the provision of classrooms is so huge that the construction of
2,000 classrooms will meet only a part of the most pressing needs. Further construction
of classrooms and teachers' houses, taking people's priorities and participation into
account, will be necessary for attaining a reasonable quality standard. Similarly,
investment in health and water infrastructure is critical for reasonable access to these
facilities by the poor. An even more urgent need is to create an effective safety net for
the poor. Hunger and deprivation of the kind prevalent in Malawi impair the ability to
take advantage of available opportunities. Short-term income transfer schemes, such as
public works, can provide off-farm employment and increase incomes. These schemes
can also be consistent with long-run growth objectives such as improving rural
communication, irrigation, water supply, afforestation and rural markets.
1.22  Second, the project seeks to promote a new approach to development by involving
communities in project selection, preparation and implementation, while encouraging
non-governmental organizations (NGOs), private institutions and government agencies to
provide facilitation where needed. GOM's "top-down" style of management and over-
centralized administration created significant hurdles to managing development
programs, and these institutional constraints are exacerbated by severe capacity
limitations within Government. Even where communities were able to mobilize their
own contribution and seek Government support and partnership, timely response with the
necessary financial and technical assistance has been lacking. Increasing participation of
communities and the civil society in the planning and management of community level
projects and adopting "bottom-up" processes are now recognized as essential elements of
the new development campaign. Acknowledging that all community needs, even the
most urgent ones, cannot be met all at once, priorities will have to be chosen and this can
be most credibly done by communities themselves. Community participation in
identification, preparation and financing will improve prioritization and efficiency in the
use of resources. As systematic client consultation undertaken during project preparation
has shown, communities are capable of and willing to co-finance activities and
implement them. In cases where facilitation is needed, the project allows communities to
decide whether and when they need a facilitator, and who they wish to work with. The
project itself works largely as a funding mechanism.



10
1.23  Third, the project allocates resources to strengthen monitoring and assessment of
poverty in the country. It builds on the process started at MEPD to coordinate efforts to
monitor poverty and to improve data collection and analysis. It will continue efforts to
analyze household data to inform policy priorities initiated by the recently completed
Profile of Human Resources and Poverty. By bridging the poverty data gap and
developing analytical skills in Government and private institutions, the project would
help inform policy makers and other stakeholders about emerging poverty problems and
the strategies required to deal with them.



I1
2. THE PROPOSED PROJECT
OBJECTIVES AND SUMMARY
2.1   Objectives. Malawi Social Action Fund (MASAF) will contribute towards
poverty reduction in four fundamental ways. Eirq, it will provide additional resources for
programs targeted at the poor, that is, fund the creation of village level assets which will
be directly beneficial to the poor through investments in primary education, peripheral
health services, and safe water. Second, it will promote a new approach to rural
development by involving communities in project preparation and implementation, while
encouraging government agencies, NGOs and private institutions to assist communities
when needed. The Project processes will empower communities by creating opportunities
for commriunities to revive the spirit of self help, enabling them to take control ever, and be
accountable for, their own development. Third, it will support a district level program of
labor-intensive construction to be targeted at the poorest districts as a safety net
operation. To these ends, the project will support the operation of a small autonomous
MASAF Management Unit (MU) that will appraise, finance and monitor implementation
of the project. Fourth. it will strengthen the poverty monitoring and assessment system
through financing a Poverty Monitoring Support Facility (PMSF). The PMSF
component will support poverty reduction policies and programs by bridging poverty-
related data gaps and developing analytical skills in government and private institutions.
2.2   Summary Description. The project has the following three components:
(a)   Community Subprojects - CSPs (71 percent) will finance activities
identified, prepared and implemented by the communities with or without
assistance from facilitators who may be government officials, NGOs,
private organizations or individuals; this includes an institutional
support sub-component (3 percent) that will ensure appraisal and
supervisory support by financing the MU staff, field offices,
transportation, equipment and operational costs. The component will
finance an information, education and communication (IEC) campaign to
inform communities and other participants about the demand-driven
processes of the project.
(b)   Public Works Program - PWP (27 percent) will finance a safety net
operation in poor and food-deficient areas through labor-intensive public
works constructing, rehabilitating and maintaining economic infrastructure.
These works will generate significant employment at the rural minimum



12
wage so as to operate as a safety net for those who have no alternative
income-earning opportunity. The wages will be paid in cash or a
combination of cash and food coupons.
(c)   Poverty Monitoring Support Facility - PMSF (2 percent) will finance
capacity building in institutions to coordinate, collect, analyze,
disseminate and use data relevant for poverty reduction policies and
programs.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION AND PROCESSES
2.3   The project consists of three components: Community Subprojects, Pubiic Works
Program, and a Poverty Monitoring Support Facility, whose descriptions and processes
are detailed below.
Community Subprojects (Total US$50.34 million, IDA US$38.20 million)
2.4   The underlying principles and processes of this component are intended to ensure
that activities funded reflect the communities identified priority needs, and that the
communities lead in preparing and implementing these activities. Among the factors that
should contribute to the success of this component are: management autonomy of the
funding unit, flexibility of the rules governing the fund, speed of response to community
requests, community participation, and accountability for the funds. The MASAF
management structure, the line ministries and private organizations such as NGOs, will
facilitate the communities throughout the process. MASAF would ensure that the
proposals are appraised using pre-determined poverty-targeting criteria and national
sectoral norms (see paras 2.15 and 2.17), and that funding and supervision are adequately
arranged. Line ministries would ensure that activities chosen meet national priorities and
quality standards. Private and public field agencies would extend assistance to
communities on demand at various stages of the project. Community co-financing
through contribution is a prerequisite for funding to ensure community ownership and
true reflection of demand.
2.5   The MASAF structure operates under simple but accountable rules, autonomous
from regular Government procedures. Consistent with the multi-sectoral activities that
MASAF will promote, the apex of the MASAF structure is the Project Steering
Committee (PSC) comprising Principal Secretaries of relevant ministries and chaired by
Principal Secretary, MEPD. PSC approves all funding and functions as a 'Board' of the
MASAF; day-to-day management is carried out by the MASAF Manager (see paras 3.4-
3.16). Given the new institutions, roles and procedures involved, this component has
been piloted in 19 communities and lessons (see Annex 2 for summary of status) have
been incorporated into the project design.



13
2.6   Activities to be funded under this component will include:
*  upgrading and construction of community infrastructure in education, health,
water, and transport sectors, as well as building rural/urban markets,
community water points and granaries;
*  improving delivery of and access to social and economic services (that is, drug
supplies, desks, technical assistance, employment);
*  training to enhance grassroots technical and managerial capabilities and
attitudes towards self-managed development; and
*  initiatives to reorient and build capacities of the community development
facilitators (individual community members, extension officers, NGOs,
private sector and religious groups), to equip them with skills in participatory
planning and implementation in poverty alleviation.
2.7   The demand-driven nature of the component requires that the communities and all
other agents are well informed about the MASAF objectives, scope and processes. An
IEC campaign has been prepared and implemented at the piloting phase, and has been
designed as part of the mainstreamed project. The campaign will further focus on
sensitizing and training communities and support institutions (District Executive
Committees (DECs) and other community-based workers)). Using print and electronic
media such as booklets, logos, pamphlets, radio messages, the IEC campaign reaches
potential audiences including beneficiaries, politicians, policy makers, government field
staff, NGOs and private institutions. It provides information on key issues such as
selection criteria for activities, co-financing requirements and MASAF processes. During
the initial phase of piloting, it was learnt that there was insufficient and inaccurate
information about MASAF among the public at large. This led to incorrectly formulated
project applications which were subsequently rejected. It was therefore an important
lesson that an accurately targeted communication campaign is essential for: (a) assisting
district level sector officials and facilitators to understand their tasks and responsibilities,
and (b) informing communities about how MASAF can assist them. It became apparent
during the pilot phase that the electronic (radio) and print media would have limited
coverage in rural areas, and that emphasis on announcements at public gatherings would
be the most efficient mode of communication.
2.8   For the purposes of this Project, a community is a self-defining entity. It means a
group of households able to identify a demand that meets the selection criteria of this
Project. The size of a community that proposes a viable activity under the Project may
vary between and within urban and rural locations (see Box 2, and A Report on the
Research Findings of the SCC, located in the Project file).



14
Box 2: Defining the Communiy
The operational unit of both MASAF and the SCC was the "community". During the field work it became
evident that definitions vawy between urban and rural areas. More importantly, within these geographic areas
the definition varies according to the subject of discussion.
In rural areas three different boundaries were defined in terms of legal/administrative, social and resource
characteristics. Legal/administrative boundaries are defined universally by the jurisdiction of the group
village headman who has responsibilityfor between 5 and 30 villages. In PRA mapping however the
"community" was defined by participants as a smaller unit; the village in the case of social maps and a
number of villages in terms of resources. The latter depends on geographic features such as catchment areas.
In urban areas, the picture is equally complex. The community is spatially defined in terms of the named
urban area. Urban communities used this spatial definition, but were conscious of theflux within communities
and, in particular socio-economic groups which at times form more cohesive groupings than the "community",
per se.
Implications for MASAF. It is clear that communities will be differently defined according to the projects
demanded. School projects for example might be expected to be submittedfrom a community as traditionally
defined within the chieftainship structure, while projects concerned with natural resource management would
logically use the resource-based definition of community. Given the demand-based nature of MSAF
projects, the community's own definition must be used.
2.9    With or without the assistance of facilitators (see Annex 6), the communities go
through the following steps in a typical project cycle, described in detail in the Project
Implementation Manual (PIM) (see para 5.1 (a) and Annex 3): (a) identification, (b)
preparation, (c) appraisal, (d) approval, (e) implementation: procurement, disbursement,
and technical support/supervision, (f) monitoring, and evaluation, and (g) completion.
2.10   Identification. To ensure that activities selected (a) target poor communities, (b)
reflect sectoral priorities, (c) meet sectoral normns and standards, and (d) are sustainable,
selection criteria (see Annex 7) have been developed through community consultation.
The communities are informed about these criteria through the MASAF Orientation
Manual (document available in Project file.) and various IEC materials. The process of
identification and subsequent project activities are participatory to (a) ensure that weaker
groups in the community, such as women and youth, have adequate voice in project
decisions and activities, (b) promote transparency in project processes, and (c) guarantee
wider accountability and ownership for the project, promoted through community
contribution and commitment for maintenance.
2.11   The first step in the identification process is the convening of open meetings at the
community level, with balanced representation by gender, age and other categories, to
discuss their priority needs and problems. This meeting is convened by the traditional
authority (TA) who would have learned about the MASAF through the IEC campaign, or
is called by other community leaders, the MASAF Zone Office, Government field staff,
or private facilitators. In these meetings, the community decides whether to hire a
facilitator, and elects a Community Project Committee (CPC) (see para 3.9). The pilot



15
has shown that the communities with better communication and higher literacy levels and
with a history of self-help tend to be quick in identifying and prioritizing their needs.
This underscores the need for facilitation for weaker communities. MASAF will provide
funding to NGOs, and suitable assistance such as fuel and maintenance to public agencies
(Community Development Assistants ) to arrange facilitation in areas where the demand
for community projects has lagged significantly. The pilot has shown that communities
give priority for social infrastructure such as schools, clinics and boreholes, and that on
average it took up to 12 weeks for communities to identify and agree on their priority
need3.
Box 3: Criteriafor Comnunuty Facilitation
Systematic client consultation findings show that more intensivefacilitation seems required in communities
where:
*  there is no extensive experience of indigenous organization or of working in partnership with an
NGO
*  there is no experience ofprevious, completedprojects
*  there is greater stratification and more extensive socio-economic variation
*  considerable power is wielded by dominant and influentialpersonalities
* authority and representation of views of women carries little weight.
SCCr  A Report on the Research Findings, May 1995
2.12   Preparation. Preparation of the community project is the responsibility of the
elected CPC. It involves providing simple information in a community application form
(see Annex 5), developed for the purpose, to allow verification during appraisal of
whether selection criteria are met, and that the process of identification followed is
consistent with participatory norms. The community application form filled in triplicate is
sent to the Zone Office and DEC. Information in the form provides the basis for
establishing the viability of the project, such as population size, income levels, distance
from a similar facility, other projects being implemented in the community and
community contribution. MASAF contribution to the individual project cost is not to
exceed US$100,000, unless approved by PSC and IDA. Information sought on the form
also relates to the project preparation process, such as the form of community
contribution, membership of the CPC, number of meetings held, representation of various
In Kazyozyo, Mchinji District, the community had indicated a dispensary unit as the agreed priority
until the day of the launch when it was evident from the women that a maternity unit was the priority.
In Chichewa, the local language, the word "Chipatala" could be construed to mean either facility.



16
community segments at meetings and the CPC. Communities are required to contribute
approximately 20 percent of the total project cost. Since the community may not be able
to evaluate their contribution precisely, valuation of their proposed contribution, typically
bricks, labor and local materials is made by the MU using market prices.
2.13 Technical specifications and the design options from which communities can
choose while preparing their own projects, are provided in the MASAF Orientation
Manual. Developing various options and allowing flexibility in the community choosing
a design is to maximize the use of local material and expertise while ensuring that the
quality standards are not compromised.
2.14 While preparation requirements are simple and can be met by the communities
without any external help, the communities are free to propose. The Systematic Client
Consultation showed that the communities would not want a facilitator imposed on them.
They would like the freedom to choose whether, when and who they wish to assist them
from among the public extension staff, private agencies and NGOs. De-monopolizing
extension in the context of MASAF activities and creating equal opportunity for public
and private facilitation are important elements of the MASAF design, intended to
promote community empowerment. Where necessary, assistance for preparation will be
provided by the MASAF Zone Office and the line ministry staff. Fees within limits
specified by MASAF will be paid for private facilitation in respect of approved projects.
2.15  Appraisal. This ensures that economic viability and sustainability of the
proposed project (and its consistency with the overall sectoral priorities) are thoroughly
looked into. Broad principles against which a project proposal is appraised relate to:
poverty targeting; sectoral norms for technical design and geographical distribution of the
infrastructure to serve the population efficiently; sustainability in provision for recurrent
financing as needed; and maintenance, community cofinancing and participation. The
appraisal is carried out by the multi-sectoral DEC. An important element of targeting is
establishing the maximum number of projects that can be under implementation at any
time in a zone. The ceiling prevents the better-off zones from getting unlimited projects
prepared, approved and funded, and limiting project resources for the relatively poor
zones. It provides information about the lagging zones where the ceiling is not reached,
so that a targeted IEC and active facilitation can be arranged. Within a zone, targeting is
promoted by the DEC members examining the proposal with reference to sectoral
distribution norms and identifying how best the proposed location would serve the
disadvantaged areas.
2.16 By far the most important task of the sectoral member of the DEC during
appraisal is to assess the technical feasibility of proposals with reference to sector norms
and to ensure that the recurrent expenditure provisions are available where needed. The
District Education Officer would ensure, for instance, that teachers are already hired
where classrooms are proposed; the District Health Officer will support a proposal only
after being satisfied that provision has been made in the annual budget for health for staff



17
and supplies to run the proposed facility.4 In instances where the DEC officer strongly
favors a proposal on its economic merit but there is no provision in the sectoral plan to
finance the induced recurrent expenditure, the proposal and DEC's recommendation are
forwarded to the PSC for consideration. The concerned Principal Secretary can consider
the proposal with a view to finding the needed resource from the ministry's existing plan.
MASAF will not fund recurrent expenditures nor proposals for which recurrent funding
will not be available.
2.17   The appraisal is carried out in two steps. First, by a desk appraisal in which the
Zone Officer, in consultation with the DEC, verifies the proposal to see vihether: it is
consistent with sectoral objectives, norms and standards; it is targeted on poor
communities; the community is willing to make the required contributions; the project is
technologically simple and do-able by the community; and recurrent expenditure induced,
if any, will be provided for in the sectoral budget (Annex 6). Where two equally
meritorious proposals compete for a single slot, additional criteria for selection will be
used which include: the current availability of services in each locality, and location
advantage for reaching poor and backward communities. In short, the desk appraisal
examines whether the proposal is consistent with the selection criteria (Annex 7).
2.18   The desk appraisal is followed by a field appraisal during which the information
contained in the community proposal is verified on the ground to see whether the
proposal meets MASAF requirements (see Annex 9 for field appraisal form). Of
paramount importance is verification of the community's participation and
implementation capacity--their commitment to the project, fair representation,
contribution, and ability to manage funds and operations.5 Initiated and coordinated by the
Zone Officer, the field appraisal involves the DEC member of the relevant ministry, the
CPC and the entire community.
2.19   Transparency of processes at the community level is critical for success.
Emphasis is placed on informing members of the community about details of the proposal
including its technical aspects, funds required, and the processes involved in executing
the work. Confirmation of the self-help contributions promised by the community must
be made at the time of field appraisal. The capacity of the community to contribute is
appraised with reference to: (a) assessment of other ongoing projects to which the
community is contributing, (b) experience in collecting, saving and accounting for funds,
(c) assessment of the banking facility available to the community, and (d) experience in
procuring materials, tools and equipment needed for implementation. Once field
4   For example, the distribution norm for a health clinic is that no health facility exists within 8
kilometers of the community, the population proposed to be covered is between 8,000 and 10,000
people, and recurrent budget allocation exists to provide a nurse and drugs by the time the unit is
complete.
5   Although the SCC findings and pilot experience show that communities in general can manage funds
and operations, albeit with training in some cases for book keeping, these abilities would have to be
validated during appraisal of individual cases.



18
appraisal confirms the viability of the subproject, the appraisal team including the CPC
and the Zone Officer will sign the community application form as having passed desk
and field appraisal. Where a project does not meet appraisal criteria, the community will
be informed on the spot and, if need be, assisted to revise the proposal for re-submission.
The chairperson of the DEC will keep the DDC informed of projects passing appraisal,
while the Zone Officer will forward the proposal to the MU.
2.20 Approval. The appraisal process involves examining project feasibility based on
the appraisal report and determining whether recurrent financing provisions required are
available. As members of the PSC, representatives of line ministries participate in
approval decisions to ensure that geographical distribution of MASAF projects is fair and
that no facility built under the project remains unproductive for lack of provision for
recurrent costs. Approval functions are located at the national level, at least initially, to
ensure that MASAF resources are used efficiently and equitably and that corrective steps
are taken quickly. The approval of the project is conveyed by the MUto the CPC, ZO
and DEC through a Project Approval Letter. The CPC is then required to open a bank
account and prepare for the launch.
2.21  Implementation, Procurement, Disbursement and Technical
Support/Supervision. Implementation begins with a launch ceremony at which: (a) the
community is briefed on the implementation processes, funding and banking procedures,
(b) the amount laid out for community contribution is stated, (c) arrangements for labor
contracts and technical supervision are explained, (d) the Community Project Agreement
(see PIM in the Project file) is signed by the chairperson of the CPC, the Zone Officer
and the representative of the relevant ministry, (e) relevant contract documents are signed
and the check for the first tranche of the MASAF assistance is handed to the community,
and (f) the next steps for communities are stated. The CPC will ensure that there is clear
division of responsibilities among its members. MASAF releases the second and further
tranches to the subproject account against certified completed works. For the sake of
accountability, two or more persons should be responsible for procurement, bookkeeping,
supervision and storage. Processes relating to procurement and disbursement are
discussed in Chapter 3, and are laid down in the PIM (see Annex 3 for table of contents).
Technical support and supervision of project activities will be provided routinely by the
relevant ministry extension officers and where this is not feasible, technical supervision
will be contracted out.. Supervision costs will be borne by MASAF. The Zone Officer
and the district head of the line ministry will monitor the project work.
2.22 The requirements that the communities handle funds and implement the projects
are mandated to promote speedy implementation and community empowerment.
However, these requirements raise issues of capacity and accountability at the community
level. As evidenced by the SCC, communities are generally confident of their capacity to
manage the activities that MASAF would fund. This conclusion has been validated by
the pilot experience. As the Project proceeds, some communities may show inability to
manage their projects, a matter which would be dealt with by MASAF arranging
facilitation actively. Accountability is ensured by participation and transparency in



19
decision making at the project level, the requirement of community contribution which
promotes ownership and community's stake in the project funds, and the system of
linking release of tranches to verification of work done and expenditure incurred with the
earlier tranches.
2.23 Monitoring and Evaluation. A system of monitoring and evaluation will be
established by the MU which will involve line ministries, NGOs and beneficiaries in
routine feedback and reporting (See para 3.37). Routine reporting would cover physical
progress on works, adherence to procedures, and financial record keeping. A set of
performance indicators will be used to monitor progress through routine reporting, site
visits, meetings and workshops; specific evaluations will be carried out during the life of
the project including beneficiary assessments. At the end of each project, MASAF will
issue a certificate of completion which shows, among other things, the total expenditure
as well as community concurrence that activities specified were carried out. Although
there are some risks of accountability lapses occurring at the community level, the
process is designed to be transparent enough to motivate communities to demand full
accountability for project funds from those assigned implementation responsibilities and
to insist on restitution if losses occur.
2.24 The credit will finance CSP which will primarily include: costs of materials for
construction of schools, health facilities, boreholes, and economic infrastructure;
technical assistance, training and workshops; office space and equipment; motor vehicles
and other operating costs of the MU. The credit will also finance equipment and
supplies; technical assistance, training and workshops; printing and dissemination costs
for an IEC carnpaign in support of the project.
Public Works Program (Total US$19.47 million, IDA US$16.80 million)
2.25  The PWP component will finance safety net operations in poor and food-deficient
areas through labor-intensive public works involving construction, rehabilitation and
maintenance of rural infrastructure. These works will generate significant employment at
the rural minimum wage to provide a safety net for those who have currently no off-farm
income earning opportunities. The wages will be paid in cash or a combination of cash
and food coupons. The principles underlying the PWP emphasize: (a) targeting poor
areas, (b) high labor intensity, (c) economically productive assets such as rural roads,
minor irrigation, land development works, community forests, (d) accountability and
transparency in wage recording and payments, and procurement of materials, (e) a joint
management structure at the district level to promote higher transparency and
accountability, as well as pooling of public management resources at the district level to



20
overcome capacity constraints,6 (f) private sector participation in supervision and
execution of works through minor contracting already tried successfully in the country
and (g) gender considerations. The work selection criteria and principles of
implementation are provided in Annex 10; detailed procedures are contained in dhe PIM.
2.26 This component differs from the CSP in objectives, targeting mechanism, and
processes for identification, preparation and implementation. The main objective of the
PWP is to transfer cash resources to the poor by employing them in building productive
common assets. Under the CSP, however, communities identify, manage and cofinance
their projects; income generation is incidental to community empowerment and creation
of community assets. The poor gain from these through access to basic services such as
education and health. The PWP complements the CSP by transferring cash resources to
the poor for meeting their immediate nutritional and development needs. Accordingly,
PWP activities, unlike CSP, are determined to have relatively high labor component
(such as rural road, minor irrigation). To ensure that the PWP benefits reach the areas of
deepest poverty, 'top down' geographical targeting, planning and management is
necessary. In contrast, CSP activities are community demand-driven, community
cofinanced and identified, and are prepared and implemented by communities.
Community consultation is common to both components, but a more active presence of
public agencies is necessary under the PWP to ensure that assistance to mitigate seasonal
hardship is organized on a timely basis.
2.27   The program will be managed by the District Team of Government officials (see
para 2.31 and 3.13) who will have the overall responsibility for identification, preparation
and implementation. MASAF will ensure appraisal, approval and funding of works. The
actual execution will be carried out by the concerned sector ministry at the district (e.g.
the Work Supervisor of the Ministry of Works), who will be hiring labor in conjunction
with the communities. While this will be the dominant mode of execution, some specific
works such as construction of bridges and culverts might be contracted out to private
contractors through the existing minor contract procedures. The use of private
contractors is essential specially to alleviate the capacity constraints of public agencies.
In case where parts of works are executed by private contractors, public agencies would
still manage targeting, identification, preparation of works, tendering and administration
of contracts, and see that equity goals are not compromised. This calls for pooling of
The available capacity at the district level is currently fragmented, so that no single line ministry
seems capable of implementing a safety net program . For this project, the responsibility of
management at the district level rests with the District Team comprising the District Commissioner,
the Council Clerk and the MOW Supervisor. Each person brings his strengths in organizing
communities and coordinating, handling funds and accounts, and taking responsibilities for technical
input. Each of the three has contributed strongly to implementation of the pilots. The district
commissioners have proved very effective in coordination and mobilization. Their liaison with project
committees has helped promote the project and has prevented disputes. The district council staff have
successfully handled procurement and labor payments to allow the district MOW/DRLMP staff to
concentrate on labor management and the technical aspects of the works. All three districts report that
the three entities are able to work smoothly together.



21
sectoral resources at the district level (see para 2.31) and adoption of the District Team
approach. While the pilot experience has demonstrated the feasibility and benefit of this
approach (para 2.51), its validation will have to come from the more widely implemented
program. It remains to be seen whether there are tangible incentives for the departments
to work together and whether this arrangement is stable. It is also essential that the
program not be confined to building rural roads and that other activities such as minor
irrigation, land improvement, and reforestation are promoted over time. While the pilot
design has been based on international and African experiences, and addresses many of
these concerns, more experience is needed to evolve a fully responsive program.
Consequently, the performance of this component will be reviewed annually and lessons
learned will be used to adjust the size of the component and its implementation
mechanism.
2.28   Identification and Preparation. The responsibility for identification will
primarily rest with the District Tearn comprising the District Council Clerk, the District
Commissioner and the Works Supervisor of the Department of Works. A two-step
targeting process has been adopted to identify activities under the program. First,
Extension Planning Areas (EPAs) where household food shortages are most severe are
identified. Out of 180 EPAs in the country, about 45 might benefit from the program
annually, and these EPAs are likely to fall in 15 districts. Because of wide disparities
within each district, targeting by district was considered to be too slack. Selection of
EPAs will be guided by the Vulnerability Assessment Monitoring System (VAM) and
poverty indicators will be developed as part of the GOM's Poverty Monitoring System
(PMS).' MASAF will develop a suitable EPA selection criteria for public works using
VAM data and the key poverty indicators developed as part of the PMS. Targeting criteria
and selection of EPAs will be approved by the PSC. It is expected that 15 EPAs will be
selected during 1996/97 and 45 in each subsequent year during the project. During the
piloting of the program, one EPA each in Mulanje and Machinga Districts, and three
EPAs in Ntcheu District were selected using this approach.
2.29   The second targeting step will involve selecting appropriate works in consultation
with communities of the affected EPA which meet the selection criteria (Annex 10). The
District Team will carry out identification in consultation with people's elected
representatives such as Members of Parliament and Councilors, communities and
community organizations, extension agencies and NGOs. Once a proposal has been
identified, the community will elect a CPC to assist the District Team in preparation and
subsequent implementation. During piloting the District Teams were successful in
The VAM is based on an analysis of crop production data (per capita Kilo Calories) and factors such
as the availability of food, coping mechanisms at the household level, and other important socio-
economic indicators. It is being established in a joint collaboration between the World Food Program
(WFP) and the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) Famine Early Warning
System. A National Technical Steering Committee has been established under the chairmanship of
MEPD. Technical support is being provided by the Famine Early Warning System office in Malawi
and financial support is given by WFP and USAID.



22
identifying work proposals and selecting executing agencies in the five EPAs. Six rural
road proposals were identified and prepared for piloting. Implementing agencies
identified at this stage of the program were Ministry of Works (MOW) for four sites, and
the Christian Service Society, an NGO, for two sites.
2.30 Appraisal and Approval. The proposals prepared by the District Team are
submitted to MASAF for appraisal and approval. Appraisal ensures that selection criteria
are met. The proposals are approved by the PSC. A major concern at this stage is to
verify high labor content in the project. During appraisal of the pilot proposals, MASAF
found that the proportion of wages in the total project cost was too low because of a
higher technical specification. The non-labor component also tended to be high on
account of high material cost and low wages in the country. These proposals were
revised: this increased the labor component from roughly 16 percent to 36 percent of
total cost.
2.31  Joint Management at the District Level. At this level, the project will be
managed jointly by the District Council, the District Commissioner and the Department
of Works (see para 3.13). This approach pools the available managerial resources and
distributes tasks according to institutional strengths. District commissioners coordinate the
program, as they do for DDC activities, and using their links with community
organizations, mobilize the communities. Their liaison with the Community Project
Committees has helped promote the project and prevent disputes during the pilot phase.
Since district councils have the best capacity in keeping accounts at the district level, they
have been given the responsibility of handling funds and accounts. During the pilot phase,
the district council staff have successfully handled procurement and labor payments to
allow the district MOW/DRIMP staff to concentrate on labor management and the technical
aspects of the works. This collegial structure is also meant to ensure transparency.
Procurement and disbursement decisions are required to be approved by all the three
members of the District Team.
2.32 Implementation. While the responsibility of identifying, preparing and overall
management of the program rests with the District Team, execution will be entrusted to a
public agency: the district MOW office for roads and bridges, or to private contractors
and NGOs. While the execution will be the responsibility of the concerned ministry
(Work Supervisor of MOW for a rural road), who will hire labor in conjunction with the
communities, parts of a project, such as culverts and bridges might be contracted out to
private contractors. Private sector participation in the execution of works is meant to
alleviate capacity constraints in public agencies, as well as to promotes private sector
capacity building. The District Team will award minor contracts according to the 'minor
contract' procedures of the MOW's District Roads Improvement Program (DRIMP), and
outlined in the PIM, which is based on competitive selection. The principles governing
implementation include ensuring transparency in hiring and remunerating, strict
accountability for payments, quick response in initiating works, economic value of assets
built, enhancing benefits for women, ensuring safety of tools, and close monitoring and
supervision. While labor and material to be procured are determined by the executing



23
agencies, approval of quantities is the responsibility of the District Team. The receipt of
material, labor attendance and wage disbursements are counter-signed by community
members (see PWP PIM for details - Project File).
2.33 Supervision. Works will be technically supervised by the concerned line
ministry at the district, for example, the MOW district staff for roads. The work of the
district staff will be further supervised by the regional and national offices of the
departments concerned (the practice for normal departmental works). Where the existing
regional and national staff is unable to handle supervision, MASAF will hire private
agencies/consultants. The supervision procedures (the minimum extent of supervision for
each work) are specified in the PIM.
2.34 Links with Technical Ministries. Existing district technical and financial
procedures proved adequate at the pilot stage, but these need to be improved and updated
so that increased work-load during the full-scale implementation can be coped with
efficiently. Active involvement of technical ministries would be essential for tbis and for
providing adequate supervision and quality control. MOW is participating in the
development of the program and the management of the pilot. To this end, MOW has
assigned a desk officer in the ministry for the MASAF program. The Ministry will assist
the MU with:
*  adapting MOW procedures and forms for use under the PWP, reviewing and
updating them on an ongoing basis;
*  supervising the pilots and the mainstreamed program;
*  assisting with the contracting of technical supervision, and
*  developing alternative labor-intensive activities within the program such as
construction of small irrigation systems, road maintenance, land development
and reforestation.
2.35 Monitoring and Evaluation. PWP will be monitored using progress indicators
(Annex 1 1). MASAF will constitute monitoring and evaluation teams from time to time
to check on physical progress and financial reporting. A reporting system being
developed will be linked to the management information system being set up at the MU.
MASAF will undertake evaluation of the program impact through beneficiary assessment
to be organized as part of the PMSF activities. On completion of works, the Team will
prepare a report on activities and their costs for submission to MASAF. At the end of the
MASAF project, Government's domestic resources should phase in for the maintenance of
the assets created.
Poverty Monitoring Support Facility Component (Total US$1.51 million, IDA
US$1.00 million)
2.36 Background. The GOM initiated some major efforts in 1994/95 to improve
coordination of poverty monitoring activities, to promote use of poverty data and to avoid



24
duplication in data collection or analysis. A national Technical Working Committee
(TWC) for poverty monitoring has been established, comprising all relevant Government
institutions and NGOs, Bunda College, Center for Social Research, and various donor
agencies that operate in this field.8 Five TWC meetings and two working sessions have
been held during 1995 and up to February 1996 to discuss establishing an institutional
framework for establishing a Poverty Monitoring System (PMS): identifying priority
indicators for monitoring, stock-taking of existing monitoring activities, identifying gaps,
and developing a plan of action for poverty monitoring. The Poverty Alleviation and Social
Policy Section of the MEP&D convened the TWC meetings9 and prepared a PMS concept
document Nature, Scope and Action Plan for the Poverty Monitoring System (latest edition,
version 3.6, February 1995) stating the priorities for poverty monitoring in the country. The
GOM expects donors to assist in the coordinated monitoring effort by financing elements
of the core program identified by the TWC. In this spirit the MASAF component,
Poverty Monitoring Support Facility (PMSF), will provide financing for elements within
a core poverty monitoring program identified by the TWC.
2.37 Objective. The PMSF component of MASAF will assist GOM to monitor poverty
by financing the essential building blocks for collection and analysis of data relevant to
track progress in poverty reduction and to help guide formulation of poverty alleviation
policies and programs. The Poverty Monitoring Support Facility (PMSF) will provide
financing in the following areas: (i) the strengthening of technical capacity of institutions to
co-ordinate, collect, analyse, disseminate and use data relevant for poverty reduction
policies and programs; (ii) the development and implementation of an Integrated Household
Survey Program at the National Statistical Office; (iii) the provision of funds for poverty
analysis. The particular activities to be financed under the PMSF will be specified in
annual work programs prepared by the TWC and agreed with IDA at the beginning of each
annual period. The MASAF MU will not be responsible for technical appraisal of use of
PMSF funds but will disburse PMSF funds as per the agreed annual work program and the
MASAF Financial and Accounting Manual.
2.38   Strengthening Technical Capacity. In support of the objective of achieving a
streamlined and cost-effective PMS, it will be necessary to consolidate existing data
8   The members of the TWC, as of February 1996, were: MEP&D (chairperson), office of PAP
coordinator, NSO (agriculture and economics section), Ministry of Health and Population (CHSU,
HIS & Planning Section), Ministry of Women and Children Affairs and Community Development
(MSU and Planning), Ministry of Education, Ministry of Agriculture & Livestock, Director Center for
Social Research, Bunda College (Rural Development, Agriculture Policy & Research Unit),
Executive Secretary for CONGOMA, UNICEF (Monitoring Unit), Director for the World Food
Program, Ministry of Research and Environmental Affairs, Ministry of Irrigation and Water
Development, Ministry of Local Government & Rural Development, Chamber of Commerce,
IMPACT (Initiative for the Mobilisation of Private Action). The development and design of the
national Poverty Monitoring System will continue to be guided by the TWC.
9   A permanent Poverty Monitoring Unit within this section at EP&D is proposed to be the secretariat of
the TWC. Although full staffing decisions of the PMU is awaiting GOM approval, the PMU has
recently recruited three economists and has started functioning in a limited way.



25
collection instruments, strengthen selected ones and commission new instruments as
necessary. Moreover, in order to ensure the data is policy relevant and is used by policy
makers, program managers in ministries, NGOs and communities, it is necessary to
maintain constant dialogue between the users and producers of poverty-related data and to
ensure timely analysis and dissemination. It will also be necessary to have a Poverty
Monitoring Unit (PMU) with the personnel, skills mix and infrastructure iequired to
maintain co-ordination of these activities and to achieve the most effective forms of
dissemination and policy impact. In order to assist the GOM in achieving these objectives,
PMSF funds will be available to finance a range of activities which would strengthen the
capacity of institutions to achieve identified PMS goals. These activities can include
financing for technical expertise on aspects of poverty monitoring, training, equipment, data
user-producer workshops, publications. The TWC will identify the specific capacity
development activities which will be financed under the PMSF. Furthermore, it is expected
that funds for strengthening technical capacity will be used to finance preparation and
production of an Annual Report on poverty status and policy implications. The annual
report will draw on the core PMS program to build an analysis of the core poverty
indicators, an evaluation of the impact on poverty of policies and program interventions,
and indicate the specific policy implications for instruments such as the PSIP, PFP, DevPol,
etc. and various targeted programs such as the 5th Country Program, MASAF, etc. The
TWC will decide on priority research areas and focus for the annual report. It is expected
that the draft report will be available for discussion by end of October each year. This will
facilitate the presentation of the annual report on poverty, economic and social policy at the
CG meetings in December.
2.39 Development of an Integrated Household Survey Program at NSO. The second
major stream of financing under the PMSF will be for the development and
implementation of an Integrated Household Survey Program at the NSO. Development
of an IHSP will involve long-term planning of the topics, sample size, frequency, use and
resource needs of household surveys. The NSO will carry out a household survey on a
core set of indicators on a regular basis. Periodically, supplementary modules will be
added depending on demand. The objectives of the IHSP are to:
*  provide rapid reliable information on key indicators of living conditions
regularly;
*  establish a cost-effective data collection system which is comparable and
stardardized;
*  coordinate social statistics within the NSO and relevant Ministries; and
*  provide different users with a system of social indicators to monitor social
development.
2.40 The development of an IHSP at the NSO will be guided by a user-producer sub-
committee of the TWC established in January, 1996. The committee is chaired by the
NSO and has representatives from CSR, Bunda College, and the EP&D (as the
representative of the PMU). The PMSF will finance the development of the IHSP under



26
the guidance of the committee, including improvements in the integration and
collaboration across surveys 1, technical support for the design of the questionnaire and
the technical preparation for data collection, processing, and dissemination. The
emphasis of PMSF financing is intended to be on the planning, design and development
phase, including field-testing. The World Bank will assist the GOM in finding donor
support for the initial implementation of the IHSP . It is expected that over an agreed
period, the financing will be internalized by the GOM through an increase in its share of
financing of the survey program.
2.41   A Program of Poverty Analysis. There is an abundance of poverty relevant data
in Malawi. Data exists in ministries, local government, university and National Statistical
Office, research institutions and donor agencies. Although there is an active and well
organized research community in Malawi, gaps exist in analyzing the data and making
results of the analysis available to the public. PMSF resources will be used to initiate a
program of studies whose main purpose would be analysis of poverty issues and the
effects of economic policies on poor and vulnerable groups. The resources for poverty
analysis will be used to build on and improve linkages between the research community,
policy makers and implementors and assist in dissemination of results. The specific
objectives for the analysis program are to:
* identify the effects of social and economic policies on the poor and vulnerable
with a view to developing programs which would cushion adverse effects;
*  assist in the formulation of policies and implementation of programs so that
effective targeting of social safety net activities can be improved;
*  improve the dialogue between data collectors, researchers, policy makers and
implementors so that relevant data is collected, analyzed and used in a timely
and appropriate manner and presented to policy makers; and
*  encourage the use of poverty-related studies as means to build analytical
capacity at different levels of society (research, students, NGOs, journplists,
communities, etc.).
2.42 Main activities supported in the program of poverty analysis will be:
*  small studies conducting in-depth analysis on specific topics;
*  beneficiary assessments and cost-effectiveness/cost-benefit analyses
evaluating social safety net activities such as MASAF community projects;
*  participatory Poverty Assessments focusing on geographical areas identified
as severely poor; and
10  The committee will explore the ways in which the design of the IHS can be coordinated with the
proposed DHS, the Census and the M4E (Monitoring for Empowerment) data collection program. It
will also integrate the plans for completing processing of the 1992-93 NSSA data.
l  Depending on the availability of such funds, however, the World Bank and the TWC would review
the possibility of using PMSF funds for actual implementation expenditures of the first IHS.



27
* national poverty studies conducted annually on priority indicators of poverty;
these will preferably be done by established research institutions such as the
Center for Social Research, Bunda College, and other sections of the
University of Malawi, and will feed into the production of the annual report
on poverty status and economic and social policy.
2.43  As per its mandate to coordinate poverty monitoring activities, the TWC will set
up a multi-disciplinary sub-committee which will serve as a coordinating technical body
for poverty-related research. The Poverty Analysis (PA) sub-committee will consist of
members of the TWC and include assigned PMU personnel. The terms of reference for
this Poverty Analysis (PA) sub-committee will be defined by the TWC. As a part of its
tasks, the PA sub-committee will appraise studies to be funded from PMSF resources.
The PA sub-committee will assist in appraising study proposals, identifying data sources,
providing guidance on research methodologies relevant to the study proposal. It will
recommend studies to the TWC for approval. The sub-committee is also required to
report back to the full TWC on progress in studies under implementation. The MASAF
Beneficiary Assessments will be managed and coordinated with the MASAF
management unit. The PMU will be responsible for dissemination of research findings.
In order to facilitate the functioning of the program for poverty analysis, the TWAC may,
at a later date, identify the need for technical assistance. The Study Cycle for all studies
financed under the PMSF is described in Annex 12.
2.44  It is expected that as it starts functioning, the PA sub-committee will begin to
coordinate studies to be financed not only through the PMSF, but also by other donors
and GOM. This will avoid duplication and encourage economies of scale in conducting
analysis.
2.45  The credit will finance: technical assistance, training, workshops, equipment,
supplies, and incremental operating costs.
LESSONS LEARNED
2.46 International. The social fund approach has been used successfully in many
developing countries during the past decade, and the World Bank has supported over 30
such funds worldwide. Experience'2 has shown that the most successful funds have
fostered community initiative, enjoyed political support at a high level, involved other
agencies (which coordinates effort and ensures sustainability), employed qualified staff
with autonomy to operate, used simple procurement procedures, practiced frequent
supervision and established learning mechanisms to modify their way of working when
necessary. Their effectiveness depends on having clearly defined objectives and
transparent criteria from the outset. Experience shows that social funds do not reach the
12 "Social Funds: Strengths, Weaknesses, and Conditions for Success" L.S. Khadiagala, January 1995,
ESD Discussion Paper Series, World Bank.



28
poorest groups easily and that to reach the very poor, an active outreach strategy is
required. The funds face tradeoffs between rapid implementation and active community
involvement. Social funds are not a substitute for sectoral reform and capacity building,
and their activities must be geared to complement sectoral priorities.
2.47  Depending on a country's circumstances, social funds have emphasized creating
infrastructure and employment or building capacity at the community level. The two
approaches can reinforce each other, but they can affect communities in different ways
and rely on different implementation procedures. MASAF has adopted a mix of the two
objectives, emphasizing the creation of infrastructure and employment in the near term,
while building the capacity to implement community-based interventions throughout the
country in the longer term.
2.48  In-country. The design of MASAF benefited from review of relevant on-going
in-country activities carried out by other donors; data are available in the Project file. In
one example, while activities strengthened institutions at the district level, the decision-
making structure was still "top down". In another, although there was high community
ownership, the speed of implementation was slow. In yet another instance where
development activities included resource flow to beneficiaries, 40 percent of these funds
were expended on administration, which reduced the amount of funds available for
beneficiaries. While building on the strengths of these projects, MASAF attempts to go
further by making project processes more demand-driven and assigning critical decision
making tasks and responsibilities to communities. MASAF allows a level playing field
for GOM and non-government facilitators, while keeping the choice with the
communities as to when and which facilitator to use. Piloting allowed core decisions
regarding functions, structure and staffing proposed for MASAF to be made and for the
procedures and processes to be used under the project to be formulated and tested.
Nineteen subprojects were approved as of December 8, 1995; work has begun on ten
sites, seven await completion of geophysical surveys and start-up of drilling by
contractors and three are on hold because of problems with community contribution. The
President launched the first subproject in September 1995; 1,100 persons from the
community presented themselves for work at one of the PWP sites. To cope with the fast
pace of expenditure, a supplemental Project Preparation Facility of $1 million was
processed, raising the total to $2 million.
2.49 National Level. Experiences at national level, where decisions on policy,
management structures and approvals are made, differ from those at district and
community levels where processing and implementation occur. Creation of an
autonomous public institution such as MASAF was a new experience for the
Government; autonomy came slowly to MASAF in spite of Government's willingness to
act and communities' expressed demand. Strong political support for the projec. in the
end assured speedy decision making in the project's preparation; particular referenLe
should be made in this context to the frequent meetings held by the PSC to expedite
decisions on project proposals. MASAF faces dilemma. While it has the advantage of a
fast-disbursing facility (speed of response to approved funding requests), its core



29
requirement of letting communities drive the process slows the pace. Much facilitation
will be required initially for the first sub-projects, which will necessitate visiting,
explaining and training "on-the-job" DEC officials, facilitators and communities. IEC is
a crucial activity of the Fund. Initial indications on the speed of implementation of
individual projects (once agreed on and approved) are very positive (eight days to get a
school block to the window level at Kamwala), but the estimated time lag from
conception to launch is 23 weeks and the average project size is US$ 50,000.
2.50 Some pilot experiences noted by the project appraisal team follow:
*  the institutional set-up and current and proposed staffing of MU, including the
linkages with the relevant sectors, are adequate to initiate implementation of
the mainstreamed Project;
*  communities have experience in collecting, saving and accounting for funds,
and they can procure materials, tools and equipment needed to carry out
community projects;
*  the draft PIMs for CSP and PWP are sufficiently advanced and have been
used successfully during piloting;
*  the mechanisms for involving NGOs, private individuals and organizations as
contractors for implementing the CSP and PWP components, have been
suitably defined during the appraisal mission and have been agreed upon;
*  capacity building activities are sufficiently advanced according to the report
on training to date, and work plans drawn for both the CSP and PWP
components are feasible (see Annex 13);
*  the CSP and PWP targeting and implementation plans have potential for
creating community level assets and providing safety nets for the poor;
*  the project activities under both components are potentially sustainable after
project completion since activities funded would then be part of sectoral
priorities and programs;
*  environmental aspects of the project have been given due consideration
through provision for landscaping, and contouring, sanitation, water provision,
and tree planting at each of the physical sites;
*  the participation and empowerment of women has been adequately provided
for in the project design as demonstrated by footnote 3 page 14;
*  the arrangements for assessing project impacts through participatory
beneficiary assessments have been defined and a schedule of indicators is
under preparation;
*  experience from the CSP piloting has shown that communities in the urban
and peri-urban areas have responded slowly (organization), and inadequately
(levels of contributions)'3. This has been attributed to lack of social cohesion,
13 The Mtandire subproject community contribution of 40,000 bricks for 4-8 classroom blocks is
considered far too low and Naotcha community has not been able to specify what they will be able to
contribute. The Mzuzu urban market subproject is faced with the same low to nil contribution from
the community.



30
poverty and weak leadership, all characteristics of transient populations.
While urban subprojects are less suited to the criteria specified for the CSP
(and there is currently no other vehicle to respond to their widespread need),
the vocal nature of the urban population makes it difficult for GOM to exclude
them from this project. Discussions will continue with the PSC and MU to
resolve this dilemma which disadvantages the urban communities as a whole;
and
inadequate capacity in-country to survey and drill boreholes has resulted in
slow implementation of these subprojects. Discussions continue with
UNICEF, the Department of Water, NGOs and private agencies to (a) develop
a workable strategy to define essential phases in the cycle of borehole
provision, (b) identify skills needed to perform at each point in the cycle, (c)
assign responsibilities according to the skills of the main actors, and (d)
mobilize technical expertise to support the requirements. In order to gain
economies of scale, community requests for boreholes have been pooled and
packaged before the issue of invitations for contractors to bid. This practice
has resulted in projects of this type requiring longer to complete.
2.51  The following PWP piloting results are particularly noteworthy:
Targeting. Selection of pilot areas was consistent with the targeting objective. All
four EPAs selected for piloting have visibly high poverty incidence; ir. three, most
families along the road are already reduced to one maize meal per day. There are
very few alternative sources of employment or income. The number of people who
would like to work on the roads projects greatly exceeds the available positions.
Economic Value of the Assets. Communities value the assets being buiit as
contributing to their long-term development as well as providing temporary
employment. Their willingness to sacrifice without compensation trees on private
lands and portions of private fields adjacent to the roads was indicative of the
collective local commitment to the roads.
Institutions. (a) Project level--communities have constituted CPCs at the project
level and have been effective in labor recruitment, daily labor registration,
resolution of right-of-way issues, implementation arrangements and communication
between the project staff and communities. (b) District level--the institutional
arrangement at the district level has worked smoothly; each official of the District
Team - the Distict Commissioner, the Council Clerk and the MOW DRIMP
Supervisor - has been able to bring specific institutional strengths to bear on the
implementation of the pilots; the district commissioners proved effective in
coordination and mobilization; the district council staff have successfully handled
procurement and labor payments to allow the district MOW/DRIMP staff to
concentrate on labor management and the technical aspects of the works. (c)
National level--although recruited principally for work with the CSP component,
the current staff of the MU has successfully carried out project appraisal, funding



31
and supervision. A Public Works Division is now being established within the MU,
comprising a PWP Coordinator and an engineer, to manage the PWP component of
the mainstreamed project.
Procedures. Procurement, accounting, and labor payment have been carried out
according to procedures and standard practices, and with adequate documentation.
This included successful payment in the field of up to 800 workers in a day by
District Council staff. Tools were procured locally by all the three districts. In
addition to the joint management of the project at and below district level, other
measures to promote transparency and accountability, such as separating
procurement and payment requests from actual disbursements, and use of CPCs to
witness labor payments, have all worked smoothly.
Food Distribution. Negotiating the details of food distribution contracts and
helping to ensure that food is actually delivered, is difficult and time-consuming
for the MU. At the field level, logistic difficulties have delayed food distribution.
However, because of food shortages in the project areas, the failure of the
commercial market to bring food close to the people in need, and the lower price
for maize provided by the food coupons, partial payment in the form of food was
appreciated by some laborers where this was implemented.
SPECIAL PROJECT ISSUES
2.52  Gender Considerations. Thirty percent of all rural households are headed by
women, and this ratio increases to 42 percent for the poorest 20 percent smallholder
households. Average food share in the total household expenditure is higher (66 percent)
for FHHs than for the male-headed households, indicating a deeper poverty among the
former.
2.53  The specific problems that women, particularly the FHHs, face are related to their
lower coping abilities. They have lower access to credit and extension, and lower
education and health status. Because of the lack of access to technology, women
perform highly onerous tasks, such as maize grinding, fuel wood gathering and
transportation of water for home use. These constraints notwithstanding, women
participate in the labor force in nearly the sarne proportion as men. They are likely to
share benefits from MASAF in two ways--by access to employment opportunities and
water, health and education facilities which the project will help establish.
2.54  Special care will be taken to ensure that target groups such as poor women, FHHs
and other disadvantaged groups benefit fully from MASAF. The project promotional
activities will focus attention on women's priorities and needs and support women's
involvement in the design, implementation and management of subprojects. The
monitoring and evaluation system will track the participation of women in MASAF
projects and the effects on female beneficiaries, especially in areas and kinds of projects
where opportunities to reach women have previously been missed. Women's



32
representation in CPCs was achieved during piloting and will be emphasized during
implementation. All MASAF staff and facilitators will be trained to maximize benefits to
women's and encourage their participation.
2.55  Environment. The project will have no adverse environmental impact and has
received a rating of C. No environmental assessment is necessary. Environmental
concerns will be built into subproject appraisal and monitoring criteria as in the
Facilitators' Manual in the project file. For the CSP, terracing of the building site,
planting of trees, drainage at the water facility, and provision of latrines with appropriate
vents will be emphasized at the design and appraisal stages. MASAF will ensure that its
staff and DEC members are trained in environmental requirements, which will also be
specific aspects of project monitoring (see Field Activity Monitoring Form, DEC
Manual). Construction using unburned bricks has been piloted successfully and is
expected to be used by communities on a significant scale. For rural roads under the
PWP, care will be taken to provide adequate culverts, bridges and side drainage to ensure
that the natural drainage system is not interfered with. The PWP activities such as land
improvement by terracing and planting of vetiver on field boundaries, reforestation and
minor irrigation, will lead to greater soil-moisture conservation, recharge of underground
water resources, and improve flora within the project areas. Overall, the project is
expected to have a positive environmental impact.
2.56 Poverty Targeting. The CSP component of the project is demand-driven and
self-targeting. The findings of the Poverty Profile demonstrate how pervasive poverty is
in Malawi, especially rural poverty (as a percentage) which makes it highly likely that
rural project requests would be from needy communities. Given this, accurate targeting
at the start of the project may not be imperative or be likely to yield different results.
Subsequent geographical targeting, which would link population density by district with
subproject concentration, could be adopted to ensure that poor and remote areas have
reasonable access to project benefits (see para 2.10). In two years, when more experience
has been gained, greater precision could be built into the targeting, using criteria such as
current access to services and visible measures of wealth such as motor cars, or bicycles
in the community. GOM has constituted an inter-ministerial group of officials to decide
on targeting criteria. One option being examined is to demarcate zones according to
population, with each zone being allowed to handle a given number of projects. Some
zones might be allowed to engage staff and have financial outlays roughly in proportion
to their population. Demand- constrained poverty areas could also be supported by
MASAF devoting greater resources for IEC and facilitation services to these areas. PMSF
funds for poverty analysis can be utilized to develop an appropriate set of indicators for
ex-ante targeting. These can be incorporated in the project at mid-term review..
2.57 The PWP component of the project will adopt a two-step geographical targeting
of poverty--first by selecting EPAs with highest poverty incidence, then by locating a
targeted EPA in those parts worst affected. Further analysis of ways to improve criteria
for targeting will be supported under the program of poverty analysis financed by the
PMSF component. As to targeting individual households, a self-targeting mechanism is



33
promoted by the project through keeping daily wages at the level of the minimum rural
wage which is lower than the market wage (during piloting the daily wage is MK7.50;
MOW pays MK12.00 per day to unskilled labor in their regular programs).



34
3. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
3.1   Project preparation was guided by learning by listening and doing through SCC
and piloting experiences before mainstreaming. The project design further allows
procedures and institutional roles to evolve during the life of MASAF. There is
continuous trial and upgrading of the procedures as the new approach gains root. The
project processes inform the development of MASAF, and act as catalyst within sectoral
ministries. Continuous consultation with the communities with the help of beneficiary
assessment exercises will provide periodic feedback. The project will be managed in
accordance with guidelines and operational procedures set out in a Project
Implementation Manual (PIM) for the operation of the Community Subprojects and the
Public Works Program (see Annex 3 and para: 5.1).
SYSTEMATIC CLIENT CONSULTATION
3.2   The SCC was carried out during the identification stage of the Project to elicit
information on key project design issues relating to community organizations and
institutional network, community experience and attitudes towards community
development and community-level skills, particularly the feasibility of direct community
financing. Nineteen communities were interviewed and their views obtained; these
findings were confirmed by two further SCC actions carried out by the Agriculture and
Environment Division of the Southern Africa Department. To continue the listening and
learning mode, beneficiary assessments will be conducted at regular intervals, first 12
months after project effectiveness, and then annually over the life of the Project (see para.
2.42). These assessments will rely on a mix of qualitative and participatory research
techniques similar to those used during the initial SCC activities and known to elicit a
wide range of voices within communities. The SCC will also feed into the monitoring
exercises (see para. 3.36).
INSTITUTIONAL SETUP
3.3   Both CSP and PWP are community-responsive and will use MASAF mechanisms
to disburse funds rapidly and directly to projects. The identification, implementation and
management of subprojects will be the responsibility of communities. For the PWP, this
function is undertaken by the District Teamn. Selection criteria and processes are
discussed in Chapter 2. An organogram is given in Annex 14, and a chart of the project
cycle for CSP and PWP is given in Annex 4.



35
3.4   Management Structure. MASAF will be managed by an autonomous MU based
in Lilongwe. During negotiations, agreement was reached between the GOM and IDA
that the MU will be responsible for implementing the project (para: 5.2(a). A PSC
chaired by the Principal Secretary for MEPD, with members from key sectors, NGOs and
the National Commission for Women, will oversee the work of the MU. The PSC will
(a) provide overall guidance on management of MASAF; (b) give direction and guidance
in the interpretation of Government and sectoral policies; (c) approve MU's annual work
plans; (d) approve project proposals for MASAF funding; and (e) ensure that secioral
budgets accommodate recurrent expenses required for use of MASAF project outputs.
Details of MASAF's structure at all levels are given in the Financial and Accounting
Manual and Administration Manual available in the Project files. A description of the
activities carried out by various participants follows:
3.5   Management Unit (MU). The MU has five divisions at its central office:
Technical Services, responsible for technical appraisal of project proposals, technical
supervision and procurement; Field Operations, which supervises field operations and
assists zonal staff in appraisal and monitoring of community projects; Finance, which is
responsible for day-to-day financial management of MASAF, preparation of its annual
operations budget, disbursement, accounting and auditing; Administration, which is
responsible for routine office administration, public relations and procurement at the
center and the regions, as well as coordination of contracts; and Public Works Division
comprising a PWP Coordinator and an engineer who, with support from the
Administriaion, Management Information Systems, including Research and Evaluation,
and Finance Divisions, will manage the PWP component. A Manager appointed by
GOM serves as the chief executive of MASAF and Secretary to the PSC. The Manager's
duties are to (a) recruit and administer personnel according to the procedures laid out in
the Finance Manual and Administration Manual; (b) prepare the annual work program
and budget; (c) oversee project implementation; (d) coordinate and supervise field
activities; (e) promote MASAF activities; (f) negotiate and sign all MASAF contracts;
and (g) prepare detailed quarterly reports on the activities and financial status of MASAF.
MU staff will require external technical assistance (TA) in implementing and supervising
some activities. At negotiations a schedule of TA and training plans for the three
components acceptable to IDA were submitted (para: 5.1 (b). To ensure smooth
implementation of the Project, it was agreed during negotiations that the positions of
Manager, and Heads of Operations, Technical Services, Public Works Division, Finance,
Internal Audit and Administration will be filled at all times by staff having qualifications
and experience satisfactory to IDA (para 5.2 (b)). During Negotiations, agreement was
also reached confirming that the unit price data bank (para 3.24), to be maintained by the
Technical Services Unit of MASAF, will be updated every three to six months (para 5.2
(h)).



36
Community Subprojects Structure
3.6   Zone Offices. There are nine Zone Offices, each covering two to three districts
(see Box 4) throughout the country, manned by a Zone Officer and an assistant. The
Offices have the responsibility of preparing the Zone's annual work plan which includes
budgets for operational costs, facilitating communities and other organizations in the
approval and implementation of projects, and fostering efficient and effective working
relationships with key district level institutions. Details of the Zone Offices' activities
are provided in the MASAF Project Concept Document (PCD).
Box 4: Zones and Placement of Zone Offices
Zone  Districts                                    Officer based at
1     Chitipa, Rumphi and Karonga                  Karonga
2     Mzimba North, Mzimba South Nkhata Bay        Mzuzu
3     Nkhotakota, Salima, Dowa                     Salima
4     Kasungu, Mchinji, Ntchisi                    Kasungu
5     Lilongwe, Dedza, Ntcheu                      Lilongwe
6     Machinga, Mangochi, Zomba                    Liwonde
7     Chiradzulu, Blantyre, Mwanza                 Blantyre
8     Mulanje, Thyolo                              Mulanje
9     Nsanje, Chikwawa                             Ngabu
A Zone Officer will be responsible for a maximum of20 projects at any one time.
3.7   DEC. Sector heads and technical representatives at the district level constitute
the members of DEC, which is the main technical advisory body to the DDC. As the
MASAF link at the district level, DEC, through the District Development Officer
(DDO)14, will assist Zone Offices in the desk and field appraisal of subproject proposals.
DEC will be responsible for advising the Zone Officer on sectoral norms and
requirements, as well as confirming commitment to meet necessary recurrent costs, to
ensure that assets created are sustainable.
3.8 Project Facilitators. The principal ownership of the project remains with the
communities, who are free to decide whether and which facilitator they want to work
with. Facilitators could be GOM field staff, NGOs, private organizations, social and
religious groups or individuals and will be primarily accountable to the community.
When an NGO is requested to assist the community in any aspect of the project cycle,
MASAF will have the responsibility to ensure that the NGO (a) is properly registered
In districts without a DDO, assistance will be provided through the Assistant District Commissioner.



37
with GOM and in good standing; (b) has the requisite organizational and technical skills,
and adequate experience in the appropriate field; (c) has credibility with the beneficiary
group it intends to work with; and (d) has a satisfactory accounting and auditing system.
3.9   Community Project Committee (CPC). To manage project activities,
communities will elect a CPC, consisting of a chairperson, secretary, treasurer and deputy
secretary supported by elected committee members; the composition of the latter may
vary by community. The CPC will prepare, manage and supervise the subprojects and
contract-out tasks on behalf of the community.
3.10 Sectoral Line Ministries. The ministries will have the responsibility, through
their desk officers, to ensure that adequate budgetary provisions have been made for
meeting recurrent expenditures arising from projects approved by them for MASAF
funding. Ministry personnel at district and community levels will provide technical
supervision to the sub-projects.
Public Works Program Structure
3.11 National Level. The MASAF PWD will be staffed by a Public Works Co-
ordinator, who will report directly to the MASAF Manager, and by a Technical Officer
(civil works engineer). The PWD will receive support from the MU Administration
Division for personnel and other administrative needs, from the Finance Division for
accounting, disbursements and auditing, and from the Management Information System
office for information systems and reporting. Under the authority of the MASAF manager
and with the policy guidance of the PSC, the PWD will be responsible for: (a) annual
targeting of the public works, (b) appraisal of proposals for public works (c) funding and
supervision, (d) liaison with the national ministries to organise their input in the program
with regard to supervision and development of procedures, and (e) monitoring and
evaluation.
3.12 National/Regional Linkages. Desk officers will be responsible for MASAF-
related work in relevant ministries who will work with the PWD to ensure that district
level officials support public works projects as part of their routine job responsibilities
and that the projects follow national guidelines approved by the PSC. The
representatives of the ministries at the national or regional level will assist MASAF staff
in the routine supervision of the technical, administrative and financial performance of
public works in the districts.
3.13 District Level. The program will be implemented by the District Team
comprising the District Commissioner, the Council Clerk and the Work Supervisors of
the MOW. The District Team will be responsible for: (a) identifying projects in
consultation with communities, local leaders, extension workers and NGOs; (b)
identifying an agency for preparing and executing the projects identified--these agencies
may include the Ministry of Works at the District level, NGOs or other private agencies,
(c) preparing the identified projects; (d) submitting project proposals to the MASAF



38
Manager for seeking PSC's approval and funding; (e) implementing projects in the
district; (f) supervising monitoring and evaluating projects; (g) preparing monthly
financial reports and quarterly progress reports; and (h) informing local stakeholder; from
time-to-time about progress. Note the two-layer supervision arrangement in the
component--one in which district staff supervises the work of their subordinates: the other
where private consultants and the regional and national staff of the Ministry check the
quality and quantity of work done. The dual supervision is applicable in cases where
implementation is carried out by public agencies as well as those where small contractors
are hired to execute the works. Detailed functions of the team members are described in
Annex 15.
3.14 Community Level. Once a project has been identified, the beneficiary
community will constitute a CPC which will (a) assist the Task Force or NGO in
preparing the proposal; (b) brief communities on project details, including wage rate,
amount of work to be undertaken by each worker in a day, mode of payment, etc.; (c)
supervise the time-keeper and check the attendance record; (d) sign the labor attendance
register and wage bill and payment records; and (e) settle conflicts on project sites.
Poverty Monitoring Support Facility Structure
3.15 The Technical Working Committee (TWC), whose members are given in
paragraph 2.25, will continue to guide the development and design of a national system to
monitor poverty'5. The particular activities to be financed under the PMSF will be
specified in annual work programs prepared by the TWC and agreed with IDA at the
beginning of each annual period. The MASAF MU will disburse PMSF funds as per the
agreed annual work program (para: 5.1 (c)), training plan (Annex 18) and procedures
recorded in the MASAF Financial Manual.
3.16 The TWC has set up an IHSP sub-committee to guide the development of the
Integrated Household Survey Program at the NSO. The IHSP will be implemented by the
NSO. The TWC will also set up a Poverty Analysis (PA) sub-committee to improve
coordination and use of poverty-related research. The PA sub-committee will function as
a technical advisory committee for studies to be financed under the PMSF.16 The sub-
comiiiittee will reject or recommend study proposals for TWC approval and PMSF
funding according to agreed criteria and recommendations from technical reviewers. The
PA sub-committee will assist in: (i) appraising study proposals, (ii) identifying data
sources relevant to the study proposal, (iii) advising researchers and reviewers on
methodological and analytical issues, (iv) monitoring progress of implementation of
studies and assisting wherever possible in resolving implementation problems (e.g. by
organizing research seminars). In the program of poverty analysis, the MASAF MU will
5  The secretariat for the TWC is the Poverty Monitoring Unit in MEP&D.
16  In order to facilitate the functioning of the program for poverty analysis, the TWC may, at a later
date, identify the need for technical assistance.



39
initiate and develop the terms of reference for the MASAF Beneficiary Assessments to be
undertaken in a yearly cycle. The terms of reference will be submitted to the TWC for
their inputs and comments, revised accordingly and then put to tender. The BA team will
report on findings to the TWC and the MASAF MU.
PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
Project Cost
3.17  The project is expected to be implemented over a five-year period, and it is
expected that funding for community programs will be fully committed within four and a
half years. The estimated cost of the project is US$71.32 million, including
contingencies, with IDA financing US$56 million, which is about 78.5 percent of the
total. Community Subprojects account for US$48.03 million, or about 68 percent of total
project cost. The Public Works Program component amounts to approximately US$19.47
million, about 27 percent of total project cost. Poverty Monitoring amounts to US$1.51
million, about 2 percent of total project costs, and administration amounts to US$2.31
million, around 3 percent of total project costs. Table 3.1 gives a summary of total
project costs by component, and as a percentage of the total.
Table 3.1: Summary of Project Costs including taxes and contingencies
(in US$ million)
% of
Total
that is   % of
Local  Foreign  Total Foreign  Total
Community              43.92     4.11   48.03    8.55   67.34
Subprojects
Public Works Program   18.59     0.88   19.47    4.52   27.30
Poverty Monitoring      0.72     0.79    1.51   52.00    2.12
Administration          2.20     0.11    2.31    5.00    3.24
Total Project Cost     65.43     5.89   71.32    8.26  100.00
3.18 Recurrent Costs of the CSP will be provided by the Ministry of Finance directly,
or through sectoral ministries, or by communities through their contributions to a
maintenance fund. The DEC, at the desk appraisal stage, has the responsibility to assess
each sector's ability to meet the recurrent costs which would be generated by the
subprojects. For education, teachers are already employed and the Malawi Primary
Education Project has provision for textbooks, slates, chalk and other consumable.
Recurrent cost expenditures for education materials are being provided by donors through
grant funds. For subprojects in water and economic infrastructure, communities' ability
to establish a contributory fund for financing operating and maintenance costs will be



40
assessed at desk appraisal and field appraisal and is one of the selection criteria. For
subprojects in the health sector, recurrent costs will be the responsibility of the line
ministry, MOHP.
Financing Plan
3.19  The Project will be financed by the Government, communities, WFP and IDA. A
proposed IDA credit of US$56 million will cover about 78.5 percent of total project cost,
with approximately 64 percent of the IDA funds being dedicated to the support of CSP,
30 percent for PWP, 4 percent for administration, and 2 percent for PMSF. WFP
contributed approximately 1 percent of the total project cost during the piloting phase; the
beneficiary communities (through their contributions to subprojects) and the GOM are
expected to contribute approximately 20 percent of the total project cost. Government is
expected to contribute toward the Project through provision of salaries to public service
staff, who will be supervising activities under the Community Subprojects, as well as the
Public Works Program. In addition, GOM will contribute 5 per cent of incremental
operating costs in the first year and 10 percent in subsequent years (see table 3.4). A
detailed determination of the investment items cannot be made a priori, as this depends
on the selection of various projects by the communities. Indicative sources of funding are
given in Table 3.2.
Table 3.2: Project Financing Planincluding taxes and contingencies
(in US$ million)
|__________ |IDA COM GOM WFP TOTAL
Community Programs  36.10   8.33   3.60      0    48.03
PWP                  16.80-    0   1.67   1.00    19.47
lPoverty Monitoring   1.00      0   0.51      0      1.51
Adrinistration        2.10      0   0.21      0     2.31
TOTAL                56.00   8.33   5.99   1.00    71.32
TOTAL %            78.50% 11.70%1 8.40%  1.40%  100.00%
PROCUREMENT
3.20  The main objective of this Project is poverty alleviation. Successful
implementation of this Project will entail flexibility in the application of IDA
procurement norms. Procurement procedures will be adapted to reflect the low unit cost
and demand-driven nature of the activities to be financed. The procurement guidelines
are described in the PCD and PIM prepared by GOM, and conform to the Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, January 1995. The Bank-Financed
Projects with Community Participation: A Manualfor Designing Procurement and
Disbursement Mechanisms (AFTCB, World Bank) has also been consulted. Precise



41
figures cannot be provided at this time, because the exact mix of goods and services
which will be funded for the CSP is not yet known, however, piloting activities have been
used as an indication of the types of subprojects, and the kinds of related goods and
services, which will be funded by this component. The Financial and Administrative
Manuals of MASAF have been used during piloting to guide procurement; the
experiences and revisions necessary to ensure clarity, simplicity, effectiveness and
efficiency will continually be incorporated in the document. Staff with responsibility for
implementation at MU have been trained in IDA procurement procedures and will
continue to receive guidance from the Task Manager, the Resident Mission, as well as the
Department's Procurement Unit, as necessary. IDA has appraised the MU's capacity to
manage procurement and found it fully satisfactory. Procurement processes will be
reviewed from time to time, as experience accumulates, and processes will be updated in
consultation with IDA, with a section in the MU's annual report being devoted to issues
relating to procurement, particularly as these relate to the CSP and PWP (see paras 3.37-
3.40).
3.21  To ensure cost savings, contracts for supplies and equipment will be packaged and
procured by the MU, as appropriate. To encourage community participation in the CSP
component, communities will manage these subprojects purchasing services of skilled
laborers and materials locally to ensure minimal delay, as bulk procurement of these
items would result in delays and inefficiencies. These contracts are small in value and
scattered in nature and would not attract established civil works contractors. Depending
on the type and estimated value of the contracts, one of the following methods will be
specified for each procurement.
3.22 International Competitive Bidding (ICB) shall be carried out in accordance
with IDA Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, January
1995, for civil works contracts in excess of US$500,000 equivalent and for goods
contracts in excess of US$ 100,000. From pilot experiences, it is expected that these will
consist largely of contracts for boreholes, which will be procured by the MU to maximize
economies of scale. Domestic preference will be used where applicable in these
procurements, as stipulated in the IDA Guidelines. IDA Standard Bidding Documents will
be usedfor ICB(see para 5.2 (c)).
3.23  National Competitive Bidding (NCB) shall be carried out for goods such as
equipment, furniture and supplies estimated to cost more than US$30,000 equivalent, and
up to and including US$100,000 equivalent, per contract, up to an aggregate amount of
US$300,000 equivalent. For civil works, NCB shall be used for contracts above
USS30,000 equivalent and up to and including US$500,000 equivalent. The aggregate
amount for civil works related activities using NCB shall not exceed US$10.3 million
equivalent, which will largely consist of construction relating to health infrastructure
under Subprojects and construction of bridges under PWP. NCB bidding documents for
works and goods, currently being used by other IDA projects and previously cleared by
IDA, will be used.



42
3.24 Community Participation. To encourage community participation and increase
project sustainability, communities will be managing the projects and purchasing both
services of skilled laborers and materials locally to ensure minimal delay, since bulk
procurement of these items could result in delays and inefficiencies due to loss during
transport and storage. Standard price lists for materials will be maintained by the MU, be
updated every three to six months, and be used by communities as price ceilings for those
items. Subprojects costing up to $30,000 equivalent per project and US$27.2 million
equivalent in aggregate would be implemented through self-help projects, which MASAF
would contract out through the Community Project Committees to individuals, private
contractors, NGOs and community-based agencies such as private voluntary associations,
or Community Development Committees, following procedures detailed in para 2.21.
Such implementing agencies selected on criteria established in the Subprojects PIM, will
use community labor and will purchase goods or materials through methods prescribed in
their contract agreement, (a sample of which is included in the PIM) signed with the
communities. Communities will hire contractors of the required skill level, which pre-
determines their wage rates, and procure materials and supplies by obtaining quotes from
three suppliers, when available, and selecting the supplier with the lowest cost who
fulfills their requirements. MASAF will disburse funds to the communities in tranches
against certified completion. PWP labor intensive works estimated to cost $30,000
equivalent or less per contract and US$14.5 million in aggregate would be implemented
by public agencies through labor contracts with local communities and through contracts
with qualified local village contractors selected to the extent possible on the basis of at
least three quotations. When not enough qualified local contractors are available, public
agencies may resort to direct contracting with a local village contractor on the basis of
prices periodically published by MASAF.
3.25 Consultant Services will be procured following IDA guidelines on the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency
(1981). The aggregate amount for consultant services will be US$2.81 million
equivalent, and will cover technical assistance, workshops, studies such as beneficiary
assessments and training activities for CSP and PMSF. The use of the sample letter for
recruitment of consultants will be required (see para 5.2 (c)).
3.26  National Shopping. Prudent shopping for contracts estimated to cost less than
US$30,000 equivalent, up to an aggregated amount of US$500,000 equivalent may be
used for goods to include equipment, vehicles, furniture and supplies, and transport.
3.27 The procurement plan agreed with IDA at negotiations (see Annex 13 and para:
5.1(b) ), and the procurement arrangements summarized in Table 3.3 will be implemented
in accordance with the procedures outlined here, in the Procurement Schedule given in
the PIM (Annex 3), and the Development Credit Agreement.



43
Table 3.3: Procurement Table
(US$ mil.on)
Other*
methods
Community acceptable
ICB   NCB  Participation  to lDA   N.B.F.**   Total
I. Subprojects                          1.00        7.32           27.23                              10.33        45.88
(0.95)    (6.95)           (26.05)                                         (33.95)
II. Works: PWP                                      3.00            14.47                             2.00          19.47
(2.85)         (13.95)                                         (16.80)
III. Equipment., Furniture and
Supplies under:
(i) CSP                                        0.1                                                              0.1
(0.1)                                                           (0.1)
(ii) PMSF                                      0.12                              0.09                          0.21
(0.12)                            (0.08)                        (0.20)
IV. Consultant Services,
Training, Workshops & and
Studies under:
(i) CSP                                                                           2.04                          2.04
(2.04)                       (2.04)
(ii) PMSF                                                                         0.77                          0.77
(0.77)                       (0.77)
V. Incremental Operating
Costs
(i) MU                                                                            2.101           0.21          2.31
(2.10)                       (2.10)
(ii) PMSF                                                                         0.041            0.5          0.54
(0.04)                       (0.04)
Total                                    1.00      10.54           41.70               5.04           13.04         71.32
(0.95)   (10.02)           (40.00)            (5.03)                       (56.00)
Note: Numbers in parenthesis refer to the amounts financed by International Development Association.
I Includes US$330,000 for prudent shopping of equipment, vehicles fuel and maintenance, furniture and supplies, and transport.
* Other includes Consultant Services, National Shopping and Operating Costs
"N.B.F. includes contributions which will be made by communities such as bricks, labor or cash contributions, and GOM's
contribution, in the form of salaries for supervisory staff, 5% in first year and 10 percent in subsequent years of the salaries for
MASAF unit staff, local operation and maintenance costs, and 0lfo of local costs for equipment, furniture and supplies.



44
3.28 IDA Review. All subprojects with procurement for works contracts of
US$500,000 equivalent or more and goods contracts of US$100,000 equivalent or more
each will be subject to prior review by IDA (see para 2.12). IDA will review the
procurement arrangements for other projects proposed by GOM, including contract
packaging, and applicable procedures, appropriate documents, evaluation reports and
proposed contract awards for their conformity with the Guidelines. All ICB packages
will be submitted for prior-review by IDA. A prior review will take place for the first
two works procurements under NCB and the first two goods procurements under NCB.
All other contracts will be subject to random post-review. All relevant documentation
will be retained by the MU so that post reviews can be conducted as required. For
consulting services, prior review of documentation would be required for: (i) contracts
with consulting firms with an estimated value of US$100,000 or more; (ii) contracts with
individuals of US$50,000 or more; (iii) all sole source selections of consulting firms; (iv)
terms of reference for all contracts regardless of value; (v) critical assignments; and (vi)
amendments to contracts with consulting firms and individuals that result in revised
values greater than US$100,000 and US$50,000 respectively.
DISBURSEMENT
3.29  It is estimated that the IDA credit will be disbursed over 5 years, from July 1996
through June 2001. Procurement will be completed by June 30, 2001, which will be the
completion date; December 31, 2001 will be the closing date. The proposed allocation of
the credit is shown in Table 3.4. Reimbursement for subprojects will be made on
evidence of disbursements from the MU to Community Project Committees, for the
PWP, reimbursements will be made on evidence of direct transfer of funds to the District
Council accounts. IDA will not finance taxes; to ensure this, IDA will only finance 95
percent of amounts paid by MASAF under Subprojects, 95 percent local expenditures on
PWP, 90 percent of local expenditures on equipment and supplies, and 95 percent of local
expenditure on incremental operating costs during FY1996/97 and 90 per cent in
subsequent years. Communities and GOM will contribute an estimated 20 percent of
total project costs. GOM's indirect contribution, which includes salaries of technical staff
doing desk and field appraisal as well as technical supervision of PWP, is estimated at
US$0.7 million equivalent per year over the life of the project.



45
Table 3.4: Allocation and Disbursement of IDA Credit
IDA                     % of
Allocation             Expenditure
Disbursement Category      (US$ million)              Financed
I. Subprojects                 30.3         95% of amounts paid by MASAF
II. Works - PWP                 12.8        100% of foreign expenditure and
95% of local expenditure
III. Equipment and
Supplies under:                             100% of foreign expenditure and
(i) CSP                         1.04           90% of local expenditure
(ii) PMSF                      0.20
IV. Consultant Services,
Training, Workshops and
studies under:                                         100%
(i) CSP                        2.04
(ii) PMSF                      0.48
V. Incremental Operating       2.14           95% of local expenditure for
Costs                                                FYI 996/97
90% for subsequent years
VI. PPF                        2.00
Unallocated                    5.00
TOTAL                          56.00
3.30  To ensure that the availability of counterpart funding will not be a bottleneck to
implementation, GOM agreed during negotiations to open a Project Account with a
Commercial Bank acceptable to IDA and deposit therein, on a quarterly basis (para 5.2
(d)), its contribution. Prior to Board Presentation GOM will be required to deposit its
estimated contribution for the first quarter amounting to Mkl.9 million into MASAF's
Project Account for that purpose (5.3 (a)). Responsibility for maintaining records of this
will rest with the MU and these records will be available for IDA review during
implementation review missions.



46
3.31  Incremental operating costs include those costs necessary for the operation of the
MU, including, but not limited to: salaries, benefits, office supplies, fuel and maintenance
of motor vehicles, maintenance of equipment, telephone and other communication
charges, office rent and other administrative charges.
3.32 All applications to withdraw proceeds from the credit will be fully documented,
except for (a) expenditures of contracts with an estimated value of US$500,000 each or
less for civil works, and (b) US$100,000 or less for goods, consulting firms, training,
workshops and studies, and (c) US$50,000 or less for individual consultants and all
incremental operating costs, which may be claimed on the basis of certified statements of
expenditure (SOE). Documentation supporting expenditures claimed against SOEs will
be retained by the MU and will be available for review when requested by IDA
supervision missions and project auditors. Disbursement and withdrawal procedures are
detailed in the World Bank Disbursement Handbook (1992 edition). All disbursements
are subject to the conditions of the Development Credit Agreement and the procedures
defined in the Disbursement Letter.
3.33  To facilitate disbursements of eligible expenditures for works, goods and services,
the Government will open a Special Account (SA) in a commercial bank to cover part of
IDA's share of eligible expenditures to be managed and administered by the MU under
components A and B of the project. Authorized allocation of the Special Account would
be US$3 million covering an estimated four months of eligible expenditures financed by
IDA. Upon effectiveness, 50 percent of the authorized allocation, amounting to US$1.5
million will be deposited to the Special Account. The remaining balance will be made
available as needed. The MU will be responsible for submitting monthly replenishment
applications with appropriate supporting documents for expenditures. To the extent
possible, all IDA's share of eligible expenditures should be paid through the Special
Account. Estimated disbursements by IDA fiscal year are shown in Table 3.5. Estimated
disbursements by semester are given in Annex 16.
Table 3.5: Disbursement Profile
(US$ million)
FY96/97 I FY97/98  FY98/99 J FY99/00 J FYOO/O1
Annual                10.0*     12.0    14.0    14.0        6.0
Cumulative            10.0      22.0    36.0    50.0       56.0
Cumulative %          17.9%    39.3%     64%      89%      100%
*This amount includes US$2.0 million from the Project Preparation Facility.



47
ACCOUNTS AND AUDITS
3.34  It was agreed during Negotiations that as soon as possible after the end of the
Malawi financial year, but no later than six months after its completion, GOM will,
through the MU, present audit reports of the special accounts and the project accounts
with a separate opinion on the use of the special account and SOEs (para 5.2 (g)). The
audits will be carried out by the Auditor General. In auditing the project accounts,
special attention would be paid to verifying the reliability of SOEs, and to the internal
controls and procedures involved in the preparation of SOEs. Audit reports should be
produced for each component, covering the use of SOEs, management of the special
account and other matters. The audit report for the community initiatives component
shall include a review of Community Project Committee's performance on a sample
basis. In view of the fact that the project would have a large number of accounts
including those at the MU, zone and community levels, and that these would need to be
checked periodically, it was agreed that MASAF will (i) appoint no later than 90 days
from effectiveness of the credit, (a) an internal auditor who will report directly to the
MASAF Manager, and (b) consultants to carry out training of MASAF finance staff for
strengthening the computerization of MASAF's accounting system; and (ii) prepare the
terms of reference for both the MASAF internal auditor and the above mentioned
consultants as a condition of Board presentation
3.35  Project accounts will be established and maintained by GOM. A Special Account
will be opened for this project and maintained with a commercial bank by GOM. The
maximum balance in the Special Account will be US$1.5 million, which will cover about
3 months of expenditures at full operation. There is no need to make the maximum initial
deposit lower than the maximum balance as is done for project implementing agencies
with little or no experience in management of Special Accounts.
MONITORABLE INDICATORS
3.36  MASAF is a demand-driven project and, as such, will be monitored on a variety
of indicators using both quantitative and qualitative measures. In addition to process
indicators, which will be used in all three components and the MU, it is expected that
PMSF will monitor the impact of not only MASAF interventions, but also activities
funded by donors, NGOs, as well as GOM. Box 5 contains some indicators which will be
monitored, and Annex 11 gives a more detailed description of these.



48
Box 5: Sample of Indicators to be Monitored
MU:         number ofprojects processed; time between receipt, approval andfunding
IEC:        type of messages prepared and vehicle for dissemination; number reached
Subprojects:  number of mobilized communities; number of women elected;
types of community contributions; fully accounted-for funds
PWP:        income earned; activities undertaken--length of road, acreage irrigated
PMSF:       number of clients using services; review of impact of CSP and PWP, annual
report on poverty status and social and economic policy.
Reporting and Reviews
3.37 During Negotiations,GOM agreed that the MU will coordinate the production of
an annual report on project implementation (see Annex 17) no later than June 1 of each
year (para 5.2 (e). Contributions will be made from the MASAF and the PMSF. From
this review the MU will invite IDA, other interested donors, NGOs and Government
agencies to an annual review workshop to be held no later than July 1 of every year
(beginning in 1996 for the year 1995). The implementation review schedule is provided
in Annex 18.
3.38 The Manager of MASAF will prepare a consolidated report for submission to the
PSC quarterly. Copies of the most recent quarterly reports will be sent to IDA before the
implementation review missions, which are expected to take place bi-annually.
3.39 A progress report, whose outline was provided and agreed at negotiations, will be
submitted to IDA annually (para: 5.1(d).
3.40  During Negotiations,GOM also agreed that a mid-term review will be held 2 years
after project effectiveness or when 50 percent of funds have been committed, whichever
occurs first (para 5.2 (f)). For the mid-term review the Government will commission
independent reviews of each component, including the MU and will summarize the
findings and recommendation in a report submitted to the donors and IDA before the
mid-term review. This report will highlight institutional successes and failures of
MASAF and the MU.



49
4. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
PROJECT BENEFITS
4.1   Community Benefits. The benefits of the community initiative component of
the MASAF will be various at many levels. Among these will be:
(a)   improved health, education and economic infrastructure;
(b)   improved in service delivery;
(c)   increased capacities of community-based organizations, district, provincial
and national government and NGOs to plan, appraise and complete capital
projects;
(d)   recognition of the value of self-help in development and maintenance of
that creation;
(e)   revived spirit of self-help, increased sense of ownership, and
accountability, participation in decision making for own development and
empowerment of implementing communities;
(f)   creation of income-earning opportunities through employment;
(g)   improved food availability in food-deficient areas.
4.2   Poverty Monitoring. The benefits associated with the monitoring activities are:
(a)   establishment of priority poverty indicators with which to assess changes
in the living conditions of different social groups;
(b)   avoidance of duplication of data collection by government agencies;
(c)   capacity building to generate, process and disseminate household-based
data;



50
(d)   establishment of institutional and financial support for the regular review
of key poverty indicators to track progress and determine policy
implications;
(e)   improved in research capacity; more rigorous and analytical studies with
appropriate and usable recommendations;
(f)   establishment of a model, potentially replicable in other African countries,
for integrating qualitative and participatory approaches into a poverty
monitoring system at the national level;
(g)   enhanced capacity within Malawi for participatory research and planning,
through provision of resources for qualitative and participatory poverty
studies under the PMSF; and
(h)   improved targeting of programs and policies, for the poor and vulnerable.
4.3   Donor Participation. The design of MASAF uses inputs from several donor-
funded projects. There was constant consultation with donors during preparation. This
consultation will continue through implementation since there are common activities
among donor projects even if approach and size may vary. Actual co-financing of the
project by donors is limited to the WFP joining to finance the food component of the
PWP. In addition to MASAF financing, funding will be sought from the Norwegians for
financing poverty monitoring activities.
PROJECT RISKS
4.4   The risks to the Project are:
(a)   That GOM fails to adhere to economic reform programs. The Government
and IDA have continued their dialogue: GOM has implemented most of
the conditions, such as operating on a cash basis. The following have been
taken into consideration in the project design to minimize the impact that
recurrent costs from this project might have on the GOM budget: (i)
teachers are already on the payroll of the GOM budget; (ii) the ability of
communities to set up maintenance funds for water and social
infrastructure projects is one criterion for selection; (iii) the health sector
representative at the district level has to be assured that there are funds in
the MOHP budget to cover recurrent costs of any proposed health center.
(b)   That community self-help spirit may be undermined by other programs
and projects not using the same clear criteria in project selection nor
insisting on self-help. The Project will assist GOM in the development
and implementation of a policy which would eliminate this risk.



51
(c)   That since the management of funds for CSP will be the responsibility of
the community, there may be accountability lapses. To minimize this risk,
decision making at the community level has been made transparent and
participatory, and the CPC members are to be trained in book keeping.
(d)   That poor technical quality of the works could undermine the
sustainability of the CSP and PWP projects, which may also undermine
community participation. This is being addressed by significant technical
monitoring and supervision. The project implementation work-book will
be made available to all Community Project Committees. District Officers
will be trained in technical appraisal skills to ensure better quality at entry
(e)   That communities are over-stretched and overwhelmed by the demands on
them from all sectors, thus putting a capacity constraint on them. Donors
(European Union, USAID, Overseas Development Agency (ODA) and
United Nations Development Program (UNDP)) and NGOs such as Save
the Children (UK), Action Aid - have expressed this view. Communities
are expected to perform functions for which they have neither the skills
nor the capacity, for example, to maintain accounts and financial records,
to identify and recruit facilitators like NGOs and then pay them. Pilot
experience does not confirm this nor does other experience with
community-driven projects. Community implementation capacity is an
important factor in subproject selection, which will be monitored
throughout.
(f)   That MU will not be able to respond to the high level of demand as
expressed by the number of inquiries and requests currently being received
by the MASAF. Unrealistic expectations on the part of GOM and the
communities as to the numbers and types of projects which can be
implemented could have a negative impact on MASAF's reputation.
Piloting has allowed the MU to work through the processes, and lessons
learned have been incorporated into the PIM. IEC campaigns will be
mounted, to inform the public of the status of these activities.
(g)   That the flatter management structure adopted under the PWP to allow
greater transparency, may also promote weaker ownership of the project
than might be the case in a single ministry-managed project. There is
uncertainty as to where the balance of gain would lie.
(h)   That the budget for tools in the PWP has been kept low because the
preparation team could not develop a fully accountable system for
distributing tools to laborers and ensuring the return of tools after the work
is over. This might constrain speedy implementation. The piloting
lessons are expected to throw further light on this issue.



52
(i)   That GOM fails to meet its basic commitments to service provision at
district level because of budgetary constraints. This would deprive the
project of the appraisal capability and routine supervision subsumed in
community projects.
4.5   The risks associated with the National Sample Survey of
Agriculture/VAM/Famine Early Warning System are:
(a)   technical capacity may be inadequate to sustain the component once the
external support (USAID, United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF)) is
withdrawn; and
(b)   that the NSO and MOAg budgets may not provide adequate resources for
effective implementation of data collection and analysis, reducing the
credibility of the instruments.
4.6   The risk associated with the PMSF component is that the local research
community cannot avail itself of the resources under the program of poverty analysis
because of constraints in skilled capacity. This risk has been tackled by creating scope
for collaboration between local and external researchers, and by maintaining that the
preparation and dissemination of studies be part of capacity building.
4.7   A final risk to the smooth implementation of the Project would be the possibility
of Government yielding to pressures from Donors to modify procedures. Slow
disbursements, erratic release of funds by the Reserve Bank, and burdensome reporting
requirements may hamper implementation. This risk will be dealt with by ensuring that
sufficient funding is available to the MU from IDA and Government sources. This has
been dealt with during preparation, by ensuring that other donors' experiences have been
incorporated into the project design.



53
PROJECT VIABILITY
Sustainability
4.8   Sustainability. The MU and its field offices will be coterninous with the
Project, but the principles of community contribution, procedures to involve communities
in projects and criteria developed to support community initiatives will be retained. The
MASAF approach would be adopted in regular sectoral programs of the Government.
The skills learnt by communities during the project in using and accounting for funds,
building, maintaining and rehabilitating infrastructure will be sustained by them. The
transfer of skills to district staff, especially in the appraisal, implementation and
monitoring of projects will help sustain the MASAF processes and approach. It is
probable that at mid-term review of this project, the District Development Fund would
have been established in each district and that sufficient experience in implementing
projects would have accumulated, which would allow the DDC to gradually assume the
function of the MU, adopting the MASAF approach, processes and project selection
criteria. Adoption by sectors of the MASAF approach generally for community-based
activities and transferning functions of the MU to the district levels would be two
important issues to be addressed at the time of the mid-term review.
4.9   Completed CSP and PWP Schemes. The sustainability of the CSP is assured
because the community implementing the project has contributed substantially to it and
has an increased sense of ownership. Every subproject would have an established and
functioning maintenance committee. Since sectoral ministries have been involved in the
development, appraisal, and supervision of the subprojects, and have promised to provide
manpower to run the facilities created and to meet other necessary recurrent costs, the
maintenance of service delivery is assured. As to the PWP projects, these will clearly
increase demand for maintenance funds. However, since PWP is seen as a safety net
intervention, future maintenance activities could also be undertaken as part of the
program. Government's own budgetary resources will be phased-in gradually so that
assets created are maintained.
Economic Analysis
4.10 MASAF is a demand-driven project. Actual distribution of funds by type of
activity is not known ex ante. The estimated distribution of projects and funds by type of
activity is based on the results of the first 25 pilots which were financed during
September, 1995 and January, 1996. The ERR for Education refers to primary education
and does not include externalities; the ERR for water and public works refers to simple
activities such as boreholes and earth/gravel roads (expected to be the predominant
activity) we assume that the community will be able to carry out maintenance without
cost to the government. The total ERR is about 22 percent and reflects the ERR of the
individual sector activities, weighted by their expected relative incidence. We have not
calculated the ERR for activities in health, miscellaneous economic infrastructure and



54
poverty monitoring/administration, which are expected to account for about one fifth
percent of project cost. Even if we assign an ERR of "O" to these activities, the weighted
average is still satisfactory at nearly 18 percent. In health, the project is expected to
finance the construction of primary level infrastructure (rural health clinics and posts)
which tend to carry out interventions in the higher end of the cost effectiveness spectrum
(EPI, rehydration therapy, malaria treatment, TBA ante-natal and delivery care, etc.).
Such interventions, which are normally carried out at the primary level of care, tend to
favor primarily women and children and are expected to yield substantial gains in life-
years saved. The main risk involved with this project relates to institutional deficiencies,
which might delay project implementation. Even if these delays result in a 15 percent
decrease in benefits accruing to the project and a 15 percent increase in costs, the
weighted average ERR is reduced to about 18 percent--still a satisfactory outcome. (see
Schedule B of the Memorandum to the President).



55
5. CONDITIONS, AGREEMENTS AND
RECOMMENDATIONS
5.1   At negotiations, the Government provided evidence that the following are in place
and acceptable to the Association:
(a)   a final version of the PIM (para 2.9);
(b)   a work program (including proposed training and procurement plans) for
the MU for 1996 (para: 3.5 and 3.27);
(c)   a work program for the GOM's Poverty Monitoring System (PMS) (para:
3.15);
(d)   an outline of the annual reports (para 3.39);
5.2   During Negotiations, the following agreements were reached:
(a)   The MU will be responsible for implementation of the project (para 3.4);
(b)   The positions of Manager, and Heads of Operations, Technical Services,
Public Works Division, Finance, Administration and internal audit will be
filled at all times by staff having qualifications and experience satisfactory
to IDA (para 3.5);
(c)    GOM will use IDA's standard bidding documents for ICB and the sample
letter for the recruitment of consultants (paras 3.22 and 3.25);
(d)   GOM will open a Project Account with a Commercial Bank acceptable to
IDA and deposit therein, on a quarterly basis, the Government's
counterpart funding (para 3.30);
(e)   GOM will carry out, jointly with IDA, an annual review of project
implementation not later than July 1 of each year (beginning in 1996 for
the year 1995), on the basis of appropriate documentation to be prepared
by the MU which will include the work programs and budgets for the three
components for the following year (para 3.37);



56
(f)   GOM will: (i) carry out jointly with IDA, a mid-term review of the
progress of the project not later than July 1, 1999 or when 50 percent of
the funds are committed, whichever occurs first; (ii) submit to IDA the
findings of independent reviews of each of the three components,
including the MU, and summarize the findings and recommendations in a
report submitted to the donors and IDA before mid-term review; and (iii)
implement the recommendations of the review (para 3.40);
(g)   GOM will submit to IDA, within six months after the end of each fiscal
year, audit reports as follows: (i) financial audits annually, with audit
reviewing internal controls and procedures involved in the preparation of
the SOEs, and (ii) technical and management audits (para 3.34); and
(h)   A unit cost data bank will be maintained and updated (every three to six
months) to monitor the cost of materials, goods, works and services which
the communities buy for use under the project (para 3.5).
5.3   As Conditions of Board Presentation, GOM through MASAF MU has:
(a)   established a Project Account into which the estimated GOM contribution
to the Project will be deposited quarterly, and deposited the estimated
contribution for the first quarter (para 3.30); and
(b)   submitted terms of reference, acceptable to IDA, for appointment of an
internal auditor for the duration of the project and technical assistance for
the training of accounts staff in MASAF in computerized accounting (para
3.34).
5.4   Recommendation. Given the preceding actions, conditions and agreements, the
proposed project would be suitable for an IDA credit of SDR 38 million (US$56 million
equivalent).



57
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 2
INTER-COUNTRY SOCIOECONOMIC, HEALTH, NUITRITION, AND POPULATION
INDICATORS
LESS
DEVELOPED
MALAWI           AFRICA             COUNTRIES
GNP per capita (US$) 1991 (Malawi data 1994)               140               340                    900
Annual Population Growth Rate                               3.3                3                      2
Population Density (per sq. mile)                          106
Total Fertility Rate                                        6.7               6.5                    3.6
Crude Birth Rate                                            54                45                     29
Crude Death Rate                                            21                15                      9
Infant Mortality Rate (per 1,000 live births)              135               104                     70
Under Five Mortality Rate (per 1,000 live births)          234               175                    106
Maternal Mortality (per 100,000 births)                    620               700                    450
Life Expectancy (m/F) (1992)                             44/45             49/52                  62/65
Population per doctor (1985-90)                         27,000             9,000                   1,500
Population per nurse (1985-90)                           14,000            2,000                   1,700
Adult literacy rate (1990)                                42%               50%                    53%
Female literacy rate (1990)                               31%               38%                    52%
Modem Contraceptive Prevalence*                          7.40%         -
% of home deliveries                                      43%          -
% of stunting*"                                         48.70%         -
% of wasting***                                          5.40%         -
% of malnutrition (women in fertile age)****               9%          -
% of population below absolute poverty level                85                57
(1985)                                                                   .
* Among married women of childbearing age (1992)
** (Height for agc <-2SD) among children under 5 years (1992)
*   (Weight for age <-2SD) among children under 5 years (1992)
**** (Body Mass Index <18.5) (1992)
Sources: Better Health in Africa, 1992 DHS, UNFPA-Malawi



58
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 2
CHANGES IN INFANT AND CHILD MORTALITY IN MALAWI FROM 1978-1992
Period           Infant Mortality      Child Mortality   Under-Five Mortality
1988-1992              134.3                 114.9                233.8
1983-1987              137.5                 126.1                246.3
1978-1982              136.4                 140.8                258.0
Source: Malawi Human Resources and Poverty, forthcoming World Bank publication, 1996
GEOGRAPHIC VARIATION OF INFANT AND CHILD MORTALITY
Residence         Infant Mortality      Child Mortality    Under-Five Mortality
Urban                       118.1                 98.9                 205.4
Rural                       138.0                 122.9                243.9
Northern Region              120.7                92.3                 201.9
Central Region              130.2                 151.0                261.6
Southern Region             144.3                 100.1                230.0
Source: Malawi Human Resources and Poverty, forthcoming World Bank publication, 1996



Status of MASAF Pilot Projects as of December 12, 1995
Project Cycle Stage       Sector      Identification  Preparation   Desk          Field     Approval   Launch   Problems*       Canceled
Appraisal    Appraisal    a) PSC
Project Name                                                                              b) Other
A. Northern Region
Kamwala School            Education                                                                        Y
Vuvu School and Water     Education                                                                        y
Kawiya School             Education                                                                        Y
Chibavi Urban Market      Eco. Infrastruc.                                                                           Y
Chipolwe Boreholes        Water                                                                a
Linga Water Points        Water                                                                a
B. Central Region
Kazyozyo Health Center    Health                                                                           Y
Kavumbiri School          Education                                                            .           y
Kaunda School             Education                                                                        Y
Mteya Multipurpose Center  Eco. Infrastruc.                                                    b(l)
Magola Boreholes          Water                                                                b(2)
Kanyangale Water and     Water
Sanitation                                                                                     b(2)                               . .
Chipasula Water Kiosks    Water                                                                b( I )
Mtandile School           Education                                                                                  Y
C. Southern Region
Naotcha Road              Eco. Infrastruc.                                                     a
Chikanda                                                                                                                         Y
Patrao School**           Education                                                                                  y
Mpakati Boreholes         Water                                                                b(2)
Mjale Health Center       Health                                                               b( I)
Malota Boreholes          Water                                                                                      Y
Mtiya Boreholes           Water                                                                b(2)        _ _    _
b(l) Expected to be ready for PSC approval and launch by early January, 1996                                                                        -
b(2) Water needs and siting surveys to be conducted                                                                                                    t X
* Inability to mobilize people and insufficient community contributions--may be canceled
** Minimal community contribution--food-for-work issue--canceled



60
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 2
MALAWI
SOCIAL ACTION FUND
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION MANUAL
(Community Sub-Projects)
Table of Contents
I.    Introduction
II.    Organizational Structure
III.   Information, Education and Communication (IEC)
IV.   Institutional Capacity Building
V.    MASAF Project Cycle
VI.   MASAF Community Sub-project Information System
VII.   MASAF Monitoring and Evaluation
VIII.  Relationship with sectoral activities
IX.   Project Implementation Plan
X.    Financial Management
XI.   Procurement and Disbursement
ANNEXES
Annex One:   Forms used in relations with community projects
Annex Two:  Routine reports
- Zone Office quarterly report
- Head officer quarterly report
- MASAF annual report
- MASAF annual audit report
ATTACHMENTS:
Administrative Procedures Manual
Financial and Accounting Manual
Orientation Manual for Project Committees and Communities
Orientation Manual for DECs and Zone Officers
Getting Acquainted with MASAF



61
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 2
MALAWI
SOCIAL ACTION FUND
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION MANUAL
(Public Works Programme)
Table of Contents
I.     Situation Analysis and Project Concept
II.   Institutional Framework
III.   Project Cycle
IV.   Technical Aspects
V.    Monitoring and Evaluation
VI.   Project Implementation Plan
VII.  Capacity Building
VIII. Finance and Procurement
ANNEXES:
I. Recording and reporting requirements and forms
2. Tools and Materials Management
3. DRIMP work norms and budgeting for public works roads
4. Use of contracts for road construciton
5. Use of consultants for technical monitoring
6. Targeting of EPAs and Districts for the 1996 programme



62                      ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 1
MASAF PROJECT CYCLE
Evaluation and Completion            Needs Identification
Monitoring                             Preparation
Supervision                     Appraisal and Approval
Implementation



63
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 2
MALAWI SOCLAL ACTION FUND
COMMUNITY PROJECT APPLICATION FORM
This form should be filled out only after the whole community, including all social groups, participates in discussing their
problems, solutions and their highest priority project that could be assisted by MASAF.
1. Project name:_
(For example, "Kamwala school project")
2. Contact address: (for mailing)
3. Project location
Village/Area:
TA/sub-TA:
District:
4. Type of project:_
(For example: school, bridge, borehole, road, clinic)
5. Project description (List what the project will include)
(For example: School blocks, teacher's houses, furniture, latrines, boreholes)
Type of Facility or Structure or               Number to Be Done Under the Project
Activity to be done under the project          New Facility            Repair or Complete
6. Population and size of project area. Total population of the project community:_
(List details below - attach a separate list if there is not enough room)
Distance from project
Names of villages/aress in the project         Population                                         site or main village
I.
2.       -
3.
7. Existing Services. What problem with the existing services, facilities or situation would the project solve?
Type of service/facility?      How many?               Condition?              How far away?
8. Previous efforts. What has the community done to try to solve this problem? What contributions has it already made to
solving the problem?
9. Experience. What other development projects have been done in this community, what outside institutions were involved and
how did the community participate?



64
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 2
10. Expected benefits. What are the expected benefits from the project?
11. Community participation. How did the community, including women, participate in choosing this project as their first
priority? Attach minutes of meetings, attendance lists or other evidence.
12. Self-help contribution.
(For example: materials, labour, cash)
- What contributions are already available?
(What kinds and how much?)
- What contributions would the community be willing to make?
(What kinds and how much?)
13. Maintenance.
- What would the community agree to do to maintain the facility after the project is completed?
- What has the community done to maintain existing facilities?
14. Committee members. (List committee members who would be responsible for this project)
Name                  Village               Signature/Date
Chairman
Secretary
Treasurer
Members
15. Committee selection. How was the committee selected?
16. Facilitators. Please give the name, position and signature of anyone who assisted with planning for the project or filling out
this application, but is not a member of the project committee.
17. Submission. Date of Submission:
Post/submit copies of this form to the District Commissioner and to the MASAF zone office covering your district as follows:
Zone   District                            MASA  Ad
1.    Chipita, Rumphi Karonga             P.O. Box 20350, Luwinga, Mzuzu 2
2.    Mzimba, Nkhata Bay                  P.O. Box 20350, Luwinga, Mzuzu 2
3.    Nkhotakota, Salima, Dowa            P/Bag 143, Kasungu
4.    Kasungu, Mchinji, Ntchisi           P/Bag 142, Kasungp
5.    Lilongwe, Dedza, Ntcheu             MASAF-MU P/Bag 352, Lilongwe 3
6.    Machinga, Mangochi, Zomba           P/Bag 8, Liwonde
7.    Chiradzulu, Blantyre, Mwanza        c/o Regional Administrator (South), Blantyre
8.    Mulanje, Thyolo                     c/o Regional Administrator (South), Blantyre
9.    Nsanje, Chikwawa                    clo Regional Administator (South), Blantyre



65                                       ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 1
MASAF REQUIREMENTS
Desk Appraisal
*  whether the proposal addresses national, district, and MASAF policy objectives and priorities;
*  whether the proposal disaggregates the project target groups and the forms of benefits by gender, age and
social categories;
*  whether the project is gender sensitive and takes account of women and children needs;
*  whether the project does not require significant technical assistance from outside the community;
*  whether the project is endorsed by the Zone Office and the district line department through the District
Executive Committee;
*  whether the project does not require a contribution from MASAF in excess of USD 100,000.00;
*  whether the project creates employment and generates income at local level; whether the community
contributions meet the required levels;
*  whether the project represents a priority need of the community applying for the project;
*  whether the benefits are significant and likely to impact on the poor and vulnerable; whether the likely costs
are reasonable as specified in the Technical Manuals; whether the project represents the best way of achieving
the same objective;
*  whether the project is simple enough for a community to implement within the stated time;
*  whether there is commitment to sustain and maintain the project after completion.
Field Appraisal
i technical feasibility of the project;
*  beneficiaries of the project - are the poor and the marginalised represented?
*  existence of a popularly elected Project Committee;
*  agreement of the relevant line ministry where appropriate;
*  expertise required - whether within or outside the community;
* involvement of other organisations;
* verification of total project cost;
* catchment population;
* long term sustainability of the facility;
* mechanisms for disbursing funds;
* suitability of site; and
* ascertain community contribution.



66                             ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 1
SELECTION CRITERIA FOR COMMUNITY SUBPROJECTS
Community subproject selection criteria will emphasize demonstration of active
community involvement, contribution and management, and gender sensitivity. In order to
qualify, projects would have to meet the following criteria:
*  be community-based;
*  involve simple technology, manageable by communities;
*  serve poverty reduction objectives;
*  demonstrate community involvement, ensuring ownership and maintenance by the
communities;
*  be identified, prepared and managed by the communities;
* be financed by disbursements made directly from MASAF; it is expected that direct
disbursement to communities would promote skills for ownership and community
empowerment, necessary ingredients for project sustainability;
*  be cofinanced by the communities in the form of self-help contributions; and
*  assets will be located in public or communal land, or land belonging to local bodies;
where the location proposed is private land (freehold or leasehold), appropriate
written contract between owners of the land and beneficiaries ensuring unlimited and
unimpeded access by beneficiaries, shall be presented; a copy of the contract will be
made available to beneficiary, and another filed in MASAF documents..



67
ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 2
MALAWI SOCIAL ACTION FUND
Desk Appraisal Form
Proposal number
Title of Project:
Project Location
Village:
TA/STA       :
District:
Sector
Date of DEC meeting:
CRITERIA (and related Application Form questions)                  SCORE
Scoring guidelines are provided in the DEC Manual
1. Is the project consistent with the scope of MASAF?              0  1  2
(Questions 4, 5)
2. Can the relevant ministry/department provide any needed recurrent  0  1  2
costs and facilities to ensure that the infrastructure created will be
serviced and used by the beneficiaries?
(Questions 4, 5)
3. To what extent does the community's situation qualify it for the  0  1  2
type of project requested? (Questions 5, 6, 7)
4. To what extent does the project reach the poor and marginalized in  0  1  2
a cost-effective way? (Questions 4, 5, 6)    __
5. Is the size of the project simple enough to complete in one year?  0  1  2
(Questions 5, 9)                                            _
6. To what extent has the community already made efforts to solve  0  1  2
the problem? (Question 8)
7. Is there sufficient evidence of the community's committment to  0  1  2
self-help under the project? (Question 12)



68
ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 2
CRITERIA                                                             SCORE
8. Is there sufficient evidence (minutes of meetings, attendance lists,  0  1  2
etc.) of the community's own participation, including the
involvement of women in the process of making the project
application? (Questions 11, 15)
9. Does the project improve the geographic distribution of projects in  0   1  2
the district? (Question 3)                                  _
10. Is there a good plan for community level sustainability?        0  1  2
(Question 13)
TOTAL SCORE (0 to 20)
FINAL ASSESSMENT
Approved for Field Appraisal (Highest scores and fits in MASAF schedule)
Deferred/returned (Not enough space in MASAF schedule or needs changes)
_ Not acceptable (score of 0 for any of first three criteria)
APPRAISAL TEAM
NAME                               POSITION               SIGNATURE   DATE
DISTRIBUTION
- Zone Office
- DEC



69
ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 2
MALAWI SOCIAL ACTION FUND
Field Appraisal Form
PART ONE: ]IDENTIFICATION
1. Project title:
2. Contact address:
3. Date(s) of field appraisal
4. Project location:
Village/Area:
TA/sub-TA:
District:
5. Type of project:
PART TWO COMNIYARTICIPATION
6. Review of Participation. What was the community's role in selecting, planning and applying for this
project?
7. Report on community rapid assessment exercise. What is the result of the participatory rapid
assessment exercise? Does it confirm or change the community's priority for a project?
8. Project committee appraisaL If the current committee was not selected according to MASAF principles,
a new committee for project preparation should be popularly elected by the community before proceeding
further with the field appraisal.
PART THREE: NEEDS VERIFCATIO
9. Current situation (Number, type, and condition of current buildings; distance and numbers of current
users of services; current staff and supplies, including items that are usually provided by the government.)
Attach detailed answer.
10. Unmet needs Confirm the names, populations and locations of the villages/areas in the project
community (attach if needed). Estimate the number of persons in the community who are not receiving
services according to sectoral standards.
PRTLFOUR: PROJECT PLANS
11. Project Components. List project components by type, design, number and whether the component is
new or being rehabilitated. Include items such as furniture and training if they will be included in the project
budget.
D.aig                   mber hah



70
ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 2
12. Site Sketches of the project component(s) in relationship to the communities and to existing facilities.
(attach)
13. Bills of quantities for materials and labour. If project components include non-standard designs or
rehabilitation, give detailed sketches of proposed building/facility, and proposed bills of quantities for
materials and labour (must be attached).
14. Materials transportation. Estimated number of trips, distances and size of trucks that will be needed
for transport of project materials from Boma and/or other purchasing locations.
15. Community self-help contribution. List the types (e.g. bricks, sand, cash, water carrying, labour, etc.)
and quantities (in number, cubic meter, person-days, etc.) of contributions and when they will be made
available (already available, will be available before launch, or will be provided during implementation).
Ouanty                                                      When available
16. Sequencing. If approved, when would the project be ready for launch and how long would it take to
implement?
17. Community maintenance plan. Describe in detail the plan for maintenance of the project by the
community.
18. Government intended contribution. List any contributions the government will make to the facilities
or services during or after the project, such as staff, supplies, etc.
19. Bank account and signatories. (note - Current bank accounts should not be opened unless the
community is notified that its project has been approved for funding).
Name of Bank in which account would be opened:
Names of community signatories for the Bank account:
PART FIVE: COMMUITY AGREEMENT
20. Agreement that the community project committee participated fully in designing the project plan, and
that the plan has been presented to and is agreed to by the community.
Name                  Village                Signature             Date
Chairman:_
Secretary:
Treasurer:.__
21. Agreement that the field appraisal team finds that the community and its proposed project are in
accordance with all community and technical criteria for MASAF support and recommend the project for
MASAF funding.
Name                  Position               Signature             Date



71
ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 2
PUBLIC WORKS PROGRAM SELECTION CRrTERIA AND
PRINCIPLES OF IMPLEMENTATION
The following selection criteria will apply to the selection of public works activities:
* cannot be undertaken on a self-help basis because of nature and size;
* unskilled labor component is a significant portion of the total cost;
* implementation will not require specialized technical inputs and procedures; activities
can be started in a short time; and
* total cost of each project will not exceed MKI .5 million.
Principles of Implementation
The principles that have guided the design of the PW component are:
(A)  Accountability tIransparency
* The agency that maintains labor records will not make wage payments. A separate
agency/office will make payments to the laborers. Similarly, where material is to be
procured, the person who prepares the bill of material will not be the person who makes
the actual purchase. Using the bill prepared, procurement will be the responsibility of
another agency.
* A labor attendance register will be maintained by a project committee constituted for
each work. This committee will comprise representatives of the communitfies where the
work will be done. The project committee will record attendance daily. This will be
applicable in both work systems being proposed: (i) direct labor supervision by the
implementing agency and (ii) minor contract method (see D). The attendance statement
will be signed by the work supervisor and at least two committee members. This
register will be available for verification by all visiting supervisors.
* Labor attendance records and bills of material will be signed at least by two members of
the project committee. Copies of wage payment statements and material delivery
documents will be made available to the project committee.
* Decisions will be made through group consultation to the extent possible.
(B) Wages
The wage rate will be established at the national level with reference to the minimum wage for rural
areas. The present wage is MK7.50 per person/day. Work norms for individual labor will be
specified and made known to all participants in the program.



72
ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 2
(C) Timing of Activities:
The timing of public works will be determined by demand.
(D) Organisation of Works-Private Contractors
The works will be organised both through direct work supervision and minor contract methods.
Indirectly supervised works, the works supervisor or the concerned official will maintain labor
attendance records as required under existing procedures. The quantity of works would be
measured and recorded according to existing national guidelines.
The DRIMP minor contract system will be adopted to the PWP where MOW direct supervision
capacity at the district is inadequate. In such cases, piece works can be farmed-out through a
written arrangement, which will be co-signed by project committee members, the supervisor and
the council clerk. A copy of this contract will be attached to the labor register being maintained at
the community level. Generally, work to be contracted-out should be in small quantities so that
implementation can be monitored effectively. Several minor contracts can be farmed-out over time
within a single project MOW district staff will be trained, to manage such minor contracts.
(E) Private Sector Participation in Supervision. While executive agency at the district level will
carry out its own systematic supervision, MASAF will ensure in addition that supervision from
regional and national level is also carried out by: (i) MOW regional and national staff, (ii) private
consultants hired by MOW where the ministry has capacity constraints, and (iii) MASAF Public
Works Division (PWD). Each ongoing work will be supervised by one or more of these three
agencies once a month to measure and report the quantity and quality of work carried out. These
supervision teams will also check information in the labor register and discuss with the community
members the manner in which the work is being implemented. Each such supervisory team will
submit a detailed report of its inspection to the District Team and to the MASAF. (A detailed
format for supervision report will be designed).
(F) Sustainability. The Goveniment will gradually phase-in regular public resources to continue
the program beyond the life of the project. The communities may not be able to maintain the assets
by self-help unassisted. Maintenance can be one of the public works activities.
(G) Gender Concerns: The project will lay emphasis on employment to women. An effort will
be made to recruit women for employment in works. In Machinga, for example, the communities
decided that each labor gang consisting of 9 persons would have 6 women. Modalities for
enhancing benefits for women will be examined continuously to accommodate as many women as
possible.



73
ANNEX 1 1
Page 1 of 3
Schedule of MASAF Project Indicators
Input/process Indicators (CSP)              96/97       97/98        98/99       99/00        00/01      total
Number of projects under processing
(distribution by sector in pilot phase):
Education                                 70          70           70          70                      280
Health                                    20          20           20          20                       80
Water                                     80           80          80           80                     320
Economic Infrastructure                   30          30           30          30                      120
Turnaround time between application and
approval for funding                      3 months   3 months   3 months   3 months    3 months
Number of training courses held
Length of training
Type of training
Output Indicators (CSP)
Number of projects approved per year         200         200          200         200                     800
Number of projects with fully accounted-for
funds                                        200         200          200         200                     800
Input/process indicators (PWP)                                                                   _
Persondays of employment created in '000'   2,592       2,160        3,024       3,024        1,296      12,096
Labor intensity: unskilled labor cost/total  36           36          36           36          36          36
project cost (%/6)
Output indicators (PWP)                                                       .
Miles of rural road equivalent built2        951         792         1109         1109         475        4436
Number of households benefited from         25.92       21.60        30.24       30.24        12.96      120.96
Employment in '0003
Population to benefit from the employment   129.6        108.0       151.2        151.2        64.8       604.8
created in '0004
Total wage income transferred in MK
million                                      54           45          63           63          27         252
InpuVprocess indicators (PMAS)
Reviews of impact of CSP and PWP              2           2            2           2            2          10
Integrated household survey                                                         1                      2
Output Indicators                      X              _ __  _              X                _
Beneficiary assessments                       1            1           1            1           1          5
Number of studies completed                   2            3           3           3            3          14
I   This does not include employment of skilled workers (such as masons) or employment generated in the making of
items in the material component, such as laying bricks.
2    Since the mix of irrigation and road works would be determined as the project progresses, the quantity of assets built
is expressed in terms of road-miles equivalent. The average cost per mile is taken to be the average in the pilots, and
the exchange rate is assumed to be $S=MKI5. The wage rate and labor cost assumed are those in the pilots.
3   Experience from the pilots show that a person recruited initially does not vacate the job. Since PWP works create
about 100 days of employment every year on the project sites it is assumed that each participating household sends
only one member of the family who works for 100 days in a year.
4    An average household size of 5 members is assumed.



74
ANNEX 11
Page 2 of 3
Indicators to be tracked during Project                  Instrument                    Frequency
Types of IEC messages prepared (CSP) (input)         Quarterly MU Report                Quarterly
Vehicle for IEC message dissemination (CSP) (input)
Print
Radio
Quarterly MU Report                Quarterly
Number of people reached by IEC (CSP) (output)       Quarterly MU Report                Quarterly
Number of mobilized communities (CSP) (output)     Report from Zone Offices             Monthly
Project Committees (CSP) (input):
Level of participation in electing officers (chair,
secretary, treasurer, deputy treasurer)
Number of women elected (need 50%)
Education level of women elected
Experience of women elected   _
Facilitators (CSP) (input):
Type of facilitator
Public servant
NGO
Other
Duration needed
Required training
Used as a percentage of all CSPs
Number of women elected (need 50%) (CSP) (output)      Desk Appraisal                   Monthly
Number of applications received (CSP) (input)                              .
Number of applications not approved
and reason for rejection (CSP) (input)
Outside sector priority
Outside funding limit
Lack of community contribution
Lack of capacity                              Report from Zone Offices
Unsustainable project                           Quarterly MU Report
Time between receipt, approval and funding (CSP)
(input)                                              Quarterly MU Report                Quarterly
Number of people trained in (CSP) (input)
Bricklaying
Carpentry
Bookkeeping
Supervising road works
Repairing boreholes
Repairing roofs
Repairing windows
Repairing roads
Repairing culverts
Repairing embankments                            Zone Officers' Reports              Quarterly



75
ANNEX I 1
Page 3 of 3
Indicators to be tracked during Project                 Instrument                    Frequency
Types of community contributions per project (CSP)
(input):
Length/size of foundations dug
Contributions of materials
Number of bricks formed
Cash contribution in lieu of payment for labor
Hours of labor contributed                      Field Appraisal Reports             Monthly
Number of clients using services (PMAS) (output)       Annual Report                    Annual



76
ANNEX 12
Page 1 of 3
Institutional Arrangements and Study Cycle'
for
Studies financed under the Poverty Monitoring Support Facility
Institutional arrangements
One of the TWC's tasks is to commission and coordinate analysis of poverty-related
issues and ensure its dissemination. Accordingly, the TWC will set up a multi-disciplinary sub-
committee which will serve as a coordinating technical body for poverty-related research. The
sub-committee will consist of members of the TWC and include assigned PMU personnel. The
terrns of reference for this Poverty Analysis (PA) sub-committee will be defined by the TWC.
As a part of its tasks, the PA sub-committee will appraise studies to be funded from
PMSF resources. The PA sub-committee will assist in: (i) appraising study proposals, (ii)
identifying data sources relevant to the study proposal, (iii) advising researchers and reviewers
on methodological and analytical issues, (iv) monitoring progress of implementation of studies
and assist wherever possible in resolving implementation problems (e.g. by organizing research
seminars).
*  The PA sub-committee will assign reviewers and reject or recommend studies for
TWC approval according to pre-agreed criteria and recommendations from technical
reviewers.
*  The sub-committee is required to report back to the full TWC on the studies
approved and progress in studies under implementation.
*  The PA sub-committee will actively involve policy makers in the preparation of
research proposals as well as the discussions of research findings, so that
contemporary issues are dealt with. The PA sub-committee will also support and
encourage use of qualitative as well as quantitative approaches in the studies to be
undertaken.
*  The MASAF Beneficiary Assessments will be managed and coordinated with the
MASAF management unit.
*  The PMU will be responsible for dissemination of research findings.
*  In order to facilitate the functioning of the program for poverty analysis, the TWC
may, at a later date, identify the need for technical assistance.
It is expected that as it starts functioning, the PA sub-committee will begin to coordinate
studies to be financed not only through the PMSF, but also by other donors and GOM. This will
avoid duplication and encourage economies of scale in conducting analysis.
These institutional arrangements will be reviewed as the sub-committee is established
and starts functioning.
1 See also Annex 29 for funding arrangements for studies under the PMSF.



77
ANNEX 12
Page 2 of 3
Study Cycle for studies financed under the PMSF:
*  The TWC will decide on priority research areas for small studies. Study proposals in
the identified priority research areas will be solicited by the PA sub-committee
through widely-disseminated public announcements twice a year.
*  The TWC may also commission participatory poverty assessments2, or beneficiary
assessments or cost-effectiveness/cost-benefit evaluations of targeted interventions.
Proposals to carry out the commissioned assessments will be solicited by the PA
sub-committee through widely-disseminated public announcements. When national
capacity to conduct Beneficiary and Participatory assessments cannot be met, short
term international assistance will be hired.
*  The TWC may also commission National Poverty Studies which will typically use
survey data that are nationally representative and will analyze priority poverty
indicators at the national, regional, and district level. Proposals to carry out national
poverty studies will be solicited by the PA sub-committee through widely-
disseminated public announcements. When capacity to do such analysis cannot be
met nationally, short term international assistance will be hired.
*  The studies and analyses supported through the PMSF, together with other relevant
studies, should be summarized and used to build the Annual Report on status of
poverty and policy interventions (see above).
*  Study proposals will be submitted to the PA sub-committee. The proposal will
describe the objectives, hypothesis, analytical methods to be used, data sources, the
capability of the research team and the likely outcomes and policy relevance. A
budget should also be attached. A literature review should be part of the research
proposal and should reveal gaps in existing research and also identify issues which
require further research. The PA sub-committee will review the proposals to ensure
it complies with the selection criteria.
*  The PA sub-committee will assign two reviewers for each proposal. One of the
reviewers would be from the relevant institution expected to implement the results of
the research. Another reviewer would be a technical expert who can assess the
methodology proposed by the study. After the study has been reviewed and changes
made to the proposals, the study proposal will be resubmitted to the PA sub-
committee. At this stage, the sub-committee will select and recommend proposals to
the TWC for approval.
*  The reviewers will be expected to support the researcher and the research with study
seminars and assist with analytical and research issues. The reviewers will make
monthly reports to the PA sub-committee on progress in implementation of the
studies. The reviewers will also review the draft study report.
*  The PA sub-committee will report on in-progress studies to the TWC on a quarterly
basis. The completed studies are to be discussed by the TWC.
2Participatory Poverty Assessments may be conducted to investigate the priorities and needs of communities and
districts that are identified as very poor and may need special attention. The indicators to identify these
communities would be high morbidity, malnutrition, poor access to facilities and social services and lack of
community projects.



78
ANNEX 12
Page 3 of 3
* The PMU will disseminate results of the completed study to policy makers and
implementors, donors, NGO's and data collectors by making reports available,
workshops, seminars, radio programs, etc.
* Beneficiary Assessments of MASAF community and public works projects would be
conducted annually and feed into the development of MASAF project management
and implementation procedures. The MASAF MU will initiate and develop the
terms of reference for the beneficiary assessments to be undertaken in a yearly cycle.
The terms of reference will be submitted to the TWC for their inputs and comments,
revised accordingly and then put to tender. The BA team will report on findings to
the TWC and the MASAF MU.



1996               1               1997
ID   Na                                             Ect.AuMnJ SIaS                                     N FMAM JIJJF|M|A|M|J|J|A|S|O|ND  JFMA
1    DFRAFT ANNUAL WORK PLANS - MASAF                   555d       12115195  i
2        ADMINISTRATION                                 321d       12/16/96                                 _
21       FINANCE                                         31 Id       1/26/96
66       MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEM                   350d         1/1/968
66       Ongoing Activities                              304d        2/13/96
68       TRAINING                                        271d         311196                                 _
76       Ongoing Activites                              322d          3/11/96
80       IEC WORK PLANS                                  544d         1/1/
142       PUBLIC WORKS PROGRAM                           381d        2/13/S8                                                                                   O
169       FIELD OPERATIONS                                B9d          1/1/96
176       Ongoing acivities                               84d        2113196                                                                                      C 
186       TECHNICAL SERVICES                              70d         3/16                                                                                     O
192       Ongonlg Actvlgles                               20d        2113/96
0E 
Psoject:                          Cdtlcal                      Pwogrsse                     Sumfniary     w
Dale: 2/20196            ~~~~NorriSlcWC                Milestone  *Rolled Up <2



1996               1              1997
ID   Nam                                          Est Dun.       Start             FM|J|JAS|O|NDJF|M|AMJ                       ASOND MFMJJ
1   DRAFT ANNUAL WORK PLANS - MASAF                    SS5d       12/16/96
2       ADMINISTRATION                                 321d       12116196                                _
3           RoArult Staff                               4w          4/9/96
4           Procue Eqsmmni ad Futriture                 4w        12115195
5           Estabksh Zone officee                       6w          511196
6           Peper lotQtu seports                        lw          11/196
7           Subrmit quately reponts                      1w        6/10/S6
a           Ist qtu PSC R-evw meeting                    Od         3/1196
9           Prepare 2nd  tr. rporut                      1w         6/1196
10           Subadt quately reports                      1w        6/10/96
11           2nd qtr PSC Reviewrating                    Od         6/1/96
12           Prepwr 3rd qtr PSC Reviews                            '611                                                                                            0
00
13          SubmIt quterly repons                        1w        12/2/96                                                                                          0 0
14          3rd qt PSC Revbw nmetg                       Od         9/1/96
15          Prepao 4th Qtr. reports                      1w         6/1/96
16          Subnit quartry reports                       1w         313/97
17          4th qt PSC Rewlew meedng                     Od        12/11/96
18          Prepae amnual repons                         1 w       12/2/96                             I
19          SubmIt annual repor                          Od        1216/96
20           MASAF annul revIew                          2w        12/9/96
21       FINANCE                                       311d        1126/9*
56       MANAGEMENT INFORMtATION SYSTEM                350d          111/96
66       Ongoing ActdvItlee                            304d        2/13/96
68       TRAINING                                      271d         3/1/96                                                                                  (IQ6D 
76       Ongoing Aclvites                              322d         3/1/96                                                                                  O
80      IEC WORK PLANS                 S44d                         1/1/96            *_
142      PUBLIC WORKS PROGRAM                           361d        2/13/96                                                                                  CD 8
Project:                         C_de_               _    _  Proo_    s _    "_ Su_vwn_                                            _ 
Dole: 2/20k30                    Noncrdticl                   Milestone         *Rdl d Up <)



1996                                 1997
10    Nanm                                             Et. Durn.       Start      FM         |MJ|J|A|S|O||D |JFMAM JJ|A|S|O|N  D  JFM A
169       FIELD OPERATIONS                                    09d          111196
176       Ongolng activktia                                   84d         2113196
186       TECHNICAL SERVICES                                  70d          311196
192       Ongoing Actvivdoe                                   20di        2113196
00
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Project:                            Critical                       ProgFEiSa                      Sunmienay
Date: 2/20/96                       Noncritical                    Milaston   *                   Rolled Up   >



1996               T1997
ID    Nae                                            Est. DOurn.    Start      FMAM J IJAS               N IDJFJ FM1AIMIJ IJ1A[SO1N  D  J F                 A
1    DRAFT ANNsJAL WORK PLANS - MASAF                    555d        12/16195
2        ADMINISTRATION                                  321d        12/15/95 9      ___
21       FINANCE                                          31ld         112810 I_
22           Production of Financial Manual                 4w         1/28/96
23           Prepare Jan Disbursements and Repjanish        2d          3/1/96
24           Prepare Jan Expense report                     Id          3/3/96
25           PrFpacr Fab Disbursements and Rplanish         2d          3/1/96
26           Prepare Feb Expense rporn                      Id          3/3/86
27           Prapare Mar Disbureanernts and Replbnish       2d          3/1/96
28           Prepare Mar Expense report                     ld          3/3/96
2S           Prefe MASAF lst Otr Budget                     lw          3/1/9,
30           Preeent MASAF quanerly Budget                  Od        - 3/10/97
31           Prepare Apr Diabutsments and Replenish         2d          3/1/96
32           Prepare Apr Expense report                     Id          3/3196
33           Prepare May Disbursements and Replbniah        2d          3/1/96
34           Prepare May Expense report                       d         3/3/96
35           Prepare Jun Disbursements and Replenish        2d          3/1/96
36           Prepare Jun Expense report                     Id          3/3/96
37           Prepare MASAF 2nd Qtr Budget                   4w         3/10/97
38           Precent MASAF quarterly Budget                 Od          6/4/96
39           Prepare Jul Disburasninta snd Rsprenushm       2d          3/1/96
40           Prepare Jul Expenoe repon                      Id          3/3/96
41           Prepare Aug Disbursemnts nd Replenish          2d          3/1/96
42           Prepare Aug Expense report                     Id          3/3/90 
43           Prepare Sep Disbursements and Replnbsh         2d          3/1/96
44           Prepare Sep Expense repon                      Id          3/3/96                                                                                      O
45           Prepare MASAF 3rd Otr Budget                  4w         3/10/97
Project:                           Cdticbl                       Progress                      Sunmary V
Date: 2/20/96                      NoncdruiIa                    Milestone                     Rolled Up  (



1996                                1997
ID   Name                                            Est Durn.      Steel      F MIAIMIJIJIASOINID   J|FMAM J|J|A|S|OND     
46           Presont MASAF quartealy Budget                 Od          9/2196
47           Prepare Oct Disbursements and Replbnish        2d          311/96
48           Prepare Oct Expense report                     Id          3/3/96
49           Prepoae Nov Disbursements and Replenish        2d          3/1/96
so           Prepate Nov Expense report                     1d          313/96
51           Prepate Dec Disbursnemnts and Replenish        2d          3/1/96
52           Prepare Dec Expense report                     Id          3/3/96
53           Prepare MASAF 4th Otr Budget                   4w         3110/97
54           Present MASAF quertedV Budget                  Od        12/30/96
55           Prepare MASAF accounts for audit               3w          4/1/96
56       MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEM                    350d                          1il0____
66       Ongong Actvides                                  304d       i 2113196
se       TRAMiNNG                                         271d          3/1/96
76       Ongoing Actdtie.                                 322d          3/11/S
so       IEC WORK PLANS                                   544d          1/119    t   _
142       PUUBJC WORKS PROGRAM                            381d         21131986
159       FIELD OPERATIONS                                 89d          1/1/96
176       Ongoing ctivities                                84d         215/86
18S       TECHNICAL SERVICES                               70d          3/1196
192       OngoIn AAtvides                                  20d         211316
Project:                           Critical                      Progess                       Sunmmery
Date: 2/20196                      Noncritical                   Milestone                     Rolled Up K



1996                              1997
ID   Name                                          Est. urn.      Start      F MA  M  J JIASION  CD  J FIM  AIM  J JASIONIDJFIMIA
1   DRAFT ANNUAL WORK PLANS - MASAF                    655d        12115/96
2       ADMINISTRATION                                  321d       12116/f*
21       FINANCE                                        311d         1/26196 *             _
66       MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEM                  350d          1/1/SE 
57           Prepare Training Material                    2w          1/1198
68           Devalop Project Informtnion System           Sw         1/15/96
59           Develop Motor Vehicle Traing System          1w          41/797
60           Develop IEC data BasE                        2w          4n7/g7
61           Procure computers for Zone Officers          3w          4/7/97
62           Prepare MIS for PWP                          4w          4/7/97
63           Implment Accounting /Flnance system          4w          4n7/97
64           Train MU and Zone Officers                   3w          4/7/97
65           Prepare site lot Zone offico Computers       3w          4/7/57
66       Ongoing Acvitiles                              304d         2113/96
68       TRAINING                                       271d          3/1/1 96
76       Ongoing Activitee                              322d          3/1/96
80       SEC WORK PLANS                                 E44d          1/1/96 * 
142       PUBUC WORKS PROGRAM                            381d        2/13/96
ltg      FIELD OPERATIONS                                 89d         I/1/9
175      Ongoing activItie                                84d        2/13/96
186      TECHNICAL SERVICES                               70d         3/1/96
192       Onag Activitle                                 20d        V13/S6
0t'
. X
Project:                          Critical                     Progress                     Summary       wt
Date: 2/20/98                     Noncritical                  Milestone                    Rolled Up  2



1996                               1997
ID   Nam_                                           Et. Durn.      Start      FMJ I AISIOINID   JF|M|A|M|J J A|S|OND                                 F
1    DRAFT ANNUAL WORK PLANS - MAASAF                   S56d        12116195|6
2        ADMINISTRATION                                  321d       12116196                                  _
21       FINANCE                                         311Id                    ___          ____
So       MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEM                   350d          111196
68       Ongoing ActMd.k                                 304d         2113198
68       TRAINING                                        271d          3/1196
69           Pcepere TainIng McatrIal                      I w        3110197
70           MASAF Odentation                               Sd         5/1/96
71           Prepare Teradng activity f*pon                 Sd         6/1196
72           Train remwdaIng DECs                           Sd         6/1196
73           Review Project Cvce                           2w          3/1196
74           Deliver Diatict bvel training                 2w          41119O
75           Prepre  Project Policy Workshopa              2w          3/1196                                                                                          Lfl
76       Ongoing Actbahe                                 322d          3111S6
80       IEC WORK PLANS                                  S44d          1/19  *
142       PUBJC WORKS PROGRAM                             381d        2/13196
159       FEID OPERATIONS                                  89d         11/194
176       Ongoing eadtvld                                  84d        2/13196
165       TECHNICAL SERVICES                               70d        3W11/9
192       OngoIng AcdMde                                   20d        21131961
0W
Project:                           Critical                     P oess                       Sumary  V
Date: 2/20196                      Noncritical                   Aestonoe                    Rolled Up K



1996                                1997
ID    Narne                                          Est Durn.       Start     F|M|A|MiJiJ|A|SiO|NID  J|F|M|A|MJ|J|A|S|NDJ
I    DRAFT ANNUAL WORK PLANS - MASAF                     555d        12116/96                                                                     I
2        ADMINISTRATION                                  321d        1211S/9S    i
21       FINANCE                                          311d         i/261W1   __
S6       MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEM                    350d           19 _
66       OngoIng Activities                               304d         2113191                               _
68       TRAINING                                         271d          3/1/96
76       Ongoing Acdvitet                                 322d          311196
80       IEC WORK PLANS                                   544d          1/119 
142       PU8tiC WORKS PROGRAM                            381d         2/1319'I
19g       FIELD OPERATIONS                                  89d         11196*
160           Recruit Zone officers                         Sw         2/15196
161           Prepare Community project forms               4w       I  111196
162           Prepare Quarterly Work Plans                    d        1/29196
163           Prepare Ist quarter report                    1w          3/1196
164           Preprar fof PSC lrview                        4w          3/8196
165           Prepare Ouarterly Work Plaae                   Id         4/5i96
166           Prepare 2nd quarter repon 1w                             3/1/96   I
167           Prepare for PSC eview                         4w          3/8196
168           Prepare Quarterly Work Plans                   1 d        4/5196
169           Prepare 3rd quarter report                    1 w         3/1196
170           Prepare fOr PSC review                        4w          3/8/96
171           Prepare Ouarterly Work Plans                   1 d        4/5/96
172           Prepare 4th quarter repon                     1 w         3/11/96
173           Prepare for PSC review                        4w          318/96    *Q
174           Arrange for beneficiary assessments           4w          4/5/96       *0
175       Ongoing activitIes                               84d         2/13196
186       TECHNICAL SERVICES                               70d          3/1196   !_    _
Project:                           Critical                      Progress   -                  Sumnmary  w 
Date: 2/20196                      Nonctitica                    Mlestone                      Rolled Up O



I                         1                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~                                                      ~     ~~~~~~~~~~1996  1997   I
ID    Name                                           I Est.Durn. |      Start     IFMAIMIJIJIAISIOINIDIJ_IFIMIA IMJJASINIJIFIMIA
192       Ongoing Activties                                    20d         2113196
00
044
.~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ .
Otjm
Projict:                             CritiCal                       Progress                        Summas           .w
Oato: 2/20196                        NoncritIcol  M_Isiaone                                         Rollod Up  0



1996                              1997
ID  IName                                          Estn. Durn.     Start                     JIJII              IIIIIr              IIFFT
I    DRAFT ANNUAL WORK PLANS -MASAF                     66e d      12/15195  M|T|                       1     |        |      I      1             |
2        ADMINISTRATION                                 321d       12116196                                    _
21       FINANCE                                        31 Id        1/26196
66       MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEM                  350d          1/1/96
66       Ongoing Actvities                              304d         2/13/96
68       TRAINING                                       271d          311196
76       Ongoing Activites                              322d          311196
sO       IEC WORK PLANS                                 644d          1/11196 
142       PUBLIC WORKS PROGRAM                           381d        2113196
159       FIELD OPERATIONS                                89d         1/1196
176       Ongoing activities                              84d        2113/96
18S       TECHNICAL SERVICES                              70d         311196
186          PFepare bills of quantity                    3w          3/1/96                                                                                         00
00
187          Prepare material list                        3w         3/22/96
188          Prepare transport estinmaee                  2w         4/12/96
I89          prepare labor estimates                      4w         4/26/96
190          Prepare basic price let                      1w         5/24/96
191          PFepare loan agreements                      1w         5/31196
192  |   Ongoing Acivites                                 20d        2113196
Project:                          Critidcal    _    II         Proralas                     Summary       w  
Date: 2/20/98                     Noncritica                   L.ilestone                   Riled Up(



MASAF
ORGANIZATION STRUCTURE
Head,-7 ...-                          Head~~~~..
Admit, Of,   :Acountnt-  p'OffTchPctEino
; ~iSAsst
Zonessnger
MIS':"
..,,,,.
P Admin+'Unit.    iac Unitq  Field UInit   Technical Unit  ,'PWP Unit
F .Head  .-    :Head''-- Head              'Head  '       -Head:
cAdmin., Off.,.. Accountant    'Op )ff     Tech/Proc       Engineer
-^'Clerk - '" 'C'lerk ~:    'Justif:9Off '. -Officer    "  Officer
Zone Offices
Zone Ofricer
Admin -Off.                                                       >
Secretary                                                     , 
..    .   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
0 



90
ANNEX 15
Page 1 of 4
PUBLIC WORKS PROGRAM
INSTITUTIONAL ROLES
Institutions at the district and project area levels
Functions at the district level
Public Works Project management will be carried out at the district level through a Public
Works Team comprising the District Commissioner, the Clerk of the District Council and the Head
of the appropriate technical department (Ministry of Works or DRIMP for roads projects). Using a
team approach to public works management will allow each institution to focus on its area of
expertise and authority and increase transparency and accountability. In pilot tests, the three district
level offices have worked together smoothly. Although each of the three offices has its specific
functions, financial control of the project will rest with the three officials who will be collectively
and individually accountable. The district public works team will:
* identify projects in consultation with communities, local leaders, extension workers
and NGOs;
* prepare the projects identified;
* submit project proposals to MASAF Steering Committee for approval and funding;
* implement projects in the district;
* supervise, monitor and evaluate projects in the district;
* prepare monthly financial reports and quarterly progress reports.
I1 he District Commissioner will be responsible for:
* working with the District Council, technical departments, local leaders, NGOs and
others to identify, cost, and submit public works proposals to MASAF in accordance
with the allocations by EPA for a given annual cycle.
* informing local leaders and communities of approved projects and organizing project
committees for each project.
* educating project committees and communities on the scope of employment and works
planned and the operational issues, and resolving issues related to recruitment,
payment schedules, etc.
* working with project committees and other local leaders to resolve problems with
right-of-way, compensation, etc.



91
ANNEX 15
Page 2 of 4
helping to coordinate the work of the District Council staff, technical department staff
and project committee to ensure smooth implementation of the projects.
The Clerk of the District Council (working with the District Council Treasurer and other staff)
will be responsible for:
*  assisting with costing of project proposals submitted to MASAF;
* opening and maintaining a special bank account for public works projects (with the
Clerk of the Council, District Commissioner and technical department representative as
co-signatories);
*  drawing up payrolls for unskilled workers using labor register information provided
through the technical department;
* preparing annual budgets for administrative expenses reflecting planned/expected sub
project activities, to ensure that administrative expenses do not exceed the norm laid
down.
* making all payments to unskilled workers at project sites or home villages;
* procuring other goods and services needed by the public works projects and
transferring these to the technical department;
- funding authorized administrative expenses in support of the public works projects of
the District Commissioner, District Council staff and technical department staff;
- keeping detailed project accounts;
* preparing the financial and procurement sections of routine progress reports to the
MASAF PWD.
The District Head of the Technical Department (usually Ministry of Works/DRIMP) will be
responsible for:
*  helping to identify potential public wcrks projects in designated EPAs
* preparing the technical design of proposed public works projects, ensuring maximum
unskilled labor content and maintaining adequate quality standards;
* determining the staff needs, employment rates and schedule for approved public works
and assisting communities with recruitment of laborers;



92
ANNEX 15
Page 3 of 4
*  determining the need for allocating portions of the works to small contractors and, with
the assistance of the regional works office, preparing the tendering, bidding and
selection of such contractors. These procedures have already been used under a World
Bank-financed infrastructure project and would need only to be modified slightly for
use in the public works program.
*  routine supervision of the technical progress of public works including the quantity and
quality of the work as specified in standards and plans;
*  raising requests for procurement of needed tools and materials for public works
projects;
*  receipt of tools purchased by the district council and maintenance of tools stock
records using the regular Ministry of Works system for storage, allocation and
accountability;
*  receipt and use of materials purchased through the district council to carry out the
works;
*  regular reporting on the physical progress and quality of the works, materials used and
tools as part of the public works progress report.
*  assisting MASAF or national and regional supervisors in the technical inspection of
ongoing and completed works.
In the event that an NGO identifies and proposes a project, the NGO will carry out the planning and
implementation of the project in consultation with the district team of officials. Once the project
has been approved, the NGO will manage the project resources. The NGO will be accountable to
the District team of officials and the MASAF, who will oversee implementation of the project.
Functions at the project area level
Organization of the work at the project area level will involve several actors depending on the
design of the project. These may include site foremen (generally Roads Foremen), Contractors, and
Project Committees.
Site Foremen. For works directly managed, day-to-day supervision is the responsibility of the Site
Foreman (Roads Foremen in road projects). Following the detailed site design and layout
determined by the District level technical supervisor, they:
* organise recruitment of unskilled labor and any intermediate staff needed (such as capitaos
or clerks) from the community;



93
ANNEX 15
Page 4 of 4
*  assign daily work tasks
*  oversee skilled labor and the use of materials for needed construction for culverts, bridges,
etc.
*  ensure that quantity and quality norms are adhered to
* report progress and any problems to the district level supervisor
Contractors Contractors for minor works can be engaged using standard DRIMP procedures and
can carry out all the functions of the Site Foreman depending on the specifications of the contract.
Under the DRIMP projects contractors had their work certified by the Ministry of Works and were
paid according to work completed, without consideration of the details of labor use. However,
under public works projects the objective of maximising unskilled labor content is important.
Procedures to ensure that this is done will need to be added to standard contracts, and procedures to
ensure transparency in unskilled labor payment (section 4.5), such as involving the project
committee in labor registration and signing-off on payments may be needed. The current
arrangement will be modified as experience is gained during the first year of programme
implementation.
Project Committee Once a project has been identified, the community will form a Project
Committee. In general, the Committee will have representatives of all villages that will participate
in the project. The Committee will:
*   assist the District Public Works Team in preparing project proposals;
*   brief communities on project details including wage rate, amount of work to be
done by each worker in a day, mode of payment etc;
*   supervise the time-keeper and check the attendance recorded;
*   sign-off the labor attendance register and the wages roll/master sheet for payment;
and
*   settle conflicts on the project.
Members of the local community with experience may be recruited as "capitaos" or Roads
Foremen with supervision of laborers or as clerks to assist with keeping the labor registers up-to-
date. In contracted works, wages to capitaos and the clerk will be paid by the contractor. Members
of the project committee will not be reimbursed for their work as Committee members, though they
may join the works themselves.



94
ANNEX 16
Page 1 of 1
MALAWI
SOCIAL ACTION FUND PROJECT
IDA Estimated Disbursement Schedule
Semester Ending'            Disbursement by Semester        Cumulative Disbursement
FY96
December 31, 1995                        1.0                          1.0
June30, 1996                             4.0                          5.0
FY97
December 31, 1996                        5.0                         10.0
June 30, 1997                            6.0                         16.0
EY98
December 31, 1997                        6.0                         22.0
June30, 1998                             7.0                         29.0
EY-9
December31, 1998                         7.0                         36.0
June 30, 1999                            7.0                         43.0
FYOO
December 31, 1999                        7.0                         50.0
June 30, 2000                            3.0                         53.0
FYO1
December 31, 2000                        3.0                         56.0
June 30, 2001
IDA fiscal year runs from July I to June 30.



95
ANNEX 17
Page 1 of2
MALAWI SOCIAL ACTION FUND
Red Cross House                                                        Private Bag 352
Area 14                                                                   Capital City
Capital City                                                                    Lilongwe3 LONGWE 3
Tel 732 666
MALAWI                                                                        Fax: 732 339
The Peoples Fund for Community Development
MASAF ANNUAL REPORT FORMAT
I      INTRODUCTION
A. Overall implementation of the MASAF programme
B. Successes/achievements
C. Problems encountered and areas requiring further development.
II     STAFFING
A. The staff structure
B. Recruitment
C. Promotions
D. Transfers
E. Replacements
F. Training.
III  INFORMATION MANAGEMENT
A. Developments in the MIS.
IV  PROGRAMME DEVELOPMENT
A. Developments in project identification
B. Appraisal
C. Monitoring
D. Project completions
E. Maintenance activities.
V      PROJECT
A. The growth rate in project implementation
B. Donor or community contribution
C. Areas requiring further development.



96
ANNEX 17
Page 2 of 2
VI    FINANCIAL PROGRESS
A. Annexes to the quarterly report covering financial matters as follows
- Special Account Reconciliation for the year
- Local Accounts Reconciliation
- Breakdown of expenditure in comparison with the categories provided
in the Development Credit Agreement
- Summary of project fundedamount advanced and amount accounted
for(justified).
- Total project listing by zone, district and sector
- Schedule of physical and financial status of projects
- Schedule of completed projects
- Schedule of any projects recommended for suspension or closure with full
details for each recommendation.



97
ANNEX 18
Page 1 of 4
Supervision Plan
The MASAF/MU will carry out routine supervision of implementation of the project and
will be supported in the process by the IDA team led by the Team Leader. Supervisory functions
include:
(a)   review of activities listed under the first tranche for CSP and the labor and
wages registers for the PWP, procurement records and disbursements including
SOEs;
(b)    confirmation of adherence to the standard bidding documents for small works,
motor vehicles, equipment, consultants and project contract documents;
(c)   review of annual implementation work plans;
(d)   review of the monthly, quarterly and annual financial statements;
(e)    preparation and submission of all project implementation annual progress
reports;
(f)    arranging for and following up on annual audit reports of project accounts, SOEs
and management;
(g)    monitoring of routine implementation and of the key implementation indicators
agreed at negotiations;
(h)    preparation for and liaison with the IDA half-yearly supervision mission;
(i)    preparation for the Mid-term Review of the project.
In addition to the field supervision specified in Schedule 22, IDA staff will spend at least
10 staff weeks each year reviewing and commenting on procurement, disbursement, routine
reports and annual audits and management reports. The workload is expected to be high during
the early years of project implementation. As this is the first project of its type in Malawi, strong
support will be needed from the team.
Activities under the PWP and PMSF are still experimental; the Mid-term Review,
planned two years after start of implementation, will enable the team to assess physical,
institutional, process and financial progress against the initial targets agreed during negotiations.
The outcome of review would be the level of adjustment needed to the components' design for
the project targets to be achieved by the end of the project life. This estimate of adjustment will
derive from experience gained on the project.



98
ANNEX 18
Page 2 of 4
IDA Supervision Plan
Approximate Date  Activity               Staffing                             Weeks in Field
5/96               Project Launch        Task Manager                         10
PWP Specialist
PMSF Specialist
Implementation Specialist/ Operations
Analyst
MIS
Procurement
11/96             Supervision            Task Manager                         10
PWP Specialist
PMSF Specialist
Beneficiary Assessment Specialist
Financial Specialist
Operations Analyst
5/97               Annual Review         Task Manager                         6
PWP Specialist
PMSF Specialist
.__________________    Operations Analyst
11/97             Supervision            Task Manager                         4
._________________  ____________________  Financial  A nalyst
3/98               Supervision           Task Manager                         6
PWP Specialist
PMSF Specialist
Operations Analyst
10/98             Mid-term Review        Task Manager                         10
PWP Specialist
Irrigation/Water Specialist
Poverty Assessment
Implementation Specialist
Operations Analyst
3/99               Supervision           Task Manager                         4
Implementation Specialist
Operations Analyst
10/99             Annual Review          Task Manager                         8
PWP Specialist
PMSF Specialist
Implementation Specialist
Operations Analyst
3/2000             Supervision           Task Manager                         5
Beneficiary Assessment Specialist
Operations Analyst
10/2000           Annual Review          Task Manager                         8
PWP Specialist
PMSF Specialist
Architect
Operations Analyst
6/2001             Supervision Mission    Task Manager                        8
(Preparatory work for  PWP Specialist
Implementation        Procurement Disbursement
Completion Report)    Operations Analyst
PMSF Specialist
.________________                        Finance  Specialist



99
ANNEX 18
Page 3 of 4
Summary of TA and Training Services
Technical Assistance -CSP
Activity                       Description                     foreign/  person   person
local     days     days
foreign  local
1. Technical supervision.      The Project provides for some
technical supervision to be
contracted out, the cost of
which is built into the cost of
civil construction.
2. Training                    Training of DEC and other         local
stakeholders
trainees           1215
trainers           99
3. IEC                         local consultants to prepare      local             75
IEC messages
Technical Assistance -PWP
1. Technical supervision       The Project provides for some
technical supervision to be
contracted out, the cost of
which is built into the cost of
civil construction.
2. Upgrading the PIM           A detailed study of the DRIMP  local                50
administrative procedures with
recommendations on how they
can be modified for the public   foreign   20
works project implementation
manual
3. Training material'          Writing of training materials    local              20
for district officials
4. Monitoring system           Development of the project       local              20
monitoring system, in
particular computerized
project tracking
5. Irrigation activities       Feasibility study of irrigation    local            60
works in the public works
program                        foreign   60
6. Land reclamation            Feasibility study of land       local               60
reclamation works in the
public works program           foreign   40      _
7. Evaluation                  Program mid-term and final      local               20
evaluations
The training cost for PWP is included in the training cost for the CSP, since both components would deal with
similar deliverv agents such as DEC members and NOGs.



100
ANNEX 18
Page 4 of 4
Technical Assistance PMSF
1. Annual Report            MASAF's support to PMSF
will include technical support
to produce an annual report on
economic and social policy.
Details of the technical
assistance will be determined
by the poverty monitoring
Technical Working Committee
(TWC).
2. Workshops                 The technical support will also
help organize the workshops
for the TWC to guide the
development of the poverty
monitoring system, as well as
to organise user-producer
workshops to develop the
Integrated Household Survey
Program. Details of the
technical assistance will be
determined by the TWC.
The following person days of training and local technical assistance will be needed by year of the
project.2
Training and Technical Assistance (persondays)
Category       Item         year 1       2         3         4          5      total
1. Training   Trainees       420         255       180       180       180      1215
(p-days)
Trainers       36          27        12        12         12       99
(p-days)   _
2. Technical    Local         305          0        30        0          30      365
assistance    (p-days)
Foreign        120         0         0         0          0       120
(p-days)                         I
Units costs are assumed to be M1K254 per trainee person-day, MK996 per trainer person-day (using
US$1=MK15), US$100 per local TA person-day and US$500 per foreign TA person-day (inclusive
of extemal travel).
2   This does not include TA need under the PMSF.



MAP SECTION






IBRD 27747
3?          To Dor Fs SOIoO   '                                                                                    3
,fi     k p                                                 MALAWI
0 Nekenge
(Co               A RONGA '  .    COMMUNITY SUBPROJECTS
.'N D4khroooo  ;   .ZONES, DISTRICTS AND
The  bondies  rs,  kirlomba               PLACEMENT OF ZONE OFFICES
The boundaries, colors,                    .         
denominations and  any
other informahon shown
on  this map  do  not                                                                            ZON LEOFIgsoES 9
imply, on  the  part of                                   . - 2                                  ZONE O
The World  Bank  Group,                                                                  0             O MhFlq
any judgment on ry the lega                                                                      ZONE BOUNDARIES
status of any territory,                       R '~                                              ZOEBUDRE
or any endorsement                      ' f
or acceptance of such                                                                           tPRINCIPAL ROADS
boundaries.
)                   d        Lake \RIVERS
'dl'           KEko,nodO         LakeC.    TOWNS
B.yX  ACg,s$iF                   DISTRICT CAPITALS
t   bo o,~K '\          /yt j i             f,     NATIONAL CAPITAL
T                                                0         '   Cimun7)C  I                        DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
(  U lkoon       - - -     INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
MQr WI                KILOMETERS  0   20   40   60   d0  100
uC5_8  ;L;                                              MILES 0       20      40      60
\     K           2        OR~~~~~~~~D Nkholtpt
('    4t  3 
4 r 4
To Lusoko .                                       Oc o             Jn          '\
LILONGWE'.                    Boy
,                  LAo-5,        -
\edzd-                                        To N..colo
j          \        \            ,3r~~~~~~~UMook.coh, 
; tcneu         6              L
1  /   * ULIWONDE      /
SO~~~~~~~~~~~~                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~ A  OZomnbo 
KENYA       L,C .I  oBLNYE
a04d It     cokO  '->    /To Tele                     (BLANTYRE
ZI   TANZANIA                                    (                      ,ocIror 
NOAN                            Hkoo,eMULN
OCEAN                                                       8 MThvo    0 e8
ANGO          !   I'                                                       oo .                                    To BE lo
ZAMBIA                                                                  9 ^)
ZIMBABWE     MOZ    /      A-
NAMIBIA    <         1                   j
r  BOTSWANAN,                  ",DA*
K    ~ SOUTH)                                     3 AAA'CRE~e
J   AFRICA                      ,N
F'bru-,y 1996









IMAGING
Report No:      15345 MAI
Type: SAR



