Page  1
                                                            CONFORMED COPY
                                                     CREDIT NUMBER 2856 MAI
                       Development Credit Agreement
                       (Social Action Fund Project)
                                  between
                            REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                            Dated May 15, 1996
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 2856 MAI
                       DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
       AGREEMENT, dated May 15, 1996, between REPUBLIC OF MALAWI (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
       WHEREAS:  (A)  the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the financing of
the Project;
       (B)    the Association has received the Borrower's Policy
Framework for Poverty Alleviation Programme dated October 1995
(hereinafter called the Program), declaring, inter alia, the Borrower's
commitment to the execution of the Program; and
       WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms
and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
         NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
       Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
       (a)    The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
Page  2
       (b)    The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
                      "Except as the Association and the Borrower shall
                      otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a)
                      on account of expenditures in the territories of
                      any country which is not a member of the Bank or
                      for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
                      such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any
                      payment to persons or entities or for any import
                      of goods, if such payment or import, to the
                      knowledge of the Association is prohibited by a
                      decision of the United Nation Security Council
                      taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the
                      United Nations.".
       Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
       (a)    "MEPD" means the Borrower's Ministry of Economic Planning
and Development;
       (b)     "MOLGRD" means the Borrower's Ministry of Local Government
and Rural Development;
       (c)    "MOF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance;
       (d)    "MOWCACDSW" means the Borrower's Ministry of Women and
Children's Affairs, Community Development and Social Welfare;
       (e)    "MOE" means the Borrower's Ministry of Education;
       (f)    "MOHP" means the Borrower's Ministry of Health and
Population;
       (g)    "MRRA" means the Borrower's Ministry of Relief and
Rehabilitation Affairs;
       (h)    "MOALD" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture and
Livestock Development;
       (i)    "MIWD" means the Borrower's Ministry of Irrigation and
Water Development;
       (j)    "MOWS" means the Borrower's Ministry of Works and Supplies;
       (k)    "MASAF" means Malawi Social Action Fund, an autonomous unit
established as of July 1, 1995 within MEPD to carry out the Project;
       (l)    "MU" means the management unit of MASAF referred to in
paragraph 1 (a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
       (m)    "NGO" means a non-governmental organization duly authorized
to operate in the Borrower's territory;
       (n)    "PSC" means the Project Steering Committee referred to in
paragraph 1(b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
       (o)    "Project Committee" means a committee established by a
community to represent that community's interests, as specified in the
Implementation Manual (as hereinafter defined) during the identification,
preparation, appraisal and implementation of a Subproject or a PW
Activity (as hereinafter defined) and comprising a chairperson, a
secretary, a treasurer, a deputy treasurer and from three to five
members, all duly elected by the members of the community;
       (p)    "Grant" means a grant made or proposed to be made by MASAF
to finance a Subproject;
       (q)    "Subproject" means a specific development project financed
Page  3
or to be financed through a Grant extended under Part A.1 of  the Project;
       (r)    "Subproject Agreement" means an agreement to be entered
into between MASAF and a Beneficiary for the purpose of carrying out a
Subproject;
       (s)    "Beneficiary" means a community, including a village or a
group of villages, duly represented by a Project Committee, which is the
recipient of a Grant;
       (t)    "Implementation Manual" means the comprehensive manual for
the implementation of all components of the Project dated March 5, 1996
and referred to in paragraph 2(a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
       (u)    "PW Activity" means specific construction, rehabilitation
or maintenance works to be identified and carried out under Part B of
the Project;
       (v)    "Project Account" means the account referred to in Section
3.05(a) of this Agreement;
       (w)    "Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation
advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange
of letters dated January 31,1995, February 15, 1995, October 11, 1995, and
October 23, 1995, between the Borrower and the Association;
       (x)    "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
       (y)    "MK" means Malawi Kwacha, the Borrower's currency; and
       (z)    "District" means a district as defined in the Regional and
Districts Boundaries and Place Names Act, Cap. 18:04 of the Laws of Malawi.
                                  ARTICLE II
                                  The Credit
       Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development
Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty-
eight million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 38,000,000).
       Section 2.02.  (a)  The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for: (i) expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement (other than Part A.1 of the Project) and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit; and (ii) amounts paid (or, if the Association
shall so agree, to be paid) by MASAF on account of withdrawals made by a
Beneficiary under a Grant to meet the reasonable cost of goods, works or
consultancy services required for a Subproject and in respect of which
the withdrawal from the Credit Account is requested.
       (b)    The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including
appropriate protection against setoff, seizure or attachment. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
       (c)    Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall,
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to
itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the Project
Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to
pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized
amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be canceled.
       Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Page  4
       Section 2.04.  (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30
of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent
(1/2 of 1%) per annum.
       (b)    The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty
days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from
the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June
30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other rates as may be
set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment
date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
       (c)    The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of
any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in
the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section
4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to
the provisions of that Section.
       Section 2.05.  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
       Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
       Section 2.07.  (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual
installments payable on each April 1 and October 1 commencing  October 1,
2006 and ending April 1, 2036. Each installment to and including the
installment payable on April 1, 2016 shall be one percent (1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent
(2%) of such principal amount.
       (b)    Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in
constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall
consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may,
subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors
of the Association and after due consideration by them of the development
of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the
amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount of
the Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or
all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of
interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time,
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall
not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment
modification.
       (c)    If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may,
if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment
to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a)
above.
       Section 2.08.  The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
Page  5
       Section 3.01.  (a)  The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through MASAF with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial,
administrative, environmental and economic practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the Project; and
       (b)    Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance
with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
       Section 3.02.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
       Section 3.03.  For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General
Conditions, and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
       (a)    prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six (6)
months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for
this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan for the
future operation of the Project; and
       (b)    afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to
exchange views with the Borrower on said plan.
       Section 3.04.  (a)  The Borrower shall, not later than July 1,
1999, or by the date on which not less than fifty percent of the
proceeds of the Credit have been withdrawn from the Credit Account,
whichever shall occur first, carry out jointly with the Association
and MASAF, a comprehensive review of the Project, during which they shall
exchange views generally on all matters relating to the progress made in
the carrying out of the Project and the performance by the Borrower of
its obligations under this Agreement including, but not limited to a
review of the achievements of the Project in accordance with performance
indicators specified in the Implementation Manual, the implementation
and management aspects of the Project, the performance and use of
technical assistance personnel, the role of national counterpart staff,
the status and results of training, reporting, accounting and audit
performance, disbursement procedures and the overall sustainability of
the Project.
       (b)    Not later than thirty (30) days prior to the review
referred to in paragraph (a) above, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Association, for its comments, a report in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request, including an evaluation of the progress
achieved in implementing the various components of the Project and a
draft plan containing proposals for remedying any identified deficiencies.
       (c)    The Borrower shall, promptly after the review referred to
in paragraph (a) above, (i) prepare an action plan satisfactory to the
Association based on the recommendations stemming from the aforementioned
review, and (ii) adopt and implement such plan for the remainder of the
Project period.
       Section 3.05.  Without limitation upon the provisions of Section
3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall:
       (a)    open and maintain in a commercial bank, until the
completion of the Project, an account on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association;
       (b)    deposit into the Project Account an initial amount
equivalent to the Borrower's estimated share of counterpart funds for
the first quarter of Project implementation as shall be agreed upon by
the Borrower and the Association and thereafter, at quarterly intervals,
deposit into the Project Account such amounts as are estimated to be
Page  6
required for the ensuing quarter or such other amounts as shall be agreed
between the Borrower and the Association; and
       (c)    ensure that the amounts deposited into the Project Account
in accordance with paragraph (b) of this Section shall be used exclusively
for expenditures under the Project not otherwise financed from the
proceeds of the Credit.
       Section 3.06. The Borrower undertakes that unless the Association
shall otherwise agree, Subprojects shall be promoted, identified,
appraised, financed, carried out and maintained in accordance with
paragraphs 3, 4 and 5 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and the procedures
set forth in the Implementation Manual.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
       Section 4.01.  (a)  The Borrower shall cause MASAF to maintain
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices the operations and financial condition of MASAF.
       (b)    The Borrower shall:
              (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                    paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                    the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
                    in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                    consistently applied, by independent auditors
                    acceptable to the Association;
              (ii)  have the records and accounts referred to in
                    paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                    the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
                    in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                    consistently applied, by independent auditors
                    acceptable to the Association;
              (iii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
                    but in any case not later than six months after the
                    end of each such year, a certified copy of the report
                    of such audit by said auditors, of such scope,
                    including the preparation of appropriate management
                    and technical audits and in such detail as the
                    Association shall have reasonably requested; and
              (iv)  furnish to the Association such other information
                    concerning said records, accounts and the audit
                    thereof as the Association shall from time to time
                    reasonably request.
       (c)    For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure,
the Borrower shall:
              (i)   maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                    with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                    accounts reflecting such expenditures;
              (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Association
                    has received the audit report for the fiscal year in
                    which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account or
                    payment out of the Special Account was made, all
                    records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
                    and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
              (iii) enable the Association's representatives to examine
                    such records; and
              (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in
                    the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this
                    Section and that the report of such audit contains a
Page  7
                    separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                    statements of expenditure submitted during such
                    fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal
                    controls involved in their preparation, can be relied
                    upon to support the related withdrawals.
                                 ARTICLE V
                        Remedies of the Association
       Section 5.01.  Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely, that a
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or
a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
                                ARTICLE VI
                                Termination
       Section 6.01 The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VII
                Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
       Section 7.01.  The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
       Section 7.02.  The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
       For the Borrower:
              Ministry of Finance
              P.O. Box 30049
              Capital City
              Lilongwe 3
              Malawi
              Cable address:              Telex:
                      FINANCE             44407 MI
                      Lilongwe
       For the Association:
              International Development Association
              1818 H Street, NW
              Washington, D.C. 20433
              United States of America
              Cable address:              Telex:
                      INDEVAS             248423 (RCA)
                      Washington, D.C.     82987 (FTCC)
                                           64145 (WUI) or
                                          197688 (TRT)
       IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                         REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
                         By /s/ Willie Chokani
Page  8
                                                  Authorized Representative
                         INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         By /s/ Katherine Marshall
                                             Acting Regional Vice President
                                                                     Africa
                                SCHEDULE 1
                 Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.     The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to
be financed in each Category:
                      Amount of the
                          Credit                % of
                         Allocated            Expenditures
                       (Expressed in             to be
Category               SDR Equivalent)          Financed
(1)  Subprojects          20,500,000          95% of amounts paid
                                              by MASAF
(2)  Works under Part B    8,700,000          100% of foreign
     of the Project                           expenditures and
                                              95% of local
                                              expenditures
(3)  Equipment and Supplies                   100% of foreign
     under:                                   expenditures and
                                              90% of local
                                              expenditures
     (i)  Parts A.2 and 3    700,000
          of the Project and
     (ii) Part C of the      100,000
          Project
(4)  Consultants'                             100%
     Services, training
     and workshops under:
     (i)  Parts A.2 and 3  1,400,000
          of the Project; and
     (ii) Part C of the      300,000
          Project
(5)  Operating costs       1,500,000           95% in F/Y 96/97 and
                                               90% thereafter
(6)  Refunding of          1,400,000           Amounts due
     Project Preparation                       pursuant to
     Advance                                   Section 2.02 (c)
                                               of this Agreement
(7)  Unallocated           3,400,000
          TOTAL           38,000,000
2.     For the purposes of this Schedule:
Page  9
       (a)    the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of
the Borrower;
       (b)    the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
       (c)    the term "operating costs" means incremental recurrent
expenditures incurred on account of the Project for MU staff salaries,
per diem, benefits, professional fees, office supplies, fuel and
maintenance of vehicles, maintenance of equipment, telephone and other
communications charges, office rent and insurance.
3.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.     The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account
to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure:
       (a)    for expenditures under contracts for works not exceeding
$500,000 equivalent each;
       (b)    for expenditures under contracts for goods and consultants'
services, provided by firms, not exceeding $100,000 equivalent each; and
       (c)    for expenditures under contracts for consultants' services,
provided by individuals, not exceeding $50,000 each;
       under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify
by notice to the Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
       The objectives of the Project are to contribute towards poverty
reduction in the Borrower's territory through: (a) the provision of
additional resources for programs targeted at the poor; (b) the inclusion
of communities in project preparation and implementation; (c) support for
a district-level program of labor-intensive construction to be targeted
at the poorest districts and communities; and (d) strengthening poverty
monitoring and assessment.
       The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A: Community Subprojects
1.     Promotion, appraisal, supervision and evaluation of community-
based Subprojects and provision of Grants for the financing thereof, for:
       (a)    (i) upgrading and construction of infrastructure in the
education, health, water, transport and communications sectors; and (ii)
the construction of rural and urban markets, community water points and
granaries;
       (b)    the improved delivery of, and access to, social and economic
services, including: (i) a one-time supply of drugs for health facilities
and communities, (ii) desks for classrooms, and (iii) the provision of
technical advisory services.
2.     Provision of training and technical advisory services, and
acquisition of equipment, materials and vehicles: (a) to enhance the
technical and managerial capabilities of communities, the Borrower's
officials including MASAF Staff, NGOs and members of Project Committees
and their capabilities in self-managed development;  and (b) to reorient
and build capacities of community development facilitators, including,
individual community members, extension officers and NGOs, and to improve
Page  10
their capabilities in participatory planning and implementation of
poverty alleviation initiatives.
3.     Dissemination of the objectives and working principles of MASAF
through the implementation of sensitization, information, education and
communication activities.\0cPart B: Public Works Program.
4.     Carrying out of a safety net scheme in selected poor and food-
deficient areas of the Borrower's territory through the implementation
of a labor-intensive public works program, including, the construction,
rehabilitation and maintenance of roads and small-scale irrigation works.
Part C: Poverty Monitoring  Support Facility
       Strengthening the Borrower's capacity to monitor the living
conditions in the territory of the Borrower, including:
       (a)    building the Borrower's capacity to collect, analyse and
disseminate poverty-related data;
       (b)    the carrying out of integrated household surveys; and
       (c)    the establishment of a program for analysis of poverty
issues and assessment of the impact of economic policies and targeted
interventions on the poor; through the provision of equipment, supplies,
training and technical advisory services.
                                   * * *
       The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:    General
       Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the
following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:    International Competitive Bidding
1.     Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1
thereto.
2.     The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Paragraph 1 of
this Part B.
       Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic
       contractors
       The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of
the Borrower and works to be carried out by domestic contractors.
Part C:    Other Procurement Procedures
1.     National Competitive Bidding
       (a)    Goods including vehicles, equipment, furniture and supplies
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or less per contract and $300,000
equivalent or less in the aggregate, and
       (b)    works estimated to cost $500,000 equivalent or less per
contract and $10,300,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be
Page  11
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.     National Shopping
       Goods estimated to cost $30,000 equivalent or less per contract
and $500,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be procured on the
basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.     Community Participation
       Goods and works for Subprojects and PW Activities estimated to
cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed $41,700,000 equivalent, shall be procured in
accordance with the procedures set forth in the Implementation Manual.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.     Procurement Planning
       Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding
or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project
shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the
Association and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.     Prior Review
       With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more and for works estimated to cost the
equivalent of $500,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs
2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.     Post Review
       With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.   Employment of Consultants
1.     Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded
in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on
the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the
Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Association.
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank,
other standard forms acceptable to the Association shall be used.
2.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review
or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply:
to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost
less than $100,000 equivalent each, or (b) contracts for the employment
of individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each.
However, said exceptions to prior Association review shall not apply to:
(a) the terms of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection
of consulting firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably
determined by the Association, (d) amendments to contracts for the
employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000
equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment
of individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000
equivalent or above.
                                SCHEDULE 4
Page  12
                          Implementation Program
General
1.     (a)    The Borrower shall cause MASAF to: (i) maintain the
Management Unit (MU) which shall be responsible for the implementation
of the Project (ii) at all times maintain staff, with qualifications
and terms of reference acceptable to the Association, including a
manager, heads of the field operations, technical services, public works,
finance and administration divisions, and an internal auditor who shall
be appointed by not later than ninety days after the Effective Date.
       (b)    The Borrower shall continue to maintain the Project
Steering Committee (the PSC) established on April 27, 1995, to oversee
the work of MU. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, PSC shall,
(i) be chaired by the Principal Secretary of MEPD; and (ii) comprise the
following members: representatives of MOHP, MOE, MOWS, MOLGRD, MOF,
MOWCACDSW, MIWD, the Borrower's office for the Poverty Alleviation
Program, the National Commission for Women, the Council for Non
Governmental Organizations in Malawi, the Borrower's advisors on
development issues and the Manager of MASAF.
       (c)    PSC shall, on behalf of the Borrower: (i) provide overall
guidance on the management of the Project, (ii) give the MU directives
and guidance on the interpretation of the Borrower's policies pertaining
to those sectors affected by the Project, (iii) approve MU's annual work
plans, (iv) approve proposals to be financed by MASAF, and (v) ensure
that the budgetary allocations made to the various ministries of the
Borrower involved in the implementation of the various components of the
Project are adequate to cover the anticipated recurrent expenditures
required for the carrying out of Project activities.
2.     (a)    MU shall: (i) maintain the detailed and comprehensive
manual for the implementation of all components of the Project, (ii)
take all measures necessary to ensure that the Project is carried out
in conformity with the Implementation Manual, and (iii) not assign,
amend, abrogate or waive the Implementation Manual or any provision
thereof if, in the opinion of the Association, such assignment,
amendment or waiver will materially affect the implementation of the
Project.
       (b)    MU shall prepare and furnish to the Association, with
effect from July 1, 1996, for its review and comments, annual progress
reports in such form as the Association shall reasonably request,
including, an evaluation of the implementation of the various components
of the Project based on the work plan for the period under review,
identification of any problems encountered and suggested remedial
actions, and the work plan and budget required for the implementation
of the Project in the ensuing year.
       (c)    MU shall, not later than ninety days after the Effective
Date, commence the implementation of a training program for strengthening
the computerization of MASAF's accounting system to be carried out with
the assistance of consultants to be employed in accordance with the
provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Part A of the Project
3.     Eligibility Criteria for Subprojects
Without limitation on the provisions of Paragraph 2 (a) above, no
Subproject shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the
Credit unless the PSC of MASAF shall have determined, on the basis of
an appraisal conducted in accordance with the guidelines set forth in
the Implementation Manual, that the Subproject satisfies the eligibility
criteria specified in more detail in the Implementation Manual, which
shall include the following:
       (a)    the Subproject shall be for social and economic
infrastructure and services, including primary health, basic education,
rural water supply, feeder roads, and the construction of markets and
granaries;
Page  13
       (b)    the Subproject shall be initiated by a Beneficiary duly
represented by a Project Committee;
       (c)    the Subproject shall be economically, financially and
technically viable in accordance with the standards specified in the
Implementation Manual;
       (d)    the Beneficiary shall provide not less than 20% of the
estimated costs of the Subproject in the form of cash, materials, labor
or other services; and
       (f)    the Subproject shall be in compliance with the standards
set forth in the applicable laws and regulations of the Borrower relating
to health, safety and environmental protection.
4.     Terms and Conditions of Grants made for Subprojects
       In financing Subprojects, MASAF shall enter into a Subproject
Agreement with the Beneficiary, under terms and conditions which shall
include the following:
       (a)    financing to be on a grant basis and, unless otherwise
agreed with the Association, not to exceed the equivalent of $100,000
per Grant;
       (b)    the obligation to carry out the Subproject in accordance
with the Implementation Manual, with due diligence and efficiency and
in accordance with sound technical, financial, environmental and
managerial standards and to maintain adequate records to reflect, in
accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Subproject;
       (c)    the requirement that : (i) the goods, works and services
to be financed from the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in
accordance with the procedures set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement,
and (ii) such goods, works and services shall be used exclusively in the
carrying out of the Subproject;
       (d)    the right of MASAF to inspect by itself, or jointly with
the Association, if the Association shall so request, the goods, works,
sites, plants and construction included in the Subproject, the operations
thereof and any relevant records and documents;
       (e)    the right of MASAF to obtain all information as MASAF or
the Association shall reasonably request regarding the administration,
operation and financial conditions of the Subproject; and
       (f)    the right of MASAF to suspend or terminate the right of
the Beneficiary to use the proceeds of the Credit for the Subproject
upon the failure by the Beneficiary to perform any of its obligations
under the Subproject Agreement.
5.     In order to assist communities to expeditiously implement
Subprojects, the MU shall  maintain a unit cost data bank for monitoring
the cost of materials, goods, works and services,  and update such data
on a quarterly or semiannual basis.
Part B of the Project
6.     (a)  MASAF shall be responsible for the overall coordination of
implementation of PW Activities in accordance with the eligibility
criteria specified in the Implementation Manual including a
determination by MASAF that: (i) the nature and size of the PW Activity
is such that it cannot be carried out by the relevant community on a
self-help basis, (ii) the unskilled labor content of the PW Activity is
not less than 35% of the total cost thereof, (iii) implementation of the
PW Activity will not require specialized technical inputs and procedures
and can be started expeditiously, and (iv) the total cost shall not
exceed US$100,000 per PW Activity.
       (b)  MU's Public Works Division shall: (i) prepare the annual
Page  14
program of PW Activities, (ii) appraise proposals for PW Activities,
(iii) recommend to PSC the approval of financing for eligible PW
Activities and make arrangements for the supervision of approved PW
Activities, (iv) ensure that the appropriate sectoral ministries of
the Borrower: (A) provide the necessary supervision during the
implementation of PW Activities, and (B) develop appropriate procedures
for implementation.
7.     PW Activities shall be implemented, as appropriate, by (a) a team
(the District Team) comprising the District Commissioner, the Clerk of
Council and the Works Supervisors of MOWS assigned to the District, or
(b) private contractors selected in accordance with the procedures
specified in the Implementation Manual.
8.     The District Team shall also be responsible for:
       (a)    identifying PW Activities eligible for financing under
the Project in consultation with communities, local leaders, extension
workers and NGOs,
       (b)    determining whether the preparation and execution of a PW
Activity will be carried out by the District Office of MOWS, an NGO or
other private agency,
       (c)    preparing those PW Activities which have been identified,
       (d)    submitting PW Activity proposals to MU for approval by PSC
and financing under the Project,
       (e)    implementing all PW Activities to be carried out within
the District other than those which have been awarded to private
contractors as provided in paragraph 7(b) above,
       (f)    supervision, monitoring and evaluation of PW Activities,
       (g)    preparing monthly financial reports and quarterly progress
reports, and
       (h)    periodically informing  MU and representatives ofcommunities in the 
District on progress made in the implementation of
PW Activities.
Part C of the Project
9.     The Borrower shall maintain the technical working committee for
poverty monitoring (the Technical Working Committee) established on
July 12, 1995 to: (a) guide the development and design of the Borrower's
poverty monitoring assessment system, (b) appraise research proposals,
and provide guidance for the preparation of an annual economic and social
report and (c) prepare the annual work program for the use of poverty
monitoring support facility funds. The Technical Working Committee shall,
unless otherwise agreed with the Association, be chaired by the Principal
Secretary of MEPD, and comprise, inter alia, the coordinator of the
Office of Poverty Alleviation Program, and representatives of the
National Statistics Office, MOHP, MOWCACDSW, MOE, MOALD, Bunda College
of Agriculture  and  the Director of the Center for Social Research,
as members.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                              Special Account
1.     For the purposes of this Schedule:
       (a)    the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (5) in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
       (b)    the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of (i) the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project (other than Part A.1) and (ii)  Subprojects and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time
to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
Page  15
1 to this Agreement; and
       (c)    the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent
to $3,000,000, to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule,
provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to
US$2,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions  shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 10,000,000.
2.     Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.     After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
       (a)    For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or
deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and
deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower
shall have requested.
       (b)    (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                    Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
                    for deposits into the Special Account at such
                    intervals as the Association shall specify.
              (ii)  Prior to, or at the time of each such request,
                    the Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
                    documents and other evidence required pursuant to
                    paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                    payments in respect of which replenishment is
                    requested.  On the basis of each such request, the
                    Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                    withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
                    the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                    shall have requested and as shall have been shown by
                    said documents and other evidence to have been paid
                    out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and
other evidence.
4.     For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably
request, furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the
Special Account:
       (a)    if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V
of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement;
       (b)    if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Association, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
Page  16
       (c)    if, at any time, the Association shall have notified
the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right
of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant
to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
       (d)    once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special
commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of
the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice
to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.     (a)    If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule;
or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so
request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of
such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.
Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by
the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as
the case may be.
       (b)    If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association
such outstanding amount.
       (c)    The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
       (d)    Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
