                                                                                                           91784
Supporting Communities in Malawi                                                                           September 17, 2002
                          Until last year, students at Njewa Community Day Secondary School in Lilongwe, the capital of Malawi, attended
                          classes for only three hours a day.  They were forced to spend the greater part of the day at home because they
                          were using classrooms meant for a primary school.

                          To address these kinds of challenges, the Malawi government several years ago established the Malawi Social
                          Action Fund (MASAF), a facility backed by the World Bank. The MASAF was established specifically to bring
                          social services to the smallest communities across Malawi.

Thanks to this initiative, the people of Njewa now send their children to a new secondary day school.  Students who used to attend
classes outdoors now have proper classrooms, complete with chalkboards, desks, and chairs.  Teachers who once rented houses far
from their respective schools can now stay at the school, saving them time and the cost of travel.

What makes MASAF-funded projects unique is that the beneficiaries are able to supervise their projects through a democratically elected
Project Management Committee.  The Njewa committee oversaw the construction of the new school and housing for its teachers, and
reported back to the community on the project’s progress.  MASAF asks communities to contribute 20 percent toward the total cost of
each project—whether a school, clinic or market—which can be partly in the form of building materials and labor.  The Njewa community
raised the equivalent of $100, made 16,000 concrete blocks, and collected sand before they approached MASAF for funding.

Since its inception in 1995, MASAF has funded 4,697 classrooms throughout Malawi.  It also has supported the drilling of fresh water bore
holes, the construction of community health centers, and the establishment of new markets across Malawi.


Related Links:
  Malawi
  Malawi Social Action Fund

Updated: September 2002
