Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16819
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
Loan 2858-ME
June 27, 1997
Sector Leadership Group
Mexico Country Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY
Currency Unit                                New mexican Peso (N$)
S$1.00                       =              Mex$367 December 1985
S$1.00                       =              N$7.58 December 1996
$1.00                        =              N$7.8  June 1997
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
One Hectare (ha)             =               10,000 square meters
One Metric Ton (mt)          =              2,200 pounds
One Metric Ton (mt)          =               1,000kg
One Kilometer (km)           =              0,6215 miles
One Kilometer (km)           =               1,000 meters
One Cubic Meter (m3)         =               1,000 liters
One Liter                    =               1,000 mililiters
ABREVIATIONS AND ACRONYSM USED
ACF              = Costo Promedio de los Fondos
= Average Cost Funds
ERR              = Tasa Economica de Retorno
= Economic Rate of Return
FRR              = Tasa Financiera de Retorno
= Financial Rate of Return
FIDEIN           = Fideicomiso de Conjuntos, Parques y Ciudades Industriales
= Trust Fund for Industrial Park Dvelopment
FOGAIN           = Fondo de Garantia y Fomento a la Industria Mediana y Pequefia
=Guarantee Trust Fund for Small and Medium Industry Development
FOMIN            = Fondo Nacional de Fomento Industrial
= National Fund for Industrial Development
GIRA             = Acuerdo General de Tasas de Interes
= General Interest Rate Agreement
ICR              = Informe de Terminacion del Proyecto
= Implementation Completion Report
LCB              = Licitacion Publica Nacional
= Local Compettitive Bidding
NAFIN            = Nacional Financiera S.A
= Government National Industrial Development Bank
PAI              = Programa de Apoyo a la Industria Mediana y Pequefia
= National Program for SMI Development
PCR              = Informe de Terminacion del Proyecto
= Project Completion Report
PFI              = Intermediarios Financieros del Proyecto
= Participating Financial Intermediary
SA               = Cuentas Especiales
= Special Account
SECOFI           = Secretaria de Comercio y Fomento Industrial
= Ministry of Trade and Industrial Development
SINCAS           = Sociedades de Inversion
= Society of Investmenst
SOE              = Estados de Gastos
= Statement of Expenses
SMI              = Industria Pequefia y Mediana
= Small and Medium Industry
TA               = Asistencia Tecnica
= Technical Asistance
Vice President                 Shavid Javed Burki
Director                    Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Leader                    Carl Dahhnan
Task Manager                   Enrique Vanegas



Table of Contents                                   FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
P reface      ....   .......  ................. ........  ....   ...............................................    .........    .... . ................ . . .. ........ .. ..........i
Evaluation  Summary ......... .........................  .........i............ .......... ................................................... i
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
1.   In tro d u ctio n    .......................... ...................................... ......................  ....... .........  ........... .............  1
2.  Statement of Objectives and Design ...............................................2.                                                                  2
3.   Achievement of Objectives ..... . ..... ....  ...................................................................................4.....4
4. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project                                                              .7
5.   Project Sustainability .......... ...... ...    .......................................... ..................9... ............ ...........9
6.   Bank Performance ..................1...................... ....................................... 10
7. Borrower Performance ....................................... 11
8.   Assessment of Outcome  ..... .               ..  ... . .....1....................................................................................... I 1
9. Future Operations .12
10. Key Lessons Learned.  ............................12 ...    ............. .... . ....   ....    ......                             ............... 12
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:   Summary of Assessments ........................ .... ..... ..... ..... ..                                                       ..... .    14
Table 2:   Related Bank Loan/Credits ................................ 16
Table 3:          Project Timetable   ..                ..    ..    .... ..................1..............7...............................    ...... 17
Table 4:          Loan Disbursements: Cumulative and Actual ............................... ...... ..                                         .......... 18
Table 5:          Key Indicators for Project Implementation ................................................. ..                                         19
Table 6:          Key Indicators for Technical Assistance ........... .... ... ........... ........... ..                      ....  ...........0. ..... 20
Tablable 7:   Studies Programmed and Actual ...                                                       .                . ................  .. ...... 21
Table 8:          Project Cost ... ... ... ..... ..... ....  .....................................................................  ............ 22
Table 9:          Project Financing .......................................... ......................... .... .............    ... ..... 23
Table  10:    Use of Funds by Category .................4....... .... ........ .. . ... ....                                   .. . .....      . .   ... 24
Table 11: Number of Subloans by Size of Firms                                             ..25
Table 12. Total of Subprojects for Technical Assistance                                                               ..26
Table 13: Total of Subprojects by Amount                                           ..... ... ........... 27
Table  14:    Number of Subloans by Category ...................... .... ..........   ........    ..    .....    ... ...... 28
Table  15:    Number of Subloans by  States .........................                         .... .......... .... ....                                ..29
Table  16:    Number of Subloans by Matunty  ............................. ........ ..   ....                                           ...... .. .30
Table 17: Number of Subloans by Banks and Financial Intermediaries                                                             .            .             31
Table 18:  Status Of Legal Covenants ........................................I.... ...  ......... ........32
Table  19:    Compliance with Operational Manual Statement ......                                     ........................... ................... .33
Table 20:    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs  ... ... ..    ...  ......................... ......... ...                                 .....3............... 34
Table 21:  Bank Resources: Missions ........... ..... ........  ... ....                                                         ... ....  ..... .... 35
APPENDIXES
A.    - Aide Memoir of Mission
B.          Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



I
I



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
(Loan 2858-ME)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Fourth Small and Medium
Scale Industry Project in Mexico, for which Loan 2858-ME in the amount of US$185 million
equivalent -w-s approved by the Bank on June 25, 1987 and made effective on November 28,
'989.
The Loan was reduced to US$100.0 million in September 1988 per request of the GOM
and was closed on February 28, 1995. Final disbursement took place in July 1995.
The ICR was prepared by Mr. Enrique Vanegas (Task Manager) supported by Mr. Juan
L. Moreno, (Consultant), and reviewed by Carl Dahlman (Sector Leader) of the Finance Private
& Public Sector Leadership Group of Mexico Country Department, Latin America and Caribbean
Region.
Preparation of the ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision/completion mission
in July 1996. It is based, inter alia, on material in the project file and discussions with Bank staff
and representatives of the Borrower. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by
submitting a Final Implementation Report on the project with an evaluation of its execution which
is included as Appendix B



I



ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
(Loan 2858-ME)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.   In 1978, NAFIN established a program of assistance to small and medium
industries (SMIs), known as Programa de Apoyo Integral a la Industria Mediana y
Pequefia (PAI). The principal participants were: i) Fondo de Garantia y Fomento a la
Industria Media y Pequenia (FOGAIN), a credit rediscount fund involving commercial
banks and operated by a second tier institution; ii) Fondo Nacional de Fomento Industrial
(FOMIN), a risk capital financing fund; iii) Fideicomiso de Conjuntos, Parques y Ciudades
Industriales (FIDEIN), a credit and technical assistance fund for industrial estate
development; iv) an industrial extension services for SMI, provided by a newly created
corps of agents; and v) a technical secretariat to oversee the working of the PAI program
as a whole. The PAI program was supported under three previous Bank loans (SMI I -
III), which were the first made in Mexico for SMI development (see paras. 3-4)
According to the Performance Audit Report prepared by OED, two loans (SMI I & II)
were rated unsatisfactory and SMI III marginally satisfactory (see para. 5).
Project Objective and Design
2.    This project (SMI IV) was to continue to support GOM in its efforts to improve
the quality and range of financial/technical assistance to SMI. Its explicit objectives were
to: i) foster economic growth and employment by supporting SMI - particularly those that
were operationally viable, but in financial distress - by establishing an institutional and
financial framework conducive to financial restructuring; ii) promote regional
decentralization; iii) assist in the financing of microenterprises, particularly those managed
by women entrepreneurs; and iv) improve the policy framework for the development of
SMI. These objectives were to be met through six components, of which five provided
credit to: (i) FOGAIN to finance SMI's fixed assets and permanent working capital; (ii)
FOMIN to support its equity and quasi-equity investment programs, (iii) a pilot program
operated by FOMIN to fund financial packages including debt/equity swaps and financial
restructuring; (iv) FIDEIN to finance the development of industrial parks and buildings;
and (v) NAFIN to provide financing, on a pilot basis, to microenterprises that were unable
to borrow through the normal banking channels. The sixth component consisted of
technical assistance and extension services to be provided through PAI This component



iii
also included funds for institutional strengthening and to enable SECOFI in undertaking
key subsector studies to identify development constraints and to formulate policies to
promote SMI development (see para. 7)
Implementation Experience and Results
3.    Overall, the credit component was successful in reaching SMIs. The project
provided financial support when it was needed for their modernization and the opening of
the economy. Because ERR data were not available for the subprojects, we do not know if
the reported achievements of enhancement of SMI productive potential was realized. The
loan financed 3,512 subprojects by disbursing US$100 million. Among the factors
affecting project implementation were: (i) GOM's economic policies that resulted in a
period of low inflation and trade liberalization, free of market distortions and subsidies; (ii)
the long delay in loan effectiveness (26 months), which made the project design
complexity evident (see para. 26-27); (iii) NAFIN's organizational restructuring to
become a second tier bank (see para. 35); and (iv) the merger and later dissolution of the
three trust funds (FOGAIN, FOMIN, and FIDEIN)
4.    When assessing the project from its institution building perspective and improving
the policy framework, the objectives were not met. The development risk of the project
was not explicitly defined up front and well articulated protocols to limit, monitor and
manage exposure to development risk were absent. This was shown by the failure of the
technical assistance component to improve institutional development (see para. 24). Lack
of information and data on PFIs portfolio quality and Bank subprojects did not make
possible an analysis of SMI structure and its characteristics
5.    The performance of the Bank (see paras. 33-34) through some stages of the
project cycle was less than satisfactory. There was excessive emphasis on disbursement
performance, while the emphasis on institutional improvements was insufficient. With the
dissolution of the three main executing agencies, the Bank did not define an indicator (s)
to ensure that the project original objectives were understood and supported by NAFIN
(see para. 38e). This resulted in key activities not being carried out in areas such as
portfolio management and sector studies
6.    The performance of the Borrower/executing agency (see paras. 35-37) was
similarly inadequate. NAFIN's capabilities in project cycle activities were weak and did
not adequately maintain operational information on subprojects performance This limited
the ex-post review of the project However, NAFIN's performance in terms of solving
previous administrative problems was satisfactory, i.e., streamlining approval procedures
and decentralizing its operations.
Project Sustainability
7     With regard to the project subborrowers, field interviews conducted by the ICR
mission with beneficiaries and PFIs provided positive feedback on the loan results.



IV
However, sustainability can not be ascertained because of the lack of ERR data for the
subprojects, as previously mentioned.
8.    With regard to the organizational framework, the abolition of PAI and trust funds
reduced the sustainability of the institutional development impact. The provision of
technical and financial services to SMIs, as now established under NAFIN, is weakened by
the absence of subproject evaluation and NAFIN's limited supervision and reporting
capabilities.
Key Lessons Learned
9.    The lessons that may be learned from the experience gained during preparation and
implementation of SMI IV are as follows:
(a) Project Design. The design of SMI IV failed to identify and address the project's high
risks and low rewards, as experienced under the previous three operations. SMI IV's
novel features further complicated the institutional situation, which existed at the time of
appraisal. Adding new components and executing agencies did not simplify the
institutional structure. On the contrary, these features made it more complex Moreover,
efficiency in terms of staff resources and implementation times was lost. The long delay in
loan effectiveness should have been a "red-flag" for the flaws in project concept.
(b) Ownership. The lesson here is that the government needs to take ownership of
projects. When NAFIN became the sole executing agency - which was not anticipated
during or after appraisal - the Bank did not reassess the development objectives of the
loan. There was no evidence of NAFIN's responsiveness to the benefits that could be
derived from the activities supported by the institutional building component and the Bank
failed to recognize the limited leverage it had with a large development bank Implicit was
the lack of NAFIN's ownership and commitment to the project as initially envisaged which
was aimed at capacity building of the three trust funds, not NAFIN, and a policy
framework to develop an SMI culture. In retrospect, the Bank should have canceled the
loan or transformed it into a balance of payment support operation
(c) Feedback. The Bank should strengthen its feedback mechanism and its ability for
learning from its mistakes, so that the same problems do not persist through a string of
follow up projects SMI IV did not incorporate many of the lessons learned under SMI I,
II, and III.



I
I



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
(Loan 2858-ME)
PART 1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Introduction
1.      In 1978, NAFIN  established a program  of assistance to SMIs, known as Programa de
Apoyo Integral a la Industria Mediana y Pequefia (PAI)'. This program was to be implemented
through three NAFIN-administered trust funds, which were already supporting SMI activities.
The program's major objectives were to: (i) encourage more rapid growth in output and
employment in SMIs; (ii) facilitate the achievement of national plans for industrial decentralization
and regional development; (iii) foster more comprehensive and effective financial and technical
assistance to SMIs; and (iv) develop a mechanism to adapt SMI assistance programs to national
industrial development goals.
2.      The principal participants in the PAI program were: (i) the Fondo de Garantia y Fomento
a la Industria Mediana y Pequefia (FOGAIN)2, a credit rediscount fund involving commercial
banks; (ii) the Fondo Nacional de Fomento Industrial (FOMIN)3, a risk capital financing fund; (iii)
the Fideicomicio de Conjuntos, Parques y Ciudades Industriales (FIDEIN)4, a credit and technical
assistance fund for industrial estate development; (iv) an extension service group to help SMIs
improve their operations and to obtain assistance from the above funds or from other agencies in
the country or both; and (v) the Coordinating Committee with the Technical Secretariat, to
oversee the working of the PAI program as a whole.
/  PAI was the coordinating committee for the project agencies, which was part of the integrated program for SMIs. It was
governed by a high level Program Coordinating Committee, headed by the Director General of NAFIN that included the
heads of all participating institutions, as well as representatives from the Ministnes of Finance, Commerce and Industiy,
and Banco de Mexico.
2 /  FOGAIN was established in 1954 as NAFIN's trust fund to act as a second-tier credit rediscounting loans to micro,
small, and medium industnes for equipment & machinery.
3 /  FOMIVN was established in 1972 as a government's trust fund to assist small and medium size companies in carrying out
investment plans fostenng industrial diversification and regional development.
4/ FIDEIN was established in 1970 as a govemment's trust fund to promote and implement a national system of industrial
states to foster regional development and industrial decentralization FIDEIN's role was modified under SMI III. It
withdrew from the direct construction of factory buildings and the leasing of machinery and equipment and transferred to
FOGAIN responsibility for the provision of credit to firms wishing to finance their own buildings and facilities.



2
3.    The PAI program was supported under three previous Bank loans, which were the first
made in Mexico for SMI development: SMI I (Loan 1552 -ME of 1978 for US$47 million); SMI
II (Loan 1881-ME of 1980 for US$100 million) and SMI III (Loan 2325-ME of 1983 for
US$175 million). The main objectives of the three loans were to provide a range of financial
services, together with technical and managerial support, to SMIs, and to promote regional
decentralization.
4.    The loans were prepared and disbursed during an extremely turbulent period in Mexico's
economic history that culminated in a fundamental reorientation of government economic policies.
The macroeconomic situation featured growing economic stagnation in the early to mid-seventies,
an oil boom in the late seventies, and a major financial and balance of payment crisis in 1982. This
was followed by partial recovery in 1984-85 and a further financial crisis, accompanied by high
inflation in 1986 A sustainable recovery, based on massive cuts in government spending, began in
1987. The public sector deficit was eliminated and inflation was reduced to single digit levels by
1993. Since 1985, the GOM has carried out sweeping reforms designed to transform the Mexican
economy into one that is efficient, market-responsive and outward-oriented.
5.    According to the PAR (see Performance Audit Report No. 13257, June 30, 1994) for the
three loans, the resource transfer objective was met, but the projects' outcomes were limited in
terms of improving technical and managerial assistance to SMIs. The first two projects were rated
marginally unsatisfactory, and the third marginally satisfactory. This was mainly because under the
third project: (i) Mexico's need for resource transfers was greater; (ii) interest rates on new and
outstanding subloans were more appropriate; (iii) the implicit subsidization of SMIs was lower;
(iv) the institutional performance of one intermediary better; and (v) the operations of the
industrial extension service more cost-effective. Sustainability of the three projects was rated as
uncertain.
Statement of Objectives and Design
6.    The SMI IV's broad objective was to continue to support GOM in its efforts to improve
the quality and range of financial/technical assistance to SMIs. SMI IV had two novel
components: (i) a pilot component in financial restructuring and (ii) a micro-enterprise credit. The
project was targeted to SMIs whose financial viability was being undermined by high inflation,
lack of credit and the increased competitive pressure following GOM's recently introduced trade
liberalization measures. Accordingly, the project's specific objectives were to : (i) enable private
small and medium scale investors to make their existing units more competitive by investing in the
modernization, and expansion of their units; and helping them establish new enterprises; (ii) revive
production of existing SMIs, which were operationally viable but overleveraged, by establishing
an institutional and financial framework to support the restructuring of selected firms; (iii) help
disadvantaged segments of the industrial sector (informal micro-enterprises mainly managed by
women entrepreneurs) through a pilot credit and training scheme; and (iv) improve the policy
framework for SMI development by conducting a series of studies on the potential constraints of
SMIs.
7.    The project objectives were to be met through six components:



3
(a)   Credit Component. US$100 0 million, representing about half the loan, to finance
fixed assets investments, covering plant and machinery purchases, associated
working capital needs and related civil works. Up to 50% of the credit funds
(US$50.0 million) could be applied to financing free-standing permanent working
capital requirements. This type of financing was considered particularly critical
since it would stimulate employment by raising capacity utilization.
(b)   Risk Capital Component. US$20.0 million to support and broaden FOMIN's
equity and quasi-equity investment program, which was financing expansions by
existing firms and venture capital type investments by new entrepreneurs. For the
first time, this component would offer joint financing opportunities with the private
sector: investment companies, brokerage houses and state-owned venture capital
companies. As in the past, FOMIN would finance investments in fixed assets and
related permanent working capital (no more than US$10 0 million).
(c)   Financial Restructuring Component. US$25.0 million to be operated by
FOMIN on a pilot basis. It would provide funds for financial packages including
debt/equity swaps, lengthening of accumulative commercial banks debt and fresh
working capital and fixed assets investment resources. This was designed to meet
the long-term needs of companies that were operationally healthy and had good
prospects. An integral part was the technical assistance (TA) to develop
institutional capacity and associated skills for restructuring firms by FOMIN and
commercial banks. Bank funds were to finance fresh working capital and fixed
assets needs of restructuring companies, while FOMIN's own funds were to be
used to refinance existing assets in exceptional cases.
(d)   Factory Building and Industrial Park Development Component. US$10.0
million to finance the construction of factory buildings by lease operators within
industrial parks in the high priority industrial zones. The funds were to be available
on a selective basis for the expansion and/or modernization of industrial states in
the private or public sector, and establishing of new industrial parks primarily in
the export processing zones including those locations of in-bond maquila
industries
(e)   Pilot Micro-Enterprise Component. US$10.0 million to finance fixed asset
investments and long-term working capital needs of micro-enterprises, which were
unable to borrow through the normal banking channels NAFIN would on-lend to
public and private sector promotional agencies which had active micro-enterprise
lending programs.



4
(f)    Technical Assistance Component US$5.5 million to finance technical assistance
and extension services through FOMIN, FIDEIN and PAI, and for computer
equipment and related materials. Also, to develop key subsector studies to
promote SMI development. This component included the strengthening of
FOGAIN's management information system on portfolio management and
FIDEIN's staff training in credit evaluation and subproject preparation.
8.    Total project cost was estimated at US$350.3 million, of which about US$157.3 million
represented foreign exchange. The project financing plan anticipated substantial contributions
from other sources: (i) US$104.9 million from subproject sponsors and PFIs (ii) US$25.0 million
from FOGAIN; (iii) US$30.0 million from FOMIN/Government; (iv) US$2.0 million from
FIDEIN; (v) US$3.0 million from NAFIN; (vi) US$0.5 million from Secretaria de Comercio y
Fomento Industrial (SECOFI); and (vii) US$0.3 million from UNDP. The Bank loan of US$185 0
million would cover 100% of the project's estimated foreign exchange component and US$28.0
million of local costs. The total cost of the technical assistance (US$8.3 million) would be
financed by the Bank loan (US$5.5 million), and UNDP grant of US$0.3 million, and the
remaining US$2.5 million by NAFIN and the three trust funds.
9.    Following a long delay in effectiveness (see para. 26), the loan was reduced to US$100
million in September 1988 per request of GOM, because of the long gestation period and
FOGAIN's high liquidity.
10.   Loan disbursements were projected to take up to five years from mid-1988 to 1993. The
projected disbursement period was conservative compared to the average LAC industrial projects
and to the experience under the three previous projects. However, disbursements took longer than
anticipated because of the 26-month delay in loan effectiveness. Consequently, the original closing
date of December 31, 1993 was extended first to December 31, 1994 and then to February 28,
1995, to allow for full loan disbursement (see Tables 3 and 4). The Bank agreed to the
establishment of a Special Account (SA) and made an initial deposit of US$15 million. It also
allowed expenditures for subprojects below the free limit to be eligible for disbursement from the
SA and the use of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs).
11.   All the procurement was to be done in accordance with prevailing Bank guidelines.
NAFIN, together with FOGAIN, FIDEIN, and FOMIN, would ensure directly or through PFIs,
that goods and services financed from the loan would be competitive in quality and price and
appropriate for their client's needs. Procurement packages above $500,000 requiring Local
Competitive Bidding (LCB) would be reviewed by the Bank. Consultant services would be open
to recruitment of international consultants, selected in accordance with Bank Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants. As with the three previous projects, the accounts of NAFIN and the
executing agencies, (FOGAIN, FIDEIN, FOMIN and the PAI technical assistance unit), including
the SA and SOEs, would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.
Achievement of Objectives



5
12.   From the resource transfer point of view, the project achieved its objective. It provided
financial support to SMIs when it was needed for their modernization and the opening of the
economy. While ERR data was not available for the subprojects, the reported achievement of its
target group implies that substantial enhancement of SMI productive potential was realized by the
project (see para. 30). In addition, the Pilot Micro-Enterprise Component was successful in
providing credit to micro-enterprises and low income producers (see para. 22).
13.   From the point of view of improving the policy framework and achieving its institution
building objective, however, the results were limited. The development risk of the project was not
explicitly defined up front and well articulated protocols to limit, monitor and manage exposure to
development risk were absent. The sector development functions of PAI were replaced with
NAFIN's programs, but with different emphasis and limited success. Moreover, PAI's extension
program that provided technical support at the enterprise level was discontinued and its staff
disbanded. The sector studies - a joint SECOFI/UNDP undertaking to identify SMI constraints as
the basis to formulate policies to promote SMI development - were not carried out. The
development of restructuring programs for financially weak SMIs did not take place and a system
to gather data on the quality of portfolio from PFIs never materialized.
14    The project components' outcomes, once revised resource allocations were made after the
loan reduction from US$185 million to US$100 million, (see Allocation of Loan Table) were as
follows:
15.   The Credit Component (Revised allocation: US$35.1 million; Utilization: US$62.6
million). This component (63% of loan) proved to have a higher demand than initially anticipated
under both SAR (50% of loan) and the revised allocation (35%). The loan provided financial
support at a time when commercial banks were reluctant to lend to SMIs due to their higher risk
and funding cost. It even encouraged them to rediscount with NAFIN some medium term
subloans to SMI that otherwise would have been unavailable, because commercial bank
operations tend to be short term in nature. Field observation indicated that Bank resources were
instrumental in expanding the firms involved, increasing employment, and/or improving the
performance and competitiveness of beneficiaries.
16.   The allocated amount was modified several times to accommodate demand. First it was
increased to US$20.0 million in 1989, then to US$35.0 million in January 1992, ending at
US$62.6 million by 1994. A total of 1,416 subloans were made with an average of US$44,000
and a median of about US$25,000, only 13.5 % of the subloans were in excess of US$100,000.
The majority of the subloans carried out a relatively short maturity (less than three years), but
there were some (13%) over 5-year's. About 48% of the subloans were for financing working
capital and about 98% were for financing micro and small enterprises (see Table 11). The larger
number of subprojects were located in Mexico City, Jalisco, Nuevo Leon, Guanajuato and Puebla
(see Table 15). Eighteen commercial banks (see Table-17) participated, in addition to credit
unions with 269 subloans (19%). No data was provided by NAFIN on SMI industry subsectors.
In the period 1988 -1989, the interest rates to PFIs were at Certificados de la Tesoreria (CETES),
and the spread varied depending on the perceived credit risk and the type of PFI. Afterwards,
NAFIN' s interest rate policy mandated a 6% spread for all subloan categories (see para. 25).



6
17.   The Risk Capital Component (Revised allocation: US$24.9 million; Utilization:
US$1.9 million). This component was to support NAFIN's direct equity participation in SMI for
planned expansion by existing firms and investments in new firms. Under the three previous
operations, equity financing had had disappointing results, especially in the SMI III when it failed
to encourage the emergence of new minority investors and to establish a secondary market.
Nonetheless, FOMIN had developed into a fairly efficient organization with reasonable operating
costs and a good cadre of professionals and the Bank continued to support FOMIN's operations.
18.   Under SMI IV, the barriers to find small firms willing to organize themselves with equity
or to accept external partners, were not overcome. Only US$1.9 million for a total of 12
subprojects was disbursed, out of a revised allocation of US$24.9 million. Seven subprojects were
for quasi-equity to micro-enterprises, with an average amount of US$9,000 and five relatively
large subprojects had an average of US$350,000 (see Table 13).
19.   The Financial Restructuring Component (Revised allocation: US$0 million;
Utilization: US$0 million). There was no demand for this component and it was eventually
canceled.
20.   The Factory Building and Industrial Park Development Component (Revised
allocation: US$20 million; Utilization: US$15.1 million). At the beginning of project
execution, demand for financing was higher than estimated, but declined later because expansion
of industrial parks and factory buildings reached a degree of saturation by 1991. In addition,
FIDEIN, the specialized institution, was dissolved, and NAFIN's priorities were more oriented
toward regular credit to SMIs.
21.   Twenty eight infrastructure subprojects were financed with a total investment cost of
US$31.6 million during the period 1990-1991. The subprojects, averaging US$1/2 million, were
normally in US dollars and received large cofinancing from commercial banks. This ran counter to
the loan objectives of fostering new SMIs - average subloan amount under the other components
were much lower. Most of the subprojects were for export activities (maquiladora sector) and
located in Baja California, Puebla, and Chihuahua (see Table 15).
22.   The Pilot Micro-Enterprise Component (Revised allocation: US$15 million;
Utilization: US$15 million). This component was successful in achieving its objective of
reaching micro-enterprises and it was novel in the Bank's operation with SMI in Mexico. The
component was considered important because of its orientation to low income producers, with an
implication for poverty alleviation and credit to woman producers. Collateral requirement was a
constraint for micro-enterprises to get credit from commercial banks. During implementation a
higher free-limit threshold was allowed from US$20,000 at appraisal to US$26,000.
23.   Disbursements were slow at the beginning of implementation up until mid-1991, due to
Bank requirement to assess some PFIs' financial soundness, as a condition for disbursement.
However, Bank supervision later was lax or non-existent. To expedite disbursements, the Bank



7
agreed to NAFIN's request to include credit unions5 as PFIs. NAFIN's procedures for credit
approval were cumbersome, but this situation improved later when they were simplified. A total
of 2,056 subloans with an average amount of US$7,000 were granted to micro-enterprises. Of the
total, 71% of the subloans were for less than US$10,000. Most subloans had maturity of less than
three years (only 18 subloans had maturities of over five years) due to the concentration of
working capital lending. Credit unions handled 39% of the number of subprojects approved, and
the balance was handled through State Supported Development Agencies6 (Entidades de
Fomento). NGOs were not PFIs, as anticipated at appraisal, because at the time they were not
registered to issue lending contracts. No special effort was given for promoting credit to women
entrepreneurs because given the nature of the subloans, they were significantly represented and
employed in this subsector. The geographical distribution of the subloans was widespread in the
country, with a high number in the industrial regions of Nuevo Leon, San Luis Potosi, Sinaloa,
Guanajuato, Jalisco, Coahuila, Veracruz, Zacatecas and Oaxaca (see Tables. 13-15).
24.   The Technical Assistance Component (Revised allocation: US$5 million; Utilization:
US$5.4 million). This component did not achieve its objective of improving institutional
development. Key activities that were not carried out included: a) the establishment of a Control
and Information System for portfolio management to keep track of the quality and status of PFIs
subloan portfolio; b) the Evaluation of Subprojects to broaden the scope of NAFIN's monitoring
and supervision to include the development impact of subprojects and their repayment potential;
c) studies related to incentives, and the simplification of procedures required to enhance or set up
new enterprises; and d) PAI's industrial extension programs to continue throughout the life of the
project. The only objective achieved was the decentralization of NAFIN's operations as a means
to speed up subloan approvals. The TA component changed during implementation and funds
were reallocated (see para. 38d). Some goals, such as stronger credit appraisal capabilities of the
trust funds that were absorbed by NAFIN (see para. 26), previously contemplated, became
irrelevant. This was because after the reorganization of NAFIN as a second-tier institution, PFIs
were in charge of credit evaluation and bore the credit risk, except non-bank institutions such as
credit unions and Entidades de Fomento. The main TA financed (about US$2.3 million), not
anticipated at appraisal, was the establishment of an Asset/Liability Management System to
monitor NAFIN's financial and operating risks (see Tables 7 and 12).
Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
25.   The first key factor that affected implementation performance was complex project design.
Although coordination arrangements' were similar to the previous three projects, the Bank should
have devoted more time in addressing the added riskiness, complexity and demandingness when
5 /  Credit unions are pnvate business organizations of firms in the same activity or related industries.
6 /  State Supported Development Agencies are private and publicly supported promotional agencies with especial programs
to assist micro-enterpnses.
7 /  GOM decided the Project Coordinating Committee to be presided by the Sub-Secretary of Mimstry of Finance (SHCP)
and members of NAFIN, FOGAIN, FIDEIN, FOMIN, and SHCP. The Comnumttee's responsibilities included setting
priorities and policies for the Program operations and the use and allocation of the resources, review the results of the
operation, and closely monitoring the project's progress.



8
two new components (financial restructuring and pilot microenterprise) were introduced to the
four historical ones and three additional executing agencies for a total of six (FOGAIN, FOMIN,
FIDEIN, SECOFI, NAFIN and PAI) were managing the project Despite the fact that the three
trust finds were eventually merged with NAFIN, this policy decision by GOM was not
anticipated at the time of appraisal nor later consulted with the Bank. The Bank should have taken
a simpler approach in project design by reducing the number and scope of components. The Bank
should have focused on less ambitious, but sustainable objectives such as improving and
expanding industrial extension services and broadening understanding of the potential and
constraints of SMIs. Instead, in addition to achieving those goals, the loan was expected to
facilitate industrial deconcentration, to develop the institutional capability and associated skills for
restructuring firms by PFIs, and to support micro-enterprises in the informal sector, primarily
woman entrepreneurs, through a credit program. However, on the positive side, the Bank did
address some of the institutional and policy problems previously identified under the three
previous operations. Interest rates were set in real terms". NAFIN's decentralization of its
operations was accomplished. Subproject processing was simplified and became more efficient,
partly by reducing the process needed for subloans approval (see para. 37). Also, as previously
mentioned, the unanticipated absorption of the trust funds into NAFIN resolved the coordination
difficulties between the various institutions.
26     The second factor was the long gestation period. The project was identified during the
final stages of SMI III execution, approved in June 1987, signed in September 1987, and became
effective in November 1989. This long delay in effectiveness was caused by: a) NAFIN's
organizational restructuring to become a second tier bank; b) the liquidation and merger with
NAFIN of the three executing agencies (FOGAIN, FOMIN and FIDEIN), which involved a long
legal/financial process, especially in the allocation of the foreign exchange risk between the
Federal Government and NAFIN; and c) the reallocation of funds among the different
components from the reduction of loan amount of US$185 million approved by the Board to
US$100 million as requested by GOM.
Allocation of Loan
(US$million)
Credit                                           100.0                351                62 6
Risk Capital                                      20 0                24.9                1 9
Pilot Financial Restructuring                     25.0                  0                   0
Factory Building & Industrial Parks               10.0                20 0               15.1
Pilot Micro Enterprise                            10 0                15.0               15.0
Technical Assistance                               5 5                 5 0                5.4
Unallocated                                       14.5
Total                                            185 0               100.0              100.0
8/  The onlending terms had long been an issue m Mexico with all the previous projects, especially regarding FOGAIN
which was using fixed rates and were substantially negative in real terms It was agreed that onlending to sub-borrowers
should use interest rates which conform to General Interest Rate Agreement (GIRA) between the Bank and GOM, and to
be vanable over the life of the subloans.



9
27.   The new institutional arrangements did not affect the objective of providing financial
assistance to SMI, but did affect the project outcome.. The project's strong institution building
program was predicated on the trust funds (FOGAIN, FOMIN, FIDEIN) being the main
providers of technical and financial services to SMIs. Bank resources constituted their main
source of funds. NAFIN's role was supposed to be marginal (managing the Pilot Micro-Enterprise
Component). The overall implementation risk and the risk related to financial and economic
efficiency of resource allocation was reduced by FOGAIN and FOMIN, the two leading executing
agencies. They had developed into reasonably efficient and mature financial institutions. When
they were dissolved, NAFIN became the Borrower and sole executing agency. Although the Bank
supported the rationing of trust funds and streamlining of DFI's activities, the financial sector
reforms that took place did not differentiate the various level of professionalism embedded in
some of these institutions. With the merger, trust funds' senior staff disappeared and technical
capabilities were scattered and rendered impotent. Bank resources which represented the main
source of funds under the original scheme were now a fraction of the executing agency's and
consequently of reduced importance and influence (NAFIN's annual lending increased from
US$800 million prior to 1990 to US$2 billion later on). At the time, NAFIN was a large state
bank serving the industrial sector. It later became a second tier financial agent targeting SMIs and
functioning as a "discount window" rather than a traditional development bank involved in
analysis and evaluation of investment projects. The loan also did not meet its resource
mobilization target. Complementary external financing considered significant at appraisal,
including resources from private sector sponsors, financial institutions, GOM, and multilateral
agencies, was lower than 2:1
28.   Once loan became effective, disbursements moved faster up until 1991 when 73% of loan
funds had been disbursed. It then slowed in 1991-1992 due to NAFIN's reorganization and
resumed in 1994, by which time disbursements had reached 98% of the loan. To facilitate
implementation, the Bank agreed to frequent funds reallocation. The Bank also agreed to expedite
subloan approvals by exempting calculation of ERR and FRR to those below US$ 100,000 and to
delegate approval authority to NAFIN regional offices. Consequently, the economic and financial
analysis carried out by PFIs of the subprojects was minimal. Credit Unions' appraisal consisted
basically on evaluating the capacity of subborrowers to take on additional debt rather than their
credit worthiness. All these factors revealed that the Bank had a greater preoccupation with
disbursement than the economics of the project.
29.   Two changes in GOM's economic policies also helped to expedite loan disbursements.
First, the economic environment of the project was substantially different during implementation
as compared to appraisal. Project implementation was carried out during a period of low inflation
and economic liberalization. Second, commercial banks were reprivatized in 1991 contributing to
a more efficient financial system. In addition, banks' reserve requirements were lowered,
monetary policy relaxed, and massive private capital inflows led to a large credit expansion by
private banks.
Project Sustainability



10
30.   Since NAFIN did not carry out ex-post evaluation9 of subprojects, the actual economic
and financial benefits of the subprojects and their sustainability could not be quantified by the ICR
mission. As mentioned above, credit risk was absorbed by PFIs so NAFIN was repaid
independent of subloan status. However, in the case of non-bank intermediaries such as credit
unions and Entidades de Fomento, NAFIN de facto took the credit risk causing subsequent
substantial losses to NAFIN's portfolio. NAFIN's supervision consisted in ensuring that Bank
funds were used for the purposes they were intended and there was no attempt to measure their
development impact.
31.   Nonetheless, field interviews conducted by the ICR mission with beneficiaries of the
various loan components and with PFIs provided overall positive feedback, in aspects such as
employment creation, product sales increases and improvement in operating efficiency. In
addition, lending was provided under a liberal trade regime, free of market distortions and
subsidies.
32.   The abolition of PAI and the trust funds, however, reduced the sustainability of the
institutional development impact. NAFIN did not seem interested in the institutional features
proposed by the loan, as demonstrated by the TA failure (see para. 24). Regarding Bank SMI
lending sustainability, it is no longer relevant. With the reprivatization of the commercial banks
and the passage of NAFTA, there is increasing recognition by the banks of the profit potential of
SMI financing. SMI IV was the last Bank SMI project in Mexico.
Bank Performance
33.   The performance of the Bank through some stages of the project cycle was hardly
adequate. With the metamorphosis of the trust funds into departments of NAFIN, the Bank did
not define an indicator(s) to ensure that project's original objectives were understood and
supported by NAFIN. Bank supervision in terms of number of missions was satisfactory (about 2
missions per year) with matching number of staff resources (about 3.2 staffweeks). However,
Bank missions were not effective in bringing about the necessary basic changes for
implementation progress, such as: (a) the introduction of a management information system to
determine the status of subloans portfolio; (b) the adoption of procedures to measure the
development impact of subprojects; and (c) the undertaking of sector studies for SMI
development. Supervision missions focused excessively on disbursement performance and
inadequately on institutional improvements, proper data collection and reporting. Neither did
subproject visits carry out any monitoring of the financial performance of the PFIs, particularly
credit unions and Entidades de Fomento.
34.   During loan implementation, the Bank hesitated in taking drastic action or to cancel the
loan given the availability of Mexico's large capital inflows, although this latter possibility was
9 / In the period September-October, 1996, NAFIN carried out a survey of 104 beneficianes that had indicated the creation
of 2,600 jobs at an average cost of US$9,800. However, the survey did not include calculation of the internal rate of
return or their financial situation.



11
discussed with the Borrower. Also, a straight-forwardly transformation of the project into a
balance of payment support operation was not seriously considered.
Borrower Performance
35.   There were also significant shortcomings in the performance of the Borrower/executing
agency. NAFIN's capabilities in project cycle activities were weak and did not adequately
maintain operational information on subprojects performance following the merger of the trust
funds. This limited the ex-post review of the project. NAFIN failed initially to adequately
supervise non-bank lending practices but later contracted out an audit reviewl to determine their
non-performing assets, capital reserve requirements, provisions and write offs
36.   NAFIN ensured that the subloans were made in accordance with the loan's objectives and
that subproject lending was generally sound and met the criteria established.
37.   NAFIN's performance in terms of solving previous administrative problems was
satisfactory. Procedures were streamlined, cost savings were made by reducing subloans
processing time and staff training programs were intensified.
Assessment of Outcome
38.   The overall outcome can not be assessed as positive, with the exception of achieving one
major objective, which was to provide funds to SMI at positive real interest rates Below is a
summary to the extent of which objectives were achieved.
(a) Financing Sound Sub-Projects. Because ERR data are not available for the subprojects
carried out under the project, we do not know if the reported achievement of enhancement of
SMI productive potential through a reprivitized banking system was realized by the project. Non-
bank intermediaries's high default rate indicate resources were not efficiently allocated by these
PFIs. However, Mexico's macroeconomic situation provided an enabling environment - credit to
SMI was market-based with variable interest rates.
(b) Institutional Framework to Support Restructuring Strategies. The objective of establishing
institutional capabilities for restructuring firms by PFIs in offering financial work-out packages,
including debt/equity swaps, was not achieved. Few banks have an appetite for using borrowed
funds for high risk investments and there were little or no merchant banking capabilities in the
financial system.
(c) Regional Decentralization. The objective of decentralizing SMI was realized to some degree.
(d) Technical Assistance. The objective of providing improved technical and managerial support
to SMI was not achieved because the extension services provided by PAI were discontinued. The
1 / The audit showed that 26% of the credit umons participating in the project were deficient in subloan book-keeping
procedures and had a high default rate.



12
TA component of the loan was not modified to reflect the change of a new executing agency nor
was it focused on NAFIN's institutional interests. Consequently, much of the TA was not used as
intended. The formulation of SMI policies derived from sector studies, considered project
priorities, were not carried out.
(e) Developing Institutions. With regard to institutional development, the three trust funds for
which the project was designed were dissolved and no changes in project design/execution were
made to take this into account. The project's initial purpose changed from supporting an
organizational setting consisting of three relatively experienced, albeit small, financial institutions
as the main channels for financial/technical services delivery to SMI to a mere rediscounting
operation, with little value added, managed by a large development bank (US$30 billion in
assets"). This did not trigger a post appraisal mission by the Bank, particularly after a 26-month
delay in effectiveness, or later a reexamination of the project development objectives during
implementation
Future Operations
39.   For a number of reasons, no future operations were planned after SMI IV. NAFIN wanted
the Bank to consider a new loan in 1991. The Bank's response was that a follow up operation
could be considered if the GOM made an official request, and if decisive action was taken to
rationalize and restructure the development banking sector.
40.   During the 1990s, the Bank has not given priority to industrial credit lines channeled
through state development banks. In the case of Mexico, the Bank CAS has been geared to
support GOM's policies in solving the effects of the peso crisis, particularly its aftermath in the
banking system. Moreover, given NAFIN's ample resources, additional lending is not necessary
for the sector. At present, no new Bank lending is been contemplated for SMls.
Key Lessons Learned
41.   The lessons that may be learned from the experience gained during preparation and
implementation of SMI IV are as follows:
(a) Project Design. The design of SMI IV failed to identify and address the project's high risks
and low rewards, as experienced under the previous three operations. SMI IV's novel features
further complicated the institutional situation, which existed at the time of appraisal. Adding new
components and executing agencies did not simplify the institutional structure. On the contrary,
these features made it more complex. Moreover, efficiency in terms of staff resources and
implementation times was lost. The long delay in loan effectiveness should have been a "red-flag"
for the flaws in project concept.
(b) Ownership. The lesson here is that the government needs to take ownership of projects. When
NAFIN became the sole executing agency - which was not anticipated during appraisal - the Bank
" I NAFIN Annual Report 1993.



13
did not reassess the development objectives of the loan. There was no evidence of NAFIN's
responsiveness to the benefits that could be derived from the activities supported by the
institutional building component and the Bank failed to recognize the limited leverage it had with
a large development bank. Implicit was the lack of NAFIN's ownership and commitment to the
project as initially envisaged which was aimed at capacity building of the three trust finds, not
NAFIN, and a policy framework to develop an SMI culture. In retrospect, the Bank should have
canceled the loan or transformed it into a balance of payment support operation
(c) Feedback. The Bank should strengthen its feedback mechanism and its ability for learning
from its mistakes, so that the same problems do not persist through a string of follow up projects.
SMI IV did not incorporate many of the lessons learned under SMI I, II, and III.



14
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
(Loan 2858-ME)
PART II:    STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A: Achievement of Objective
:   ,,   .........  ;   -     -:   -   -   -;--    --   -;---  - - -  -   ':':t-'-''-  -'- -    '-Y-'-:<s'''  -'-' ....'.::...
A^evd dXitits~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .   :h Xi . .... ..  ........
Macro Policies                                                     X
Sector Policies                                      X
Financial objectives                    X
Institutional development                             X
Physical objectives                                                X
Poverty reduction                                                  X
Gender issues                                         X
Other social objectives                                            X
Environmental objectives                                           X
Public sector management                              X
Private sector development                            X
Other                                                              X



15
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
(Loan 2858-ME)
B. Proiect Sustainability
[  .........................."ktl    ,     - .....- . 
Project Sustainability                            X
C: Bank Performance
| kak Perfornivmnce    R*ghIy sgi~fOtdory $.tis. ...tary.            efDent
Identification                                     X
Preparation assistance                             X
Appraisal                                                              X
| Supervision                                                           X
D. Borrower Performance
Bortower P1*toiaoct  Wolsiy salis!at0t7tr     sasfactoryr          Defleient
Preparation                                         X
Implementation                                                         X
Covenant Compliance                                 X
Operation                                                              X
E. Assessment of Outcome
I                     H_hIy Satisfactory Satisfactory  Unsati-sfactor H  Unsatisf r
Assessment of Outcome                               X



16
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
(Loan 2858-ME)
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
1. First Small and Medium Scale To generate growth in     1978     Closed  Completed Nov 88
Industry Development Project   employment and promote                      PCR No. 7552
(SMI-I) (1552-ME)            regional development                          December 1988
2. Second Small and Medium   Same as above                1980     Closed  Completed Dec 85
Scale Industry Development                                                 PCR No. 7522
Project (SMI-II) (1881-ME)                                                 December 1988
3. Third Small and Medium    Same as above                1983     Closed  Completed March 89
Scale Industry Development                                                 PCR No. 11484
Project (SMI-II) (2325-ME)                                                 December, 1992
4.- Industrial Recovery Project  Improve the quality and  1986     Closed  Completed June 92
(2746-ME)                    broaden the scope of                          PCR No. 12234
financial services to                         August, 1993
medium-sized and large
companies
5- Industrial Sector Policy Loan  Industrial Policy Reform  1989   Closed  Completed, Dec 90
(3087-ME)                                                                  PCWRNo. 12238
August, 1993
6.- Industrial Restructuring  Restructuring several       1989     Closed  Completed Dec. 94
Project (3047-ME)            industries in response to the                 PCR No. 14679
opening of the economy                        October, 1994



17
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
(Loan 2858-ME)
Table 3: Project Timetable
Identification             Feb. 19, 1986                        Feb. 19, 1996
Preparation                 July 15, 1986                        July 15, 1986
Appraisal                  Sept. 23, 1986                       Sept. 23, 1986
Negotiation                 May 8, 1987                          May 8, 1987
Board Presentation         June 26, 1987                        June 26, 1987
Signing                     July 10, 1987                       Sept. 30, 1987
Effectiveness               July 30, 1987    March 31, 1989    Nov. 28, 1989*
Completion                 June 30, 1993      June 30, 1990   August 31, 1994
Loan Closing               Dec. 31, 1993      Dec. 31, 1994     Feb. 28, 1995
* Prior to effectiveness, the loan was reduced to US$100 million in September
1988.



18
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
(Loan 2858-ME)
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative and Actual
(US$ million)
|ppraisal Etimate     6.0  42.2   88.3  125.3  152.3  162.3  185.3
Revised*                2.7  22.8   47.7   67.6   82.2   93.0  100.0
Actual                        15.0   52.1   77.1   79.2   82.3   99.8  100.0
ctualas% of Estimate    0  65.9  109.4  114.1   96.3   88.5   99.7
* The Bank Loan was reduced from US$185.0 to US$100 million in September 1988.
Date of final disbursement: July 5, 1995



19
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
(Loan 2858-ME)
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation.
*8 anS P   ~..................  Y F4&  F        PY   YV     FY4 2  FY49   MU:94
1. Credit Component
oan Commitments            10%    25%    50%    100%
Subloans Programmed         15%    50%    60%    80%    100%
Actual Commitments                         23%    38%    57%    57%    100%
Actual Subloans                            27%    32%    61%    61%    100%
2. Risk Capital**
Subloans Programmed          5%     20%    50%    75%    100%
Actual                                                    83%    100%
3. Financial Restructuring
Subloans Programmed                 15%    40%    80%    100%
Actual                                   Canceled
. Industrial buildings/Parks
Subloans Programmed         20%    40%    60%    100%
Actual                                             50%    89%    100%
* Loan program was reduced to US$100 million and revised allocation were
effected for each component (see Table Allocation of Loan)
** Risk Capital utilization was US$1.9 million and not the revised allocation of
US$24.9 million



20
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
- FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
(Loan 2858-ME)
Table 6: Key Indicators for Technical Assistance.
a) Institutional Development
Establishment of Project Evaluation units in PFIs 3 banks 4 banks 2 banks    Not done
) System Development
To develop a central information system for
financial and operation information, including
provision for the development of computerized
ortfoli( control system.
c) Staff Training                                                    Not done
Number Expected                                    150    300   Financial courses
for borrowers
NAFIN trained the
PFIs staff
r)FOGAIN/PFI Loan Portfolio Monitoring
System
Strengthening Control and Information System                         Not done
o know the quality and status of PFI's project
portfolio, including loan recovery.
e) Evaluation of Subproject Impact
It was expected to broaden the scope of                              Not done
NAFIN's monitoring and supervision activities to
nclude: (a) the economic impact of the
subprojects; (b) their repayment potential.



21
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
(Loan 2858-ME)
Table 7: Studies Programmed and Actual.
....~~~~~~~~~~~~~~... ...  N. v--.....v--.- ...   --........  ....   --v- --    -- - ------------- --   - - ---s-  .........    ...........................    ...    ..    .    . -   -   Ds - ------------
Programmed at Appraisal
*  Regulatory Framework                                                 Not done
*  Effectiveness of Fiscal Incentives                                   Not done
.   & Incentive Scheme Regulations for Subcontracting
*  Subsector Studies                                                    Not done
*  Organizational and staffing requirements of FIDEIN            FIDEIN was absorbed by
NAFIN
*  FIDEIN as a second tier institution                                      "
*  Mid-term Review. of FIDEIN Program                                       "
Actual Studies*
*  Investigaci6n del perfil del empresario mexicano, el                   Done
funcionamiento de su empresa y sus expectativas econ6micas
*  Censo de la red de apoyos puiblicos y privados para el                 Done
desarrollo de las empresas micro, pequefias y medianas en
Mexico
*  Segunda etapa del estudio del sistema de administraci6n y              Done
riesgo de NAFIN
* None of the studies were policy oriented.



22
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
(Loan 2858-ME)
Table 8: Project Cost
(US$ million)
Appraisdl                       Actual*
Prject Comp2neuts             Local Foreign   Total            Local ForEign*    Total
CreditProgram                  106.0   84.0    190.0            39.1      62.6    101.7
sk Capital                    22.5   16.0       38.5           5.3       1.9       7.2
ndustrial Restructuring***     45.0   25.0         70
actoiy - Industrial Parks      10.0    7.0       17.0          16.5      15.1      31.6
cr0-enterprises                7.0    5.0      12.0            1.8      15.0      16.8
echnical Assistance             2.5    5.8       8.3                      5.4       5.4
nallocated                             14.5      4.5
yotal                         193.0  157.3    350.3            62.7    100.0    162.7
- The Bank Loan was reduced from US$185.0 million to US$100.0 million.
** Bank loan.
*** This component was canceled.



23
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
(Loan 2858-ME)
Table 9: Project Financing
(US$ million)
Appais          :                  ActuaS*
.oue                       Lo  .  . cal   1xorfign   TotI l  Local. Foreign**    Th
World Bank                   28.0    157.0   185.0                       100.0    100.0
FOGAIN***                    25.0              25.0
FOMIN***                     30.0               30.0
FIDEIN***                     2.0                2.0
Intermediaries/Beneficiaries    104.5          104.5           41.0                 41.0
NAFIN                         3.0                3 0           21.7                 21.7
SECOFI****                    0.5               0.5
UNDP****                                0.3      0.3
TOTAL                       193.0    157.3   350.3            62.7       100.0    162.7
* The Bank Loan was reduced from US$185.0 million to US$100.0 million
*This corresponds to the Bank loan.
*** The institutions were absorbed by NAFIN.
****The study with SECOFI, in part financed by UNDP, was canceled.



24
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
(Loan 2858-ME)
Table 10: Use of Funds by Category
(US$ million)
irrojec*Comwpuntt           Fixed      Working    Equity   Others    T*bt
-   - --      hAsses       C*ipta
Credit Program               51.7        50.0                            101.7
Risk Capital                                          7.2                 7.2
Industrial Restructuring*                                                  0
Factory -Industrial Parks    31.6                                        31.6
Micro-enterprises             9.9         6.9                            16.8
Technical Assistance                                            5.4       5.4
Total                        93 2        56 9        7.2        5.4      162.7
* This component was canceled



25
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
(Loan 2858-ME)
Table 11: Number Of Subloans By Size of Firms
Comp-ognat           MkA    ...  Sma.l** Medhnm***  Ttal
Credit Program              683         708         25        1416
Risk Capital                 7           7           5         12
Industrial Restructuring
(canceled)
Factory- hndustrial Parks                14         14         28
Micro-Enterprise           2056                               2056
Total                      2746         722         44        3512
* Micro-industries are individuals, corporate bodies or cooperatives which employ up to 15
persons and whose net sales total less than Mex$40 million/year.
** Small-scale industries are units that do not fall within the previous category, have up to 100
employees and show sales not exceeding Mex$500 million/year.
*** Medium-scale industries are units that do not fit into either of the previous categories, have
up to 250 employees, and show sales not exceeding Mex$1. 1 billion/year.
Source: NAFIN



26
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
(Loan 2858-ME)
Table 12: Total of Subprojects for Technical Assistance.
Type Iup#jt                        uef                 wt
Studies and Research                  3               2,571
Support to Courses                    11              1,240
Promotion                             11               802
Assistance on Technical Aspects        3                 84
Seminars                               7               110
Institutional Support to NAFIN         1               571
Total                                36               5,387



27
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
(Loan 2858-ME)
Table 13: Total of Subprojects by Amount
<10,000               280         5                     1468        1753
10,001 to 20,000      331         2                     412         745
20,0001 to 40,000     322                    1          176         499
40,0001 to 60,000      120                   1                      121
60,0001 to 100,000    172                    2                      174
100,001 to 500,000    189         4         15                      208
500,001 to 1000,000    2          1          7                       10
1,000,001 or more                            2                       2
Total                 1416        1 2       28          2056        3512



28
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2858-ME)
Table 14: Number Of Subloans By Category
Credfit Program                                       733              683           1416
Risk Capital                  5            7                                          12
Industrial Restructuring*
Factory- Industrial Parks                              28                             28
Micro-Enterprise                                      983              1073          205
Total                         5            7          1744             1756          3512
* This component was canceled
Source: NAFIN



29
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
(Loan 2858-ME)
Table No. 15: Number Of Subloans By States
Aguascaientes              40                                                          50              90
Baja Califomia Norte       23                                   5                                      28
Baja California Sur         8                                                          15              23
Campeche                    3                                                          55              58
Coahuila                   49                                   4                      88              131
Colina                      15             7                                           49              71
Chiapas                     15                                                         48              63
Chihuahua                  44               1                   4                      30              79
Distrito Federal           64                                   1                      37              101
Durango                    41                                                          114             155
Guanajuato                 142                                                         110             252
Guerrero                    31                                                         57              88
Hidalgo                     30                                                                         30
Jalisco                    197              1                                          87              285
Estado de Mexico           65               1                                           7              73
Michoacan                   33                                                         19              52
Morelos                    25                                                          70              95
Nayarit                     17                                                         24              41
Nuevo Leon                 103              1                   2                      373             479
Oaxaca                     27                                                          156             183
Puebla                      83                                  7                      19              103
Queretaro                  23                                                          62              95
Quintana Roo                16                                                                         16
San Luis Potosi            45                                                          126             171
Sinaloa                    76                                   1                      133            210
Sonora        -            52                                                          56              115
Tabasco                     17                                                                         17
Tampico                     40                                  3                      23              66
Tlaxcala                    18              1                   1                      44              64
Veracruz                    36                                                         87              123
Yucatan                     23                                                         33              56
Zacatecas                   15                                                         86              101
Total                      1416            12                  28                     2056            3512
Source: NAFIN



30
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
(Loan 2858-ME)
Table 16: Number Of Subloans By Maturity
From 0 to 12         71                                               450              521
months
From 13 to 36        789               7               4               1308            2108
months
From 37 to 60        368               4               6               300              678
months
From 61 or          188               1               18               18              225
more
Total            1416              12              28              2076            3512
Source: NAFIN



31
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
(Loan 2355-ME)
Table 17: Number Of Subloans By Banks and Financial Intermediaries
Banks           Credit     Equity     Factory-       Micro-          Total
Progm                ubsta Parks   EAtemrpses
ATLANTICO               39                     3                            42
BANAMEX                 99                     8                            107
BANCEN                  48                                                  48
BNCI                    11                                                  11
BANCOMER               181                     6                            187
BANCRECER               15                     1                            16
BANORIENTE              4                                                    4
BANORO                  28                                                  28
BANORTE                 37                                                  38
BANPAIS                 14                     1                            14
BANRURAL                60                                                  60
BISA                   109                     3                            112
IVERLAT                 39                     1                            40
CONFIA                  27                                                  27
CREMI                   26                                                  26
INTERESTAL              1                                                    1
MEXICANO                48         5           2                            50
NAFIN                  108                                                  113
OBRERO                  1                      2                             1
PROBURSA                19                                                  19
PROMEX                  50         7           1                            50
SERFIN                 154                                                  163
UNION                   29                                                  29
U/CREDITO              269                                   809           1079
FONDOS/FOMENTO                                              1247           1247
TOTAL                  1416        12         28            2056           3512
Source: NAFIN



32
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
(Loan 2858-ME)
Table 18: Status of Legal Covenants
Section 3.01  The Borrower declares its commitments to    In compliance
the objectives of the project and to on lend
the proceeds of the Loan
Section 3.02  The Borrower undertakes that the Subloans   In compliance
and Investment will be made in accordance
with this Agreement of the Bank
procurement guidelines.
Section 3.03  Procurement of goods and service will be  In compliance
govemed by the provision of the Bank
procurement guidelines.
Section 3.04  The Borrower shall use the amounts     In compliance   The Borrower did not
resulting form the repayment for purposes              established a separate
consistent with the objectives of the Project          account for repayment of
Bank subloans. However, it
continued to lend large
amounts for purposes
consistent with the
objectives of the project.
Section 3.05  The Borrower undertakes to establish by  In compliance   The CNB established
December 31, 1992 a system to obtain     with delays   regulations for NAFIN and
information form PIs on the condition of               PFIs regarding conditions
their portfolios in respect of Part A subloan.         of their portfolio. NAFIN
did not develop an adequate
information system for the
Credit Unions
Section 3.06  The Borrower shall, not later than June 30,   In compliance
1992 put into effect a policy guideline,
satisfactory to the Bank, for equity
investment.
Section 4.01  The Borrower shall maintain procedures and   In compliance   NAFIN started to collect
separate records and accounts to reflect  with delays    sub-project information
progress of the Project.                               from 1991-1992
Section 4.02  The Borrower shall have all the account  In compliance   NAFIN started to collect
audited, including auditors' opinion.    with delays    sub-project statistics from
1991-92



33
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
(Loan 2858-ME)
Table 19: Compliance with Operational Manual Statement
.. . ..... ... , , ,e  ..  .. .N.  .  .A. . p able
Not ApplicableI



34
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
(Loan 2835-ME)
Table 20: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Through appraisal                   n.a.                      12.6
Appraisal ----> Board               n.a.                      17.0
Board----> Effectiveness            n.a.                      77.3
Supervision                         n.a.                     101.3
Total                               n.a.                     208.2



35
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
(Loan 2858-ME)
Table 21: Bank Resources: Missions
Stag of Pro)ec Mouth/Year  No. of   No. of Sp   9"r staff  Staff   .  ._._  TYP__ oI
:y~ Waekt ?Eu~ Wi                        ldl. r*iwt se"ttd Sr mti- P ts
dentification    Feb-86       2        1            0           2       n/s       n/s
reparation       Jul-86      2        2           0, F         4       n/s        n/s
Appraisal         Sep-86      2        6          0, F, E       12      n/s        n/s
Post-Appraisal    Oct-87      2        2           0, F         2        2         M
Post-Appraisal    Feb-87      2        2           0, F         4        2         M
ost-Appraisal*    Feb-88     2        2           0, F         4        3         M
Post-Appraisal    Jun-89       1        1           0            1      n/s        M
Supervision       Mar-90      2        4          0, F, E       6        2        M,F
Supervision       Nov-90      3        2           0, F         5        2         M
Supervision*      Jun-91       1        1           F            1       2         M
Supervision       Mar-92       1        1           0            1       2         M
Supervision*      Sep-93       1        1           0            1       2        M,F
Supervision*      Feb-94       1       2           0, F         2        2        M,F
Supervision       Sep-94       1        1           0           1        2         M
Supervision       Jun-96      2        2           0, E         3        2         M
* Combined with other projects
Specialties: 0= Operational Officer; F= Financial Analyst; E=Economist
Type of Problem: M= Managerial; F=Financial
n/s = not specified



I



l
APPENDIX A
AIDE MEMOIR OF THE MISSION



I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
I



APPENDIX A
Mexico, DF
June28, 1996
A]IDE-MEMOIRE
Implementation Completion Mission (IPC)
Fourth Small and Medium Scale Industry Project (PAI-IV)
(Loan 2858-ME)
This aide-memoire reports observations and agreements on preparation of the IPC
and the project completion mission. The mission took place over the period June 17-28
and consisted of Messrs. Enrique Vanegas (task manager, one week) and Juan Luis
Moreno V. (consultant, two weeks).
During the period indicated, the mission held working meetings with staff of the
Gerencia de Fortalecimiento de Intermecliarios y Proyeclos coni Finianciamiento Externo
(Department of Intermediary Strengthening and Externally Financed Projects) and the
Geretncia de Fitwanciamientos MAfutilaterales (Department of Multilateral Financing). In
addition, visits and interviews took place with beneficiary firms in Mexico City and
Mexico State, Oaxaca, Guadalajara and Culiacan, with intermediary institutions (private
banks, credit unions, and state funds), and with staff in NAFIN regional offices.
Discussions with NAFIN staff focused on instructions for preparation of the ICR, the
data required for specific tables, and deadlines for submission of reports (presented as an
annex).
Other topics discussed were current risk exposure, major lessons learned, project
sustainabilitv. performance indicators. etc. Prior to the mission. NAFIN had advised the
Bank that inadequate information wvas available to allow performance evaluations in
accordance with Bank guidelines. However, a sample of 200 firms is being put together
so that partial performance information will be available on the loans involved. The
sample is also expected to provide data on which to base performance evaluations
There was atgreement on the key elements of NNAFIN experience and the problems
encountered:
(a)   The nature and organization of the project changed xhen the different trusts
(FOGALN. FOMN, FIDEN. FONEP. FONEI) and the PAI program  were
merged with NAFIN. althousgh the objective of the program remained the same.
This meant that the Bank project. althouah an important component of FOGAIN
operations. became a secondary component (less than 5%o) of the NAFIN program
to finance small and medium enterprises  Another result of the merger was that
some elements of the proyram could not be separated from the overall NAFIN



2
project. At the same time, NAFIN became a second-tier institution, relying for
intermediary services on commercial banks, credit unions, state development
agencies, leasing companies and factoring companies.
(b)   The emphasis on a significant expansion in lending volume, in 1992-93, meant
that efforts and priorities were focused on this objective. This consisted in
promoting the formation of credit unions, increasing working capital lending,
adding lending for retail and services (not a part of the World Bank project),
introducing corporate credit cards (outside the Bank-financed program), and
streamlining administrative procedures.
(c)    The main benefits of the program were in line with the project objective: to
provide credit facilities for micro, small and medium manufacturing enterprises.
At the same time, the program made financing available at six percentage points
above the cost of funds (avoiding subsidized rates), but this was below the cost of
credit from the commercial banks, which earned larger margins (on loans from
their own funds).
On the round of visits to intermediaries and beneficiary enterprises-and this
coincides with NAFIN's own experience-it became apparent that the credit
program played a significant part in the expansion and success of the enterprises,
particularly their investments in machinery and equipment. It was abundantly
clear that the smaller the enterprise the greater the difficulty in obtaining bank
financing. For microenterprises and firms with wide fluctuations in output, being
able to obtain working capital financing was a major consideration.
(d)    NAFIN made an initial effort to set up mechanisms that would ensure adequate
supervision.  Training was provided for non-bank financial intermediaries.
Existing monitoring systems were retained in respect of loans for purchases of
machinerv and verification of use of funds in such cases. In general, loans were
secured on assets. In the case of loans g-ranted through private banks, the banks
themselves covered non-payment risk from their own finds. Since 80-90% of
loan amounts came throuizh the private banks as intermediaries. NAFIN enjoyed
very considerable risk coveraae Both basic supervision and monitoring of the
progress of individual loans were deleLyated to the financial intermediaries.
(e)    There were problems with loan recoveries and with the quality of loans approved,
especially wihere the intermediaries were non-bank institutions. as a consequence
of: (i) the massive growth in lendingz: (ii) the fact that intermediaries operations
and capacitv xvere not adequately monitored  As was later realized, there were
cases among participating credit unions of defective operations and lack of
capacity to follow up on loans made (iii) workingJ capital loans to medium-size
enterprises and to retail and service firms, and also use of corporate credit cards,
were not onlv dift'ficult to monitor but could be used-indirectlv-to finance other
activities or household expenditure. resultingy in over-indebtedness: and (iv) prior



3
to the project closing date, the Mexican financial crisis (devaluation in late 1994
and a rise of up to 70% in interest rates in 1995) led to massive arrears in
payment (despite refinancing programs).
(f)    The sustainability of the project is not guaranteed, in view of high indices of debt
payment arrears, high interest costs, the existing level of indebtedness, and weak
demand for credit following the recent economic crisis.
(g)   The technical assistance program was modified as a result of NAFIN's absorbing
the trust funds. The new program emphasized training for NAFIN and financial
intermediary personnel, database development, publications for microenterprises,
and business management training for owners of firms. Linked as it was to the
credit program, the technical assistance program shrank as lending activity
declined. While the PAI technical assistance program had included specific
provisions for assistance with the technical side of production, the NAFIN
program partially replaced them with training courses; however, the enterprises
lost the possibility of direct advice on their production problems.
(h)   As a result of this project experience, reinforced by the problems associated with
the country's financial crisis, NAFIN is in the process of reorganizing its
operations.  On the basis of a comprehensive review of the credit unions
conducted in 1994 by independent firms of auditors, these entities have been
reevaluated and assigned quality rankings this year (1996), a process that has led
to the dismantling of some of them, and to reduction or suspension of available
credit for others. At the same time, the procedures for granting credit for all
intermediaries are being reformulated. Details of the plan of action are given in
the attached annex.
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
As Financial Agent                     As Project Executing Agent
'S/    PlIeuible]                     ,'s/   rflIeuiblel
Edmundo A Ramirez NMartinez           Juan A Ramirez Torres
WORLD BANK
u/ Ileuiblel
Juan Luis Moreno



APPENDIX A
Mexico, D,F, junio 28 de 1996
AYUDA DE ME1EMORIA
Implementation Completion MLission (IPC)
Cuarta Etapa del Programa de Apoyo Integral a la
Pequenia y Mediana Industria.
PAI-IV (Ln 2858 - ME)
La presente ayuda de memoria contiene observaciones y acuerdos sobre la preparaci6n del
IPC y la misi6n de cierre del proyecto. La misi6n se realiz6 entre el 17 al 28 de Junio, estuvo
compuesta por el Sr. Enrique Vanegas (Task Manager, una semana) y el Sr. Juan Luis Moreno V.
(Consultor, dos semanas).
Durante su estadia la misi6n sostuvo reuniones de trabajo con personal de la Gerencia de
Fortalecimiento de Intermediarios y Proyectos con Financiamiento Externo, Gerencia de
Financiamientos Multilaterales. Ademas, se hicieron visitas y entrevistas con empresas usuarias
del credito en la ciudad y el Estado de Mdxico, Oaxaca, Guadalajara, y Culiacan, asi como
entrevistas a entidades intermediarias (Bancos Privados, Uniones de Credito y Fondos Estatales),
a mas de personal de las oficinas regionales de NAFIN. Se discuti6 con personal de NAFIN
instrucciones sobre la preparaci6n de ICR, los datos necesarios para ciertos cuadros, y el tiempo
en que se presentaran los informes, lo que se presenta como un anexo.
A su vez se discutieron los temas relacionados a los riesgos presentes, principales
lecciones aprendidas, sostenibilidad del provecto, etc. Se discuti6 el tema de indicadores de
resultados (performance indicators). Con anterioridad NAFIN habia informado al Banco la falta
de informaci6n adecuada para obtener evaluaciones de resuitados de acorde a las normas del
Banco. Por otra parte se esta levantando una muestra de 200 empresas, donde se tendra
informaci6n parcial sobre resultados de dichos prestamos. De la misma se espera obtener datos
que permitan una evaluaci6n de los resultados.
Hubo acuerdo en cuanto a los principal elementos de la experiencia de NAFIN y los p;oblemas
encontrados
a)    La naturaleza y la organizaci6n del proyecto cambia al incorporarse a NAFIN los
diferentes Fideicornisos (FOGAIN, FONEIIN, FIDEIN, FONEP, FONEI y el programa
PAI), aunque no se desvirtiia el objetivo del programa. Esto signific6 que el proyecto del
Banco, que era un componente importante de las operaciones de FOGAIN, pasa a ser un
componente secundario (menos del 5%) del programa financiero de NAFIN para
financiamiento a pequenas y medianas empresas. A su vez, la fiusi6n hizo que algunos de
los elementos del programa no puedan ser separados del proyecto global de NAFIN.
Simultaneamente NAFIN se convierte en entidad de segundo piso, usando como



2
intermediarios a la Banca Comercial, Uniones de Credito, Entidades Estatales de
Fomento, Arrendadoras y Empresas de Factoraje.
b)    El enfasis en una fuerte expansi6n de fondos prestados, durante 1992-93, hizo que los
esfuerzos y prioridades se orientaran a ese objetivo. Esto incluy6 promover la formaci6n
de Uniones de credito, ampliar el financiamiento para capital de trabajo, incluir creditos al
comercio y servicios (lo cuales no forrnan parte del proyecto del Banco Mundial),
introducir la "taujeta de credito empresarial" (estos ultimos aspectos fuera del programa
financiado por el banco), y la simplificaci6n de tramites.
c)    Los principales beneficios del programa estan de acuerdo con los objetivos del prestamos:
proveer facilidades de credito a micro, pequefias y medianas empresas manufactureras. A
su vez, el programa ofrecia un credito a tasas de 6 puntos porcentuales por encima del
costo de fondos (evitando tasas subsidiadas); pero esto era menor que el costo del credito
en la banca comercial, que tenia mArgenes mayores (en prestamos con recursos propios).
En la gira de visitas a intermediarios y empresas, y es la experiencia de NAFIN, se percibi6
que los programas de credito era un componente importante en la expansi6n y exito de las
empresas, en particular sus inversiones en equipo. Ademas, mientras mas pequena era la
empresa mrns dificil la posibilidad de financiamiento a trav6s de los bancos. Para las
micro-empresas y empresas con fluctuaciones importantes en su producci6n, el
financiamiento de capital de trabajo tambien es un elemento importante.
d)    NAFIN hizo un esfuerzo inicial de establecer mecanismos de supervisi6n adecuada. Se
di6 entrenamiento a los intermediarios financieros no bancarios. Se mantuvieron los
sistemas de seguimiento para la concesi6rn del credito y verificaci6n del uso de los fondos
para la compra de maquinaria. Los creditos en general tenian garantia de bienes. En el
caso de creditos otorgados a traves de la Banca Privada, esta asurnia con sus propios
recursos el riesgo de no pago. Dado que el 80 a 90% de los montos de prestamos se
dieron por medio de la intermediaci6n de la Banca Privada, NAFIN tenia en gran parte
cubierto su riesgo. Tanto la supervisi6n basica, como el seguimiento de la evoluci6n de
los creditos especificos, se deleg6 a los intermediarios financieros.
e)    Hubo problemas de recuperaci6n y en la calidad de los prestamos concedidos, en
particular en los intermediarios no bancarios, como consecuencia de: i) la masividad del
crecirniento del credito; ii) No se di6 adecuado seguimiento a las operaciones y capacidad
de los intermediarios. Entre las Uniones de cr6dito, como se ha verificado despues, hay
casos de operaciones en forma deficiente o falta de capacidad de seguimiento de sus
prestamos; iii) los prestamos de capital de trabajo a empresas medianas y al comercio y
servicios, asi como el uso de tarjetas empresariales, eran dificiles de monitorear y podian
ser usados, indirectamente, para financiar otras actividades o gastos familiares; resultando
en sobre endeudamiento; iv) Posterior a la terminaci6n del credito, la crisis financiera en
Mexico (devaluaci6n a fines de 1994 y subida de intereses hasta 70% en 1995) ha creado
una situaci6n seria de retraso en los pagos (pese a programas de refinanciamiento).
f)    La sostenabilidad del proyecto no esta garantizada dado altos indices de retraso en el pago
de la deuda, altos costos de intereses, nivel de endeudamiento existente, falta de demanda
por creditos dada la reciente crisis econ6rnica.



g)    El programa de asistencia tecnica fie modificado como resultado de la integraci6n a
NAFIN de los fideicomisos. El nuevo programa enfatiz6 entrenamiento a personal de
NAFIN, a los intermediarios financieros, desarrollo de la Base de Datos, publicaciones
para microempresas y entrenamiento  en  administraci6n y aspectos gerenciales a
empresarios. El programa de asistencia tecnica a empresas estaba ligado al programa de
credito, por lo que ha disminuido al reducirse la actividad crediticia. El programa de
asistencia tecnica del PAI incluia asistencia especifica en aspectos tecnicos de producci6n,
el programa de NAFIN reemplaz6 parcialmente estos programas con cursos de
entrenamiento, pero se perdi6 la asesoria directa sobre problemas de producci6n de las
empresas.
h)    Como resultado de la experiencia, aunado a los problemas de la crisis, NTAFIN esta en
proceso de reorganizar sus operaciones. En 1996, utilizando una evaluaci6n integral
realizada en 1994 por firmas independientes de auditores a las Uniones de Credito, se
estan evaluando y calificando las mismas. De este proceso se procedi6 a desincorporar
algunas de las Uniones de Cr6dito, a otras se les esta recortando o suspendiendo el credito
disponible. A su vez se estan redefiniendo los procedimientos para el otorganimiento de
credito para todos los intermediarios. En anexo adjunto se describe el plan de acci6n.
NACIONAL FINANNCIERA, S.N.C.
f .inanciero                          Como Ejecutor del Proyecto
EDDM          1              RTTNEZ                         .RAMI Z TO 
BANCO MUNDIAL
GFAN LUIS MORENO



4
ANEXO DE ASUNTOS PENDIENTES
Informaci6n sobre porcentaje de cartera vencida, seguin intermediario durante 1992-1994
Se espera tenerlo a principios de Julio
Informacion sobre uso y fiente de Fondos
Se espera tenerla a mediados de Julio
Informaci6n que permita cierto tipo de indicadores de resultados (performance indicators)
Se espera tenerla a mediados de Julio
Informe final de evaluaci6n del proyecto por parte de NAFIN
Se espera tenerlo para el mes de Agosto.



I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I 



APPENDIX B
BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR



I



BB( :)MVI-97
GERENCIA DE ItINANCIAMIENTOS MULTILATERALES
27 de junio de 1997
SR. ENRIQUE VANEGAS
Gerente de Proycetos
Oficina kvilonal de America Latina y et Caribe
Banco Mu'dial, 1818 H St N.W.
20433, V ashington, D.C.
Me refiern 1 ,r6stwno 2858.ME contratado con ese Orgasnsmo MultilateraL que fuc estinado a
financiar psmiaimento In Cuarta Etapa del Proycto de Apoyo a la Poquefia y Mcdia'i Industria,
y especfficamente al Infonne Final de Ejecuci6n (ICR).
Sobre e' particular, en alcance a nuestro comunicado del 21 dc mayo pasado, y c . el fir de
comprapeintar el contenido de dicho rnformne con la visi6n de la parte mexi: na, anexo
encontrarii los siguientes documentos:
1.   (C ita Etapa del Programs de Apoyo a Is Pequefa y Niedlana Empnr  . informe
dt Ternninac6n de Proyeet. Vud de Nwclonl Financiers, S.N.C. cotno Agentc
Ffinnclero del Gobierno FedernL
E-ate pequefto informe fue elaborado por esta Gerencia, con la colaboraci6n de. F Gerencia
de Oporxi6n de Financiamientos Especiales. Incoipora la visi6n quc esta ustituci6n,
como Prestatia de la operaci6n, tiene del PAI IV.
2.    Perspeetlva del Prestatarlo.
Este informe fue preparado por el kra que tuvo a su cargo la cjecuci6n cl. L pr6stamo
d uirant su desarrollo. Incorpora la visi6n que Nacional Financiera, cot it Agencia
ijecutora, tiene de esta cuarta operaci6n. Adecis, contiene comenterios rf MIizados al
bcmTador del Informe quo prepar6 el Banco, por lo que es de suma importa  tia revisar
es-te docunento pars matizar y adecuar la visi6n que el Banco tiene al respect
Mucho -Sraiere  que la versi6n final del ICR integre los dos infomies ant  descritos.
Asimismo, lo gradecere revisar, de acuerdo al wgtmdo infonmn, el documento elah, i ado por el
Banco de tal manera que reflejo con mayor preci6n las conclusiones obtenicais y metas
logradas con el pr6stamo.
10 'd 00nN 32:tT   i-.6se)Z unr                   .6OZ-SZ2-S:aT    ej1 !111    ue puiA  2eTlag



2
Sin mis poir eI momento, aprovecho la oca6n pan enviarle un saludo.
ATEN A ENTE
LTC. JUAN                   URO  A
Anexto: Lo citado.
c.c.p.  Lie. Ricardo Oicho Rodriguez.- Dirctor do Organismos Financiero. tnrmionaci .- SHR'. (s adjunta
c;oia do lob anwxos).
c.a,p.  L; ,. Timoioo Harris Howard.- Subdimector de OrgnismiOS TntnaionaWCS.- NAFIN.
c.c.p. Lr;. Elodia Borthier Vilaseftor.- Oaomt de Fonslecimiento do Inten:edirios y '- wectos con
Finatnciamiento Extemo.- NAFIN.
c.c.p.  Lie. Socowo PadilUa Moroy.- Gaunt. de Opeaci6n de Fincwinaicnios Evociales.- NAF: I (so a4unta
copkm do los maexos).
tOEA
Odajo nnal  8uri,TSc,uer- 



CUARTA ETAPA DEL PROGRAMA DE APOYO A LA
PEQUENA Y MEDIANA EMPRESA
(2858-MU)
hNFORMED.UMBUNACONDIEPRAYEM
Visisio dc Navional Financiera, S.N. C.' como Agentc Financicro dcl obierno Fede ii
Juno. 1997
El PAI I  expermhent6 elementos de t'xito y error desde su coancepeibn en 1986. P<r un la, se contaba
con la Cxperiencia derramada por loot tree prahtamos antecceores: 1552-ME, 1881-ME y 23?5-ME. Por
otro, se noorporaban al csquema de operadcon nuevas agencias ejecutoras y component(- 4dicionalcm,
provocanc'l que el disefio y coordinaci6n fuera complejo.
Duranto ,u desarrollo e ixnplementaci6n, esta cuarta etapa del PAI cnfrento diverso. o' LAculos que
impidieront oe los acciones acordadas y los revursos euntratados fluyeran con la agilidad que d .t operaci6n
dc crkdirow 'u, ne. Los prindpales retos enfrentados fiueron la reestructurc6n die la or,! niyaci6n de
Nadonal Tfz--.se'ra, coma resultado de su conversi6n a banes. de scgundo piso,  i wOme k usi6n dv
FOGAIN,  DiDIn; .y FOMIN a aquMla, con lou conmcvucntcv rctrasos gencrados por los proc . s legales y
8dministr;z(ivu- ,
Otro fac ior que influyo en cI retraso dc la activaci6n del prestamo, fue la decisi6n dcl Gobicr . cdcral de
que la PFurca de Desarrollo   y los diferentes fideicomnins.- asumieran la deuda generad. Lon credito
externo.
Antes del a' UI IV, la deucla contraida para apoyo de la Banca de Desarrollo y los fideicomise d.e fomento
era asum.-a por el Gobierno Federal, por lo qcue, eon el fin de reducir las transferenclas nRa!. a aquelios,
sc instrun etn6 un esquema normativo consistente en tnsmitir los recursos del BIRF al Banc, Ic. Mexico,
y este, a Y.' vve, apcrturaba llneas de cr&dito en pesos y d6lares a la Banca de Fonmenrn y Ins fid': omisos, de
tal manera r u% !a deuda contraida por 6stos con el Banco dc M;xieu cquivaldria cn d6lares a le euda que el
Agente Fi- -  svco adquiria con el BIRF. El Cobierno Federal, por su partc, cubriria cl rie. i ' cambiario
peso-d6larp ai i1 linea en ptsos, y el riesgo d6lar-canasta de monedas en general.
No ob6sta;.te lo. nbstkculns se6aalados y los retrasos incurridos, la meta ledeseimbol,so --1 00.(0 .dd euando
ei pr6stamo fue declarado en efectividad-- fue alcanzada en un 100%, "Yogrwndo quc cl 80% dt usw rca rsos
fueracscmbolado    R13. El dcrmblsc del 20% rc*ranc rcq wr dos aflcs , por lo qi 4 se solicit6
at Banco rom mas de un anio de extensi6n a la fecha linitc dc duscimbolso.
Compavi iaAn del PAT IV cnn ]s prMt*mo. anteriores
rAl I           PAI 11           PAI lI           PA I
Mtonto         47.0 mdd         100.0 mdd       175.0 mdd        INS.011l=
Ct, cm-!ionefi    0.0 mdd        0(.47 mdd         0.021 mdd         lOn7f4
_ i916n     ssago,77         reb.80          sep.82       _______.
0+.may.78        29.sep.80        I S.mgo.83  __.__p__,
EfeLt' itdid    12.en.e79         22.dir.S0       16.ene.4        28.naKvb':
Clctrc origimnl/real 30.Jua.82/30.sep.82 31 .dlc.84/30.jun.51 30.jun.87/30.sep.89 1I die 93/28. S.95
Subdireevvzn de OrganLmnas Internac;nales // Gerencha de Financ-amientos Multilaterales.
2      Gerencia de Operad6n de Flnancamientos Especales.
nucional finanrera
0'd   00 *nON  3i:V71       5L6, Z       unr              260-SZJ-S: I al  *'L  I14';  *U Iu Td j   e  i 39



2
A  diferenda de los trcs prkstamos anteriores, cuya ejecudbrn osdlci  entre los 53 y 74 mvscs
(4.4 - 6.  ios), el PAI IV tuvo un periodo de ejecud6n de 90 mescs, cs decir, 7. S anios. Se Lvirtieron en
au dedarar i 'n de efectividad ma' dc dus anos, y con ello el pago nintil de comiiones de c  mpromibo.
Ademis, rAzi6 la canceladibn de mai del 45% del monto originalmcntc contratado antes de qT i el primer
Ie.mbolso nuiera lugar.
La reetruct-a-.i'nn de Nacional Fnancicra y la fusi6n de los diferentee fticivomisos a ella expti in, en gran
medida, el retr.so en la declaracidn de ef<ctividad; la disminucii6n de la importancia relativa *1 i pristamo,
absorbido en s5 totalidad por NAFIN, puede explicar el largo periocdo dc ejecuci6n.
El PAI IV fuc proyectado, en su etapa lnicial, perm ser implementado por cinco agencii. *  ecutoras:
FOGAIN, FIDEIN, FOMIN, NAFIN y SECOFI. Despues de Is integracian de lou fideicomisoi   NAFIN, el
n6imero de vjecutorea se redujo a dos, sicndo NAFiN la que eventualmcntc absorheria el '03% dc los
recursos, :nt que SECOFI cldccdio en 1993 no utiliar los recursos a ella asignados.
Por otro Ineo, la absowr6n de los recursos de los fideicomisos a Nacional Financicra tio se tra4uJo en una
efidente inrlerementacin de las actividades originalmente asignadas a elos- De hecho, los c.bjedvo.s de
(ada uno d .1os componcntc delpMstamo oiginal   tuvieron que adecuar a lIoi programas - rditicia  de
NAFIV, alkFiqndOSe la.s funcfonc  dc c,aluad6n, formaliadco, sprv.f706n y scguim fnto a le1
inrcm,edia.i 7s .twandcros, dwaci6n que gencrd cl no conter con lio cltcmV,os suficfenn. ;, nl  hl
nfornacima n: ct .aria para defji la clcgibilfdad de los proycco (raas Intfrma.r dv rltrnO, -ont5mlro y
fninden,ir.. ,A U:a posible explicaci6n cs quc la importanda relativa quo el pritamo teniaa e-a NA FIN,
tdwo su alro volwnen creditido, era mucho menor dc lo que en un principio representaba pFI * FOGAIN,
FOMIN y FIDEIN. El PAI IV se viu disucito en los grandes progranas de credito dc NAFIOW  por lo quc
blo paso6L -oer wia fuentc nks de fandeo de la ltituci6n.
Ademns, d.ebe shaarse que la evaluaci6n dc las inplicadones que tondria la ahsorci6xl dc Ic! : ecursos de
Ios fidelck uisos a NAFIN, tanto por parte del Banco Como die las autoridades cie aquellaa en: i warcter de
Agente Fi wndero y de Agendia Ejecutora, no fue lo suricientemente profunda omo pare  K:vcrtir con
precison lum ob2tkculos que se presentarfin a lo largo de la ejecuci6n del prstamo.
En imnports.^ mencionar qcuc lo* prablemas de dcsembolm di  prestaio fueron ateriddos v.  rrontitud
por ambat r m '. El BIRF mostro flexibilidad a las numerosas solicitudes dc recategori7acio  .: NAFIN le
presentaba, * -vi'palmente hacia los Oitimos afhos de ejecuci6n, permitiendo que Ios  xrscos se
ucomodarar." en ias categorfa en donde el dsembolso era mAs Agil.
Dervado.dc lo anterior, es conveniente considerar, para futuras operaciones, que cuando  is Agendas
Ejecutoras dle un pr&stamo sean suslituidas, n sus finciones absorbidas por otra Agencia, se * the llevar a
cabo ui antMis  profundo de la posibilidad dc que los objetivos originalmente planteado, puedan ser
pmnguidos por tl nuevo organismo ejecutor. El cumplimiento due las metas de desembol :,A no debe
sosayar el de lu mictas fisicas, ni debe considerarse como el finco fnticc dc Crlciencia de Uma c r raciAn.
EA
790A d;.., coneiindoae en la opra&i6n que mis tlempo ha requcrido pea ser declatada cn efectividaA. tfn la reladcn
M4AICO-RIRP.
4      Gmvrev4a de Opeaci6n de Finantvamlentos Espedales.
nacuood ri nainmera
V0 'd  LOOr*ne1  6:I7b l     6,LZz   unr                   6L-SZ-S:I.  *T1 eII vI  '*UPUT4 *Pe39



E MPICTl VA DEL PRESTATO
1.- Antecedenmtea.-
El Prorfama de Apoyo Integral a la Industria Mcdiana y Pequefla (PAI), se crea - i 197S por
iniciativa del Gobierno Federal a trav6s de Nacional Financiers, con la fmalidad dc . srtalecer y
promover las acciones encaminadas a la modernizaci6n y fortalecimientc, del mect;'- industrial,
respaldatido principalmente a esos estratos empresariales.
El Progr4a PAI se vio beneficiado desde sus primeras etapas y hasta su extinh: in con los
recursos de' J3IRF, mediante los prestamos que se detallan a continuaci6n:
REM  ROV NOMBRE    PROP6SuTO              AAO DE       ESTATUS  MONTO AS" NADO
DEI. nRSlAMO                         APROBACI6N
1552-ME. Primera otapa   Generarcrecimiento  1978      Concluido 47.0 millonei de dMlares.
del Prmgrama *ie Apoyn a  y empleo, asl comno
la Pequefia y mediana  promover el
Industri t.           dcsamrllu regional
do la pequcfla y
mediana induntria
188 I-M -'.. Segunda etapa  Mismo anterior  1980       Concluido  100.0 milloncs t'- d6lares.
del Progisana de Apoyo a
la Pequka y modiana
Industria
2325-ME. vera emap    Mismo anterior         1983       Concluido  175.0 millones  d6olres
del Prgra ta dc Apoyo a                                           (. canxclaron .' I 1
la Pequeha y wieana                                               millones de dol i.
Industria.
2858-MF. Cuarta etapa del Mismo anterior,   1987        Cancluido  185.0 millowno ;   d6larms
Programa de Apoyo a IA  adends de incluir                        (hubo un
Pequefla y mediana    un programa piloto                         redimensionam. ito del
Industria.            de apoyo a                                  proyecto, con e; ue qe
microindustriai canceiaron 100 t millones
dc d larcs.
En su idtinma etapa, el Programa recibi6 el respaldo de los recursos del BIRF cn los ni m ienntos en
que se in^iaba el proceso de su extinci6n, recibiendo Nacional Financiera el rn indato del
Gobierno Federal para administrar y ejecutar )as fanciones que en ese momento realiziha el PAI,
al igual que administrar la cartera de los siguientes Fondos de Fomento quc actiaron como
ejecutores al principio de esta operaci6n (a oxcepci6n del FOGAIN, quo fuc el iinico sndo cuyo
patrimonio si sev incorpor6 a Narin):
PAI (Programa de Apoyo Integral a la Industris Mediana y Pequefla)
FIDEIN (Fldekcomlso de Conjuntos, Parques y Ciudades Industriales)
FOGAIN (Fondo de Carantla y Fomento a la Industria Medlana y Pcqucfla)
FOMIN (Fondo Nacional de Fomento Industrial)
SO*d ZOO nN  ',:I7T         .6 . ~Z  unr                 )60Z-SZ2-S:!81   plj.nl e3u-euijJ *-etoa



La propi a NAFIN era ejecutora de una catcgoria del pr6stamo, que fue precisamernte la que se
encar de apoyar el programa piloto pars respaldo de la microempresa (por medin del
Programa PROMICRO); sin cmbargo al incurpordnse el PAI y los fondos de manera gradual a su
estructurn orghnica, Nacional Financiera se convirti6 en cl cjccutor finico del proyectc
2.- ObjeVfvos del proyecto.
El objetivo principal del proyceto, de acuerdo a lo establccido ca cl "staff appraisal rcport" de
osta operaci6n, se enfoc6 a tratar de mejorar la calidad de los servicios financ eros y de
asisteancia t6cnica dirigidos a la micro, pequefia y mediana industria; lo anterior, de 2cuerdo a los
objetivos particulares contenidos en cada una de las categorias del pr6stamo:
Ca eorta 1. Cr6ditos de mediano y largo plazo para financiar necesidades de capital de
tral,qjo e inversiones fisicas.
Categora 2I Cr6ditos para la construcci6n de naves industriales para los arrendatarios de
parqtteq industriales, asf como para la modemnizaci6n y/o expansi6n de los parques
indubrn.Ies ya cxistentcs.
Catewfa 3. Capital de riesgo y cuasicapital para financiar requerimientos de capital dc
tmaljo e inversiones flsicas parm expansi6n o creaci6n dc nucvos proyectos.
Categedra 4. Fondos pam cl fortalccimicnto institucional y financiero del FOMIN y de los
bancos comerciales para reetcturar empresas sobreapalancadas a trav6s de 'swaps" dc
de da por capital, cxtendicndo los plazos pam la maduraci6n de los proyectos e unyectando
rec'uTsos adicionales para capital de trabajo.
Caregorla 5. Cr6ditos para financiar necesidades de capital de trabajo e inversit res fisicas
de microernpresas del sector infonnal.
Categorfa 6. Recursos de asistencia t&cnica para mejorar y expandir el scrvicio dc
extensionismo industrial; fortalecer a las uniones de cr6dito y los canales de .a derrama
crediticia; promoci6n dc los programas enfocados a desarrollar las exportaciunes de la
pequefia y mediana industria y la realizacifn de estudios para impulsar cl mejorn ijento del
contexto de las politicas para cl desairollo de la pequefla y mediana industria.
Para el cumplimiento de estos puntos, se asignaron difurentes ejecutores para Ilevar a cabo los
mismnos: sinv embargo y en virtud de que el pr6stamo se autoriz6 cn c momcnto de unm profunda
reorganiza;,i6n del sistema financicro - cspccialmentc cn lo relativo a la Banca de t1i iarrollo -,
la estructura final de la asignaci)n de los recursos por categorfas qued6 dc la siguicnte tnancra:
90'd ZOO*nN O1:1T    Z6,7z unr                       )66Z-SZ-S: I Oli:  1 '1PII  V I r     3UeU I   P TL I9 e)



NO. DE           OBJETiVO          EJECUTUR  EJECUTOR MONTO DISPUESTO AL
CATEGORiA                              INICIAL      FINAL   FINAL DEL PRESTAMO
1      Subpr6stamou para pcqucniiu y    FOCAIN  NAFIN                  62.629
medianas emprcsas
2      Subprestamos para parques   FIDEIN      NAFIN                   15.123
industriales
3      Subpr6stamos pars inversiones    FOMIN  NAFIN                    1.865
an capital de riesgo y cuasicapit_l
4      Subprwstamos pam            FOMIN       NAFIN                        0
. ntructuraci6n de inverminnes
S      Siubpr6stamos para          NAFIN      NAFIN                    15.000
__________ mnicrompresas
61    Subpr6stamos pam asistencia   PAI       NAFIN                     5.383
tocnica                               
TOTAL DE LAS CATEGORIAS (MILES DE DLLS.)                              100.000
3.- El proceso de incorporaci6n de funciones de lou Fondos de Fomento y el camblo
structuI A de Nacional Financiers.
En el aflo d&  ;987 sc dicron las primeras gestiones encaminadas a una reestruc raci6n dcl
sistuma financivro, (especialmente en la banca de desafrollo), con el prop6sito de rf isignlar las
finciones y recursos con que contaban las diversas institucioncs de ese sector, huscain ) eliminar
duplicidades, cnmarcAndolos en las entidades que tenian mayor infraestructura y f nperiencia
pam continuar con sus propias funciones mds las que absorberian de los otros fideicc Tiisos. Fue
do esta manera que NAFIN asumi6 gradualmcnte las responsabilidades que tenL.-i el PAI,
FIDEIN, FOMIN, FOGAIN (como ejecutores de este pr6stamo), ademAs dc laz de otros
fidaicomn,ss como el Fondo Nacional de Estudios y Proycctos (1;ONh;.P) y el Fondo " atcional de
Equipaiic.aito Industrial (FONEI).
Hasta 198S. Nacional Financiera destinaba sus creditos e inversiones mayoritariamrr i al sector
publico !, oeniraba su actividad cn cl sector industrial. En 1989 y hajo un nuevo: )ntexto dc
aperturam es;-niica y -por consecuencia- de nuevas neccsidadcs dc nmodernizaci6n, sf wstableci6
como prowidaJ. respaldar en forma eficiente a los xectoires privado y social, abricndco  is apoyos
a los sectorA c5e comercio y servicios que de alguna mancra estaban ligados a   actividad
industria' del oafs, para lo cual se hizo necesario que Nafin pasara a ser una Banca'.: Segundo
Piso.
Como puede entenderse, este esfuerzo implicaba una mayor canalizaci6n de :. eraciones
crediticias. a la vez de captar una mayor cantidad de rccursos para financiar esas acci , tes.
La estrategia seguida parm lograr todo lo anterior tuvo dos vertientes principales:
a) Una vcz incoiporadas las funcioncs de los diversos Fondos de Fomento, se .etomaron
los apoyos especificos que cada instituci6n particularmente atendla, para of ecer a los
enpres.irios una nueva gama de programas de respaldo fmancicro -atcndidos p ,. una sola
Institucidin- que cubrian todos los requerimientos que la planta empresarial 'i nia en ese
mnomento.
40- d Zoo n,q 'I 17: t7T   6. ZZ unr                 460)-SZi-S: 13l 'el1Xl {i a3Uuel  'eI39



Lo atiterior se realizW desde una plataforma de banco de segundo piso, buscando utilizar
como "ventanillas" a la rcd dc intcrmcdiaci6n financicra bancaria cxistcntc cn Mcxico (sc
llegaron a estimar en conjunto 4,500 "ventanillas" en todo el paIs), bajo la premisa de dejar
de keqi un competidor para la misma (en virtud de la capacidad de NAFIN p -ra obtener
fondeo del exterior, lo que permitfa en parte abaratar el costo de captacion ) ifrecer los
re.ursos con intereses preferenciales -mas no subsidiados- ademus de plazos nfis largos
para la amortizaci6n).
Sin embargo y por su propia visi6n de negocio, pronto se pudo perc;b. que las
inst;tficiones bancarias no cstaban preparadas pars atcnder las necesidades espei .:icas de la
pecc,f.:ea y micro cmpresa; fuc cntonces cuando se busc6 fortalecer a las unionik de cr6dito
y u ls entidades estatales de fomento para crear en. ellas la capacidad dE inlisis y
ev.al'1uY;n de credito, asi como hacerlas administrativamentc cficicntes.
b) A, mnmo tiempo y aprovechando las expectativas econ6micas quc sc V. ambraban
para Is econom(a mexicana a partir de 1990, se busc6 fortalecer la imagen de .sAFIN on
los mercados financieros intemacionales, de tal forma que se pudo romper la escasez de
divisas que caracteriz6 a los anos ochenta, mediante la obtenci6n de recursos d&  cxtcrior a
trave'. de diversos mecanismos como la emisi6n de papcl comcrcial, la ccl aci6n de
de,. *a, la bursatilizaci6n de la cartera crediticia, etc., dc tal forma que ya no s dependa
exc'usivamenic dc los prcstamos dc los Organismos Financieros Multilateral  como el
B111. y el BTRF, los que proporcionalmente representaban cada vez un mcncr porcentaje
dertrn de las fuentes de fondeo de Nacional Financicra (entre 1991 y 199'- ilegaron a
repr.-wntar menos del 10% del total).
Medianto .z oatratcgia, NAFIN estuvo en condiciones de poder apoyar desde un tal;' r artesanal
hasta nav is *: ;arques industrialcs, asi como la infraestructura requerida por    sectorcs
comercial y de servicios que estaban conexos a la industria.
4.- EjecelI6n del proyecto.
El hecho Lde haber tenido quc pasar por una reestructuraci6n a nivel corporativo y org ntizacional
de tal ma llitud cuatido apenas se iniciaba el proyecto, impact6 consccucntcmcnte c r in retraSo
en el ini, de sus operaciones, ademAs de la dificultad de implementar una estraLit ,ia clara y
definida 6'ede el principio.
El pr6stamo .iici6 operaciones con la derrama crediticia que venfa rcalizando el FOt AIN en el
aflo de 1989. yR que de alguna mancra los creditos que se derramaron hasta el mon nto dc su
incorporaci6n ,t Nacional Financiera, se enmarcaban en forma adccuada der. *o de los
IinfeaMiTieltOS del proyecto, especificamente en la Categoria 1. Dc hecho, un aino ant is se habia
solicitado el redirnensionamicnto dcl prdstamo (que originalmente se habfa pactad en 185.0
millones de dMlares) a 100.0 millones de dolares, en funci6n de la alta liquidez qu. FOGAIN
presentaba. Posteriormente se llevaron a cabo algunas transferencias dc recursos a est. zategoria,
ya que algunas de las categorias del pristamo no tuvieron la utilizackin de recursos estimada,
Sin embargo, para el caso de la Categoria 2, el FIDEIN ya no pudo ingrcsar a e -sembolso
dentro del prestamo ninguna operaci6n canalizada por ese fideicomiso, en virtuci de que su
80-d   OO*nN  1. :7T    Z61 uzz  unr                 .6O-SZ-S:Ia1  *2eIW1 Ty n     3UaUTj * Pe9



proceso d,e extincifn habla comenzado desde 1988. Los apoyos para naves y parqucs industrialcs
los derra!n a; propia NAFIIN a partir de 1990. La demanda de los misrmos tuvo un d&crcmcnto
en 1992 prinwipalmente porque el auge de los parques industriales habia disminuidr', ya que el
crecimientco d la industria maquiladora se detuvo. Esa situaci65n provoc65 que se it insfiricran
rccursos a otrus categoras del prdstamo que tenian mayor demanda.
Para la ..'stegoria 3 y en lo que corrcspondi6 al FOMIN, la complejidkad de la carte a que estc
Fondo inanejaba, implicaba una serie de dificultades para incorporar su admin-ocraci6n en
NAFrN, Io que complic6 tambidn el que csc Fondo pudiera desembolsar por su cur,lta alguna
operaci6n at amparo del prestarno, situaci6n que afect6 a las dos categorias que tkia bajo su
responsal.i,Jidad. Los subproycctos dc capital de riesgo y cuasicapital fueron canaj1zados por
NAFIN a partir de 1991, donde tambi6n se tuvieron que transferir rccursos a otras categorias,
debido a que muchas de las operaciones de inversi6n directa de capital, contemplaban la
reestructuraci6n de pasivos y la adquisicion de maquinaria usada, lo quc no es susceptible de
financiarse ,sor pant del BIRP.
En la C.atcSoria 3 se pretendi6 desembolsar las aportaciones que NAFIN real r6 en las
Sociedades de Inversi6n de Capitalcs (SINCAS), las que buscaban proycctos de i-^ 'ersi6n de
capital 0e. ricsgo principalmente de empresas modianas y pequeflas, lo que cn p.. icipio fue
aprobad'i por el BIRF; sin embargo, tal iniciativa no se concret6 ante la imposibi1. lad de las
STNCAS para comprobar cl destino especifico de los recursos del pr6stamro, dentro Jc la masa
monetarl: ique estas podrian llegar a manejar.
Los recuiios disponibles en la Categoria 4 se cancelaron en virtud de la incompa. t.ilidad de
enfoques vitre NAFIN y el BIRF, rclativo a Ia reestructuraci6n de pasivos.
Nacional Iinanciera comenz6 a descontar operaciones al amparo dcl Programa le Apoyo
Tntegral a la Microempresa (PROMICRO) en 1990. El impacto de este programa pitnto fiue tal,
que de un,monto inicialmente asignado de 10.0 millones de dMares en la CategoriA 5, este se
incrementO a 15.0 milloncs de dMlares.
En lo que se refiere at componente de asistencia tdcnica (Categoria 6), se llevaron i cabo tod-a
una scrit; d subproyectos, enfocados principalmente a los siguientes aspectos:
*Esi alios realizados acerca de la micro, pequeffa y mcdiana emnpresa.
*Progmmas de capacitaci6n encaminados a fortalecer a la micro, pequefia   mediana
empresa.
*Difa.i6n dc los apoyos existentes para la micro, pequefa y mediana emnprcsa.
*Fsta'M,%imiento de mecanismos alternos de apoyo para la micro, pequefla   mcdiana
empresa.
-Capacitaci6n de la entidad ejecutora para cl apoyo a la micro, pequefia y mediana
emnpresa.
*Fortalecimiento de la Entidad Ejecutora y ol Agente Financier).



5.- Factores que afectaron el desarrollo del proyecto.
La transicif4i que sufri6 Nacional Financicra fue decisiva para que se mnodificaran marte de los
objetivos' inicialmente planteados para el proyecto.
Las condiciones en que se redact(l) el "staff appraisal report" cn 1987, eran muy difetentes
respecto al periodo 1990-1993, quc fuic cuando se dio la mayorfa del desembolso del p 6stamo cn
los componentes de cr6dito.
La apertura comercial marc6 profundamente el inicio de los afios novcnta, ya qlue ante la
perspectiv a de un tratado de libre comercio con Estados Unidos y Canada. se hizo imperiosa la
modernizaci6n de la planta pmductiva a un ritmo acclerado, buscando incrementar sus nivcles de
calidad y competitividad.
Ante el slogan de pasar de ser un Estado propictario a un Estado promolor, sc intcnsifi o6 el ritmo
de desincornc,.aci&n de los activos estatales parc incrementar la participaci6n del sel wr privado
en la ec6nonia. Como caso particular, la reprivatizacion de la banca comercial oc sion6 que
ante el fuCite dcsombolso que habian rcalizado los invemionistas privados que la ad,' irieron, se
tuviera cautela con el tipo de criditos que canalizarian a partir de ese momento, lo quc afcct6 en
fonna significativa la canalizaci6n de recursos a las pequefias y micro emp -esas, por
considerarila riesgosas en tnrminos crediticios, ademis de poco redituables como or -raci6n en
particular.
Nacional, Financiera, al reorientar su funci6n de ser un banco que apoyaba basicamenle al soctor
piiblico, hacia el sector privado y social especialmente con las micro y pcquckias empresas,
ayud6 a que se concretaran diversas acciones que tendieron a facilitar el acceso al crfdito a un
mayor numcro de empresas, bajt la consigna dc otorgar los recursos con oportunidad.
Se delegai.>t on los intermediarios financieros (bancarios y no bancarios) las facula,des para
analizar y autorizar cr6ditus, presentando documentaci6n minima para su descuento c in NAFIN;
asimism,_ se deleg6 la facultad de que los propios intermediarios supervisaran a sus f 'editados.
Se establocieron convenios con intcrmediarios financieros bancarios y no bancaricv para con
ello establecer la "red dc internediaci6n financiera", que para mediados dc 1994, agr. iaba a 552
intermediarios, de los cuales 25 eran bancos, 271 uniones de crddito, 142 entidades a fomento,
57 arrendadoras financieras, 54 empresas de factoraje y 3 fideicomisos "AAA".
i
La promoci6n de los apoyos con que contaba la Instituci6n tuvo que sufrir muchas ad c;uaciones,
en principio por el proceso de incorporaci6n de la gama de respaldos financieros; e divcrsas
instituciones en una sola y en forna pomterior, ante el contexto de apertura ccon6mi-a, ademAs
de establcer como polftica institucional el revisar de manera constantc el esquema cie tasas de
inter6s. !,
La derrama'que realiz6 Nalin sc incrcment6 exponencialmente durante los uiltimrs afios de
vigencii, del pr6stamo, como se pucdc apreciar en el siguiente cuadro:



1990        1991         1992        .993
Monto de.mmado por NAFIN especificamente   IP'697    8'596        15'832       4'912
parm micru y pequeflas empmrevs (en millones
ConversiO r. d6lares del motnto derminado por   484.9  24S6.0    4'523.4         17.7
NAFIN, ^,vti iipo do cambio de 3.5 pesos x
d6lar erntW.mit" de d6lares)          __
Monto dcrmdwrn por @1 pr6staino 2858-ME  25.3        32.8          5.3          72
(an millomes de d Mare%)
PorcentojeQque ropresentan los rtvcur5os del  5,22%  1.330/%      0.12%        .02%
pr6stamo 28.8-ME frente al total derramado
por NAFINIPan micro y pequeilas empresas
La politica cn matena de capacitaci6n y asistencia t6cnica que respald6 la canalizaciOn masiva
de los cr&ditos, se articul6 considerando principalmente los siguicntcs aspectos:
La fuymulaci&n y ejecuci6n de proycctos de inversi6n
La 't ontituci&n y organizaci6n empresarial
Las - n. aS elementales de administraci6n y planeaci6n financiera
La iue's v laci6n de acuerdos de coinversi6n con empresas del exterior
La Dciebr,,'ci6n dc contratos de asistencia t6cnica y transferencia de tccnologia
En virtuw' de ba creciente competncia externa que enfrent( la nplanta productiva n eional, sc
requerfa de cinpresarios rnis preparados, con un conocimiento integral de su cm -.esa y su
mercado. Para respaldar estas necesidades, NAFIN puso en operaci6n cn 1992 el Pi )grama de
DesarroH6i Emprcsarial (PRODEM), cuyo objetivo era erear una infracstructura privida para la
capacitaci6n, asistencia t6cnica, informaci6n y retomando los esquemas de asociacic -ismo quc
trabaj6 el PAl, adecuandolos al nuevo csccnario econ6mico con miras a mejorar te pcrfil del
empresario y elevar el nivel de productividad de las empresas. F.'ste programa abo-r 6 diversas
ideas inni  e;ativas como fucron:
-ElJibo,mr diagn6sticos peri6dicos sobre las caracteristicas de la micro y pequf r i empresa
asf cc.n-% embre el perfil de los empresarios que las integraban.
El tstat'Jeiimiento de una "red de desanollo empresarial", con base en co rcnios de
ccal.Lbor.ci6n y acci6n conjunta de diversas instituciones de educaci6n mcdi..  superior
para la capacitaci6n de los empresarios y personal laboml dc las empresas.
*La creaci6n de los "Centros Nafin" y los rNegocentros"
6.- Cumplimlento de los objetivos que fundamentaron el proyecto.
Consideramos que de mancra gcneraI si se cumpli6 con los objetivos dcl prestamo, si bicn la
irnplementaci6n de los mismos no tuvo la planeaci6n que se hubiera esperado.
En lo quc rns,ecta a los objetivos particulares de cada categoria del pristamo, cstimar ).s que los
objetivos sc eumplieron con crcces en lo relativo a las Categoris I y 5, ya que t.i tuvo una
derrama do rvrursos mayor a ta programada, lo que benefici6 a un gran ndmero c' cmpresas,
como se puede apreciar en cl siguiente cuadro:



PRSSTAMO 2858-ME (PAl-TV)
Numero dc empresas y subproyectos apoyados
NO. DE SUBPROYF.CTOS         NO. DE
ACREDITADOS
1 -                                .AhJOL 2.82
CATEJORIA 1               1.416                 1.406
I cA:ri,GORfA 2               28                    27
CATEGORfA 3                 12                   12
CATEOORIA 4
CATECIOIA S               2.056                 2.056
TOTAL                  3.512                 3.501
Por su pa te, en las Categorias 2 y 3 la utilizaci6n de los recursos se vio nulificiea por las
circunsta.cias anteriormente descritas, ademfs de la cancelaci6n de recursos de la Cat.goria 4.
Es impoiair.te destacar que en el perixln 1989-1994, del total de empresas apoyadas por NAFIN,
98% fuc4,x. micro y pequeflas, lo que permite imaginar que las accioncs rcalizadas f ira apoyar
la compeiifiv dad de las cmprvsas mexicanas de menor tamaflo, en el transito de una cconomia
cerrada a jua abierta (independientemcntc del respaldo de los Organismos Financieros
Internacionales) fueron diversas . A manera de ejemplo se puede citar los esquemas de la
Tareta Empresarial, el Crediproductor y el mccanismo de grandes compradoies I pequefios
proveedores.
Por el lado de la capacitaci6n y asistencia (6cnica, la red de desarrollo empresarial lleg6 a estar
integrada pricticamente por dos mil instiluciones, cuyos resultados sc obscrvan en el cuadro quc
a continuaci6n se cita:
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
PROGRAMA DE DESARROLLO EMP1UESARIAL
1993           1994      1
Rl Dli E DESARROLLO EMPRESARIAL                                      i
lnstituciones integrantes                        1.807          20.
InstrueoWres y asinlentes t6cnicos                962           2.01Is 
1"3            1994
CAPACITAC16N EMPRESARIAL                              _    _
Cursoa                                           9.276         1.423
Pnrticipantes                                  169.253        36M.49')
1993           1994
FORMACI6N PROFESIONAL PARA
APOYVAR EL DESARROLLO EMPRESARIAL
Cursos                                              409             449
P"nicipsntes                                       7.231           8.980



1993           1994
PROMOUI6N Y DIFUSI6N  lPT. PRODEM
_xposiciones y ferias                              40             134
? onferencias y seminarios                        200             V
Talleres de promocion y oricntaci6n tc&nica       998            1 .02'11
AsimismQ, para fortalecer la acci6n promotora dc NAFIN en Ia atenci6n especializada a la
micro, pequefiq y mediana emprcsa, sc desarroll6 la Red de Centros NAFIN, a travc-s de [a cual
en cada Centx, los cmprcsarios podian tener acceso bajo un mismo tccho, a la asesoria de
intennediarios fnancieros, de entidades gubcmamentales, de agrtpaciones empresarialcs, dc
despachos de consultoria, asi como de instituciones de educaci6n superior e institutos de
investigariprq.
Por otra parte y con el objetivo de brindar atenci6n integral a los propietarios dc micre pequeflas
y mediai,as empresas en materia de informaci6n, ascsorfa, material didactico y tef re:ogia, se
diseno y w;e puso en operaci6n como parte de los servicios al cmpresario, Li - Red de
Negocent-os que constituy6 un mecanismo para masificar la consultoria, lenieAo como
concepto torganizacional el de un club de empresas privadas bajo el esquema de franq1 cias.
De igual rtomra, se considcraron importantes planes para fortalccer a las uniones de cr dito comno
intermediarios especializados en atender a la micro, pequefla y mediana emprcsa.
Nacional iFnanciera elabor6 un Plan Estrat6gico para el periodo 1992-1994, en I cual se
confirmaba 'como objetivo institucional la creaci6n dc mecanismos que permiticwt?r que los
recursos NAFIN Ilegaran a un mayor nuimero de empresarios, por lo cual entre otras ; e cioncs se
promovi6 Ua ,creacion y desarrollo de intermediarios financieros no bancarios.
Vinculai6 al Plan Estrategico, se estableci6 un Programa de Consolidaci6n de U niones de
Cr6dito qOe se dio a conocer a finales dc 1993 el cual, partiendo de la basc de que Ian iniones dc
credito habian Ilevado hasta csa fecha el desarrollo de su cxperiencia gracias a las c ,eraciones
cotidianai de cr6dito y descuento, pretendia ampliar la cultura financiera de las imioncs y
consolidat e mecanismo quc permitiera elevar la eficiencia y productividad dc lIw, empresas
asociadas i vvs propias uniones, mediante el desempeflo de nuevas oportunidadces !12 negocios
que lograrar, O abatimicnto de costos y elevar la competitividad
Las principales ideas que abord6 el Plan se resumen por capftulos como sigue:
Capitulo 1. Se sefiala que el Plan Estratdgico de Nacional Financiera 1992-19SY considera
ccio objetivo de la Instituci6n el dar una atenci6n preferente a los estados de menor
desorrollo relativo y a las pequeftas empresas y que para lograrlo, una herramienta esencial
es el Programa de Consolidaci6n de Unioncs de Credito para propiciar un desarrollo
inda utrial mAs equilibrado y fortatecer la modernizaci6n y el desarrollo regional.
Capirulo 2. Como marco dc referencia, se presentaba el diagn6stico del uni'verso de las
unicnvi de credito manifestando su situaci6n financiera.



Capitukc 3. Se proponcn los lincamientos que permitirlan imptulsar aquellas a.;ciones que
facilitariar. la promoci6n de la productividad y competitividad dc las cmprcsas, a traves del
finacii~nicnto para la consolidaci6n de las uniones de crddito.
Capftulk 4. Se hacen comentarios del programa que NAF1N habria de impul.,ar con un
ampf,io cquema de cursos-y eventos que permitirfan elevar la capacitaci6n del personal
adaim"istrativo, tlcnico y secrctarial que fornaba parte de las uniones.
CaP"ftulo 5. Se exprcsaban los esfuerzos que NAFIN estaba dispuesta a prutnover en
colaboraci6n con las uniones de cr6dito para regularizar, conforme a las di iosiciones
legakv vigentes, la rclaci6n de negocio existente entre la Instituci6n y las prop' s uniones,
para io cue se habfa elaborado el proyccto de contrato que normaria la rclaci6n formal
entre ambas.
Carituil 6. Se descrhiban las accioncs que permitirfan superar los nivclcs dc gsut6n de las
unionfsy mejorar la pcrspcvtiva de acrecentar su patrimonio, mediante el esfut -tSo de una
m2vior-y mejor supervisi6n a travis de un Programa de Auditorias en benei cio dc las
propias uniones.
En este F auito es importante destacar que conforme se fueron implementando las a' - iones del
Progranma de Consolidaci6n, se vislumbraron algunos puntos que debieron atender3.; cn forma
siimulthneu- a la masificaci6n del cr&dito, ya que repercutieron en gran medida al probkema de la
cartcra, como fue la falta de una infracstructura suficiente pam darlc scguimiento a 5' I volumcn
de operadieno.
Tambi6n sp puede citar a mancra de ejemplo que, de acuerdo a las tendencias internac: *rnales que
favorecian'la diversificaci6n de riesgos, se trat6 de que las uniones especializadas en atender a
un s6lo sqc4?r, pasaran a constituirsc cn uniones mixtas, con cl prop6sito de establcccr una
mezcla ;9Pal de su cartera que abatiera el ricsgo de sus operacioncs; sin txibargo, el
problema#una evaluaci6n deficicntc de los proyectos nulific6 csa previsi6n sobrc cl -icsgo.
Otro aspIcto fue que del diagn6stico financiero realizado a 198 uniones de crddito a rn diadus de
1993, se detect6 que el 50% del saldo total de la cartera descontada a travts dc las iicinnes de
credito, se concentraba en tan s6lo 17 uniones.
Asimismo, se aplic6 una encuesta a las uniones de crddito para complemenLar el i iagn6stict
financiero. sobre los siguientes t6picos:
Aspectos administrativos
Reglas de operaci6n
Capdici6n
Asiiaoionismo
Relfi6n formal
Del diagn6stico financiero y la encuesta aplicada, se concluy6 un estado de ik rtalczas y
debilidader de las uniones dc crWdito, del cual considcramos dos debilidades  omo mnuy
importantes:



*La' labor dc capacitacion de las uniones de credito es incipiente ya que s6lo el 20%
contaba con progzamas intcrnos; cn csc sentido, la relacion de empleados capavitados con
reopmcto al empleo total era de 0.7%.
*1-. labores de control de las uniones de crtdito eran muy basicas, ya quc el 64% de las
misdnas s!,pervisaba los cr6ditos otorgados y las labores de cobranza eran poco e 'ectivas.
Con base a:os resultados obtenidos, sc hicicron toda una scric de recomendaciones que se
implementarian al tiempo quc 9C Ilevaba a cabo el Programa de Auditorias a Uniones le Cr6dito,
a traves del^cual se reaIizaron evaluaciones integrales de las propias unioncs, claabtradas por
despachos- de auditorla independientes, las que buscaban promover acciolnes integrales de
correcci6i y mejora.
Los despachos utilizaron la Gula General elaborada con el prop6sito de unifonnar
proccdimientos, homologar informaci6n, y asegurar la calidad dc los resultados. Los marcos
evaluado tfueron financiamiento, administrativo, financiero, contable, servicios y lcgal.
Los trabaqos cornenzaron a principios dc 1994. Se pretendi6 trahajar con una muestra dc 90
uniones; sir. embargo y a ral? de que los resultados no fueron tan alentadores aunadc, a la crisis
de finales de,ese aflo, se realizaron y concluyeron trabajos sobre un total de 200 unAic ncs co) la
participacion de las Direcciones Regionales y Representaciones Estatales de NAFIN, diversas
areas de 6f6ina matriz y despachos de contadores pfiblicos.
Los rcportcs se hicieron del conocimiento de los Consejos de Administracion de las it .tones y se
obtuvierin compromisos de correccion dc las situaciones determinadas, de los que sc dicrivaban
programas individuales de saneamiento y reestructuraci6n financicra, los que se analizaron y
presentaron a los comit6s regionalcs dc NAFIN, a fin de obtener su autorizaci6n.
Los compromiisos contraidos por las uniones para corregir las deficiencias detectadas no se
pudieron.irnplementar en la gran mayorfa de estos intcrmediarios debido principalmentc a quc
aunado a lo factores dc debilidad que tiempo atrs se habian detectado -pet&  que no
representaror algo incontrolable en un contexto de cstabilidad- se agravaron al presentarsc la
crisis derivna a de la devaluaci6n del pcso frente al d6lar a finales de 1994.
La cartera. vencida de esos intermediarios se incrcment6 exponencialmente; muchal& empresas
quebraromn la insolvencia rcpcrcuti6 de las uniones a la propia NAFIN, debido a la grn cantidad
de reservas que se tuvieron que crear ante la posibilidad de muiltiples quebrantos, adeinfis de la
incipiente recuperaci6n de la cartera descontada.
La magitud del problema ocup6 a la Instituci6n en la implantaci6n de toda una serie .c mcdidas
correctivos y de control a efecto de evitar un problema mayor.
Se ha cJtrnenzado un proceso de calificaci6n tanto de la cartera que tienen los intermcdiarios con
NAFIN (0,acuerdo a la oportunidad de los pagos, la relaci6n de garantias, etc.), asi como del
propio intem-ediario (en tdnninos de grado de expcricncia y capacitacicin de su pcrsonal, dc
razones finaticieras, de sus niveles dc conocntraci6n de cartera, de la diversificaci6n de sus
fuentes d ib#ndeo, de su nivel de cartera vencida propio y con NAFIN, etc.).



Sc han establecido planes de acci6n a efecto de que las uniones que no los cumplan s i les
rescatarh'la cartera y se les desincorporitrA como intermncdiarios de NAFIN, a la vez de traLar dc
recuperai lo mds posible de los montos desvcntados incluso a travds de un sistema de bienies en
daci6n do pago o si es necesario, a trav6s de procesos exthajudiciales.
7.- Leccfoneq aprendidas.
La estrategia ds apoyo masivu a la micro y pcquefla empresa se aboc6 a facilitar *  acceso al
credito, pedejo de lado la crcaci6n de una infraestructura para una adecuada vigiEancia dcl
proceso. WSebi6 evaluar en principio y a detalle la calidad de los intermcdiarios fini-!'cieros no
bancariosjpara poder determinar si efectivamente contaban con la capacidad de adrmninistrar la
cartera qu( descontaron con Nacional Financiera.
A manera de conclusi6n, se puede decir que la estratcgia para hacer un trdmitc dc carkalizaci6n
de recursov mis Agil para los estratos mAs pequcdios tuvo exito; sin embargo, la delegaci65n de
facultad-s en los intermediarios financieros (sobre todoi en los no bancarios), taies como ci
anrlisis y tvaluaci&n de cr6dito, asi como la supervisi6n dc los acreditados por ellos rismos, si
bien se awot vaafo con capacitaci6n en principio para cl personal tecnico de esas instiO ,iones, se
asume que '4 Ovial no fue suficicntc para que los intermediarios lo mianejaran en rorm. hdccuada.
Qued6 ei,idenciado que a3n no existe una cultura en la red de intermediaci6n fVw iniciera en
general paTra.aluar el proyecto, sino quc su anilisis se basa en las garantias del misil ; csto de
poco sirve al; momento dc que un proyecto mal evaluado fracasa, ya quc la cxrt iiencia ha
demostrado :que aunquc el proyecto estd garantizado por algun bien mucble o i r ueble, al
momento # hacer vilida alguna garantia dc este tipo, se encuentran toda una serie de  roblemas
para la invitucitn que lo toma para volverlo efectivo, tomando cn cuenta la p6rdida .J dinero al
realizarlol por el estado y las caracteristicam en quc sc encuentre el bien, ademAs de los gastos
administt4tivos que ello conlIeva.
De igual Frorma, queremos destacar que durante la ejecuci6n de este proyecto. sv aimos una
ausencia de prte de los responsables dcl BlRI: de esta operaci6n co los momentos r. e dificiles
de la crisi; 'tvrperimcntada, ya que con su gran experiencia su opini6n hubiera sidei de mucha
utilidad cr los m,momentos en que el Ejecutor estaba imnerso cn toda la problematica.
Reiteramos asimismo al Banco, que es necesario que en operaciones futuras se tome ?n cuenta al
Ejtcutor dc Proyceto y no s6lo al Agcntc Financiero en la clapa dc la negociaci6n, yaI que por el
propio AMibto de acci6n, la participaci6n conjunta podria establecer una mejor deter-ainaci6n y
cumplimiento de los objetivos que se prevean.
Adicionaimente, crecmos que el B3anco deberla scr mas flexible en sus procediti -ntos para
poder adccuar los Programas con mayor oportunidad a los cambios de entomo en que fueron
previstos.



IBRD 2034;
UNITED    STATES    OF    AMERICA
RAJA     pS                         No oalsw-'--_.                        Joinr
CAWliOPNIA                                             ;
' N                                                                                     o                                                                                      1s ; 4 1 0 w : A \ ., - 30'
\ S Xt Wf F 15!W N ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M E X IC O
P.. d.c . i/Ag..,~ ~ ~ ~   ~        ~ ~ ~ ~~N..   -im
_   A   \  >,deh-o  <,hwb                                           j  v'                                   X                                        %   Nobonol eopihl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ntina cpia
3     Stat, capitals (Maintananca district tincdqcotctl-
IAIA                                                                                                                                                   0    P,i..ipl m..  t...~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 Prnialct..o FWi
L AI . r 4.Kh {A +     d<Ff-            S                                                                      L S   X   f 'N1}O tOrS                                                           DF Wlt d highws
Farad   ,   F,nni.,n                                                                           -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ed*  -.   d
I    PriCipal airparts
_    t   I                 T                                     r                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- -* Shtaot.inonldoriat-
T.,                                                                                                                      '(,!.,'
A~~~~~~ Mni.h,ai2 
-        ainttca                -            _ CAc,                 | I--                    -U                                          iBEIZ
+                                          C,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
tatoFETeRS    o  3f3    t.9;o   3qo   oco  s30 ; oNW~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~ r*XW,B,,,*f>,, n=i / _ _,_ i i_~~tar ia                                                                                 ,,n,, 
;  '  5 -                                     TopLb+)                                } H O ~~~'lAT N   D   4   
4.1~ ~ ~~~~~, IounL0
CR4..  '                    4Clce~A tutnal
CAFEPE (HE    R       1
%ciApancAngr    4  4FX                                                 PA Gter
Tap  hI4>                                HONDURAS
DECEMOEFR 1986









IMAGING
Report No.:         16819
Type:     ICR



