Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
9s Al. }k StW    N
Report No. 6539-ME
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MEXICO
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
June 2, 1987
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribuion and may be used by recipients owly in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENCES
Currency Unit - Peso (Mex$)
On May 12, 1987, the exchangu rate in the controlled market was
US$1 = Mex$1,218.3; the free market exchange rate was at US$1
Mex$1,214.0.
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
Weights and Measures
1 hectare (ha) - 10,000 square meteres (m2) - 2.47 acres (a)
1 kilometer (km) = 0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2) = 0.39 sr'uare miles = 100 ha
1 kilogram (kg) = 2,205 pounds (lbs)
1,000 kilograms = 1 metric ton (t) = 0.98 long ton
1 liter   0.26 gallons (gal)
Abbreviations
ACF          Average Cost of Funds
BDM          Banco de Mexico (Central Bank)
CEPROFI      Fiscal Certificates for Industrial Promotion
CETES        Certificado de Tesoreria (Treasury Certificates)
CPP          Costo Promedio Porcentual (ACF)
FIDEIN       Fideicomiso de Conjuntos, Parques, Ciudades Industriales
y Centros Comerciales
FOGA1N       Fondo de Garantia y Fomento a la Industria Mediana y Pequena
FOMIN        Fondo Nacional de Fomento Industrial
FRR          Financial Rate of Return
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
GIRA         General Interest Rate Agreement
IDB          Inter-American Development Bank
INFOTEC      Servicio de Informacion Tecno Logica
NAFIN        Nacional Financiera
PAI          Programa Apoyo Integral de la Industria
SECOFI       Secretaria de Comercio y Fomento Industrial
SMI          Small and Medium Scale Industry
SOE          Statement of Expenditures



FOR 0MCAL US ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MEXICO
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PROJECT SUMMARY .. .....*.. ***  .. . .. ..                          i
I. THE INDUSTRIAL AND FINANCIAL SFCTORS ....................    1
Economic Crisis and Industrial Recovery .I...........       1
The Small and Medium Scale Industry Sector ............    1
Structure and Growth ......................            1
Development Constraints   ..................     ... .      2
Market Limitations and International
Competi,ivene,, s .......................     0...    2
High Financing Costs .......... ...................    2
The Financial Sector3............................. *         3
The Institutional Setting.........3.... ............    3
Development Constraints.......................... .....    4
Supply Constraints and Directed Credit............      4
Lack of Appropriate Lending Instruments..*##......    5
Highly Risk Averse Commercial Banking Sector......    5
Commercial Bank Portfolio Management..............    5
Recent Macro-Economic Policy Initiatives..........    6
Government Objectives in the Sector...............    6
II. THE PROJECT.ance    .......................*...    7
Project Objectives and Description......*.............    8
The Credit Component .................a.....****    8
The Risk Capital Component ...       ....................    8
The Financial Restructuring Component 9............    9
The Factory Buillding and Industrial Park
De7elopment Program9........................... ..    9
The Pilot Micro-Enterprise Component       .............    9
The Technical Assistance Component ...............    9
Executing Agencies and Past Implementation Experience.   10
FOGAIN                                         oooo*................  lO
Participating Financial Intermediaries............   10
FOMIN                       ...  11 l
FIDEIN        .                                        12
This report was prepared by Messrs. Owaise Saadat (LCPI2), Rodolfo Hommes,
Rene Jarquin, Jacob Levitsky, George Philippatos, Eduardo Saucedo
(Consultants), following a mission to Mexico In October 1986.
Mr. Samaniego (Consultant) contributed to the Sector Analysis during
Pre-Appraisal.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performanco
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- li -
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)                                    Page No.
Final Beneficiaries0.........................   13
Cost and Financing        ............................   13
Relending Terms and Conditions.titions............    14
Rellending Terms           .....           .........    14
Special Conditions for Restructuring Component....   15
Subloan Repayment Ter                       m       s       15
Maturities, Grace Periods and Free-Limits..$***..    15
Project Implementation Arrangements..... .  .  .......    16
Program Coordination ........... .. ............ ...   16
The Credit C6mponent ........... .......... ..... ...   16
The Risk Capital and Financial Restructuring
Component. . ......... ............. ........ . .     17
The Factory Building ane Industrial Parks
Com.ponent.......  ............. . .......... ....     17
The Micro-enterprise Component.........O........   17
The Technical Assistance Components ..............   18
Procurement. .. .a...............  X......... .. .... 18
Disusemnt         u rsoo*oo,e       m en*oooooteo       18
Accounts, Auditing and Reporting.orting.........    19
Benefits and    Rss19
BII. AGREEMENTS and..................                              20
ANNEXES
1. Outline for the Technical Assistance Program                     21
2. Operations of the Fondo Garantia Desarrollo de Industria
(FOGAIN) .................................................    29
3. Operations of the Fondo Nacional de Fomento Industrial
4. Guidelines for the Restructuring Component..*******,,**,,,,  46
5. Review of Ongoing Micro-enterprise Programsgrams#*.........   51
6. Experience under Past Lending .............................   54
7. Key Indicators for Project Implementation ................   64
8. Estimated Schedule of Bank Loan Disbursements                    66
9. Supporting Tables
Industrial and Financial Sector
T-1   Index of Manufacturing Production, 1975-85 ....   67
T-2   Industrial Concentration by Firm Size (G985)...   68
T-3   Employment by Subsector and Size of Firm*******  69
T-4   tionetary Aggregates, 1970-85 ...................    70
T-5   Banking System Credit by Sector, 1980-85.......   71
T-6   Structure of Interest Rates (August 1986) ......   72
FOGAIN:
T-7   Ipcome Statement, 1982-85 ......................   73
T-8   Balance Sheets, 1982-85 .......................   74
T-9   Weighted Average Cost of Funds, 1981-85........   75
T-10  Total Commitments by Program Type..............   76
T-11  Commitments by Financial Intermediary, 1981-85    77
T-12  Total Commitment by Firm Size        .................   78
T-13  Portfolio by Maturity Schedules .....0..........    79
T-14  Staffing by Profession and Department..........   80
T-15  Projected Income Statement, 1987-1990  .........    81
T-16  Projected Balance Sheets, 1987-1990 ,..........   82



- iii -
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
FOMIN:
T-17 Hietorical and Projected Income Statement,
1979-86 ...... .............................   83
T-18 Historical and Projected Balance Sheets,
1919-86 .............. 0 ............................. 84
Micro-enterprises
T-19  Lending by State Guarantee Funds ..............     86
T-20  Financial Analysis of Sample Subprojects *.....    87
T-21  Structure of Interest Rates, Mid-August 1986...   88
10. Selected Data and Documents Available in the Project File    89
11. Summary Status of Current Industrial Loans to Mexico           90
CHARTS
1     Organization Chart - Fund for Industrial Development
for Guarantee (FOGAIN)       ............                 91
MAPS
IBRD 15553 Mexico



MEXICO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FOtURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:      Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. (NAFIN)
Guarantor:     United Mexican States
Executing      NAFIN in its own right and as trustee for Fondo de Garantia y
Fomento a la Industria Mediana y Pequena (FOGAIN), Fondo Nacional
de Fomento Industrial (FOMIN), Fideicomiso de Conjuntos, Parques,
Ciudades Industriales y Centros (FIDEIN) and Secretaria de
Comercio y Fomento Industrial (SECOFI)
Loan:          US$185 Million equivalent to be repaid in 15 years, including three
years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate
R_ending       The Borrower on behalf of the Guarantor would relend US$100.0
Terms:         million of the loan proceeds to FOGAIN at a rate linked to the ACF
for onlending to industrial enterprises through participating
financial intermediaries for investment in fixed assets and working
capital. Another US$45.0 million would be onlent to FOMIN for
providing equity and quasi-equity to private sector companies and
financing for the restructuring component. FOMIN would, as in the
past, share the capital gains on an equal basis with NAFIN, and for
subordinated credits pay NAFIN 20% of its interest earnings.
FIDEIN would receive as equity US$10.0 million to implement the
industrial buildings and park development program. NAFIN would
retain US$10.0 million for the micro-enterprise credit program.
PFIs would bear the credit risk; and the Government would bear the
cross currency risk and be responsible for interest and principal
repayments of the loan to the Bank. Since the Mexican capital
market is highly open, the interest rates structure as measured by
the ACF (average cost of funds) reflects investors perception of
the relative return to assets denominated in foreign and domestic
currencies. Because the interest rates under 'he project are
linked to the ACF, the foreign exchange risk will be implicitly
borre by the final borrowers.
,Project       The proposed project would provide a broad range of financial and
Description:   technical assistantce services to micro, small and medium size
industrial enterprises. More specifically, it would provide: (a)
medium to long-term credit to finance fixed investment and working
capital; (b) equity and quasi-equity to finance fixed asset
investment and working capital needs of new or expansion projects;
(c) funds for institutional and financial strengthening of FOMIN
and the commercial banks to restructure overleveraged flrms through
debt equity swaps, lengthening of debt maturities and replenishing
working capital; (d) credit for construction of industrial
buildings by leaseholders in approved industrial parks and the



- ii -
modernization/expansion of existing industrial parks; (e) fixed
asset and working capital subloans for miero-enterprises in the
informal sector; and (f) technical assistance to improve and expand
the industrial extension service, strengthen credit unions as
channels of credit, develop export promotion programs for SMIs, and
carry out studies to improve the policy framework for SMI
development.
Projer*P Regarding the traditional credit and equity financing programs, no
Risks:          special project implementation risks exist given the satisfactory
performance of FOGAIN, FOMIN and FIDEIN under the three earlier
projects. Delays in resuming economic growth and stability, high
nominal intterest rates may dampen fixed asset demand.  In addition,
the financial restructuring component could encounter a difficult
start up because of the newness of the program and reluctance of
commercial banks to write off their losses. To minimize these
uncertainties, the credit amount has been based on conservative
demand estimates with no real growth from 1984-86 FOGAIN
disbursement levels, and the amount allocated to the restructuring
component is relatively small (US$25 million).
Estimated Cost:
Local    Foreign       Total
__----US$ Millions-----
Credit Program                             106.0        84.0      190.0
Equity/Quasi-Equity Component               22.5        16.0       38.5
Industrial Restructuring                    45.0       25.0        70.0
Industrial Buildings/Parks                  10.0         7.0       17.0
Micro-enterprises                            7.0         5.0        12.0
Technical Assistance                         2.5         5.8        8.3
Unallocated                                    -        14.5       14.5
TOTAL                    193.0       157.3       350.3
Financing Plan:
World Bank                                  28.0       157.0      185.0
FOGAIN                                      25.0        -          25.0
FOMIN                                       30.0      --           30.0
FIDEIN                                       2.0      ---           2.0
Intermediaries/Beneficiaries               104.5      --          104.5
NAFIN                                        3.0      ---           3.0
SECOFI                                       0.8        -           0.5
UNDP                                       -            0.3         0.3
TOTAL                     193.0      157.3       350.3
Estimated                (Based on Average Profile for IDF Bank Loans in Region)
Disbursements:           -----o ----US$  million----
88     89      90     91      92     93      94
Annual               5.0   37.2   46.1   37.0   27.0   20.0   13.0
Cumulative           5.0   42.2   88.3  125.3  152.3  172.3  185.3
Rate of   Subprojects would have to have FRRs and ERRs of at least 10% in real
Return:   terms.



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MEXICO
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
I. THE INDUSTRIAL AND FINANCIAL SECTORS
The Industrial Sector
1.01        Economic Crisis and Industrial Recovery. Over the last three
decades manufacturing developed into one of the leading sectors of the
Mexican economy with its share of GLP rising from 17% in 1950 to 24% in the
1980s; it accounts for 25% of total exports and employs 13% of the
economically active population. The severe economic and financial crisis
of 1982, however, brought industrial growth to an abrupt halt and reversed
the period of sustained growth. Production dropped by 11% from its 1981
level, and gross domestic investment as a proportion of GDP fell from a
peak of 29% in 1981 to 20.2% in 1983. As a result of these developments,
many medium to large-scale Mexican companies came close to bankruptcy, and
even though small- and medium-scale industries (SMIs) showed more
resilience because of their ability to adapt their output to the low demand
situation, they reduced their capacity utilization significantly. During
the second half of 1984, the industrial sector began to recover, with the
capital goods and consumer durable subsectors providing the lead in the
recovery. An additional boost was provided by manufactured exporrs which
in 1985 attained a level 50% higher than in 1982. The recovery proved
shortlived, however, and in late 1985, notwithstanding an overall
production increase of 5.8%, a new period of economic slowdown set in,
following the disruptive effects of weakening oil prices and the September
1985 earthquake; industrial growth in 1986 was negative. The Government is
aware of the critical role of the industrial sector in the recovery of the
economy and it has recently undertaken several important broad policy
initiatives (para 1.11) which would improve the performance of this
sector. Several other sector-specific reforms are needed, however, to
ensure a sustainable adjustment and growth of the sector. The elements of
a strategy to improve industrial performance and suggestions for policy
reform are contained in the Sank's recent Industrial Sector Report
(6215a-ME) dated June 24, 1986.
The Small and Medium Scale Industry (SMI) Sector
1.02     Structure and Growth.  Industrial statistics are quite poor in
Mexico with the last industrial census dating back to 1975. Available data
shows some 111,803 industrial establishments of which 85,000 are registered
(Annex 9, Table 2); of these establishments, 97.8% are SMIs which account
for 51% of industrial employment (2.6 million) and AQ% of industrial value
added.  The composition of production from SMIs is concentrated   in food
industries, clothing, printing materials, textiles, furniture, plastics and
rubber products, shoes and leather, and non-electrical machinery; (Annex 9,
Tables 2, 3). Since disaggregated data on manufacturing sector performance
is unavailable, the performance of the SMI sector has been assessed by
comparing the overall manufacturing sector growth to the performance of
subsectors dominated by SMIs. The highest concentration of Mexican SMIs is
in consumer goods (mainly non-durables) and the intermediate goods
subsector. While the annual average rate of growth of physical production



- 2 -
in the manufacturing sector was 3.6% for the period between December 1975
and June 1986, consumer goods grew at an annual rate of 3.7%, and
intermediate goods at an annual rate of 4.2X. Within the consumer goods
industries, however, the physical production of non-durable consumer goods
(preponderantly SMIs) grew by 3.6% annually whereas durables (mainly
produced by large scale industries) grew by 1.9%. Another important
feature is that wlien compared to the overall growth of the manufacturing
sector, the growth of both the non-durable consumer goods and intermediate
gooda subsectors has been much faster during the upswings, and the
reductfr:n in growth during the recessionary periods has been more moderate
(Annex 9, Table 1). In sum, SMIs are concentrated in sectors with a
smaller downward risk when compared with the manufacturing sector as a
whole, a factor which explains their resilience during the 1982/83 crisis.
Development Constraints
1.03      Market Limitations and International Competitiveness.  The basic
structure and growth pattern of the Mexican industrial sector is a direct
product of the highly protective economic policies pitsued by Government
for the last 30 years. Until the 1982 economic crisis, policy makers did
not fully realize the vulnerability of supporting an industrial sector
which is heavily dependent on a protected domestic market. While the
domestic market still offers good possibilities for an efficient import
substitution, the external markets for direct and indirect exports
represent a more important development possibility in the medium and long
run, mainly in thvse subsectors in which SMIs have clear competitive
advantages. A recent analysis of the international competitiveness of
Mexican industry measured by domestic resource cost ratios (DRC) indicates
that the competitiveness of subsectors in which SMIs predominate is higher
than the average for the economy. For example, in 1982, producers of
consumer gcods, such as food (excluding processed meat and condensed milk,
which are traditionally large-firm industries), beverages, textiles, wood
aid glass products had DRC ratios well below one, indicating a high degree
of international competitiveness. Despite this, in the face of the opening
up of trade policy, there is no scope for complacency and supportive
measures have to be taken to enable SMIs to become even more efficient.
This not only entails the maintenance of a competitive exchange rate during
the adjustment period but a rationalization of the existing fiscal
incent!%is, particularly the tax rebate system (CEPROFI), which as
currently constituted mainly benefit large scale and specific industrial
sectors which have besn pre-selected for promotional purposes.  Another
important area of reform is the easing out of existing price controls on
key SMI products and liberalizing importation of inputs; the latter is
particularly important (at least in steel) since smaller producers normally
buy from intermediaries and cannot take full advantage of importing inputs
at international prices and are unaffected by benefits from import duty
exonerations.
1.04      High Financing Cost.  Real interest rates have shown wide
fluctuations over the last several years; during 1979 and 1980 the average
cost of funds (ACF) index (compounded monthly) to the banking system



- 3 -
remained negative. Since 1983 however the ACF became positive and reached
an annual average of 5% in 1984 and 6% in 1985. Lending interest rates
which are closely linked to the ACF Index also became positive.   Recent
rapid increases in domestic interest rates (Annex 8, Table 21) have,
however, elevated the financial costs of industrial enterprises to
unsustainable levels and have affected the demand for investment credit
including that for FOGAIN (the SMI credit institution) credit, which has
shrunk by 40% in nominal terms in 1986, compared to 1985 levels. The
Government has tried to protect classes of borrowers it considers important
through preferential credit programs which enable commercial banks to
rediscount their lending at subsidized ites to priority sectors such as
the SMIs. In practice, the preferentt ' credit lines, however, provide
little relief in the face of the high  tfctive interest rates charged, on
these very lines, by commercial banks tiirough a disguised system of
compensatory balances (up to 20% of the total credit) and monthly
compounding of lending rates and charges of 5 to 20 points above the
Average Cost of Funds Index (ACF) for their own counterpart resources. For
example, while the nominal interest rate for a typical FOGAIN subloan is
82% when it is structured in the following way; (i) FOGAIN funds; 89% at
95% of ACF;!/ (ii) commercial bank funds; 20% at ACF+5%, if account is
taken of the practice of monthly compounding of subloans and of the
requirement of compensatory balances, the effective nominal rate would be
in the order of 167.4%. This rate compares with the free market lending
rate when calculated on a ACF + 20 point basis and including the effect of
monthly compounding. The factors contributing to high interest rates are
discussed in para 1.06 and 1.09. At the prevailing high real interest
rates, no enterprise can afford to finance more than a small proportion of
its operations and if industrial investment is to take place, measures are
needed to bring prevailing interest rates to realistic levels. The
Government in aware of this problem and is committed to breaking the
inflationary trend through a flexible exchange rate policy and through
stringent monetary and fiscal measures. At the same time, fiscal measures
have been introduced (para. 1.05) to offset the bias in favour of credit
resources and to promote increase use of equity.
The Financial Sector
1.05      The Institutional Setting.  Mexico's nationalized banking system
consists of Banco de Mexico (the Central Bank), 19 multi-banks (which are a
product of the' merger of 51 commercial banks in 1983), 8 national
development banks and 12 regional rural credit banks. Two of the national
development banks, the Banco Nacional de Comercio Exterior (BANCOMEXT) and
Nacional Financiera (NAFIN), provide funds to the industrial sector. A
number of Government trust funds (Fideicomisos) provide special credit,
often through the banking system, to priority activities. Among them, the
three which have received Bank assistance under the three previous SMI
projects are: FOGAIN, FIDEIN (Fideicomiso de Conjuntos, Parques y Ciudades
Industriales), and FOMIN, which provide credit to SMIs, promote and develop
industrial parks, and provide equity and quasi-equity financing to SMIs,
respectively. Non-banking financial services are being offered through the
1/   The level of ACF prevailing in August 1986 was 84.6 percent, while the
annualized rate of inflation was 81.8%.



stock exchange (Bolsa Mexicana de Valores), with 30 brokerage houses (Casa
de Bolsa) and four independent brokers. Mexico's equity market is still in
the early stages of development, and the market for private placements is
limited to a few well known names, but practically inarcessible to SMIs.
Venture capital funds that could supplement high cost commercial bank funds
do not exist as yet, and FOMIN is the sole institutional source of equity
financing for SMIs. However, the recent reform of the corporate income tax
law is aimed at promoting equity financing and reinforcing the trend
towards reduced loan finaacing set in motion by high interest rates (para.
1.06). Actually, the new tax system will restore neutrality to firms'
financing decisions by gradually reducing the deductibiiity of the
inflationary component of net interest payments. Consequently, the demand
for loanable funds wil] be lower while that for equity funds is likely to
increase. At the same time, the proposed prcject would help fill some of
the institutional gaps in Mexico's equity and quasi-equity market by not
only supplying equity funds, but by actively promoting joint equity
financing between FOMIN and private and public sector venture capital
companies and Casas de Bolsa (para. 2.04).
Development Constraints
1.06      Supply Constraints and Directed Credit.  Faced with mounting
pressures from the growing fiscal deficit and declining external credit
availability, in July 1985, the Government drastically restricted the
already tight credit flows to the private sector -- the marginal reserve
requirement of commercial bank liabilities to the private sector was raised
to 90%. The Government has tried to ensure adequate flows of credit to
priority sectors through its directed credit pro-ram which requires
commercial banks to lend up to 27% of resources to prioritv sectors
including 3.5% for the SMI sector. Despite such measures the net result of
the tight credit policy has been a sharp decline in banking sector
resources for the private sector--in relation to GDP, the flow of financing
to the private sector declined from 6.8% in 1984 to 4.3% in 1985, and
declined further in 1986. While the reduction in the supply of credit to
the private sector has had serious consequences for credit availability for
the manufacturing sector (Annex 9, Table 5), it affected SMIs dispropor-
tionately, mainly because of the segmentation of the credit market,
shortage of guarantees from SMIs, and the relatively higher unit costs of
administering small loans. Commercial banks have tried to increase their
loanable resources by placing bankers' acceptances (in July 1986,
outstanding bankers' acceptances represented 49% of commercial bank capital
land 5.8% of their liabilities), but these also benefit larger firms.
1.07      Lack of institutional credit at appropriate terms is a binding
constraint on the investment plans of the SMIs, The FOGAIN rediscount
line, which is the major source of SMI credit, iepresents only 3.9% of the
total outstanding credit from commercial banks to the manufacturing sector,
and about 13.5% of the 1evelopment bank credit co the sector. Another
outcome of the high reserve requirements has been to push up interest rates
on the banks' "free funds"; commercial banks have tried to compensate for
the fact that a large proportion of their portfolio is frozen at moderate
to low interest rates owing to the directed credit regime and obligatory
purchases of Government paper by pushing up the free market interest rates



- 5 -
on the remaining proportion of free funds. While positive interest rates
are necessary to maintain a reasonable level of resource mobilization
through the banking sector, and to promote sound investments, continued
efforts towards a more realistic interest rate level is central to
achieving higher levels of investment by SMIs.
1.08      Lack of Appropriate Lending Instruments.  With persistently high
inflation rates and accompanying high financial costs (pars. 1.04), there
is an urgent need to develop lending instruments which are suitable for a
high inflation environment. While many other countries have introduced a
loan indexing mechanism to adjust outstanding principal for inflation,
Mexico has opted, until now, to compensate for inflation through high
nominal interest rates. These, however, effectively shorten the maturity
of a long-term loan, because the effects of the declining real value of
principal repayments are more than offset by high interest payments. The
resulting repayment stream, if calculated in real terms,implies that most
of the loan is being repaid within two to three years-imposing a debt
service burden which exceeds the cash flow generated by most fixed asset
investments. To help overcome these difficulties, it is pro'iosed to
introduce a relatively new and more appropriate repayment mechanism --
known as Sistema de Pagos Variables al Valor Presente (PVP) - for
borrowing from comme'cial banks (para. 2.22) which is already being used
for the larger enterprises under the Bank's Industrial Recovery Loan (Loan
2746-ME).
1.09      Highly Risk Averse Commercial Banking Sector.  The potentially
high arrears, high reserve requirements and relatively moderate operating
profits of the Mexican commercial banking sector are factors constraining
their lending capacity; making them highly selective in their lending and
pushing up the cost of financing investments. Officially commercial bank
arrears, as a proportion of their loan portfolio, have been oscillating
around 4% since 1984; in June 1986, this proportion was about 5%. this
figure disguises, however, a more serious situation which is the amount of
rolled over credit or refinanced debts, that are being recorded as normal
credit. The level of such credit as a proportion of the banks' loan
portfolio can, in some cases, be as high as 30% to 40%. And given that the
officially reported arrears represent 73% of the capital and reserves of
the commercial banks, even if a small proportion of the rolled over loans
were to become delinquent, the banks could have their capital and reserves
disappear rapidly. When this situation is combined with the relatively low
profitability of Mexican banks (the ratio of their net profits to total
assets was about 1.3% at the end of December 1985) there is little scope
for flexibilit, in lending practices, which are highly restrictive to SMIs
requiring collateral ranginF from 135% to 200% of the ;orrowed amount.
Under these conditions the preferential credit lines set up by Government
play an important role in supplying credit to the high priority sectors
such as SMIs.
1.10      Commercial Bank Portfolio Management.  An appropriate and prompt
resolution of the issue of non-performing assets of the commercial banks'
portfolio (para 1.09) is particularly important for ensuring the overall
viability of the banking sector, and for restoring the profitability of a
large number of financially distressed firms, the majority of which are
part of the banking sector's affected portfolio. In the absence of a



- 6 -
strong regulatory enforcement the nationalized commercial banks are free to
accrue interest on their affected portfolios and to roll over doubtful
debts. The preferred solution would be to subject the banks to stronger
regulatory pressure to work out their non-performing assets. In cases
where commercial banks have refinanced some of their troubled SMI clients,
the financial situation of these enterprises has been complicated further
by increasing their indebtedness. The proposed restructuring componeat
(para 2.05) is intended to provide an interim solution to this problem
while the Government works out a program of regulatory reform as part of
the financial sector studies they are currently planning. Accordingly,
during negotiations an assurance was obtained from Government that its
ongoing financial sector studies program would include a study on the
formulation of proposals to strengthen banking regulations and supervision
with particular reference to the management of portfolio quality.
1.11      Recent Macro-Economic Policy Initiatives.  The two major factors
affecting the nature and level of investment in the manufacturing sector
derive from elements of the macroeconomic policy framework, namely, the
exchange rate and trade policies. For more than thirty years, industrial
policy in Mexico has consisted of a set of Government actions intended to
shift more resources into industry, both directly through the budget and
indirectly through the incentive system as determined by quantitative trade
restrictions, tariffs, and the maintenance of a fixed exchange rate
regime. Following the 1982 economic crisis, the Government initiated the
implementation of a flexible exchange rate policy and within that context
began the gradual reduction of existing trade barriers. While considerable
progress has been made in the area of trade reform, some 39% of 1984
imports or 49% of 1983 production are still covered by quota restrictions
and, together with reference prices, about 61% of dcmestic production is
still subject to non-tariff trade barriers. The Government is aware of the
remaining distortionary aspects of the trade regime, and is planning to
undertake further gradual reforms with the support of a series of Bank
trade policy loans. Part of the planned reform is the reduction of
non-tariff barriers to about 40% of production, with maximum tariff rates
to be reduced from the current 40% to about 30% by October 1988, and the
phasing out of official reference prices by end-1987. Within the existing
macro-economic policy environment, the prospects for SMIs look promising
over the medium term given the positive outlook for their sales growth
related to the expected economic recovery and the inherent ability
(para. 1.03) of SMIs to take advantage of increasing possibilities for
export and efficient import substitution. In this context, the maintenance
of a competitive exchange rate, and further trade liberalization during the
adjustment period, should contribute to the growth of the SMI sector.
1.12        Government Objectives in the Sector.  The Government's broad
objectives for the SMI sector are to expand production, employment and
regional development. The development of the SMI sector is considered to
be critical not only because of its importance to employment generation,
but because it provides the seedbed for the development of entrepreneurial
talent and for upgrading the skills of the labor force. More recently, the
Government has come to perceive an important role for SMIs in the promotion
of manufactured exports, where SMIs have a comparative advantage because of
their 'abor intensity. The strategic role of SMIs in the process of



- 7 -
industrial recovery and restructuring was explicitly recognized in a
specific SMI development program (dated April, 1985) entitled Integral
Development Program for SMIs (PIPMI). Under PIPMI a National Consultative
Subcommission was set up to ensure that: (i) highest priority is given by
the banking sector and through budgetary support in the allocation of
credit resources for SMIs; and (ii) the productivity of SMIs is improved by
upgrading their technological and management base with a more focussed
support from national technology and training institutions.
Bank Assistance
1.13      To date, the Bank has assisted Mexico's industrial sector with a
number of operations, three of which (Loans 1552, 1881, and 2325-ME)
provided support for SMI development through the Government's Integrated
Support Program known as PAI. The first two SMI loans (US$147.0 million)
are fully disbursed and the third (US$175 million) is expected to be
disbursed shortly. Experience with the execution of the three projects has
been good; allocation of resources was economically efficient, and most
institutional development objectives were achieved. A detailed analysis of
the experience under previous S4I loans is contained in Annex 6 and Annex
10 contains a brief description of the status of other Bank loans for
industry which are currently under implementation. Given the current needs
of the economy to increase manufactured exports, Bank lending strategy is
emphasizing an approach which combines policy-oriented, quick-disbursing
loans--which will ensure an improvement in the overall economic
environment--with conventional lines of credit providing financial and
technical assistance to industrial companies. The Trade Policy Loan
(Loan 2745-ME), the Second Export Development (Loan 2777-ME)and the
proposed Industrial Restructuring Loan are all part oa the new lending
emphasis.
1.14      The Bank's involvement in the proposed project would complement
the Government's trade liberalization measures by enabling industrial
enterprises to restructure their production units to become more
competitive internationally. To minimize the "pain of transition in
moving from a highly protected environment to one which is internationally
competitive, the Mexican industry would need, inter alia, adequate long
term finances at attractive terms -- the proposed project would provide
these resources in the form of long-term credit and badly needed equity
funds. At the same time, the proposed project would upgrade the financial
engineering capabilities of the participating financial institutions by
developing for the first time: (i) the institutional and financial
capacity for restructuring overleveraged firms which are underutilizing
installed capacity and whose poor performance is threatening the portfolios
of the commercial banking sector; and (ii) a credit program to suplort
micro-enterprises in the informal sector which are operated by low income
producers, primarily women entrepreneurs.
II. THE PROJECT
2.01      In February 1986, the Government/NAFIN presented to the Bank a
proposal for financing a Fourth SMI project. The preappraisal mission,



- 8 -
which visited Mexico in July 1986, helped develop a pilot financial
restructuring and micro-enterprise credit component. Appraisal was
completed in October 1986, and negotiations were held during May 4
zo 8, 1987; the Mexican delegation was led by Lic. Arturo Galan and
Luis Nava Hernandez, both of NAFIN.
Project Objectives and Description
2.02      The proposed project is aimed at improving the quality and range
of financial and technical assistance services to SMIs whose financial
viability is currently being seriously undermined by the high inflation
environment and whose future prospects will be affected by the increased
competitive pressure following the Government's recently introduced trade
liberalization measures. Accordingly the proposed project would: (a) enable
private small and medium scale investors to make their existing units more
competitive by investing in the balancing, modernization, and expansion of
existing units, and helping them establish new enterprises; (b) revive
production of existing SMIs which are operationally viable but are
overleveraged, through establishing an institutional and financial
framework to plan, implement and support restructuring strategies for
selected firms; (c) help disadvantaged segments of the industrial sector--
--informal micro-enterprises mainly managed by women entrepreneurs-through
a pilot credit and training scheme; and (d) improve the policy framework
for SMI development by broadening the understanding of the potential and
constraints of SMIs through a series of studies. The proposed loan of
US$185.0 million would include the following financial as well as technical
assistance components.
2.03      The Credit Component (US$100 million) accounts for about 54% of
the loan. Of the total loan funds, at least US$50.0 million will be for
financing fixed asset investments, covering plant and machinery purchases,
associated working capital needs and related civil works. Up to 50% of the
credit funds (US$50.0 million) could be applied to financing free-standing
permanent working capital requirements of eligible firms. Inclusion of
this type of financing is considered particularly critical under prevailing
circumstances since it would stimulate and maintain employment by raising
capacity utilization.
2.04        The Risk Capital Component. (US$20 million) would support and
broaden the scope of FOMIN's ongoing equity and quasi-equity investment
program, which finances planned expansions by existing firms and venture
capital type investments by new entrepreneurs. For the first time, FOMIN
would offer joint financing opportunities with private sector (Sociedades
de Inversiones); Casa de Bolsa and state-owned venture capital companies.
As in the past, FOMIN financing would support investments in fixed assets
and related permanent working capital. The latter would be restricted to
no more than US$10.0 million. FOMIN's total stake in an enterprise, either
in the form of common and preferred shares and/or subordinated convertible
loans, will be such as to ensure that it will not be the majority
shareholder.



- 9 -
2.05      The Financial Restructuring Component (US$25.0 million) would
be operated by FOMIN on a pilot bastis The component would offer
comprehensive financial packages including debt/equity swaps, lengthening
of accumulated commercial bank debt and fresh working capital and fixed
asset investment resources, all designed to meet the long-term needs of
companies that are operationally healthy and have good prospects, but
currently suffer from a weak financial structure. An integral part of
the financial support program would be the technical assistance (para.
2.08 (ii)) which is aimed at developing the institutional capability and
associated skills for restructuring firms by FOMIN and the commercial
banks, which would take the lead role in preparing the restructuring
workouts. As part of the restructuring exercise the commercial banks will
consider partial write-offs as well as conversion of existing debt to
equity. Bank funds would finance fresh working capital and fixed assets
needs of restructured companies, while FOMIN's own funds may be used to
refinance existing assets in exceptional cases. In such cases FOMIN's
counterpart resources would help acquire up to half of the newly converted
equity, possibly at a discount. Efforts would be made to offer the
converted debt to other interested parties including foreign investors
holding Mexico's external debt.
2.06      The Factory Building and Industrial Park Development Program
(US$10.0 million) includes financing for the construction of factory
buildings by lease operators within industrial parks in the high priority
industrial zones. In addition, credit would be available on a selective
basis for the expansion and/or modernization of industrial estates in the
private or public sector, and establichment of new industrial parks
primarily in the export processing zones including those for location of
in-bond maquila industries. The Bank would review all subloans under this
component and for each subloan, a comprehensive feasibility study including
economic and financial 4ustification and an assessment of the environmental
aspects for the investment would be presented.
2.07      The Pilot Micro-Enterprise Component (US$10.0 million) would
build upon the successful experience with ongoing small business programs
(Annex 5) and would provide financing for fixed asset investment and
long-term working capital needs of micro-enterprises which are unable to
borrow through the normal banking channels for want of collateral. NAFIN
would onlend to public and private sector promotional agencies which have
a-ctive micro-enterprise lending programs. At least 50% of the loan
resources will be channelled through Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs).
2.08      The Technical Assistance Component (US$5.5 million) accounts for
about 3% of the loan. A breakdown of technical assistance costs and
description is in Attachment I and it is detailed in Annex 1. Consultant
services and equipment, including micro-computers, audio-visual equipment,
and software development, would be provided for: (i) further improving the
technical and institutional capabilities of FOGAIN and the commercial banks
by designing and implementing simplified loan evaluation, portfolio
control, and supervision systems; (ii) supplementing FOMIN's existing staff
skills with outside experts in financing instruments and legal issues
related to fin.acial restructuring; (iii) strengthening FIDEIN operations
in the area of credit evaluation, supervision and approval through staff



- 10 -
training programs combined with efforts at reorganization; FIDEIN would
also undertake studies to assess the feasibility of developing industrial
parks in selected States, within high priority zones; (iv) on-the-job
training for NAFIN staff responsible for quality control of subprojects;
(v) gradually expanding PAI's extension service and initiating new support
programs for credit unions, indirect exporters, and subcontracting
arrangements between SMIs and large-scale producers including
multinationals; (v) strengthening the operations of the promotional
agencies responsible for implementing the micro-enterprise component; and
(vi) enabling SECOFI to undertake key subsector studies to identify
development constraints and to formulate policies to promote SMI
development. The objectives ar.d the detailed implementation program of
the technical assistance program jointly drawn up during appraisal was
confirmed during negotiations (para. 3.01 (d)).
Executing Agencies and Past Implementation Experience
2.09      FOGAIN.  FOGAIN is one of the main executing agencies under the
project utilizing about 54% of the loan funds. Founded in 1953 as a NAFIN
trust fund, FOGAIN has become the most important source of long-term credit
available to SMIs thrbugh commercial banks and credit unions. Today,
FOCAIN is administering a wide variety of industrial financing programs
using loan resources from the Bank, IDB, Banco de Mexico, NAFIN and
Grovernment credit funds for special credit programs. Details of FOGAIN's
lending and financial operations are presented in Annex 2. In 1985, FOGAIN
made 12,759 credits to 9284 firms representing a credit disbursement of
US$399.0 million. About 90% of the subloans, representing 75% of loan
funds, were for small-scale industries - the average size of FOGAIN
subloans in 1985 was US$31,300. FO^,AIN intends to maintain its emphasis on
making relatively smaller size subloans under the proposed project.
Overall FOGAIN maintains a sound financial structure and has shown
satisfactory operating results; in the last three years its profits have
increased impressively from US$18.4 million in 1983 te US$41.3 million in
1986, which translates for 1985 to a rate of return on equity of 22%. The
high profit levels are mainly attributable to the relatively low
administrative costs (about 1.0% of total assets), variable interest rate
policy pursued by FOGAIN since late 1982, and the substantial increase in
its intermediation margins following the increase in the ACF level. FOGAIN
is currently paying a flat 55% interest rate on the amounts it receives
from NAFIN on the Bank loan. The Government treats the relatively high
interest rate spread as a vehicle for capitalizing FOGAIN, and as a
substitute for its annual budgetary transfers. In 1986 FOGAIN did not
receive any direct budget support because of its strong liquidity
position. This situation will be continuing in 1987, and it is expected
that under the proposed project FOGAIN would meet all its counterpart
obligations from its internal resources.
2.10      Participating Financial Intermediaries (PFIs).  FOGAIN's
Operating Regulations describe a participating financial intermediary as
any commercial bank or credit union that, inter alia, maintains a
satisfactory financial condition, including control and provision for
arrears, and employs an adequate number of staff capable of managing the
portfolio using FOGAIN rediscounting facility. All nationally owned
commercial banks are eligible to apply for FOGAIN rediscounts, but in 1985,



- 11 -
five banks represented more than half of FOGAIN rediscounts (Annex 9, Table
11). A major shortcoming of the existing two-tier rediscount scheme is the
diffusion of loan monitoring responsibility between FOGAIN and the
commercial banks. The latter manage their rediscounted portfolios in the
same manner as the rest of their operations, minimizing credit risk through
collateral requirements, interest compounding and compensatory balances.
FOGAIN, on the other hand, is concerned with the accounting control of the
use of its funds. The result is a lack of information on the quality and
development impact of subproject portfolio. Data on subloan arrears was
found to be particularly deficient at both the FOGAIN and PFI level.
FOGAIN does not monitor arrearages of the commercial banks on the grounds
that it takes no credit risk and besides considers this a "highly
sensitive" issue wihich could damage their business relationships with the
commercial banks.
2.11      A qualitative survey of FOGAIN portfolio, however, carried out by
the appraisal and recent PCR missions at some selected commercial banks,
showed that arrears for subloans financed with FOGAIN resources were less
than 2% of outstanding balances by July 1986, below the 5% average for the
overall portfolios of the commercial banks. These figures should be
interpreted cautiously, however, in light of the arrearage situation
discussed at para. 1.09. Under the technical assistance component of the
proposed project, information systems on loan recovery status would be
developed further and a more systematic review of the implementation
eyperience of the subprojects would be carried out by NAFIN in conjunction
with the executing agencies. During negotiations, agreement was obtained
to a time bound plan for initiating an improved portfolio management
reporting system. This would be the first instance when FOGAIN would begin
to collect information on arrearages, and it expects the process to mature
gradually over the implementation life of the project.
2.12      FOMIN.  FOMIN was establishea in 1972 as a trust tund under SHCP,
and later transferred to SECOFI when the PAI program was created. As an
equity investment organization, FOMIN is mandated to subscribe, on a
temporary basis, up to 49% equity capital in both new and existing private
sector companies. FOMIN has been associated with the Bank almost from
inception, and has been developing into a mature institution with good
quality staff. The 1982-83 financial crisis provided FOMIN with
considerable opportunity to provide bail-outs but FOMIN acted prudently and
continued to apply strict selection criteria. FOMIN maintains a fairly
diversified portfolio which has grown from Mex$3.7 billion in 1983 to
Mex$6.9 billion (US$25.4 million) in 1985. As of December 1985, FOMIN had
124 active investments, of which eight were in the pre-operating stage, 29
were reporting profits, 12 companies, representing 2.2% of the portfolio,
were in bankruptcy proceedings and the rest showed operating losses at the
end of 1985.
2.13        Recently FOMIN has initiated several measures to improve the
performance of its firms, including the appointment of voting directors on
the boards of some sick companies, and the quality of its portfolio is
showing some improvement. FOMIN's equity sales have also improved compared
to the last two years, owing to its deliberate policy of divestiture.
During 1984 and 1985 it sold off its interest in 17 companies, with an



- 12 -
original investment cost of Mex$300 million at Mex$660 million making a
nominal profit and breaking even in real terms. In addition, over the last
three years, FOMIN has made operating profits which increased from US$1.3
million in 1984 to US$3.3 million in 1986. These profits resulted
primarily from the steadier interest income received from subordinated
credits. While FOMIN has developed into a fairly efficient organization
with reasonable operating costs and a good cadre of professionals, because
of the long gestation period and the inherent riskiness of its investments,
it still has to depend for its seed capital on Government funding. Under
the existing financing arrangements FOMIN shares its losses and capital
gains equally with the Government; an arrangement which allows FOMIN a
fair degree of tlexibility and results in capitalizing the institution.
n.14      FIDEIN.  FIDEIN was estabiished in 1980 as a NAFIN trust fund
with responsibility for planning, promoting and implementing a national
system of industrial estates to help industrial deconcentration and at the
same time to promote regional development. During the first and second SMI
projects FIDEIN engaged itself directly in construction of standard factory
buildings and infrastructure development in seventeen industrial estates
belonging to state entities specifically created to manage these industrial
estates. This earlier operational phase, however, showed mixed results in
that while the standard factory buildings served as a valuable promotional
device FIDEIN was less successful in operating these buildings as a
commercial venture, and could not sell them until recently.  At the same
time, the concept of developing self-contained industrial estates as part
of a city development concept proved to be too ambitious, and in the later
years FIDEIN concentrated on developing industrial space within the
eEtates. In 1983, the Government redefined FIDEIN's objectives restricting
i   direct construction role and entrusting it essentially with the
respons4bility of helping rationalize the development and operations of
both private and public industrial parks. As such FIDEIN was to
concentrate its future lending operations to financing urban infrastructure
development, including the construction of industrial buildings in
industrial parks. Accordingly FIDEIN transferred ownership of industrial
estates to the State Governments and undertook a vigorous program to sell
its inventory of industrial buildings -- the last three of these buildings
were sold in early 1986.
2.15      FIDEIN's financial performance has been improving gradually
reporting profits in the last two years after suffering operating losses
during 1983 (US$0.3 million), and in 1984 (US$0.2 million). The large part
of the profit was due to increase in the volume of its business and due to
the increased interest rate spread for its operations. FIDEIN has always
suffered from a weak management structure and high staff turnover, and its
performance in project evaluatior. work was considered to be unsatisfactory
at the time the Third SMI project was appraised. Several measures to
improve this and other aspects of operation were agreed in the context of
earlier projects, but most recommendations were not implemented. As a
result FIDEIN subprojects were often found lacking analytical background
information and several reviews were needed before Bank approval could be
given. Recently, FIDEIN has taken several concrete steps to strengthen its
staff capability through both hiring of experienced staff and through
training of existing credit staff. In addition, it has carried out an
internal reorganization creating, among other things, a Planning Unit



- 13 -
specifically to carry out investment studies. Further changes in FIDEIN's
operating structure would be introduced during implementation. For this
purpose, two key studies are included under the project, which would
propose organizational changes including the possibility of FIDEIN acting
as a second tier credit institution.
Final Beneficiaries
2.16      FOGAIN would finance technically, financially and economically
sound investment subp ojects of micro-, small- and medium-scale enterprises
which are defined by Government as follows: (a) formal sector micro-
enterprises employing up to 15 persons and having annual sales of up to 40
million pesos (US$47,000); (b) small-scale enterprises employing 16 to 100
persons and with annual sales not exceeding Mex$500 million (US$590,000);
and (c) medium-scale enterprises employing up to 250 persons with annual
sales not exceeding Mex$1,100 million (US$1.3 mfllion). FOGAIN's maximum
financing for any one enterprise world be US$1.0 million equivalent,
including any outstanding amounts from previous subloans, and US$500,000
for free-standing permanent working capital subloans. It is expected that
FOMIN subprojects would mainly comprise medium scale enterprises as these
are more suitable for minority equity investments. To be eligible for
financing under the informal micro-enterprise component, managed by NAFIN,
prospective beneficiaries are defined as low-income entrepreneurs who:
(i) have a family income not exceeding three times the minimum annual
salary (currently around US$1,000), and who are unable to obtain credit
through other preferential credit schemes; (ii) are directly engaged in
production and the enterprise represents the major source of income; (iii)
have a net worth of not more than 20 times the prevailing annual minimum
salary; (iv) have fixed asset investments not greater than 12 times the
annual minimum salary; and (v) employ less than 10 persons. The foregoing
eligibility criteria are incorporated in the Operating Regulations of the
respective executing agencies and were confirmed during negotiations.
Cost and Financing
2.17      Total project cost is estimated at US$350.3 million of which
about US$157.3 million represents foreign exchange. The proposed Bank loan
of US$185.0 million would finance about 100% of the foreign exchange
requirements and US$28.0 million equivalent in local costs. Financing of
local costs is justified in view of Mexico's continuing difficulty in
stabilizing the public sector's fiscal performance and the need to ensure
priority investments in the SMI sector, particularly the relatively high
level of Bank financial support planned for the micro-enterprise and the
financial restructuring components. About US$104.9 million of the project
costs would be financed by the PFIs and the beneficiaries from their own
resources. The remaining project costs about US$60.4 million equivalent
would be covered internally by FOGAIN (US$25.0 million), FOMIN/Government
(US$30.0 million), FIDEIN (US$2.0 million), NAFIN (US$3.0 million) for the
PAI technical assistance program and the micro-enterprise credit program,
and SECOFI (US$0.5 million). The total cost of the technical assistance
(US$8.3 million) would be financed by the Bank loan(US$5.5 million), a UNDP
grant of US$0.3 million and the remaining US$2.5 million by NAFIN and the
three executing agencies.



- 14 -
Relending Terms and Conditions
2.18      The Loan.  NAFIN would be the Borrower.; the Governinent would
guarantee the Bank loan. NAFIN would pass on US$156.7 million equivalent
of the loan proceeds relating to the credit, risk capital, industrial park
program, and technical assistance components to FOUAIN, FOMIN, and FIDEIN.
Because of the pilot nature of the financial restructuring components and
the micro-enterprise credit program, an unallocated amount of US$14.5
million is being provided, which can be reallocated to any of the
components. Under the proposed loan FOGAIN would receive funds from NAFIN
at a rate which is linked to the ACF, instead of the flat 55% per annum
interest rate it currently pays on outstanding balances due to NAFIN
(para. 2.09). FOMIN would continue to receive Bank and counterpart
resources on existing terms (para. 2.13). FIDEIN will receive US$10.0
million from NAFIN as a capital subscription. A signed agreement for
transferring these funds from NAFIN to the executing agencies and the terms
and conditions of such transfer would be a special condition for loan
effectiveness (para. 3.02). NAFIN would retain about US$13.0 million to be
allocated as followe: the micro-enterprise credit component (US$10.0
million equivalent), PAI technical assistance activities (US$2.2 million
equivalent), technical assistance for micro-enterprise component (US$0.4
million equivalent), and NAFIN project review and disbursement unit (US$0.2
million equivalent). The remaining US$0.6 million equivalent of the loan
amount would be transferred to the Government for the SECOFI technical
assistance program. The Government would bear the cross-currency risk and
be responsible for repaying the principal and interest charges on the
entire Bank loan. However, since the ACF index includes, inter alia, an
element for the cost of foreign borrowing the foreign exchange risk will be
implicitly borne by the final beneficiaries.
2.19      Onlending Terms.  FOGAIN would relend US$100.0 million of the
project's credit funds to the PFIs for onlending to sub-borrowers at
interest rates which conform to General Interest Rate Agreement (GIRA)
between the Bank and the Mexican Government, and which would be variable
over the life of the subloans. At present, these rates range from 85% of
ACF for subloans to micro-enterprises (in the formal sector) to ACF+5 for
lending to non-priority medium-scale industries. As in the past, the PFIs
would be allowed to retain up to a five percentage point spread to cover
intermediation costs. Henceforth, the onlending rate for industrial
buildings, located in priority Zones I and II would be 95% of ACF until
June 1988, and thereafter ACF; however, all subloans for investment in Zone
III-B (meant for consolidation and improvement of infrastructure within
existing parks) will be at ACF+2. Subloans for industrial estates, would
be at 85% of ACF until June 1988 and 90% of ACF thereafter. Equity
investments by FOMIN would be expected, on average, to last for six years
with an option for the owner to purchase the equity at its estimated market
value. The equity investments are expected to yield an after tax rate of
return of 12% in real terms. FOMIN's financing of equity investments in
any single enterprise would not exceed the 10% limit of its own equity
base. These conditions would also apply to FOMIN investments under the
restructuring component (para. 2.05).



- 15 -
2.20        The onlending rates for the micro-enterprise credit component
in the informal sector would be initially at 75% of ACF increasing to 80%
after June 1988. From its interest NAFIN wiuld deduct two percentage
points for its overall coordination of the micro-enterprise program. In
addition, the promotional agencies would retain five percentage points from
the interest earnings to meet their administrative costs and to bear the
credit risk. The balance of the interest earnings would be credited to a
special micro--enterprise credit fund to be established in NAFIN. An
understanding was reached at negotiations to include onlending interest
rates under this loan within the provisions of a proposed subsidy control
and budgeting agreement presently being discussed between Mexico and the
Bank, when such agreement is reached.
2.21      Special Conditions for the Restructuring Component.  While the
precise financial arrangements and terms of the restructuring would be
established on a case by case basis, some broad investment guidelines which
have been developed are summarized here and described further in Annex 4.
In general, eligible industrial companies would have to be operationally
viable but have tight debt eervice ratios due to overindebtedness. The
joint participation of FOMIN and the commercial banks in a restructured
firm would not exceed 49% of the share capital of the company, while FOMIN
(with its own funds) will acquire only up to 50% of the newly converted
equity (from debt). These restrictions are to ensure a fair risk sharing
between FOMIN and the commercial banks, and to maintain at all times a
minority equity participation by FOMIN and the commercial banks. Bank
funds would only be used to finance increases in working capital and fixed
assets involved in these restructurings.
Subloan Repayment Terms
2.22      Maturities, Grace Periods and Free-Limits.  In accordance with
the Operating Regulations of the participating institutions (FOGAIN, FOMIN,
FIDEIN and NAFIN) the following terms and conditions for subloans were
agreed during negotiations. The maturity of FOGAIN fixed asset investments
and working capital subloans would be up to 13 years and seven years
respectively. The maximum grace period would be three years for fixed
asset credit and one year for working capital subloans. There would be
no grace periods for the PVP subloans, since the initial payments under
this scheme would be substantially lower than the interest payments during
the grace period of a "traditional" subloan. The maturities of micro-
enterprise subloans would be determined by the promotional agencies within
the following limits: subloans for fixed assets and working capital would
have maturities of up to five and two years respectively, including grace
periods up to 12 months and six months respectively. The maximum working
capital subloan amount would be MEX$6.0 million (currently US$8,000); for
fixed asset credits the amount would be MEX$12 million (US$16,000) and for
a combination of working capital and fixed assets MEX$15 million
(US$20,000). Training for credit recipients would be an integral part of
the credit operations. For FOMIN's regular equity and quasi-equity
investments, as in the past, a flexible divestment policy would be adopted,
with an average holding period of six years. Under the restructuring
component commercial banks are required to divest their newly acquired
shares within five years.



- 16 -
2.23      Given the very small amounts involved in the bulk of FOGAIN's
credit subloans and the mandatory evaluation requirements proposed under
the project (para. 2.25), the Bank would not carry out a prior review of
FOGAIN's credit subprojects, but as part of its field supervision it would
review samples of subprojects costing in excess of US$300,000. For
FIDEIN's industrial buildings and park subloans all subprojects will,
however, be subject to prior Bank approval. Reg&rding FOMIN's regular
equity and quasi-equity investment program, the free limit would be
US$700,000. For FOMIN's pilot financial restructuring program, however,
the Bank would have prior review of the fiIat three restructuring
proposals, irrespective of size as well as all of the investment proposals
which would exceed US$500,000. NAFIN would send to the Bank for review and
approval the evaluation of the first two micro-enterprise promotional
agencies from the public sector and two from the private sector. All
proposals for the T.A. activities including terms of reference for
consultant studies would be subject to prior Bank approval.
Project Implementation Arrangements
2.24      Program Coordination.  Under the proposed project the
implementation arrangements followed under the previous three projects
would be streamlined to allow maximum financial and administrative autonomy
to the executing agencies (Annex 6, para 6) and to ensure an overall
direction by a high level committee. Accordingly, the Government has
decided to set up a high level, but small, Project Coordinating Committee
presided over by the Sub-Secretary of the Ministry of Finance (SHCP) and
with the following members: NAFIN's Director General and the two other
NAFIN Directors, and the Director Generals of Credit and Development
Banking in SHCP. FOGAIN, FOMIN and FIDEIN would participate in the
Committee as non-voting memberu. The Committee's responsibilities include
setting policies and priorities for Program operations and the use and
allocation of Program resources, reviewing the results of operations, and
closely monitoring the progress of the more experimental project aspects.
The Coordinating Committee is to be assisted in its day-to-day operations
by a small Technical Secretariat of permanent staff which would no longer
manage a common financing fund, as under earlier SMI projects. The
Coordinating Committee would meet at least semi-annually.
2.25      The Credit Component would be managed by FOGAIN, which would
on-lend project credit resources to PFIs which would be responsible for
subproject appraisal and supervision. FOGAIN would review the
documentation for subproject approval. While the methodology for
subproject evaluation by the PFIs would depend on the size of the subloan,
for FOGAIN financing of more than US$50,000 a financial rate of return
would be calculated. In addition, an evaluation of market potential as
well as the technical and managerial capacity of enterprises would have to
be carried out. For financing subloans of less than US$50,000, only a cash
flow analysis of the enterprise would be undertaken. All approved
subprojects would have rates of return of at least 10% in real terms.
During negotiations, it was agreed thaet the appraisal criteria for FOGAIN
subloans agreed upon during a supervision mission dated June 21, 1985,
would be applicable to subloans processed under the new loan.



- 17 -
2.26      The Risk Capital and Financial Restructuring Component would be
implemented through FOMIN which will review all subproject proposals for
its regular equity and quasi-equity investment program. During
implementation FOMIN would also supervise its portfolio and attend the
Board meetings of its client firms. For investments under the financial
restructuring component FOMIN will work closely with the commercial banks
which will play a leading role in identifying eligible firms and preparing
their financial workouts using FOMIN consultant services financed under the
project. In cases where there is more than one creditor bank, a lead bank
would be appointed by the creditors and company owners. Once a
restructuring proposal has matured, it would be submitted to FOMIN for
participation. The lead bank will be responsible for supervising the
subproject and, as such, would also be responsible for securing the loan
documents, security sharing and supervising increases in capital. FOMIN
supervision, which will be closely coordinated with the commercial banks,
would be quite intensive and could even entail the appointment of a FOMIN
representative to the management team of the restructured company.
2.27      The Factory Building and Industrial Parks Component.  This
component would be implemented by FIDEIN which will evaluate the technical
and financial aspects of the subproject proposals and submit them to the
Bank for review. FIDEIN has developed a reliable supervision system for
monitoring particularly the construction quality and price aspects of its
subprojects, and this system would continue to be applied in the case of
the new subloans. To reduce FIDEIN's direct involvement in the credit
aspects, a study would be carried out under the technical assistance
comronent to explore the possibility of FIDEIN acting as a second tier
institution rediscounting loans made by the commercial banks. In the short
term, however, FIDEIN's credit functions (loan disbursement and collection)
would gradually be transferred under the management of NAFIN's credit
department. An agreement has already been concluded between NAFIN and
FIDEIN regarding loan recoveries.
2.28      The Micro-enter2rise Component would be implemented by NAFIN in a
decentralized fashion directed through both private and publicly supported
non-profit promotional agencies with special programs to assist micro-
enterprises. Formal credit institutions, including credit unions and
commercial banks with special programs for micro-enterprises, may also
participate. To be eligible for participation each promotional agency
would provide proof of its legal status and prepare an investment plan
including estimates of credit demand and training needs of microenterprises
in each specific tegion. The agencies will also be required to demonstrate
that they are legally constituted and that they have the resources and
technical capabilities to carry out the planned program. NAFIN as a
second-tier institution would carry out an evaluation of the promotional
agencies and approve their credit lines, which will operate revolving funds
to be renewed or increased by NAFIN, depending on the loan demand and
recovery performance of each agency. NAFIN would ensure that the loan
funds are used by the promotional agencies for the purposes for which they
were granted. The promotional agencies will be the main contact point with
the beneficiaries, evaluating their eligibility in accordance with the
criteria described in para 2.16.



- 18 -
2.29      The Technical Assistance Components would be implemented by each
executing agency. The general support activities for SMIs, such as the
extension service and assistance to the credit unions, would, however, be
implemented by the PAI technical assistance unit now part of NAFIN's
Directorate of Industrial Promotion. UNIDO would be the executing agency
for the joint Government/UNDP technical assistance program for SECOFI. To
avoid duplication of effort in areas to be studied under the proposed
project and under other ongoing Bank-assisted ,rojects, all proposals for
studies would be screened by a small steeiring committee to be set up under
the chairmanship of the Director General of SMI in SECOFI and comprising
members from SHCP, SPP, end NAFIN.  UNIDO's work program would be reviewed
in annual meetings among representatives of the Bank, UNIDO, and SECOFI.
The initial meeting to discuss the annual work program would be held three
months after effectiveness. This arrangement ie included in the UNDP
Project Execution Document.
2.30      Procurement.  NAFIN as Coordinator of the Program would have
overall responsibility for ensuring that all executing agencies apply
suitable procurement procedures either directly or through the PFIs to
ensure that goods and services procured under the project are competitive
in quality and price, and ere appropriate for the needs of the client
enterprises. Procurement procedures applied in the past by the executing
agencies have complied with the standard for Bank IDF type operations.
ICB would not be required, given the relatively small average size of
subprojects proposed to be financed (the average subloan size for FOGAIN
credits is currently US$30,000 equivalent); however, the corresponding
institutions would assure themselves that the main sources of supply have
been canvassed and that the purchasing is from the most advantageous
sources. Consulting services would be open to international recruitment
selected in accordance with Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants.
Wi'Ale the records of the procurement process during subproject implementa-
tion would be maintained by the PFIs, the executing agencies would be
responsible for ensuring that the intermediaries comply with the
procurement guidelines.
2.31      Disbursement.  The final date for submission of subloan proposals
would be December 31, 1991 and the closing date December 31, 1993 according
to the average profile for IDF loans in the region, even though faster
disbursement is expected, given the experience under the previous two loans
(Annex 6). Retroactive financing has been included for expenditures of
up to US$9.0 million, incurred between October 1986 and the date of effect-
iveness. Such a provision is justified to enable financing for the two
pilot components, namely FOMIN's financial restructuring investments and
subloans to micro-enterprises. The Bank would disburse up to 80% of FOGAIN
and FIDEIN credits for qualifying subprojects. For the FOMIN regular
equity and quasi-equity program the Bank would disburse up to 80% of
FOMIN's investments. FOMIN investments in restructured companies would,
however, be disbursed at a rate of 100% of any new working capital
resources and for fixed asset financing. In the case of micro-enterprises,
the Bank loan would finance 90% of the total credits approved by NA1IN for
the beneficiaries. For technical assistance, the Bank would disburse for
100% of total cost. To facilitate rapid project execution a Special



- 19 -
Account would be established at NAFIN with an initial deposit of US$15
million representing about four months of disbursement requirements.
Withdrawals from the loan account would be made on the basis of statements
of expenditures (SOEs), and NAFIN would maintain all supporting
documentation and make it available for review upon the Bank's request.
Furthermore, NAFIN would submit to the Bank a monthly statement of the
transactions ofthe Special Account. Since a two-tier credit system
requires a longer period between expenditure by the sub-borrower and
disbursements by the executing agencies than is normal for non-IDF
projects, the Bank would disburse for expenditures incurred up to 180
days prior to the receipt of a disbursement request.
2.32      Accounts, Auditing and Reporting.  As with previous projects,
the accounts of NAFIN and the executing agencies (FOGAIN, FIDEIN, FOMIN
and the PAI technical assistance unit) including the Special Account, and
SOEs, would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank. The audit reports, including an opinion regarding the supporting
documentation for disbursements based on SOEs, would be submitted within
six months after the end of thie fiscal year of the respective executing
agencies. Under the p.evious projects, the audits were carried out by
qualified external audit firms which issued reports on the financial
statements of the executing agencies on a timely basis with no major
reservations beyond technical problemo of accounting for FOMIN's equity
investments. Audit reports on Special Account and SOEs have been delayed
because of lack of enforcement by NAFIN but this is expected to be remedied
for the accounts relating to calendar year 1986. PAI would prepare for the
Bank's review semi-annual progress reports on its technical assistance
activities. NAFIN would consolidate all progress reports for transmittal
to the Bank. The auditlng and reporting requirements described were agreed
upon during negotiations.
Benefits and Risks
2.33      The proposed project would complement the Government's trade
liberalization and industrial restructuring efforts, by providing scarce
long-term investment resources (credit and equity) to enterprises needing
to either restructure or expand their businesses to become internationally
competitive. More specifically, while the quelity and breadth of financial
services available to the SMI sector would be improved, the project would
introduce increased flexibility in the lending terms, permitting sub-
borrowers to use a repayment mechanism that would tend to reduce their
debt servicing burden during the earlier phases of the investment helping
address the overindebtedness problem facing industries in Mexico, the
financial restructuring component would ensure the more efficient
utilization of existing industrial assets and would maintain employment.
The project would broaden the scope of the ongoing program by supporting a
pilot micro-enterprise credit scheme which would provide finance and
technical assistance to low-income producers, primarily women entrepeneurs,
who are engaged in highly labor intensive acti\vities. According to
available estimates, 35% of Mexico's active labor force is engaged in
informal sector activities. Tlhe informal sector is expected to play an
increasingly important role in the futttre in absorbing, at low investment
cost per job, displaced skilled and unskilled workers from other sectors.



- 20 -
Finally the project's strong institution-building program would result in
improved and more efficient provision of technical and financial services
to the industrial sector, including the continued development of credit
discipline.
2.34      The fact that FOGAIN and FOMIN, the two main executing agencies,
have developed into reasonably efficient and mature financial institutions
reduces both overall implementation risk and the risk related to financial
and economic efficiency of resource allocation. Experience under the two
past and ongoing SMI projects (Annex 6) shows that on balance the sub-
projects financed had a positive impact and on average FOGAIN subprojects
had economic rates of return in the range of 15 percent to 20 percent. The
demand for FOGAIN investment credit would, however, be sensitive to slow
improvements in the macro-economic developments, particularly to the high
inflation levels and pace of economic recovery. To minimize the dampening
affect of high nominal interest rates on credit demand the project would
offer, as an option, a subloan repayment mechanism that is suitable in a
high inflation environment. In addition, the overall size of the credit
component has been set for conservative demand projections, and assuming no
real growth over the last three years' actual credit disbursements by
FOGAIN. The implementation of the financial restructuring component could
be delayed due to the reluctance of commercial banks to participate, parti-
cularly if they perceive their own financial sacrifice as disproportionate
to that of the other participants. To deal with this uncertainty, the
restructuring scheme is predicated on the principle of equal sacrifice
and benefit for all participants including commercial banks and the
entrepreneurs who would be converting a family owned company to outside
participation.
III. AGREEMENTS
3.01      During negotiations, agreement was confirmed upon:
(a)  the project's objectives and its description (paras 2.02);
(b)  the Droject cost, loan amount, financing as well as arrangements
for channelling the resources to the various participating agencies and _
the accumulation of project resources in FOGAIN, FOMIN and NAFIN micro-
enterprise fund (paras. 2.17, 2.18);
(c) on-lending interest rates, spreads, maturities, grace periods and
free limits (paras. 2.19, 2.22, 2.23);
(d) planned technical assistance activities (para. 2.08);
(e) subproject appraisal, procurement, disbursement, accounting,
auditing and reporting arrangements (paras. 2.30, 2.31, 2.32).
3.02      Conditions of loan effectiveness whereby NAFIN will duly execute
subsidiary loan agreements with FOGAIN, FOMIN and FIDEIN outlining the
terms and conditions for the transfer of the loan proceeds (para. 2.18);
3.03      The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan
of US$185 million equivalent on the terms and conditions outlined in
Chapters I and II.



- 21 -
Annex 1
Page 1 of 6
MEXICO
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
The Technical Assistance Program
1.       The technical assistance component of the proposed project is a
comprehensive program covering a three-year period, which would encompass
activities to: (a) strengthen the operations of the four institutions
(FOGAIN, FOMIN, FIDEIN and NAFIN), which would act as apex institutions.
Technical assistance will also be extended to the first tier participating
financial institutions (PFI's), namely the commercial banks, credit unions
and promotional agencies providing credit to micro-enterprises.
(b) support the PAI industrial extension program and (c) assist the
Directorate General of SMI's in the Ministry of Trade and Industry (SECOFI)
to undertake key policy studies and to develop an information base on SMI's
which can help design policies and programs in support of SMI development.
The core of the technical assistance program would comprise funding for
consultant services and equipment in support of the program. The total
estimated cost of the technical assistance program is US$8.3 million,l/ of
which US$5.5 million would be financed with Bank resources. While a -
detailed breakdown of technical assistance activities and costs, as well as
an implementation timetable is available in the Project Files, the main
components of the program are discussed in the following paragraphs and the
cost estimates are in Attachment 1.
PAI-Technical Assistance Unit (PAI-TU)
2.        The PAI-TU component is the largest of the five subcomponents,
with an estimated foxeign cost of US$2.3 million. Within this subcomponent
the support for the industrial extension program represents the key
activity, followed by assistance to the credit unions which act as channels
of credit to the SMI sector. It is anticipated that under the technical
assistance program the PAI extension service would be expanded increasing
its staff from 94 at present to 160 at the end of 1988. The newly
recruited staff as well as existing PAI extensionists would receive
on-the-job training and would also attend short seminars and courses in
techncial areas. The assistance for credit unions would be confined to
improving their management and accounting practices, loan recovery
procedures, and project evaluation practices. Where necessary, NAFIN's TA
unit would provide micro-computers and associated training to enable credit
unions to improve their data base system. The technical assistance for PAI
also includes: (a) a pilot program to identify and train new entrepreneurs,
mainly young graduates with business aptitude; (b) assistance for
stimulating the increase of SMI exports and the greater use of
subcontracting, as well as improvements in productivity and quality
control. The latter would include technical assistance to a group of
enterprises in areas of project engineering, export marketing and
subcontracting; (c) support to regional research institutes for the
resolution of specific technical problems identified by the extension
service or referred by SMIs; and (d) improvement of the statistical data
base for the extension service and of PAI's promotional activities.
I/ Includes US$0.3 million UNDP contribution.



- 22 -                       Annex 1
Page 2 of 6
Credit Program (FOGAIN)
3.        A technical assistance component with an estimated foreign cost
of about US$0.9 million equivalent would help strengthen FOGAIN
operations. Speifically this package would: (a) strengthen FOGAIN and the
PFI's in areas of project preparation, evaluation and supervision through
short-term seminars as well as on-the-job training by experts who would
review FOGAIN's existing evaluation guidelines and loan processing manuals;
(b) support and speed up FOGAIN's program to decentralize its loan approval
and control activities, and in this regard, develop the data base at the
regional level linked to the system at headnuarters; (c) strengthen the
current credit control and information system including assistance for
sub-project follow-up, particularly in managment and portfolio control,
aimed to monitor the quality of FOGAIN-financed portfolio at the PFI level;
(d) develop the installed capacity in financial planning and programming as
a basis for operational and financial projections; (e) accelerate the
subproject processing procedures cutting down subloan approval time through
the establishment of special project technical assistance units and
revolving accounts in selected commercial banks; and (f) carry out more
aggressive promotional activities based on a well-articulated mid-term
strategy and an annual promotion program. The technical assistance support
for FOGAIN also includes financial provisions for the acquisition of
micro-computers, audio-visual equipment and the development of related
software. About US$0.2 million has been earmarked for computerization of
regional offices, but this sum would be available for use after a
diagnostic study is completed to ensure that there is no duplication with
the computerization planned under the recent IDB loan.
Risk Capital - Restructuring Component (FOMIN)
4.        The subcomponent for FOMIN is estimated to have an external cost
of US$0.9 million equivalent and would: (a) provide assistance to FOMIN for
strengthening its current investment analysis capacity with emphasis on
training staff in carrying out an investment analysis for equity-type
operations; (b) create the institutional capacity for FOMIN to implement
the financial restructuring component. Since this would require a high
level of expertise in varied areas consultant funds have been provided to
enable FOMIN to seek the required expertise form consultant firms in Mexico
or outside. It is envisaged that FOMIN consultants would work closely with
commercial banks in developing restructuring workouts (Annex 4) and in this
way also help build up the institutional capabilities of the participating
banks, (c) help enterprises increase their production and product quality.
In this regard FOMIN would finance studies covering specific areas such as
improvements in production processes, market analysis and a diagnosis of
companies' organizational problems; and (d) strengthen the existing
management information system including subproject data.
5.        Industrial Parks and Buildings Program (FIDEIN).  The FIDEIN
technical assistance component has been designed with two basic objectives
namely, to strengthen the institutional aspects particularly credit
evaluation and supervision and to enable FIDEIN to carry out special
pre-investment studies.  It is envisaged that FIDEIN would undertake
special training programs for its staff in areas of project evaluation and



- 23 -
Annex I
Page 3 of 6
supervision. During the first year of operations, FIDEIN will carry out
a study to determine the possibility of lending through commercial banks
acting as a seccnd tier institution. Another study would help assess
FIDEIN's staffing needs and propose any organizational changes, if
necessary. After 18 months of operations under the proposed project,
FIDEIN would commission a study which would review its lending operations
and the overall performance of the Institution. The technical assistance
program also includes financing for carrying out detailed pre-investment
studies for industrial park development in 11 states. Similarly, standard
building designs would be developed for factories to be constructed by
private constructors wanting to locate businesses in high priority
industrial zones.
Micro-enterprise credit component (NAFIN)
7.        In view of the pilot nature of the micro-enterprise component,
technical assistance has been designed both for the apex institution
(NAFIN) and the promotional agencies responsible for implementing this
program. The estimated external cost of this component is US$0.3 million
which would support the following: (a) strengthening the subdirectorate in
NAFIN responsible for selection and screening of promotional agencies.
There is a need to develop a central information and control system which
would be supported by a computerization and management information
program.   (b) direct assistance to the promotional agencies in the form of
training programs for their personnel and the development of subloan
evaluation criteria, loan recoveries and supervision practices; and
(c) studies for the identification of training needs for the final
beneficiaries including the development of training programs to be
implemented by selected training institutions; and (d) promotional
activities including purchase of videos and the production of didactic
materials, pamphlets and other promotional material.
Subproject Review (NAFIN)
6.        A major problem in the implementation of the previous projects
was the delays in subloan approvals at each stage of processing,
particularly for above the free limit subprojects, needing the Bank's
approval. The underlying problem was the lack of conformity with Bank
appraisal standards. It is planned that under the proposed project the
responsibility for approving projects above the free limit be gradually
transferred to a responsible and competent unit in NAFIN. In addition,
there is the need to centralize the information requirements of the Bank
in a single unit. Accordingly, it is planned that these responsibilities
be carried out by NAFIN's Directorate of International Organization (which
is the primary point of contact with the Bank), Since the Directorate of
International Organizaton is not only responsible for the Bank's SMI
projects but projects in several other sectors, its institutional
strengthening would benefit the implementation of several Bank-assisted
projects. The technical assistance package designed jointly with NAFIN
is estimated to cost US$0.2 million and would be aimed to strengthen the
quality control functions of NAFIN. Specifically three basic types of
assistance are envisaged: staff training, procedural review and reporting.
The training activities would be concentrated on upgrading the capacity of
existing staff in areas of subproject review in the light of the agreed



- 24 -                     Annex 1
Page 4 of 6
Bank eligibility criteria. The main thrust of the training would be to
provide on-the-job training and the development of guidelines for reviewing
subprojects. The funds for computer equipment would be used to develop
central information system for financial and operational information
generated by the executing agencies.
Key Sector Studies (SECOFI)
8.        To date the Bank-assisted SMI projects have operated without
direct linkages with the policymaking body, namely the Directorate of Small
and Medium Scale Industries in the Ministry of Trade and Industry. The
Directorate is responsible not only for developing the overall incentive
proposals/schemes for the SMI subsector but also for developing the
Government's overall policy for the sector. Recognizing the importance of
adequate policies on the successful implementation of credit programs the
project includes direct technical assistance to strengthen the operations
of SECOFI's SMI Directorate to assist it in formulating or recommending
policies for the promotion of SMI's. The technical assistance program for
SECOFI would be part of a joint program between UNDP/Bank to be executed by
UNIDO. The Bank's assistance is estimated to cost US$0.5 million while the
UNDP component, which is mainly directed to development of the information
base of the Directorate, is estimated to cost US$0.6 million. The Bank's
technical assistance program would include the carrying out of special
studies which would be followed up by specific action plans in areas
requiring improvements. Areas to be studied are: (a) the existing
regulatory framework constraining investment in the SMI subsector;
(b) subsector studies aimed at determining the investment possibilities in
the light of available production techniques and market prospects including
export possibilities; (c) development of mechanisms for promotion of
subcontracting taking into consideration the experience in other developing
countries; and (d) strengthening the support of the Directorate to the
technological development institutes like CONACYT and INFOTEC. Since
several ongoing Bank-assisted projects include studies which may overlap
with those proposed under the project, a small steering committee would be
set up to screen proposals for the studies to be undertaken by SECOFI's SKI
Directorate. The steering committee would be chaired by the Director
General of the SMI Directorate in SECOFI and would have as members
representatives from NAFIN, SHCP and SPP.
Implementation Arrangements for the TA Component
9.        The Technical Assistance program under the proposed project has
been designed differently from the previous three SMI projects where the
entire technical assistance program was managed and coordinated by a
central authority, namely PAI. Under the proposed project, there are two
types of technical assistance activities: first, those which are intrinsic
to the executing agencies (FOGAIN, FOMIN, FIDEIN and NAFIN), and hence
would be managed directly by them; second, those related to the entire
project, as well as to the SMI sector, which would be handled by PAI in
its role of a technical assistance provider and by SECOFI as an SMI policy-
making body. Both types of TA packages would be executed in accordance
with the detailed implementation plan, prepared jointly by the Bank and
each institution during appraisal, and which is available in the project
file. To ensure a smooth implementation and close interdepartmental



- 25 -
Annex 1
Page 5 of 6
coordination, it is envisaged that each institution would nominate a high
level official wich adequate support staff to be solely in charge of all TA
activities within the respective agency, including contacts with the Bank.
All progress reports on TA activities would be prepared under the
coordination of the rnominated person. SECOFI's technical assistance
program has been designed as an integrated package for a joint UNDP-UNIDO
and Bank technical assistance project. UNIDO would be the executing agency
for this component while the Bank would periodically review the progress of
the program through tripartite meetings between SECOFI/Bank/UNDP. In
addition, the annual work program for the technical assistance component
would be discussed with the Bank. Both the annual review and semi-annual
meetings would provide the Bank opportunities to monitor this important
component. The Project Execution Document to be prepared by SECOFI for
this component, would include, inter alia, the arrangements for
implementation and review of the project.
Technical Assistance Program Priorities
10.       Even though the above TA activities for each participating
institution (NAFIN, SECOFI, FOGAIN, FIDEIN and FOMIN, and FIDEIN) reflect
their institutional, financial and operational aspects of the institutions
which are considered high priority, the following activities are
considered especially critical for project success.
(a)   PAI's industrial extension programs would be carried out in a
way to ensure adequate strengthening through training of 30
existing extension staff and recruitment of 30 new extensionists
annually. The recruitment and training program for extensionists
would commence in the first implementation year.
(b)   During the three implementation years about 15 credit unions
would be strengthened and project technical review units would be
set up in a least three selected commercial banks.
(c)   Decentralization of FOGAIN operations represents a high priority
for project execution as a means to speed up its loan approval
time and to make the entire operation more effective. In this
regard, terms of reference to carry out a diagnostic study about
the current status and design of an action plan should be
submitted for Bank consideration within the first semester of the
project execution.
(d)   The strengthening of FOGAIN's Control and Information System,
which includes the portfolio management, especially to know the
quality and status of the PFI's project portfolio, including loan
recoveries, is the key element of FOGAIN's institutional
development and work on this activity would commence in the first
phase (Qtr) of project implementation.
(e)   The TA activities related to both FOMIN's pilot component of
financial restructuring, and NAFIN's technical assistance for the
execution of the informal micro-enterprise credit component,
should be initiated in the project's first implementation year
and completed by year three.



- 26 -
Annex 1
Page 6 of 6
(f)   The TA for SECOFI, such as the studies related to incentives, and
the simplification of the procedures required to enhance or set
up a new enterprise, are important as the basis for developing
new policies and strategies to promote the SMI sector.
Accordingly these activities would be given priority within
SECOFI's overall technical assistance program. The results of
all studies should be made available within two and a half years
of implementation.
(g)   FIDEIN's technical assistance activities will give the highest
priority to staff strengthening through training programs in
credit evaluation and sub-project preparation. In addition,
FIDEIN would commission two key studies, namely that to determine
its staffing and organizational needs and that to help It act as
a second tier credit institution.



Attwdiunt 1
-  27  -                                 I%jeIof2
P0El UIL MJI DtUm 5IEIX XNIiDffk  1
Etimatod Costs sd In Yrm for TWdwhial Asestae PN
(h4At for 3 Yeaz)
PART I                                          Ihtenal         1oa           Totfl
PAi T?edo icd    istaoe tdt                                  Cost         Cost           Coat
Ob*ivcti                                                                                (MO thm1s t
a) Stietrng t am .ihe    tho aurnnt oapaoity of the Irustrial Ertuiou             7M).0         85.7         1,1RX.7
S& loo for 91'e, as  ll as to devlop a training progm  for parllel
extawonitaU in the bwks and  ttes.
b) Pzcte the cretion of and amist Credit Uniorm to bo     r.ore                   49).0         *54.3         944.3
effective   I'e. CoRuter equipeAnt will aIo b providd to support
Crdit Unrion operatioos.
O) Daevlop aed L^lpent an 41tmpmmertal Dewlopwint Prmv.                           2X).0          9Q.S         312.8
d) Strengthan PAVs eurrent opity to assist Regimo   Reerch                        177.0          50.5          227.5
Irntitutes to rewolve taecndeal pmzblei faced IV 5I'4 in selected
sub-esotora.
a) Aeistance to oarry out pzgee   for stimulating increas  exports fcc            162.0          20.5          182.5
sr, mote subotrcting and enhnced prodaotivity/quality control.
f) Pntide PAI with equipent for peO,tional and techd l asistanw                   371.0         175.2         546.2
aUtivities (audio-visal); enpater equipunt to streNgthen both the
Headquartere and the Regional Offices.
WM  PAl   T.A.                                                                  2,00.0         1,619.6       3,819.0
PART Ul
Gu*nte_ Fund for Iaiitial Cziit (FJOG)
a) To   iat FKAI in deoentriization thnh   MeIsolUtion of its                       o.0          29.4          109.4
oaWter syte  IV a netw*  oreetirg of 7  eglonral Offices.
b) To sttwtu  loan's and m's eru-t oapwoitr on project                            160.0          26.7         115.7
pftpttim an gwalujation e tugh short-term ssdlas wd on-tib-Job
trding oarried cut tb XWAt as viol as thro*  oemeX  sponsorsd IV
reticMI SW riatioAtl  iiutitUtioaS.
e) To iqzoe N:AIN'e subprojeot foflU   up, idch inolxle  ex-poet                   70.0          12.2          8.2
proeasing of the finavial end seiO infoition, an subprojects, as
well asimprove F 'Is lawledge of PVT's portfolio.
d) To aeist  ADI in designing a fwainl prousdg   psts4, in order                  62.0           8.9
to irjl*mt f     huil pro3otions, penently end xpet itaily.
a) Assist gX2:  in ourrt  out an action plan to estAblish in the PM's             42.0           2.3          44.3
Teniial Unit to pmoce and  spervise subproJects swre effectively.
f) &,Wrt PlADN's pnotaal activities izoluding the slaborsticv of a                 31.0          Z2.5           53.5
aid-ten   and an am1al prwtion progzi.
g) Povide  MM ccstar equipeont. and sippor         otitwe  ant twinini            435.0         394.0         819.0
for opiretiGw in thl R1eginl Offioes.
PT 12                                            arteranl        l l            'otl
Neticeai. Xrtutrial% at  a!l (KI)                                   Cost           Cost           Coct
Objectivet                                                                                   Lm thuans)
a) Sulgte  KMD's aursMt oepoity in pmject pa'em tion am                           175.0          77.7          252.7
melwtion Smatuvisioa activitis.
b) Assit hOI  to detorodne invwtlt altewativ  and to iarov  the                   126.0          24.5          150.5
productivity of the oamies financed I it.
c) Asist MIU in p        nDUOi   activities dsed to feailierift                    69.0          13.6          82.6
autmprmwt, dehb   of iihmtries asnd b s with  R(  proga-
d) StrsgUmrisg  LIn  oPeMial nd tadbiOa  asPcs require  to                        36.0           36.3          421.3
iqlmmt tthe aw Coawnt of  nmciea  Ret btuarI   hWay q-Ufied
Oltmrts imld be hid  prtiwamrli for  c.ry l uS fit WIl
aerirt   ,ftdg  nai  vith *=        WISl bam.
0) Ait  KW1in &M sdstion of oms   ae        d audio.d Ial Sdipwnt, a8             115.0           0            115.0
Wel - vebic    to soprt its operatinas, sperviion dan prortoMl
activities.
laBlTJW~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                           1581 0 , ; C



-  28 -                                         Pop 2 of 2
8rtsnul       Loal          Total
PAR IV                                          cost         Cost           Cost
Nacionl  (iu~.a m(AI)                                           (U.M thouamds)
Objectives:
a) Strentm  NAPIN's International and Trawsy Dirctorate in ares of              90.0          24.8         114.8
geesral project follof up.
b) Strethu  the Current Inforution and Control ystem of NAFDl's                 8.0            4.2         92.2
Internaticel and Treaay Directorate, that ould be repcmible for
mual Project alinistration.
c) StrwWthm NAF's operating capacity aa of prmtional gencies to                272.0          64.5        336.5
iql.it the na  credit ooqwmt for infouml adcro-enterprisms.
tails Aznex 5).
TUDAL NAM  T.A.                                                                450.0          93.5        543.5
PART V
Seoreteriat of Trade and !trtal Devlopmnt (S37I)
Objectives:
a) Asiat 3D0PI's Directorate Gerel for YIdium and Small Nnterprisee             48.5          11.6         60.1
(DISDI), to car out studies aiead at identi*irng ansm to simuplify
existig idustrial reglation.
b) Carry out stbies about the impact and effectiveres of oarnt ficl             84.5          14.2         98.7
inctivie and other types of ineentives for S1 developemit.
e) Carry out a st*  to deterine oca    provm  betmen the national               48.0         24.1          72.1
industrial reearch institute, SEnI AND OAMC.
d) Unbertake spciel and sector stUdies covering topics suih as intaled          72.0           6.5         78.5
capacity, nm*et linittiaow, production, product quality, tedmo1o
oeotrain-a and other aspet.  heee stui vzuld act as giides to
dei new policies and inveswett strateges for MI's.
e) Prwte the usw of subcontracting beteen the lare and wall-scale               96.0          16.4        112.4
enterpTie, as well as attazlate tbe creation of inter-enterprise
orgsaticns to implamt ths above nucha.
f) ILmne WIMP's infomtimn base trogh  icmrocaipter eispnnt ea                  251.0          7.3         258.3
atdio-vial equipmt.
TDI!AL SXMFI T.                                                                60.0/           .1         680.
PART VI
Funt for Indtrial$sfjvelomopmt (F3Mi)
Objectives:
a) Carsy out studies for tme Estates to determine investist priorities;        264.0         27.0         291.0
design policies and strFtegies for industrial pase developt, to also
ewluate the ipwot of tim exdsting and onoing operatio. An
eninerin  stubdy for deeloplng stard indutrial buildinro.
b) Carry out a dMsostic atudy about II'a institatioral and operting            107.3         31.2         138.5
procedure to determne orgniatice2l adjustbt and staff requirumnts.
The desdi of a ecmd flcor bik naurde for TII'IN. Stregthen
FIM 's staff; aad sd-temr proJect emaution evaluation of F]IEDI's
perfomnce.
128.7        100.1         228.8
c) Pratiml Activities to ineraa  FlMl's operations and to enoa
the use of the Industri  Parks' facilities.
500.0        158.3         658.3
TOAL FEW  T. A.
5,50'.0      2,589.0       8,089.0
MMID TOL T. A.                                                               -             -             -
1 boljese a gnat of tS,OO0 frzu UNDP/ONMDI.



Annex 2
Page 1 of 8
MEXICO
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
Guarantee Fund for Small and Medium Scale Industry (FOGAIN)
The Credit Component
1.        Perspectives.  FOGAIN was founded in 1953 as a NAFIN trust fund,
to act as a second-tier-credit institution rediscounting loans to micro-,
small and medium industries (SMIs) for equipment, machinery, working
capital and debt consolidation (industrial mortgages). From time to time
FOGAIN has also been entrusted by Government with the implementation of
several ad hoc programs, such as the DICONSA Suppliers' credit scheme and
the emergency SMI credit program (US$500 million) created after the 1982
economic crisis. FOGAIN financing enables SMI firms to expand existing
capacity, add new lines of products, as well as undertake new investments.
Today FOGAIN lends through several participating financial intermediaries
(PFIs), such as commercial banks and credit unions.
2.        Effective from May 1, 1986, FOGAIN clients are classified on the
basis of net sales and number of employees, as follows:
(a) "Micro-industries which may be individuals, corporate bodies, or
cooperatives, which employ up to 15 persons and whose net sales total less
than Mex$40 million/year"; (b) 'Small-scale industries are units that do
not fall within the previous category, have up to 100 employees, and show
sales not exceeding Mex$500 million/year." (c) "Medium-scale industries are
units that do not fit into either of the previ,us categories, have up to
250 employees, and show sales not exceding Mex$1.1 billion/year." (The New
Operating Regulations (July 1986) Governing FOGAIN Operations Through the
National Banking Systems are available in the Project File.)
Past Financial Performance
3.        FOGAIN's past financial performance covers the three year period
1983-85 and the first eight months of 1986. This period coincides with the
implementation of the Bank-financed Third SMI project. Wherever
meaningful, the 1983-85 performance is compared with results for the
immediately preceding three-year period (1980-82).
4.        Profitability.  During the past two years, FOGAIN has
demonstrated a good financial performance and maintained a sound financial
structure. Operating profits have increased steadily over this period,
and, in fact, the pattern of losses sustained between 1976 and 1983 was
reversed (only in 1980 was there a moderate profit, US$167,698
equivalent). As will be seen from the past financial statements in Annex
9, T-7, T-8, FOGAIN's profits for 1984 amounted to Mex$3,408.7 million
(US$18.4 million equivalent), which translate to a rate of return on total
assets (ROA) of 3.6% and on average equity (ROAE) of 13.9% The profits for
1985 were even higher amounting to Mex$15,230 million (US$49.1 million
equivalent), which translate to a ROA of 12% and a ROAE of 29.6%. It
should be noted, however, that the dollar value of FOGAIN's asset base
declined between 1984 and 1985 by 13.8%, thus making the adjusted ROA for
1985 equal to 10%. The above rates of return on total assets and on equity
are considered satisfactory.



- 30 -
Arneax 2
Page 2 of 8
5.        The main reasons for FOGAIN's good performance during the 1983-85
period are: (i) the favorable interest rate margin in its balance sheets;
the weighted average cost of FOGAIN funds increased much more slowly that
its weighted average lending rates. This margin stood at 22.5 percentage
points at the end of 1985 and increased to 24.1 percentage points in July
1986 (see Annex 9, T-9); (ii) the institution of variable interest rates
charged on its subloans, tied to the weighted Average Cost of Funds, while
FOGAIN's liabilities have, until now, represented low cost fixed rate
refinancing instruments; (iii) the fact that FOGAIN's portfolio did not
have any significant losses in its subloan portfolio (from accounts in
arrears); (iv) a significant reduction in the growth of long-term
liabilities (from 230% in 1980-82 to less than 4% in the 1983-85 period),
except for obligations to PAI. This resulted in a reduction of interest
costs in 1985 by 29%; (v) nominal increases in administrative and salary
costs generally below the growth in the General Price Index.
6.        Arrears.  As a second-tier institution FOGAIN bears no credit
risk except for its direct lending to credit unions. Thus, FOGAIN makes no
provision for bad debts. Subloans in arrears (or uncollectibles) represent
a very small proportion of the total loan portfolio, despite an increase
from nearly 0% in 1983 to .02% in 1984. At present, FOGAIN does not
receive periodic reports on status of arrears from the financial
intermediaries. This is a major shortcoming and would be remedied under
the proposed project, which would not only require such reporting, but the
preparation of an action program based on these reports. The data on
subloan portfolio is severely deficient, both at the FOGAIN and PFI level,
but visits to three leading participating commercial banks showed that they
placed their FOGAIN-financed subloans in arrears at their level, to between
2% and 5% of total loan portfolio. This figure conforms with the arrear
position reported by the IDB appraisal mission in February 1986. While the
low levels of arrears could be due to the conservative credit screening
processes and high collateral requirements which prevent high defaults by
selecting the lowest risk category, their real level may be masked by the
commercial bank practice of rolling over outstandings (Main Report para
1.10).
7.        Asset, Liability Structure, and Net Worth.  In US$ terms,
FOGAIN's asset base (85% of which is its loan portfolio) decreased between
1983-85 by 8.5% (from US$461.0 to US$422.0 million equivalent), principally
due to inflation and the rapid devaluations. However, in this period
FOGAIN's net worth increased by 112.0%, due to the plowback of increased
earnings in 1984-85.   The value of the loan portfolio also increased
moderately (by about 7.0%). The foregoing developments are in contrast to
the adverse developments during the previous 3-year period (1980-82), when
both FOGAIN's net worth decreased by about 21.0% and the value of its loan
portfolio decreased by 42.0% due to the severe economic and financial
difficulties. A discussion of FOGAIN's loan portfolio is in para 10.
8.        The level and composition of FOGAIN's liabilities also changed
radically during the 1983-85 period. Total debt as a percentage of net
worth has changed from 340.3% in 1983 to 78.4% in 1985, providing FOGAIN a
greater capacity for future borrowing and permitting it to meet its
counterpart funding requirements increasingly from its internal resources.
In fact, no direct budgetary support for FOGAIN was provided in 1986.



- 31 -
Annex 2
Page 3 of 8
Funding of domestically-financed credit programs, as a percentage of total
debt, has decreased by 51%, while the external debt portion (representing
Bank/IDB resources) of total indebtedness has increased by 217%.  This is
partly explained by the tight resource position in the market and mainly by
FOGAIN's preference to use IDB/Bank resources which are relent to it by
Government at fixed rates, free of currency risks and hence ch aper to
service.  It is not surprising that the latest (1986) IDB loan of US$180.0
million represents a quantum jump from its penultimate loan of US$0.0
million. Within this pattern, the contribution of Bank funds to FOGAIN's
total debt has increased from 13.7% in 1982 to 57.1% in 1985, indicating
the increased significance of the Bank's financing to FOGAIN's operations.
9.        Portfolio Growth and Composition.  During the 1983-85 period, as
expected, FOCAIN's loan portfolio represented 85% of its total assets,
growing significantly in nominal terms (from Mex$56.2 billion to Mex$123.7
billion). In US dollar terms, however, its value increased only by about
7.0% for the entire 3-year period (from tlS$374.0 million to US$399.0
million equivalent), as shown in Annex 9, T-8. The portfolio was financed
as follows: 62.8% by FOGAIN's own resources, 13.7% by internal credit, 9.5%
by external credit, 7.8% by the Bank of Mexico, and 6.2% by the Federal
Government. The cumulative distribution of maturities in FOGAIN's subloan
portfolio exhibited some rather significant changes during the last six
years (see Annex 9, T-13). For example, the average annual proportion of
maturities classified as 24-months or less increased to 53.5% of the
portfolio during the 1983-85 period compared to 28.9% for the 1980-82
period. These averages are the result of an uninterrupted pattern since
1981 that portrays FOGAIN's portfolio being heavily weighted toward working
capital subloans due to the severe effects of liquidity squeeze in the
banking sector. The shortening of maturities can be explained also by the
change in the size composition of FOGAIN's subborrowers. Specifically, the
proportion of very small firms, which typically borrow for working capital
needs, increased from 58% of all firms and 31% of total financing in 1984
to 91% of all firms and 75% of total financing in 1985 (see Annex 9,
T-12). The increases in the average annual proportion of maturities for
24-months or less during 1983-85 were made possible at the expense of
similar proportions for intermediate maturities (37-84 months) that
decreased to 29.3% of the portfolio, compared to 44.7% in the 1980-82
period. While, under the proposed project, a conscious effort will be made
to encourage longer term maturities, and, above all, measures have been
introduced to ensure that commerical banks allow maturities to suit the
cash flow requirements of enterprises, it is likely that the bulk of the
credit resources will continue to be onlent for relatively short term
working capital loans.
Lending Strategy
10.       FOGAIN perceives its mission to be the financing of SMIs that are
primarily privately owned or have a majority private ownership. In all of
its operations, FOGAIN acts as a second-tier institution, rediscounting
loans of approved commerical banks and credit unions inspected by the
National Banking and Insurance Commission.   Presently, it channels its
funds through 27 banking groups and 31 credit unions, that make loans to
enterprises for working capital, equipment, machinery, and
debt-consolidation purposes (industrial mortgages). The characteristics of
FOGAIN's past and current lending operations are contained in Annex 9,



- 32 -
Annex 2
Page 4 of 8
T-10, 11 and 13, while the description of its experience with the three
Bank-financed projects is recounted in Annex 6.
11.      Product Line and Range of Lending.  In the past FOGAIN has
concentrated on financing of working capital requirements (54.6% of total
loans), equipment (38% of total loans), and debt consolidation operations
(7.4% of total loans). From the beginnin, of its operations in 1954 to the
end of 1985, FOGAIN has provided credit financing to 66,925 enterprises, of
which 80% were small-scale and 20% were medium-scale industries.  In the
more recent time period, FOGAIN's operations have increased from 5,926
credits in fiscal 1980 amounting to Mex$9.0 billion to a record of 12,759
credits in 1985 totalling Mex$124 billion, at an average annual growth rate
of 69.0% in nominal terms but less than 1% in real terms (Annex 9, T-10)~
12.       The performance of the Fund's portfolio in 1984 provided the
first turnaround in real terms since the precipitous declines in 1982 and
1983 caused by the inflation and the major devaluation. Another
interesting feature in portfolio growth was that, although FOGAIN's loan
volume in real terms grew by only 2.3% during the entire period of 1980-85,
the number of loans increased by 115%, leading to a corresponding reduction
in average loan size from US$65,800 in 1980 to US$31,300 equivalent in
1985. The decline in loan size can be attributed to two causes: (a) the
aucceqsive devaluations that reduced FOGAIN financing in US$ terms; and
(b) the 1983-84 recession that found FOGAIN financing a larger proportion
of expansion projects, with smaller costs per project compared to new
projects.
13.       Price Policy.  After charging fixed interest rates on its
portfolio until late 1982, FOGAIN adopted a system of variable interest
rates adjusted monthly and tied to the CPP. Currently FOGAIN charges four
different rates -- based on the type of firm and on priority
classification. The range of interest rates charged by FOGAIN is between
85% of ACF and ACF+5. From the interest rate spread, FOGAIN allows
intermediaries a margin of between 2 and 5 points. In addition, FOGAIN
plans to pay one percentage point to intermediaries whose staff include
"industrial extension agents." FOGAIN's weighted lending rate (net of
intermediation margins) shot up from 47.5% in December 1985 to 65.1% in
December 1985, and further to 87.7% in October 1986 (Annex 9, T-9). The
advantages of adopting a variable interest rate policy became apparent when
the continuous operating losses of 1980-83 period began to be converted
into profits.
Business System
14.       Over the years, FOGAIN has developed policies and operating
procedures that are sound and meet the current requirements of the Fund's
lending strategy. The main elements of the business system - promotion,
subproject appraisal and supervision -- have, in the past, been sufficient
to support FOGAIN's role as a largely second-tier rediscounting institution
for short- and intermediate-term financing. Nevertheless, in the future
FOGAIN must place greater emphasis on delegating its routine loan
processing and supervision responsibilities to the PFIs, and assisting the
'irst-tier level agencies in streamlining their operations and in ensuring
the quality of the subprojects they finance.



- 33 -
Annex 2
PaRe 5 of 8
15.       Loan Processing and Acquisition. The PFIs ensure the gathering
and evaluation of the proper information before forwarding subloans to
FOGAIN. Such information includes, among other documents: (1) the letter
of request from the intermediary, giving particulars of the loan to be
discounted; (2) the completed application form for the class of enterprise
under consideration; (3) the final version of the contract and deposit
certificate prepared by the client; and (4) the necessary credit analysis
that focuses on the feasibility of the project, particularly the combined
financial commitments of the applying firm and its projected income. The
PFIs reportedly take, on average, 2.5 months to process a loan application,
while FOGAIN takes another 0.5 months to review and release disbursements.
Measures are to be int, )duced under the proposed Droject to reduce the
relatively high lapsed cime between loan application and disbursement.
16.       Subproject Appraisal and Preparation.  By now, FOGAIN has beco.sie
an experienced institution in subproject financing and is cooperating with
financial institutions in standardizing the evaluation and supervision of
investment projects. While these two phases of its business sytem are
well-developed and generally meet the standards established by the Bank for
project appraisal, there is room for further improvement.
17.       FOGAIN's subloan evaluation procedures have been developing
gradually and PFIs have begun to carry out ex-ante analysis of the subloans
it finances. Until 1985, FOGAIN did not carry out these evaluations
systematically however, as these were not explicitly required under the
Bank's earlier projects. In February 1985, a departure was made from this
practice when the Bank and PAI/FOGAIN agreed that for credits larger than
US$100,000 equivalent (authorized by the Regional Technical Committee or
the National Technical Committee), the Financial Rate of Return should be
computed before the decision is made on the loan application. In order to
improve appraisal procedures further, it was agreed that under the proposed
loan FOGAIN will ensure that the following appraisal criteria are met by
PFIs or itself: (1) for projects up to US$100,000 equivalent, decisions
should be made to streamline cash flow projections and analysis, at the
level of financial intermediaries where such loans can be authorized;
(2) For projects worth more than US$100,000 but less than US$300,000
equivalent, the financial rate of return should be utilized as a benchmark;
(3) for projects in excess of US$300,000 equivalent, both the financial and
the economic internal rates of return should be computed. The above
appraisal criteria will be incorporated in FOGAIN's revised Operating
Regulations.
18.       Credit Supervision and Monitoring.  FOGAIN's supervision process
improved markedly after the establishment of a special Directorate of
Credit Analysis in July 1985, wiose Subdirectorate of Credit Monitoring
designed and implemented a sound and effective program of credit
supervision. Under this program, in 1985, some 25 part-time independent
consultants were employed to augment FOGAIN staff (10 at present), to visit
a rather large sample of 2,739 firms. The sample for supervision is chosen
mainly from medium-scale enterprises that have received credits between
July 1983 and July 1985. Since the supervision effort can be diffused by
the rather large sample of monitored firms (12.5% of total sub-borrowers,
it was agreed that in future firms would be stratified according to
meaningful credit-checking criteria with small samples in the range of



- 34 -
Annex 2
Page 6 of 8
1%-3X drawn from each class for proper supervision. In addition, FOGAIN
would in future focus its attention on subloans that are in arrears. The
FOGAIN technical assistance component (Annex 1) includes provisions for the
development of a computerized portfolio control system, which should help
identify problem projects.
19.       The existing procedure of credit monitoring is unduly focused on
the proper use of FOGAIN's funds, as defined contracturally in the loan
application. Moreover, since the large sample of firms visited changes
every year, it limits the ability of FOGAIN's staff to measure financial
and eonomic performance ex post. This is a critical area, which needs
improving as FOGAIN is unable to precisely measure the impact of its
lendinig at the beneficiary level and also compare its ex-ante projections
with actual results.  Under the Third SMI loan (2325-MH), several
recommendations were made to improve portfolio control and about one half
of these are already implemented. It is further recommended that under the
proposed project, FOGAIN should broaden the scope of its monitoring and
supervision activities to include: (a) the economic impact of the
subprojects; (b) their repayment potential; and (c) the decomposition of
operations at PFI level by source of financing (Bank/IDB/Banco de Mexico).
Institutional Profile
20.       Organizational Structure.  Although administratively FOGAIN
reports to the Ministry of Finance (Hacienda) it is governed by its
legislative Charter and by the policy and procedural rules issued by the
National Technical Committee, its highest decision-making body. The
National Technical Committee composed of representatives from the
Ministries of Finance and Industry, Banco de Mexico, the Chambers of
Commerce and Industry (CANACINTRA), establishes overall strategy, policy,
and procedures, and make operational decisions on the basis of
recommendations by FOGAIN's staff regarding financial plans, budgets, and
credit operations. The organizational restructuring that began in 1984 has
resulted in the creation of the Subdirection of Administration, the
Subdirection of Credit Monitoring, the Department of Internal Auditing, and
the Department of Legal Affairs (Organization Chart). These changes have
considerably streamlined FOGAIN's organization making it more responsive to
its present functions at the home office level.
21.       Management Team.  The existing FOGAIN management team is headed
by its Director General, who was appointed to this post in October 1986.
At present, the management team consists of six Directors, eight
Subdirectors and 29 managers. Institutionally, the outgoing management had
directed its energies toward: (i) expanding operations; (ii) strengthening
its critical administrative areas (e.g., Credit Analysis, Finance, etc.)
and (iii) creating new departments and units to streamline the
organizational structure (para. 22).
22.       Staffing and Training.  FOGAIN has built up a cadre of qualified
and experienced professionals at all levels. The high calibre of FOGAIN
staff can be attributed to the adequate career prospects FOGAIN offers to
its professional staff. Although the FOGAIN salary packages are less
attractive than those of commercial banks and the private sector, it has
positioned itself as an attractive first employer for outstanding



- 35 -
Annex 2
Page 7 of 8
university graduates interested in a long-term career in finance. In this
role, FOGAIN offers excellent on-the-job tvaining and a good reference
point for prospective private sector employers. As of October 1986,
FOGAIN's sthff totaled 436 with 410 in Mexico City and 26 in the regional
offices. An additional 13 positions are budgeted that will bring the staff
to 449 people. The breakdown of staff number by profession is in Annex 9,
Table 14. A, present there is an imbalance in the allocation of human
resources between the home office and the regional branches, and FOGAIN's
management has agreed to prepare a three-year decentralization plan to move
gradually additional personnel to the regional branches. Under the
project, technical assistance has been included to strengthen FOGAIN's
regional operations through computerization of information and through
special staff training programs.
23.       Management Information Systems and Accounting Procedures.
FOGAIN's current management information system (MIS) is still in its early
stages of development. While basic raw data is now generally available on
computers, evaluation of this data is still rudimentary and does not allow
a comprehensive decision-oriented evaluation of operations. A simple
example is that the existing credit control records cannot readily reveal
operations under different financing lines and sources, and it has been
most difficult to identify the impact of subloans financed with Bank
resources. The development of the MIS suffered a severe setback during the
recent earthquake, when computer equipment and records were lost. The
technical assistance component under the recent IDB loan supports FOGAIN's
plans to restore and improve its computer center. The proposed project
would complement this investment by specifically catering to FOGAIN's needs
at the regional level (Annex I).
24.       Auditing Arrangements.  Responsibility for bookkeeping and the
preparation of FOGAIN's Financial Statements rests with the Accounting
Department -- one of four under the Subdirection of Finance. The
accounting procedures are mechanized but not yet fully automated. The
system of accounts classification employed by FOGAIN meets the standards of
the National Banking Insurance Commission, which is a Govenrmental agency
charged with the responsibilty of overseeing the financial sector of the
country. For purposes of internal control and auditing, FOGAIN created the
Department of Internal Control in February 1984. In addition, the
Controller-General of the Federal Republic approves the choice of FOGAIN's
outside auditors. During 1981-83, FOGAIN's Financial Statemens were
audited independently by the Accounting Firm of De la Paz Costemalle y
Asociados. Similar external audits were performed for 1984 and 1985 by the
Accounting Firm of Horacio Ojeda Paullada y Asociades, L.C. In all cases,
unqualified opinions have been given by the auditors. Audited xinancial
statements were submitted to the Bank on time as agreed.
Future Operations and Funding Requirements
25.       Projected Commitments.  Given the present condition of the
Mexican economy, the demand for financing expansions of productive capacity
is likely to be relatively low through 1987, but it is expected to increase
as the overall economy improves under the impetus of the financing package
recently agreed upon with commercial banks/Bank/Fund. Among subloan
categories, the demand for financing permanent working capital is likely to



- 36 -
Annex 2
Page 8 of 8
be relatively strong due to the: (i) coolinued higii inflation, and (2) the
sliding devaluation of the Mex$ that has increased the cost of foreign
borrowing. FOGAIN's projected commitments both on a global scale and on
the proposed project for the period mid-1987 to mid-1990 are shown in Annex
9, T-15 and T-16. The projections are made on the basis of a scenario that
shows no real growth in demand for the overall period, and are adjusted
partially for the pattern of overestimation experienced with the pro forma
forecasts for the PAI III program. The overall cost of the proposed credit
program is estimated to be US$190 million equivalent, and assuming a Bank
participation of about 50% in FOGAIN's future commitments under the
proposed PAI IV Program, the Fund would require about US$100 million
equivalent in addition to its own internal resource generation and the
financial contribution of intermediary institutions and beneficiary firms.
26.       Pro-forma financial statements are shown in Annex 9, T-15 and
T-16.These financial projections are based on a conservative estimate of
credit disbursements (para 25); and a cost of funds equalling 55% of
outstanding balances due to NAFIN. The exchange rates (US$1uMEX$964 in
1987; US$1-MEX$1,539 in 1988 and US$1-MEX$2,406 in 1989) are based on
BANCO MEXICO projections. The interest rate income is estimated on the
basis of an average spread on annual estimated disbursements by FOGAIN
taking into account the credit ceilings and estimated disbursements based
thereon approved by its Board and adjusting for past performance. FOGAIN's
projected Balance Sheets and Income Statements for 1987-1990 (see Annex 9,
T-15 and T-16) show considerable and increasing profits, coupled with
healthy financial ratios. Net profits are expected to grow from US$78.8
million equivalent in mid-1987 to US$100 million equivalent in mid-1990, at
an annual real rate of 9.2%.



- 37 -
Annex 3
Page 1 of 9
MEXICO
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
Fondo Nacional de Fomento Industrial (1OMIN)
The Risk Capital Sub-Program
A. BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES
1.        FOMIN was established in April 12, 1972, as a Government trust
fund ("Fideicomiso") to provide risk capital to small and medium size
enterprises (SMIs) which planned to either diversify their investments, or
undertake new ventures. FOMIN was originally administered by the SHCP
(through NAFINSA), and was shifted to SECOFI when PAI was created. Both
new and existing firms are assisted by FOMIN, which subscribes up to 49% of
the equity capital or quasi-equity, which permits adequate flexibility in
designing investment packages. FOMIN does not seek a direct management
involvement in its investee firms, and above all, its investments are
intended to be only temporary, being divested once the companies achieve a
satisfactory financial position. FOMIN's participation frequently helps
companies make the transition from a closed family enterprise to a more
widely owned corporation with professional management.
2.        Traditionally, FOMIN has had a difficult role to play since SMIs
have, in the past, found the effective cost of equity higher than debt --
interest on the latter was fully tax deductible. More importantly, there
was a widespread reluctance in Mexico on the part of corporate groups to
dilute their equity interest, particularly through the participation of a
government-owned entity like FOMIN. The high inflation rates and the
accompanying increase in debt servicing costs, however, forced companies to
seek relief through equity injections. Even so, companies have preferred
q'asi-equity instruments such as preferred shares or subordinated
colivertible credits (para 8). To further expand its services to a growing
market, FOMIN has: (i) stepped up its promotional efforts, including
exploring possibilities of financing with newly established Regional
Venture Capital Corporations, (two letters of intent with such Corporations
have already been signed); (ii) commenced its active promotion of venture
capital type investments, by contacting universities and technical centers
to identify and pre-evaluate investment ideas submitted by "first time'
entrepreneurs who intend using a new technology; and (iii) initiated
preliminary discussions with the newly authorized private sector Venture
Capital companies (Sociedades de Inversiones) and Casa de Bolsa, offering
them also the possibilty of discounting or joint participation in selected
enterprises. All these initiatives have already translated into increased
pre-application requests, which has allowed FOMIN to screen them for sound
projects.



- 38 -
Annex 3
Page 2 of 9
B. ORGANIZATION, MANAGEMENT AND STAFFING
3.        The highest governing body of FOMIN is its Technical Committee
comprising representatives from SECOFI, SHCP, NAFIN, Banco de Mexico, plus
tworepresentatives from the private sector, selected by the main industrial
associations, CANACITRA and CONCAMIN. FOMIN's day-to-day operations are
managed by the General Director, Mr. Gustavo Varela Ruiz, an experienced
and prominent economist, who was previously the head of FIDEIN. The
management team includes two sub-directors, the Administrative and
Technical Subdirector. In line with the Bank's recommendations during the
appraisal of PAI III, FOMIN has restructured its technical area, which is
now divided into two departments, the Promotion and Analysis Department and
the Investment Control Department.
4.        At present, FOMIN's staff totals 82, of which 42 are
professionals. Most of the professional staff is young and well motivated
with degrees in accounting, business or economics, but is rather new in the
organization as FOMIN's salary structure prevents paying attractive
salaries to competent staff, and trained staff often leave for jobs in the
private sector. The Government's austerity measures in 1985 affected FOMIN
by reducing personnel, at a time when its work load was increasing due to
active promotion campaigns. FOMIN has made up for this by effectively
relying on outside help with consultants from INFOTEC and GESTEC to carry
the analysis of certain projects. However, budget limitations often
restricted the use of this resource, and under the proposed project, t.a.
funds have been provided for FOMIN to obtain additional consultant services
to implement the financial restructuring component (Annex 4). In general
FOMIN's staff is adequately competent, but needs further training to help
broaden their knowledge of equity operations elsewhere. Accordingly, under
the proposed project, FOMIN would expand its staff training program which
would, among other things, allow staff to take courses in local
universities; specialized short term overseas courses would be arranged to
enable FOMIN staff to be exposed to operations of other investment or
venture capital firms.
C. INVESTMENT AND DIVESTMENT POLICIES AND INSTRUMENTS
5.        FOMIN's financial policies were basically developed in
cooperation with Bank/IFC and are considered acceptable jor an organization
mandated to promote and provide equity to private sector companies. The
small demand for FOMIN's participation in its early years of operation
prevented it from placing special emphasis or priority to participate in
given industrial sectors or regions. Over time, however, FOMIN investments
have evolved reasonably well, with priority to SMIs located in less
developed areas. More recently, the demand for FOMIN financing has
increased due to the financial crisis. The increase demand has permitted
FOMIN even more selectivity in the investments than before. FOMIN has
always pursued a cautious investment policy, which was guided by two basic
fInancial goals: (a) that it maintain adequate liquid resources (about 20%
of its total resources) to cover its administrative costs, and (b) in the
medium term to maintain the value of its portfolio in constant terms.
Consequently, the liquid resources have in the past been essentially
generated from the quasi-equity instruments, which seem to have been
preferred by FOMIN over pure equity.



- 39 -
Annex 3
Page 3 of 9
6.        Eligibility.  In line with the national definitions of small and
medium size enterprises, eligible firms include those with total sales of
less than Mex$1,100 million (about US$2.0 million equivalent). However,
cost and risk factors, along with certain provisions of its charter (such
as the requirement of external auditing), generally preclude FOMIN from
financing very small firms. FOMIN's assistance is primarily concentrated
in medium size enterprises (equity over US$250,000 equivalent), and some
larger enterprises. To diversify its risk, FOMIN has established 10% of
its equity as its maximum exposure (including investments through equity as
well as other instruments) in a single firm, and 15% of its equity as a
maximum exposure in two or more firms that belong to the same industrial
group. Up to 1983, as a general policy, FOMIN did not invest in firms to
help reorganize them financially, but focused on the creation or expansion
of financially viable enterprises with good growth prospects. However, as
a result of the country's severe economic crisis, FOMIN experienced a
strong demand for restructuring or financing increases in permanent working
captial, rather than in the creation or expansion of existing enterprises.
Accordingly, FOMIN gained some experience in restructuring firms in
financial difficulties.
7.        Investment Instruments.  Initially, FOMIN's investments were
mostly in the form of new issues of common stock of its investee
enterprises. Since 1981, however, with the encouragement and assistance of
the Bank and IFC, FOMIN has broadened the range of its investment
instruments with preferred shares and convertible credits. For the
subordinated credits, FOMIN charges the companies CPP less 1, 2 or 3%
depending on the company's location plus a no-conversion premium of 5%,
applicable to the outstanding balance, if FOMIN fails to exercise its
option to convert the credit into share capital. For FOMIN the advantages
of using preferred shares and convertible credits are that they: (i) have
allowed FOMIN to widen its potential customers and design packages to suit
a customer's investment needs; (il) allow FOMIN to achieve a more stable
and predictable income; (iii) both receive priority in liquidation; and
(iv) for the thin market for minority equity investments, preferred shares
have a higher appeal to outsie investors. Given these advantages, FOMIN
attaches preference to the utilization of these instruments over common
shares which are primarily used in cases where the prospects for eventual
divestiture appear particularly favorable. Preferred shares have a
cumulative dividend equivalent to 50% of the CPP.
8.        From the clients' point of view, convertible credits are also
more attractive than either common or preferred shares. Tbe two reasons
for this are: (i) preferred dividends are not tax-deductible (as opposed to
interest on convertibles) and to the owners of a small firm, payment of a
50%-after tax dividend is equivalent to paying a CPP credit; and (ii) the
small firms hope to avert having FOMIN become a shareholder by duly paying
on time the interest and maturities of the convertible credit. The mutual
benefit to FOMIN and clients has resulted, however, in some overuse of the
convertible credit instrument, and FOMIN is assessing its need solely based
on the cash flow position of each enterprise. The new tax laws (favoring
equity investments and lower permissible interest payment setoffs on debt)
are likely to rectify the imbalance between equity and debt-type
(quasi-equity) instruments.



- 40 -
Annex 3
Page 4 of 9
9.       Divestment Policy.  FOMIN's investments are of a temporary nature,
and its investment policy is guided by the likely prospects for liquidating
investments. The typical time horizon to divest its interests is 5 years;
however, in the past, FOMIN has continued to retain in its portfolio the
good investment yielding returns to compensate for those experiencing
problems. In future, FOMIN intends to pursue a more concrete divesture
policy with its outside limit of a holding of up to 8 years. Within this
timeframe, FOMIN would evaluate the following divestment avenues: (i) as in
the past, the resale of shares to the current owners of the company;
(ii) sale of shares by private placement to third party investors, who may
have a natural synergistic interest in the particular affiliate; and
(iii) sale to institutional investors like pension funds and insurance
companies.
D. Past Operations and Portfolio
10.       As of December 31, 1985, FOMIN had active investments in 124
enterprises, in some of which FOMIN has made repeated investments or has
both credit and equity financing. As of that date, the value of its
portfolio was Mex$6.9 billion, with 39.7% as common shares, 40.1% as
preferred shares and thedifference as convertible credits. Relevant data
f the portfolio is in the Project File.
11.       Portfolio Growth and Quality.  FOMIN's portfolio has been growing
from Mex$3.7 billion in 1983 , Mex$5* billion in 1984, to Mex$6.9 billion
in 1985. rhe 1985 figure still needs to be restated to reflect the
proportional gain for revaluation of assets or gains (or losses) of the
invested companies (given the different fiscal years used by the companies;
the figures are still unavailable). The portfolio has grown 51.3% from
1983 to 1984, and 23% from 1984 to 1985, when expressed in pesos. The
figures expressed in dollars, however, show a decline from US$22.7 million
in 1983 to US$15.9 million in 1985, due to the high rate of devaluation
experienced recently. During 1985, the Technical Committee approved
investments in 26 companies totalling almost Mex$2.6 bllion (US$5.8
nillion), and approved disbursements for the same companies of almost
Mex$1.6 billion (US$3.8 million).  In addition, the Committee approved the
sale of the ownership held in 15 enterprises, with an investment value of
Mex$256 million, for Mex$636 million. As of December 31, 1985, the sale of
eleven of those investments had been concluded.
12.       Since sales of portfolio in the last three years represent only a
small portion of the investments (less than 8%), the quality of the
portfolio still held is a more important ind'cator of the investment
performance. Of the 124 companies, only 29 of the companies reported
profits at the end of 1985, representing 23.4% of the companies and 21.8%
of the portfolio; and 8 companies representing 6.4% of the companies and
9.3% of the portfolio were in pre-operating stage; twelve of the companies,
representing 2.2% of the portfolio were in bankruptcy proceedings. The
rest of the companies reported losses during the year 1985. Companies
reporting losses represented 28%, 46% and 49% of FOMIN's portfolio in 1933,
1984 and 1985, respectively. However, the number of companies in
bankruptcy proceedings has decreased from 18 to 12 (2.2% of the portfolio)



- 41 -
Annex 3
Page 5 of 9
in the same period, reflecting a somewhat better selectivity of investment
alternatives. The poor performance of FOMIN's companies during 1982-83 is
reflective of the general economic and financial crisis which commenced in
late 1982 and adversely affected the performance of the industrial sector
across the board. Available datal/ on performance of industrial firms
during the 1983-85 period show that, on aggregate, they suffered severe
liquidity problems and the significant drop in domestic demand seriously
affected their profitability.
13.       Portfolio Distribution.  The geographical distribution of FOMIN's
portoflio has been quite balanced and supports the Government's policy of
promoting investments outside the high concentration zones. At present
FOMIN has outstanding investments with adequate coverage by priority
zones. Of those investments, 35 are in Zone I (maximum governmet
priority); 25 in Zone II (local state priority); and the difference, or 64
investments, have been made in Zone III, of which 2 are in Mexico City. In
the last two years, only 31% of the new investments were in Zone III.
FOMIN investments cover a wide range of industrial subsectors, and at
present include investments in pulp and paper, wood products, food
processing, steel, metal-mechanics, chemicals, and pharmaceuticals.
Appraisal and Supervision Procedures
14.       Appraisal.  Since FOMIN is typically both the promoter and
investor of the projects it invests in, its project processing cycle tends
to be long, running, in some cases, 18 months from the initial contact
stage to the initial disbursement of an investment. FOMIN's project
evaluations are carried out by competent staff or by consultants hired by
FOMIN (the cost is borne by the company). Although the appraisals
adequately analyze the marketing, technical, financial, economic and
administrative aspects of the project, the analysis often resembles more a
standard project analysis than an investment evaluation. Missing are
elements like comparison of strengths and weaknesse of the company and the
competition; in-depth market analysis; optimization of the allocation of
credit and share captial; sensitivity studies; and, analysis of rate of
return for FOMIN. FOMIN at times lacks technical expertise to analyze
technical specifications or equipment requirements and under the proposed
project would utilize outside technical consultants where needed. In
addition, the technical assistance program for FOMIN discussed in Annex 1,
para 4, includes specific activities to strengthen the above-mentioned
operational aspects of FOMIN.
15.       Prior to the presentation of the appraisal report for the
consideration of the Technical Committee, the financial arrangements are
pre-negotiated with the sponsors. These negotiations include a definition
of the amount to be invested as equity, and the corresponding ownership
sought by FOMIN; the terms and conditions of the subordinated convertible
credit, if any; and the terms of the repurchase agreement for the stock
being acquired by FOMIN. The pre-negotiations are not always successful,
resulting in a dropout ratio of about 20%, attributed mainly to the fact
/ Financial data on a large sample of firms was analyzed as part of the
Bank's Industrial Sector Report (6215-ME) dated June 24, 1986.



- 42 -
Annex 3
Page 6 of 9
that only during negotitations do the shareholders become aware of cost
(dividend distribution or repurchase agreement); and (ii) FOMIN may impose
'tough conditions' to cover high risks associated with the project or its
overall portfolio.
16.       Following the Technical Committee approval, the project is turned
over to the Control Department for its follow-up, disbursement and
supervision. The Control Department is also responsible for additional
investments in the same enterprise, if needed. A staff member of the
Control Department, specialize in the particular industrial sector, is
assigned to supervise the project. Faced with staff constraints, the staff
member becomes the company's commissioner and even a member of the Board of
Directors. In the last year, FOMIN has begun to rely on outside
consultants to act as commissioners for particular industries. This
arrangement has been useful since the cost of these consultants is borne by
the company, while FOMIN has been able to gain access to a wide expertise
which is sometimes lacking in its own staff.
17.       Supervision. In the past supervision procedures have been a
constant concern of Bank supervision missions. The small number of
supervisors, the scattered location of the investment and the types of
expertise needed to oversee a varied portfolio complicates a continuous and
effective supervision of the investments. The quality and frequency of
FOMIN visits made to the participating companies and statistical
information on firms has improved following the institutional separation of
analysis and supervision responsibilities, and the utilization of outside
consultants for supervision. There is still considerable scope for
improvement given that FOMIN is an influential shareholder and should be
ready to provide invaluable technical and managerial assistance to the
participating firms to resovle day-to-day problems. The technical
assistance component of the project includes provisions to strengthen
FOMIN's supervision role by helping FOMIN build up a good monitoring base
for its firms.
18.       Procurement and Disbursement.  The use of FOMIN funds is subject
to the same restrictions imposed by IBRD. Purchases for relatively large
amounts requirecompetitive bidding and initial conditions of disbursement
must be met prior to the first withdrawal from FOMIN's resources. For
subordinated credits, FOMIN reimburses the enterprise against the
presentation of invoices or shipping documents, while for the equity FOMIN
disburses 20% of the committed amount initially and the difference against
the progress of the investment plan. The provisions mentioned above allow
FOMIN to adequately monitor the procurement or disbursements.
19.       Accounting Procedures and Auditing.  FOMIN has maintained an
adequate accounting system following generally accepted accounting
principles in Mexico. In addition, FOMIN requires the appointment of
independent auditors and the utilization of generally accepted accounting
principles in each firm where FOMIN participation is considered. The
auditors are required to forward to FOMIN, in addition to the audited
financial statements, a report on internal control, accounting and
managemert practices of the company. The Secretaria de la Controloria



- 43 -
Annex 3
Page 7 of 9
appoints FOMIN's independent auditors.   The use of different auditors
every year makes year to year comparisons more difficult, since the quality
content of the auditing reports varies.   The quality of the 1985 auditor's
report was less than satisfactory in that it provides a very summarized
statement of its financial position.  The auditors have always qualified
FOMIN's financial statements, due to the difficulties of obtaining the
proportional equity net worth for companies with different fiscal years,
which FOMIN is unable to assess on a timely basis.
Past Financial Position
20.       Financing Arrangment.  Under the three previous SMI projects,
FOMIN reimbursed PAI for all its recoveries of subordinated credit and sale
of shares, but retained 20% of the interest collected and 50% of the
profits accrued through the sale of shares. FOMIN is required (under a
contract with PAI) to pay PAI both the recoveries of the share capital
invested and the assumed profits, at the time the sale is made; even the
sponsors are given up to 5 years to pay for the shares acquired from
FOMIN. The interest generated by the installment sale are kept by FOMIN
(outstanding portfolio of installment sales as of December 1985 represented
Mex$350 million). In addition to its interest income, the Federal
Government provides FOMIN a direct subsidy to cover its administrative
expenses, which has declined from Mex$596 million (US$2.9 million) in 1983,
to Mex$552 million (US$1.6 million) in 1984 and further to Mex$45 million
(US$0.1 million) in 1985, against a requested amount of Mex$915 million.
21.       Financial Performance.  Results of equity sales have improved
dramatically over the last two years, as a result of an extraordinary
effort divest a portion of the portfolio. During 1984, FOMIN sold its
participation in six companies, with a recorded investment of Mex$106
million for Mex$312 million or a 194% profit; and, during 1985, sold
participation in 11 companies with investment value of Me.,$186 million for
Mex$350 million, or 88% profit. A summary of FOMIN's key past financial
data is given below, and is detailed in Annex Table 17 and 18.
FOMIN - SUMMARY OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Mex$ million)
Year                  1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985
Interest Incomel/       18.3    40.4   151.3   256.2   296.7   459.6  1307.6
Net Revenues            18.3    40.4   151.3   256.2   350.7   589.8  1465.9
Operating Expenses      29.9    34.5    61.4    80.7   142.1   230.3   391.5
Net Income              (8.9)    5.9    89.9   175.5   207.3   360.6  1109.0
/ Does not include income from stock dividends deriving mainly from
revaluation of assets.
22.       After experiencing losses in the past, FOMIN was able to report
its first profits ever in 1980. The profitability has increased
substantially both in nominal and real terms since 1980, as a result of a



- 44 -
Annex 3
Page 8 of 9
growing portfolio, the utilization of convertible credits, interest income
from term sale of shares and a more aggressive divestiture strategy.
Future Investment Strategy and Financial Projections
23.       Investment Strategy.  Wh'le FOMIN's target market would still
remain the SMIs, its investment strategy, under the proposed project, would
begin to emphasize a distinct shift in favor of assisting newer
enterprises, particularly those which intend using innovative technology
and are export-oriented. The key element of FOMIN's future investment
strategy would be to structure an investment portfolio which is
well-balanced not only in sectoral or regional terms, but also in the
degree of risk assumed and consequent expected return. In practice,
strategy translates into balancing risky venture capital-type investments,
(greenfield projects using innovative technology in the Mexican context)
with investments in going, more mature concerns familiar with their markets
and the technology involved. FOMIN participation in ongoing concerns would
assist these companies to either enter a new market niche and/or become
more efficient and more profitable. The capital gains from investments in
existing companies are obviously going to be relatively modest, but this is
likely to be compensated by the prospect of receiving a current yield
through interest or dividend payment. The planned participation with
private sector venture capital companies could provide FOMIN with good
opportunities to identify and assist innovative investments.
24.       Financial Projections.  For the financial projections, a
conservative approach has been taken. FOMIN expects to make 26 to 29,
investments in 1986, 40 investments in 1987, 48 in 1988 and 53 in 1989,
with an average investment per company of Mex$100, 170, 270, and 430
million, respectively. The breakdown investments is assumed to be 25% as
subordinated credit ano 75% as share capital. The projections assume that
the existing portfolio will be gradually divested producing a profit of
140% in nominal terms, and that new investments will be sold starting after
the 4th year. While a summary of financial prospects is shown on the table
below, Annex 9, T-17 shows the detailed results of the financial
projections.
FOMIN - SUMMARY OF FINANCIAL PROJECTIOS
(Mex$ '000)
Year                             1986        1987       i988        1989
Interest Income                 3,016.0    4,194.6    6,520.1   10,631.4
Profit on Sale of Shares          469.0       656.6    1,047.2    2,076.2
Other Income                       15.6        20.3       32.9        43.9
Total Income                    3,500.5    4,871.5    7,600.5   12,751.5
Reimbrusement to NAFIN
Interest                      1,288.1    2,021.4    3,198.5    5,334.9
Equity                          234.5       328.3      523.6    1,038.1
Other Expenses                  851.5    1,388.0    2,312.6    3,825.2
Total Expenses                  2,374.1    3,737.7    6,034.7   10,198.2
Net Income                      1,126.4    1,133.9    1,565.7    2,553.3
Total Portfolio                10,115.9   16,196.7   27,771.8   48,219.7
New Investments                 4,000.0    6,800.0   12,960.0   22,790.0



- 45 -
Annex 3
Page 9 of 9
25.       Despite a substantial increase in the portfolio, the
profitability of FOMIN is expected to remain relatively flat in the near
future, as the income from portfolio sales (140% in nominal terms) is not
very attractive. However, with the experience accumulated by FOMIN and the
possibility of selecting from several investment alternatives, it is
expected that the profits attained by the sale of porfolio held will rise
in the future.
26.       Funding Requirements.  As shown in the table above, the
investment program requires Mex$6.8, 13.0 and 22.8 billion (US$7.1, 8.4 and
9.5 million equivalent) for 1987, 1988 and 1989/90, respectively, totaling
US$25.0 million equivalent. To finance this investment program, FOMIN will
receive from IBRD US$20 million, or 80% of the investment program. Based
on the assumptions discussed above, a conservative summarized cash flow
statement is shown below:
FOMIN - PROJECTED CASH FLOW
(Mex$ million)
Year                                         1987        1988        1989
Initial Balance                           1,234.4      1,511.6     1,907.8
Income from Operations                     1,350.0     1,620.0     1,945.0
Direct Counterpart                     6,800.0    12,960.0    22,790.0
Disbursements from IBRD                4,111.9      7,303.0    12,733.9
Principal Repayments, Other           13,496.3    23,394.6    39,376.7
Total Sources
Total Applications
New Investments in Shares              5,100.0      9,720.0    17,200.0
New Investments in Credits             1,700.0      3,240.0     5,590.0
Reimbursements to NAFIN                3,237.0      5,168.4     9,048.4
Operational Expenses                   1,073.0      1,756.0     2,870.0
Other                                  2,109.1      3,114.0     4,755.0
Total Applications                    13,219.1    22,998.4    39,463.4
The need for fresh funds could be reduced, if FOMIN is made an autonomous
institution by capitalizaing disbursement under the proposed loan and FOMIN
is also allowed to retain the recoveries from the investments made to
date. With this scenario, if the financial projections materialize, the
need for fresh funds for FOMIN would be reduced to Mex$2.1 billion (uS$2.2
million) in 1987, Mex$5.5 billion (US$3.6 millin) in 1988 and Mex$10.2
billion (US$4.3) in 1989, or about US$10 million for the three year
program.



- 46 -
Annex 4
Page 1 of 5
MEXICO
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Guidelines for the Restructuring Component
1.        The high inflation rates and the massive devaluations of 1982-83
(which sharply increased the debt burden of companies with foreign debt
exposure) have brought to surface the risks inherent in overleveraging
companies at times when credit was relatively easy to obtain and when debt
was preferred over equity for reasons of tax benefits, etc. Available
figures show that the debt/equity ratio for the industrial sector in
Mexicol/ climbed from about 1.7:1 in 1980 to more than 3.2:1 in 1983,
while the debt/service ratio fell from 2.6 to -0.2 over the same period.
Although the financial structure of industrial companies reportedly
improved during 1984, partly on account of the Government's scheme to
convert foreign debt into pesos (FICORCA) and a temporary upturn in demand,
company liquidity is likely to deteriorate further in the next year in view
of the projected high inflation rates and because repayments under FICORCA
will become due. An important part of the strategy to revive growth and
investment in Mexico's industrial sector would therefore be to put in place
a program of financial restructuring for firms which are operationally
profitable and economically efficiernt but are unable to service a bloated
debt. While the preferred solution for the financial problems of companies
is for the creditor banks to systematically review their performance and
work out restructuring strategies, to date the nationalized commercial
banks have not felt any pressures to undertake restructuring schemes on a
systematic basis. The existing regulatory body does not strictly enforce
the requirements of portfolio and bad debt management and there is need to
tighten banking supervision. It is therefore proposed that Government
initiate a study to identify weaknesses in the regulatory functions of the
Superintendency of banks and based on the study to introduce improvements
in the system.
2.        In the interim, it is proposed that FOMIN, in close collaboration
with the commercial banks, initiate a pilot program of financial
restructuring for firms in financial distress. An acceptable restructuring
plan under the proposed scheme would, however, need to encompass not only
an assessment and resolution of financial aspects but it would need to
address other underlying causes for the financial problems such as
inadequate management, inappropriate production mix, misplaced marketing
strategies, and inappropriate or obsolete technologies. To avoid giving
the impression of a Government bail-out, the restructured firms would bc
selected on a case by case basis. The Bank together with FOMIN (the
Government risk capital trust fund) identified a pilot financial
restructuring component with a total cost of US$50.0 million including Bank
financing of US$25 million. The pilot restructuring component is expected
to benefit the enterprises by helping them increase production and, at the
same time, the commercial banks would be able to improve their portfolios.
Above all, it is expected that FOMIN's participation would further promote
/ Based on a sample of enterprises whose financial returns were analyzed
in the Trade Policy, Industrial Performance and Adjustment Sector
Report, (6215a-ME), June 24, 1986.



- 47 -
Annex 4
Page 2 of 5
the development of capital markets through the sale of securities belonging
to SMI's. The detailed Operating Regulations for the restructuring
component which were developed by FOMIN and the Bank during pre-appraisal
were confirmed at negotiations. The broad operating guidelines are
discussed below.
Restructuring Instruments and Arrangements
- Restructuring Instruments. The underlying principle of the
restructuring component would be to make the debtors and
creditors share equally any losses resulting from the proposed
financial workouts. Since the nationalized banks in Mexico have
to be offered an incentive to take s:ock of their losses, and
give up the practice of showing book profits by accruing interest
payments and other charges, FOMIN would provide from its own
resources to purchase up to 50% of the shares acquired by the
creditor bank as part of a debt to equity swap for the
restructured firm. In the typical case, in addition to
debt/equity conversion, additional fresh funds will be needed to
finance working capital and fixed asset investment. The typical
corporate workout would thus include the following: (a) writing
off part of the accumulated bank penalties, charges, etc.;
(b) converting part of the debt into equity;(c) rescheduling the
remaining debt with maturities that span over medium to long
term; (d) replenishing working capital and (e) investing in new
fixed assets. Bank financing would only support investments in
(d) and (e).
- Preconditions for Restructuring. The banks and the current
owners Nust agree on a base balance sheet, reflecting the real
net worth of a company, taking into consideration an adquate
reevaluation of assets and confirmed outstanding liabilities.
The company must be agreeable to disposing of non-essential
assets to reduce its outstanding debt and to cater for fresh
working capital. The creditor banks should commit in principle
to consider reducing their claims on the firm's cash flow by
condoning all outstanding penalty charges and fees related to the
debt in default, and converting part of the unserviceable debt
into equity or quasi-equity. Existing owners would have to agree
to the proposed debt/equity swaps and the subsequent sale of
equity through private placements or other means.
- Restructuring Plan. Each workout proposal would have four basic
elements, namely, management, marketing, production and financial
plans. (i) The management plan would review the existing
managerial capacity and suggest a formal organization which is
often lacking in family businesses. The need for specialized
staff and technical training would also be identified. (ii) The
marketing plan would be aimed at increasing the firm's revenues
through emphasis upon the more profitable products and customers,
product redesign, quality and packaging improvements, and
geographic coverage; (iii) the production plan would be devised
to fill the needs identified under the marketing plan and could



- 48 -
Annex 4
Page 3 of 5
include measures to curtail productive capacity or,
alternatively, for a fuller utilization of existing capacity; and
(iv) a financial plan, the elements of which are discussed
below. Each restructuring proposal would Include an independent
legal opinion confirming the beneficiary firms' controlling
interest and that the proposed refinancing scheme was legally
binding and enforceable. Covenants limiting future borrowings by
the company would be included in the overall financing agreement.
- Incorporation and Ownership. The company to be restructured
would be a duly incorporated entity in accordance with Mexican
laws, and its activities would be concentrated in the industrial
sector. Preference would be given to exporting companies. The
controlling interest in the company would be clearly defined.
The direct or indirect participation by FOMIN and the commercial
banks would be less than 50%; this will put a limit on the
amounts eligible for debt/equity swaps.
- Required Copany Performance.  While the restructuring exercise
would essentially concern itself with an evaluation of future
profitability the following broad guidelines would determine the
eligibility of participating companies. Compar.ies should be
operationally viable but due to overindebtedness, unable to fully
service their existing debt. After the proposed restructuring
and based on reasonable projections, these companies should be
financially viable.
- Limits of Participation, As in the case of its regular program,
FOMIN's participation in any single enterprise would n-ot exceed
102 of its share capital (currently this participation is
expected to be less than US$1 million). FOMIN would not acquire
more than 50% of the equity converted from debt. Insofar as
workouts provide a rare opportunity to reduce concentration and
create ownership structures consistent with more active capital
market development, FOMIN would try to solicit buyers for the
converted (debt to equity) shares. Nevertheless, to protect its
financial interest it would enter into a repurchase agreement
with the banks, with FOMIN thus acquiring the right to sell them
at a minimum guaranteed price (in real terms) the shares
originally purchased from the banks.  The minimum expected return
on FOMIN's investments would be the same as under its regular and
quasi-equity investment program.
Determination of Debt Service Capacity.  In determining the
amount of debt to be serviced by the restructured company the
guideline would be to determine a principal amount outstanding
which car. be serviced over a period of ten years taking into
account the projected cash flow of the company; however, prior to
defining the debt the banks and the company must agree on the
treatment to be given to the depreciation, and the amount of
funds the firm would retain to increase working capital or
replace equipment. Provisions for prepayment of debt would be
included.



- 49 -
Annex 4
Page 4 of 5
Implementation Arrangements
- Preparation of Restructuring Proposals.  The commercial banks
would play a lead role in identifying potential companies and in
drawing up restructuring prtQosals for FOMIN's review.  It is
expected that the involved banks would do a better job of aiding
restructuring because of their knowledge of industrial companies,
and they will be seeking to improve their own portfolios. In the
case of more than one creditor bank an agent or lead bank would
be appointed to carry out the restructuring exercise including
negotiations with the company. The lead commercial bank would
regularly supervise the subprojects in close coordination with
FOMIN to see if the subloans are utilized for the purposes
intended and that the financial and other conditions affecting
operating performance are progressing satisfactorily.
Supervision visits would be coordinated with FOMIN who would also
have the right to visit the beneficiary enterprises. Commercial
banks would submit semi-annual reports to FOMIN on the
performance of the portfolio financed out of the loan proceeds.
These understandings would be part of the legal contract between
all parties to the restructuring exercise.
- FOMIN's Evaluation and Supervision. FOMIN, as the executing
agency, would manage the funds for this component and would be
responsible for approving all restructuring proposals to be
financed under the project. In addition to the traditional
project analysis and documentation requirements for equity
financing, FOMIN's review would place particular emphasis on the
analysis of the company as a whole, including its management
effectiveness, production strategy and future market prospects
and prospects for liquidating its own equity or quasi-equity
within a specified timeframe. Since skilled financial appraisal
is needed to diagnose the underlying problems of the enterprise,
and considerable knowledge of products and markets is needed to
determine expected long-run financial viability, the
institutional capacity has to be developed to carry out these
tasks. Accordingly, the technical assistance funds under the
proposed project include provisions for experienced consultants
to assist both the creditor banks and FOMIN to prepare
restructuring proposals and review for FOMIN the viability of
financial projections in light of the assumptions in the
marketing nad production plans. While the banks would have
primary responsibility for supervising the restructured company,
FOMIN would be associated in that supervision and, moreover, it
would make random checks and stand ready to provide its clients
technical and management assistance.
Eligible Expenditures.  Project funds would primarily be used for
breaking production bottlenecks and financing fresh permanent
working capital. FOMIN subloans for equity investments would be
used to finance the same expenditures (plant, equipment and
permanent working capi.al) as under FOMIN's regular financing
program. However, under the financial restructuring program 100%
financing would be provided for permanent working capital loans.



- 50 -
Annex 4
Page 5 of 5
This percentage of participation is to enable FOMIN to use its
own resources to finance the conversion of debt into equity. A
transfer of existing shares from current owners to creditor banks
would not be eligible for financing, with Bank resources.



- 51 -
Annex 5
Page 1 of 3
MEXICO
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
Review of Ongoing Micro-Enterprise Programs
Experience Under Existing Programs
1.        A start was made in supporting micro-enterprises in the informal
sector through five small project loans financed by IDB (the maximum IDB
loan to one promotional agency is US$500,000). The first of the IDB
programs was initiated in 1982 when 4' assisted private agencies in
Monterrey (ADMIC-Asesoria Dinamica a Microempresas)l/ and in Chihuahua.
At the same time programs were implemented through NAFIN using
State-supported agencies in Hidalgo (Impulsora), Michoacan (FFOMICH--Fondo
Mixto para Desarrollo Industrial) and Puebla (Promotora). To date these
five agencies have disbursed close to US$2 million in credits ranging from
Mex$0.2 to 7.0 millions (i.e., and US$300 to US$10,000). Recently some
agencies (Impulsora and Promotora) have increased their loan size to Mex$12
million (around US$16,000).
2.        All credit programs have been using highly subsidized interest
rates ranging from 40 tc 50% of ACF. While the information on the impact
of the existing programs with the private agencies is scanty, the loan
recovery performance is reportedly good. The promotional agencies
themselves have expanded their activities outside their original locations
which indicates the successful nature of the operations. Two of the
agencies, ADMIC and Desarrolo de Chihuahua, had submitted formal proposals
to the Bank appraisal mission for a special line of credit amounting to
US$4 million for micro-enterprise lending. NAFINSA has drawn up a list of
20 other promotional agencies which have expressed interest in
participating in the program and it is estimated that the demand over the
next three years (1986-89) will be the equivalent of over US$30
million--enough to absorb the projected loans of US$20 million from IDB and
the proposed US$10 million Bank component, under the Fourth SMI Project.
State Guarantee Funds (Fondos Estatales)
3.        Recognizing that lack of collateral requirements has been a major
problem for micro-enterprises, the State Governments have set up ?6 State
Guarantee funds (Fondos Estales) since 1983. These funds were capitalized
with State budget resources for a total amount of Mex$1,905 million
(approximately US$2.5 million). Each State Fund can provide guarantees up
to 10 times itscapitalization and up to 80% of each loan. The Funds were
created with the objective of providing guarantees under the old definition
of micro-enterprises as used by FOGAIN (i.e., those in the formal sector
and receiving credits through the banking sector) but under the pilot
program they will play an important role in guaranteeing credits to
micro-enterprises in the informal sector.
1/ ADMIC which has been operating since 1980 and which received its first
IDB loan for US$300,000 in 1982, gave out 380 credits for MEX$76
millions in 1985 and 144 dredits for MEX$50.775 millions in the first
three months of 1986.



- 52 -
Annex 5
Page 2 of 3
4.        As may be seen from Annex 9, T-19, the use of the State Funds
until now has been relatively slow. Up to the end of August 1986, only 825
guarantees have been approved for an amount of Mex$1,727 million (US$2.2
million)--only 9% of the maximum amount of guaranteed loans authorized; 560
(66%) of these guaranteed loans were given by NAFIN, but there has been a
start in the use of the Funds by other banks. It is expected that the use
of the Funds by the commercial banks will increase in the next year as
their existence becomes more widely known.
Proposed Program
5.        Rationale.  Micro-enterprises will provide Jobs for a large
proportion of the newcomers to the labor force and for displaced workers.
It will also represent an important source of income for poor families and
help mobilize private savings. A recent Labor Secretariat survey estimates
that more than 35% of the labor force is employed in the informal sector
micro-enterprises. In manufacturing, the relative contribution of
micro-enterprises is greatest in domestic resource based industries such as
furniture, metal parts, assembly operations, bakery products, etc.
Although the evidence is fragmentary, micro-enterprises on the whole appear
to use factors of production more efficiently relative to large firms and
with greater employment-creating effects.  In recognition of the important
role micro-enterprises play in employment generation and their present
preponderance, it is proposed to include a free-standing micro-enterprise
credit component under the project (Main Report, para. 2.07).
6.        Proposed Credit and Participating Agencies.  The US$10 million
component will finance credits to micro-enterprises for both fixed asset
and working capital investments. The maximum amounts for fixed asset
financing would be US$16,000 and up to US$8,000 for free-standing working
capital loans. The cumulative amounts under the two categories would be
restricted to US$20,000. Training of credit recipients described in
para. 10 would be an integral part of the credit program.
7.        Both state-managed programs and those run by non-Governmental
organizations would be financed through the proposed pilot credit component
for micro-enterprises. It is expected that 50% of the credit resources
would be used by private sector agencies. The overall responsibility for
managing the program would be that of a Coordinating Committee in NAFIN
which will, among other things, have responsibility to review credit
applications from promotional agencies and approve special lines of credit
for them. The Coordinating Committee will also develop credit policies and
review the progress of this pilot program. The progress of the program and
other supporting work would be carried out for the Committee by a small
technical secretariat. More specifically, the technical staff would
supervise on a sample basis the performance of the subloans at the
beneficiary level, and prepare progress reports and draft policies and
regulations for consideration by the Coordinating Committee. The
promotional agencies would be the main contact point with the
beneficiaries, bearing the credit risk and evaluation individual subloan
applications. For subloens above US$5,000 a special local credit committee
is proposed to be established on which the local NAFIN representative would
be a member. At the NAFIN (HQ) level the documentation and administration
of subloans would be managed by NAFIN's Credit Directorate, which will also
use its supervision staff to carry out periodic spot checks to supervise



- 53 -
Annex 5
Page 3 of 3
the use of credit resources at the beneficiary level. For nonitoring
purposes, loan recoveries will be made through NAFIN's regional branches,
with information linkages to the technical secretariat's micro-computer
system to be set up with the project's t.a. funds.
8.        To qualify as a promotional agency, each organization would
submit a financing proposal to NAFIN which would include: (a) a survey of
the number and type of micro-enterprises in the geographical area to be
served; (b) demand estimates and types of financing intended to be
provided; (c) specific training proposals in areas discussed in para 10;
and (d) evidence of State Government's support. The Bank would review and
approve for financing, the first two inestment proposals (in the private
and public sectors) screened by NAFIN each year.
9.        Technical Assistance for NAFIN and Promotional Agencies.  In the
technical assistance component provided by the project, about US 300,000
will be provided through NAFIN to strengthen the micro-enterprise support
program. The amount will be broken down as follows: (a) consultancy
services for NAFIN technical staff responsible for monitoring the program
and in selecting and screening of promotional agencies: US$50,000;
(b) credit control systems through the acquisition of micro-computers and
accessories together with required software: US$100,000; (c) assistance to
participating agencies in carrying out surveys and studies of
micro-enterprise credit and t.a. needs and drawing up of submissions to
NAFIN: US$100,000; (d) preparation of case studies, training manuals and
didactic material including videos for micro-enterprise training programs:
US$50,000. Requests for use of the technical assistance funds will be
channeled through NAFIN and submitted to the Bank for evaluation, and
approval.
10.       Proposed Training Programs.  An intrinsic part of the
micro-enterprise support program will be the provision of technical
assistance and management training for participants. Those receiving
credit will be required to receive training in bookkeeping and financial
management only if enterprises are unable to show that they have the basic
accounting systems in place. Some basic simplified courses in production
management and marketing will also be given. Each agency will make
suitable local arrangements to provide training and technical advice to
micro-enterprises in their area, especially to those receiving credits.
While each promotional agency would submit to NAFIN its training proposals
including the names of the training institutions proposed to be involved,
the following national training institutions are likely to play a lead
role: CONALEP (Colegio Nacional de Educacion Tecnica Profesional), PAI,
CONACYT (Scientific and Technical Nadional Council), SEP (Educational
Secretariat) and INFOTEC. The training activities would be financed from a
portion of the interest rate spread retained by NAFIN in a Special
Micro-Enterprise Credit Fund to be established by NAFIN and to be
capitalized initially from the interest earnings from the subloans, and
later with loan recoveries. The training funds would be allocated once
NAFIN has approved the training plan submitted by the agency as required
under para. 8(c) above.



- 54 -
Annex 6
Page 1 of 10
MEXICO
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRY CREDIT PROJECT
Experience under Past Lending
1.        The Bank has made three loans in Mexico to support the
"Integrated Support Program for Small and Medium Scale Industries" known as
PAI. The first SMI loan (US$47 million) was approved in April 1978; the
second SMI loan (US$100 million) was approved in June 1983. The first loan
helped establish and support the PAI program which was implemented through
a high-level Coordinating Committee in NAFIN and a technical secretariat.
All three projects helped support the lending activities and institutional
development of three Government trust funds serving SMI's, namely, FOGAIN
(the credit institution), FOMIN (the risk capital financing institution),
and FIDEIN (the industrial buildings and park development agency). In
addition, the three projects helped finance the expansion of PAI's
Technical Secretariat, and its extension service, and strengthening of the
services of national technical assistance agencies like INFOTEC, CONACYT,
and CENAPRO.
2.        The recent PCR of the first two projects and a sample survey of
subprojects finianced under the third loan show that in general Bank funds
under the previous loans were allocated to sound subprojects which had a
substantial employment impact and were geographically well dispersed. The
experience under the previous projects is discussed in the following
paragraphs, while a discussion of the more recent institutional development
of the PAI executing agencies (FOGAIN FOMIN) is in Annexes 2 and 3.
Loan Commitment and Disbursement Speed
3.        The first SMI loan (1552-ME) became effective January 12, 1979
and was fully committed by 30 September 1981, only three months after the
original termination date for the submission of subprojects. However,
during the initial implementation phase disbursements were at a standstill,
mainly because the Mexican authorities and the Bank could not agree on the
interest rates to be applied under the project. Once this issue was
resolved, disbursements moved rapidly and by end FY79 amounted to US$27.2
million, about 155% more than estimated at appraisal. The rather
impressive rate of loan utilization under Loan 1552-ME can be attributed to
the investment boom in Mexico during the 1979-80 period. The experience
with the utilization of the second SMI loan (1881-ME) was equally positive,
with almost 50% of the loan funds (US$46 million) committed during the
first year of implementation. Total accumulated disbursements under this
loan reached US$92.5 million (out of a loan of US$100 million) in the
fourth year of implementation. The closing date of the loan was extended,
however, for six months to June 1985 to allow additional time for remaining
disbursements.



- 55 -
Annex 6
Page 2 of 10
4.        The third SMI project (2325-ME) became effective June 16, 1984
and after a relatively slow start, disbursements moved rapidly at the end
of 1984. Within the loan categories the FOGAIN credit component has been
utilized at a fairly rapid pace, while the FIDEIN resources had to be
augmented with a reallocation of US$8.0 million to enable lending for
industrial buildings. The FOMIN equity investment component has been the
slowest moving, mainly due to the somewhat conservative subproject
selection criteria and the preference of FOMIN to fully utilize its
budgetary resources to avoid a cut in its level in the next budget year.
The pending subloans and pipeline as well as joint financing agreements
with State Venture Capital Funds are expected to accelerate use of the
remaining US$7.0 million loan funds. As of March 1987, US$155.0 million
have been disbursed and the remaining loan balance is expected to be fully
committed by June 30, 1987, that is six months after the original closing
date.
5.        The serious economic situation in Mexico, particularly the
persisting high levels of inflation, combined with the US$180 million IDB
loan approved in January 1986, indicates that the loan utilization under
the proposed fourth SMI project may be less rapid than in the past.
Consequently, the appraisal mission pared down the total loan amount from
the US$245.0 million requested by NAFIN to US$185.0 despite the fact that
two new components costing US$35.0 million were added to the project.
Furthermore, loan categories were made flexible to allow a quick
reallocation of resources to those programs which move relatively faster.
The disbursement profile of the proposed project (Annex 8) has been based
on the average profile for LAC industrial finance projects, which is more
conservative than experience under earlier Mexican SMI projects.
Experience with PAI Program Coordination
6.        In recognition of the need to streamline the several financing
and technical assistance schemes for the SMI's, NAFIN created in 1978 a
comprehensive 'Integrated Support Program for SMI" called PAI. This
Program was to be financed through a specially created project financing
Fund which was initially capitalized with a Government contribution of
US$22.5 million. Additionally a special credit line of US$19 million from
Banco de Mexico was made available to meet the counterpart financing
requirements of the Bank-assisted credit schemes which were part of the
whole PAI program. In fact, the Bank's first SMI project provided the
operational basis for the Program, and the recoveries from all Bank-
assisted SMI projects were to further capitalize the PAI Fund. To provide
policy guidance to the various participating institutions, a central
authority in the form of a Coordinating Committee was created in NAFIN.
The Committee was chaired by the President of NAFIN and had as its members
the joint directors of NAFIN as well as representatives from the Ministries
of Finance, Industry and Urban Development.   Other members included
representatives from the Chambers of Commerce and the Directors General of
the participating institutions. In sum, the Committee was unwieldy and too
large to be effective. In discharging its responsibilities, the Committee
was to be assisted by a Secretariat with a full-time technical staff, which
was also responsible for onerating an SMI extension service and soliciting
the support of several technical assistance institutions engaged in the



- 56 -
Annex 6
Page 3 of 10
industrial sector. Within the foregoing structure, another processing
level was the NAFIN Directorate of International Organization which became
a filter for all communications with the Bank including the forwarding of
subprojects. The channel of subprojects was thus: executing agencies-
PAi--NAFIN--Bank.
7.        During the implementation of the three projects, the PAI
Coordinating Committee took a peripheral interest in project affairs and
in the last three years even failed to meet in the capacity as PAI's policy
making body. Parallel to this development was the assumption of a more
direct responsibility by the PAI technical secretariat in coordinating
and financing the Program. This unplanned role or 'interference" was
strongly resisted by all executing agencies, but mainly by FOGAIN 'which
felt responsible to its own Executive Board and did not like their
atautonomy" to be reduced especially when PAI resources only represented
30% of FOGAIN's overall lending program. To avoid friction and to
increase the linkages between PAI's extension services and the credit
program a complete merger was carried out of the PAI staff with FOGAIN
(from 1980-83). However, the two institutions were separated again in
1984, which again gave rise to the problems mentioned above.
8.       The experience with the PAI Fund was equally disappointing with
PAI making operating losses during each year of its existence, because of
the following main reasons: (i) PAI borrowed high-cost funds from the
market to finance the counterpart fund requirements for all participating
institutions (on average 27% of the investment cost), while it received
inadequate margins from the institutions out of the interest rate spread;
(ii) the foreign exchange risk on interest repayments to the Bank was borne
by PAI; this was a severe drain during the 1982-83 devaluations; and (iii)
the unprecedented expansion of PAI's operations and extension staff from a
mere 12 at inception of the Program to 246 as of December 1985. To
compound PAI's problems FOGAIN (the largest user of PAI's funds) refused to
transfer loan recoveries to the Fund, leaving PAI to raise its funds from
the open market at effective interest rates as high as 90% per annum. The
design of the proposed project takes into consideration the institutional
experiences discussed above. And, in discussions with Government/NAFIN
officials it has been agreed to make implementation arrangements which
ensure: (a) a strong coordinating role by an effective high-level
Coordiuating Committee with clearly defined responsibilities towards the
program in NAFIN; (b) adequate capitalization of trust funds-through
retention of loan recoveries, exemption of exohange risk, and adequate
interest rate margins-to make them self-financing in the medium term; and
(c) flexibility in the loan components, allowing the Coordinating Committee
to reassign the loan resources to components which show greater promise
during implementation.
Lending Profile
9.        Quality of Data on Portfolio.  While data on overall FOGAIN
operations at the subproject level is readily available, wore specific data
on the operations relating to the Bank financed subprojects is not
obtainable. The OGAIN information system was never programmed to provide
e for the lack of information at the commercial bank level. The project



- 57 -
Annex 6
Page 4 of 10
includes technical assistance funds to help develop the information and
control system both at the FOGAIN and commercial bank levels. To compare
the characteristics of FOGAIN's overall lending with that under the Bank-
assisted projects a sample was undertaken of 85 subprojects for the first
SMI loan and 245 for the second SMI project. (Project File). The lending
characteristics under the Bank-financed subprojects were found to be
generally in line with the overall operations. The discussion on FOGAIN's
lending characteristics, therefore, is based on the entire universe of
subprojects financed by FOGAIN. For the economic anti financial impact of
the subprojects the results of the sample subprojects are analyzed.
10.       Characteristics of FOGAIN Subprojects.  Data on the major
subproject characteristics is shown in Annex 9, Tables 10 to 13. In its 31
years of operation, FOGAIN has concentrated on financing working capital
requirements for SMI's (54.6% of total lending), fixed asset (38% of total
loans), and debt consolidation operations which represented 7.4% of total
lending. To date FOGAIN has made about 66,925 credits to about 35,000
enterprises of which 80% were small scale industries. The total amount of
financing for the period was MEX$298.0 billion, of which 56% was allocated
to small scale and the rest to medium scale enterprises. In the more
recent period, FOGAIN's operations have increased from 5,926 credits in
1980 to a peak of 12,759 credits in 1985 totalling MEX$124.0 billion, at an
average annual growth rate of 69.0% in nominal terms but less than 1% in
real terms. In US$ terms, FOGAIN's portfolio was US$396.0 million
equivalent in 1984 increasing to US$399.0 in 1985. An interesting feature
of FOGAIN's lending operations was that while the loan volume in real terms
grew by only 2.3% during the entire period of 1980-85, the number of loans
increased by 115%, leading to a corresponding reduction in the average size
of subloans from US$65,800 in 1980 to US$31,300 in 1985. The decline in
loan siize can be attributed to two causes: (a) the successive devaluations
that reduced project costs in US terms; and (b) the recession of 1982-83
which found FOGAIN financing a larger proportion of expansion project and
working capital credits; both types of credits require on average lesser
financing than new projects.
11.       Regional Focus.  Although the regional composition of FOGAIN's
portfolio has followed the general pattern of industrial concentration in
Mexico, the largest number of enterprises financed were in Mexico City,
Monterrey and Guadalajara. Over the last six years FOGAIN resources have
been increasingly directed to supporting investments in the high priority
Zone I. Whereas in 1979 only 32.5% of FOGAIN-supported industries were
located in this zone, in 1984 this figure Jumped to 71%. More recently,
FOGAIN's 1986 Operating Regulations actually exclude financing in Zone III.
12.       Sectoral Distribution.  FOGAIN has distributed its resources
widely in several subsectors. Traditionally the four most important
subsectors financed were food and beverages (19.5%), metal mechanics
(9.0%), chemicals (7.9%), and textiles and apparel (6.2%). Overall
44.2% of FOGAIN financing went to the consumer goods industries; S3.7%
for intermediate goods and only 12.1% for capital goods. However, more
recently the financing share of capital goods has shown an increasing
trend (from 10.7% of total financing in 1983 to 11.3% in 1985).



- 58 -
Annex 6
Page 5 of 10
13.       Financial Intermediaries.  While almost all commercial banks have
discounted their loans with FOGAIN, five banks (BANCOMER, BANAMEX, BANCO
INTERNACIONAL, NAFIN, and BANPAIS) accounted for more than 50% of lending
and 90% of total commitments in 1983. The rediscounting pattern .las,
however, shown a marked shift in favor of two intermediaries, NAFIN and its
sister organization BANCO INTERNACIONAL which together received 23.8% of
FOGAIN credits in 1982, rising to 38.7% in 1985, and increasing further to
53.2% in the first six months of 1986. This shift is attributed to the
more liberal collateral policy of the two institutions as well as the fact
that until 1985 NAFIN (as a specialized industrial development bank)
enjoyed a higher autonomous loan approval limit than the other commercial
banks. In addition, recently the commercial banks have shown some
reluctance to use FOGAIN's rediscount facilities, claiming that they find
it difficult to meet the requirement to provide the increasing financial
contribution (up to 35% of total amount of subloan), in the face of a tight
liquidity situation and, moreover, that FOGAIN borrowing involves "heavy
bureaucratic paperwork". The technical assistance component of the project
is designed to simplify the loan processing procedures both at the FOGAIN
and PFI levels, ensuring that FOGAIN's second tier operations benefit from
the 5500 branch network established by all commercial banks. The aim, over
the life of the proposed project, would be to broaden the use of FOGAIN
funds amongst the several commercial banks, and to reward (through higher
subloan autonomous limits, etc.) those PFI's which introduce adequate
measures to improve evaluation and supervision of its subloans.
Characteristics of FOMIN's Portfolio
14.       FOMIN has financed 89 subprojects under the first two loans, of
which 63 were direct equity pariticipations and the rest took the form of
convertible subloans. The total cost of FOMIN investments was US$31.4
million, including US$18.5 million of Bank funds. Seventy percent of the
subprojects under the first SMI project and 79% under the second SMI
project were concentrated in medium scale enterprises. Only 4 subprojects
received the maximum financing permissible under the project, with the
average size of FOMIN investments during Loan 1552-ME of US$530,000 and
during Loan 1881-ME US$264,000. Of the 89 investments only 7 were to new
enterprises; this figure increases o 35 if new projects of existing
enterprises are included. FOMIN investments cover a wide range of
industrial subsectors such as food processing (which received 23% of
subprojects and 39% of resources) and basic metals (20% of subprojects and
21% of resources); other areas of investment were pulp and paper, wood
products, chemicals and servicing industries. The geographical
distribution of FOMIN subprojects has been improving; under the first SMI
project 39% of the subprojects were located in the low priority Zone III.
At present, only 20 investments out of 125 are in Zone III.
Subproject Performance
Impact of FOGAIN Subprojects
15.       FOGAIN's monitoring of its subprojects during implementation has
been less than satisfactory, albeit improvements have been noted over the
implementation of the three projects. Major reasons are the large volume



- 59 -
Annex 6
Page 6 of 10
of business (average lending of US$300 million a year), the numerous
clients (average 11,000 credits a year as of December 31, 1985) and the
resistance of the PFIs to replace collateral financing with that based on
project analysis. In addition, the computerization of FOGAIN operations,
supported by the Bank, suffered a severe setback during the September 1985
earthquake. All this notwithstanding, there is need to further streamline
the subproject follow-up procedures, enabling FOGAIN to better assess the
impact of its financing at the beneficiary level. The technical assistance
component under the proposed project is designed to assist FOGAIN and its
financial intermediaries to develop a standard and reliable data base on
its sub-borrowers with an objective of carrying out a regular performance
assessment of the investments it finances.
16.       At the outset it needs to be noted that in the past FOGAIN had no
standard requirement to calculate ex-ante rates of return (let alone
ex-post rates of return) for its subloans.   This shortcoming was first
seriously addressed by the Bank's supervision mission in February 1985 when
an Agreement was signed between Bank/FOGAIN/NAFIN/PAI/HACIENDA requiring
both ex-ante and ex-post financial rates of return for Bank-financed
subloans. Economic rates of return were to be calculated for selected
subprojects. Consequently while the impact of the subproject can be
derived from the sample of subprojects analyzed, it is not possible to draw
conclusions about the quality of projections or the basis for FOGAIN
approvals of subloans--clearly the yardstick was collateral offerings. All
these shortcomings are being addressed under the proposed project, which
includes technical assistance funds to improve the monitoring of subloans
during both the investment and post-investment phases.
17.       As part of the PCR of the first two SMI loans, FOGAIN/PAI carried
out an ex-post analysis of a sample of about 350 subprojects financed
covering different sizes and subsectors. These surveys were cross-checked
through mission visits to 12 randomly selected enterprises.  Finally, to
qssess the more recent developments under the ongoing Third SY'I project,
financial analysis was carried out by the appraisal mission for 32
subprojects (provided by FOGAIN) and 17 others provided by PAI, which had
data on both "with" and "without" project financing. The results of this
analysis are in para 18. According to the sample of subprojects analyzed,
FOGAIN has been financing economically and financially sound investments.
For example, the average financial rate of return (in constant terms) for
the sample of subprojects authorized under the two SMI projects was 47%;
the average economic rate of return (in constant terms) for 70X of the
sampled subprojects was 55%. These results suggest that FOGAIN has been an
important element in fostering the growth of sound investments according to
the general objectives and policies established by the Government for the
SMI sector. The employment effects of the subprojects are quite positive,
generating 4,300 new jobs at an average cost of US$9,000 in 1982 constant
terms.
18.       Financial Performance of Sampled Subprojects.  Results of the
analysis of subprojects sampled (32 FOGAIN and 17 sampled by PAI),
contained in Annex 9, Table 20, show the following characteristics:
(i) while the sampled subprojects are relying heavily on short-term credit



- 60 -
Annex 6
Page 7 of 10
(80% of their total debt), their current ratios reflect a fairly liquid
situation; (ii) the operational profit of these SMIs is high when compared
with their financial costs, reflecting a risk averse financial policy by
the entrepreneurs, which may also explain the resiliency of SMIs during
periods of economic downturn; (iii) the profitability of the firms examined
is very high. Since their net worth has been revalued the net profit/net
worth ratios reflect real returns on equity which are of the order of 20%
each year. This could be attributed to the very high gross sales
margins--an indication of lick of competition, and to the correspondingly
high operational margins; (iv) the low sales/assets ratios of the sample
firms reflect excess capacity, a phenomenon which was confirmed by the
entrepreneurs during the interview with the mission; and, lastly, (v) the
very small-scale firms in the sample showed moderate levels of indebtedness
which confirmed the fact that they mainly relied on their own resources for
financing investments or borrowed from supplies credit which did not accrue
interest, according to the practice, if paid between 30 to 60 days after
delivery. The mission compared the data from the sampled firms with a
larger sample of SMIs surveyed in 1982 by the office of the Economic
Advisors of the President. The survey also showed that SMIs were
moderately leveraged (52% of total assets); that their liabilitites were
short-term (between 80 and 90% of total debt); and their liquidity high
(current ratios of 1.5). Regarding profitability, the PAI-FOGAIN sample
shows company profits to be considerably higher than those in the large
sample. This could have occurred because the FOGAIN/PAI sample was
pre-selected to include only creditworthy firms. Overall the SMIs financed
by FOGAIN seem to operate with comfortable profit margins and positive ERRs
and FRRs.
Quality of FOMIN's Portfolio
19.       Quality of FOMIN's Portfolio.  During the first two loans,
FOMIN's portfolio grew from 64 enterprises totalling MEX$181.9 million
(December 1977) to an aggregate investment of MEX$6,777.4 million in
current terms as of December 1985. In real terms FOMIN's portfolio
increase is somewhat less impressive, increasing from US$6.2 million in
1977 to US$22.3 million in 1985, thus showing a growth in real terms of 18%
per annum. An assessment of the profitability of the firms assisted by
FOMIN was undertaken as part of the PCR. In general, FOMIN-financed
subprojects--as the industrial sector in general--were affected by the
economic crisis. Because of sharply increasing inflation and a slump in
domestic demand, a substantial number of FOMIN equity investments suffered
from cost overruns and unsatisfactory sales leading to operating losses.
As of December 1985, of all the investments or credits approved under both
previous loans, 17% were operating with profits, 46% with losses, and 30%
were sold or liquidated with capital gains. To some extent the weak
performance of FOMIN companies is owing to the lack of managerial
expertise. For the sample of subprojects reviewed by the PCR mission the
ex-ante rates of return ranged between 15 and 80% with an average of 53%
for projects financed under PAI I and 38% for projects under PAI II.



- 61 -
Annex 6
Page 8 of 10
Evaluation of FIDEIN Industrial Estates/Building Program
20.       Earlier Development Strategy.  The  FIDEIN Industrial Estate
Program has been an integral part of the Bank assisted SMI credit
projects. During the implementation of the first two SMI projects FIDEIN's
mandate was to act principally as a central promotional and advisory
institution to the "Fidecomisos Especiales' that is the legal entities
owning and operating th4 individual regional industrial estates. The
FIDEIN program was originally meant to finance the operations of the
"Fidecomisos Especiales" for the following activities (a) the construction
of factory buildings on industrial estates for rqnt, lease with option to
purchase or sale to SMI enterprises, (b) construction and lease of common
service facilities to provide services to groups of SMI enterprises in the
estates (for example, warehouses, maintenance and repair shops, quality
control and material testing laboratories), and (c) equipment and machinery
leasing to SMI enterprises operating in these industrial estates. In 1983
the Government reoriented FIDEIN's overall development strategy requiring
it to divest itself of its direct investment role and henceforth be
responsible for the development of industrial estates through the provision
of financing for infrastructure work and construction of industrial
buildings for lease and/or with sale contracts.
21.       Program Implementation Under the First and Second SMI Projects.
During the implementation of the first and second SMI Loans FIDEIN began to
finance direct sales, rent and lease operations of all physical
installations other than land development which was the responsibility of
"Fidecomisos Especiales." Once land was developed by the Fidecomisos,
FIDEIN acquired part of the land to construct Standard Factory Buildings
(SFB's) and to create other types of supporting ipfrastructure. During
implementation of the two projects, however, FIDE-IN became directly
involved in developing the industrial parks. As part of its program FIDEIN
developed 17 industrial estates and constructed 46 SFB's ranging in size
from a minimum of 500 square meters to 2,400 square meters. In addition it
constructed one common service facility (at Mexicali) which included
maintenance and repair shops, central warehousing, worker training centers,
marketing and promotion centers etc. The effectiveness of FIDEIN programs
can be evaluated taking into account its main operating objectives namely
preventing industrial concentration and promoting regional development. As
of December 1979 FIDEIN sold 1,080 hectares of land (in the 17 estates it
developed) to 607 firms which were all located in the high priority
development Zones (i.e., away from the main industrial cities).  More
recent information shows that on average the industrial estates have
achieved an occupancy rate of about 802 with only about 2 estates being
closed out altogether. In fact, one of these Estates is being reactivated
(at Nayarit) and FIDEIN has recommended major changes in the administration
of the authority managing the Estate.
22.         On balance, the development of industrial parks has played an
Important role in industrial location. There were very few cases of
relocation of existing units since the majority of the enterprises financed
by FIDEIN were new and in some cases subsidiaries of existing firms located
in the highly concentrated industrial zones (Mexico City, Monterrey, and
GuadalaJara). FIDEIN's standard factory building program proved to be less



- 62 -
Annex 6
Page 9 of 10
successful as a business venture. Public interest in such buildings was
limited -- investors preferred custom made industrial buildings instead of
SFB's. As a result, FIDEIN was unable to market its SFBs and its inventory
was finally liquidated in early 1986. The data on the characteristics of
the buildings program are: 1) over 80% of the SFB's were sold to small
companies with equity less than Mexican $25 million (in 1985 prices),
nearly 70% of these were located in Zone 1 which is the highest
decentralization priority. A survey of the SFB's during the recent PCR
shows that only two factory buildings are closed and unused. With respect
to common service facilities, only one such operation was financed (para,
21) It is currently being operated as a profitable commercial venture by
the State Industrial Park Authority.
23.       Programs under the Third SMI loan.  At the time of the Third SMI
project, FIDEIN's operational strategy had undergone a radical change in
that it withdrew from its direct investment role and began to act as an
advisory body providing information and assistance on technical, and
marketing aspects of industrial park development to private sector
investors and some state governments. At the same time, FIDEIN commenced
financing infrastructure development in industrial parks. The change in
FIDEIN's operating strategy was a positive development and under the
ongoing Third SMI project FIDEIN began, with the Banks concurrence, to
finance industrial buildings by lease operators. Since then FIDEIN has
concentrated its lending mainly on financing industrial buildings in either
the export zones near the border or in industrial parks which are operating
efficiently. During 1983-86, FIDEIN financed 96 subprojects for industrial
buildings developing industrial space of 264,638 m3. It is estimated that
the industries located in theoe buildings during 1983-86 employed 21,300
workers. At the same time, the development of new industrial parks per se,
dropped from a high number of eight parks in 1984 to three in 1986. The
de-emphasis on park development reflected the excess capacity (para. 24),
available in existing parks.
24.       By late 1985 FIDEIN had fully utilized its loan allocation of
US$4.6 million and another US$8 million was reallocated to enable it to
meet the strong demand for industrial buildings. On an ex-ante basis, the
investment in industrial buildings show good financial rate of returns and
the companies managing the buildings enjoy high profitability. FIDEIN also
has a sound portfolio position -- its total outstanding subloans under all
three previous SMI projects amounts to Mexican$7461.2 million, of which
only 1% is in arrears for over 90 days.
25.       Future Prospects.  Due to the liquidity problems of existing
enterprises and their reluctance to invest large amounts in fixed assets
such as buildings, and beeause of the interest of overseas investors
(particularly in the Maquila industries) there is currently a high demand
for industrial building space within the industrial parks. Regarding the
development of new estates, at present there are 89 industrial parks in
Mexico which have 1,849 developed hectares still available for sale.
However, occupancy rates within the industrial parks are highly varied and
a considerable number of parks are facing strong demand for expansion and
modernization particularly those close to the frontier area.  Under the
proposed project, the industrial estate program would be strictly limited



- 63 -
Annex 6
Page 10 of 10
to existing parks to make them more efficient and to increase their
capacity utilization. For this purpose, among other things, a promotion
program has been designed as part of FIDEIN's technical assistance
program. Above all, new industrial parks would only be initiated in the
export processing and border zones and in cases where a clear demand is
demonstrated for the need of such facilities. For this reason, and given
the need to strengthen FIDEIN's credit evaluation aspects, the Bank has
retained the right to review and approve all of FIDEIN's investment
programs approved.
25.       Implementation Capacity.  As an institution FIDEIN's performance
under the three Bank-assisted SMI projects has been uneven reflecting the
lack of experience of its staff and the high turnover at the management
level, particularly in areas of credit evaluation and management. FIDEIN
started off as a technical assistance operation with a heavy bias toward
engineering aspects; over the years it has essentially remained such an
institution.   The changes in the scope of FIDEIN from a construction-type
operation to a banking institution were not accompanied by hiring of
qualified personnel with experience in credit operations. Under the Third
SMI Project recommendations were made to strengthen the technical,
marketing, financial, economic and credit aspects of FIDEIN's operations
but the results were less than satisfactory. It was also envisaged that
the credit operations of FIDEIN would be transferred to FOGAIN, to be
managed on FIDEIN's account, and its loan portfolio was to be transferred
to an intermediary bank trust for colle_tion and overall administration.
None of these measures were initiated and FIDEIN continued to produce
substandard investment proposals with significant delays in their approval
by the Bank for want of relevant information.
26.       FIDEIN has recently (July 1986) introduced some measures to
strengthen its staffing and to improve the quality of its subprojects. It
also carried out an internal reorganization redefining the responsibilities
of the finance division into credit evaluation and accounting units; and a
special planning division was created to prepare pre-investment feasibility
studies. Under the technical assistance program of the proposed project,
provision has been made to further strengthen FIDEIN's operational aspects
through training programs for existing staff. Above all, it is proposed to
gradually reduce FIDEIN's role as a first tier financing agency allowing it
to concentrate on the technical aspects of industrial park development.
Accordingly, a study would be carried out in the initial year of
implementation to make recommendations for FIDEIN to act as a second tier
institutions transferring most of its credit responsibilities to the
commercial banks. As a preliminary step, following the Banks
recommendation, FIDEIN has transformed to NAFIN's credit department the
responsibility for its portfolio management. To assist in FIDEIN's
long-term institutional building effort, two dated studies have been agreed
to devellop FIDEIN into a second tier institution and to strengthen its
management structure further.



- 64 -
Annex 7
Page 1 of 2
MEXICO
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
Key Indicators for Project Implementation
A. To enable the Bank to monitor the fulfillment of the project objectives
(main text, para. 2.02), during project implementation, FOGAIN, FOMIN,
FIDEIN, and NAFIN would prepare the following minimum information.
-   Subproject Lending Performance (annually):
. Number of subprojects and their Financial Composition
. Total Investment Costs (Projected and Actual)
. Sales (Projected and Actual
. Implementation Delays
, Current Project Pipeline (quarterly)
, Status of Loans Outstanding (quarterly)
-   Socio-economic Impact (annually): Commitments and Disbursements by
, Loan Type and Size of Enterprise
, Sector
" Region
, Financial Intermediary
, Incremental Jobs Created and Cost per Job
-   Technical Assistance Program
 Prepare and/or agree to annual work program for all agencies: FOGAIN,
FIDEIN, FOMIN, NAFIN and SECOFI
, Progress on computerization of data at FOGAIP -:3% PFI level (annual)
3 Progress on studies by SECOFI (semi-annually)
, Progress report on.NAFIN's microenterprise technical assistance
etivities (quarterly)
B. The following timetable for the studies described in Annex 1 (Technical
Assistance Program) was agreed with SECOFI and FIDEIN.
By end      By mid-         By mid-
1987        1988            1989
Studies
a.  Regulatory Framework                 TOR       Complete           -
b. Effectiveness of Fiscal
Incentives and Development
of New Incentive Schemes                       TOR          Complete
c.  Regulations for Subcontracting                    TOR         Complete
d.  Subsector studies                    TOR        Initiate      Complete
FIDEIN
a.  Organizational and Staffing          TOR        Complete 1/   Completed
requirements                                    by 12/88
b.  FIDEIN as second tier institution  TOR         Complete       Complete
c.  Mid-term Review                      TOR         TOR          Complete



- 65 -
Annex 7
Page 2 of 2
C. For monitoring purposes the following indicators would apply:
By      By          By        By       By
End     Mid-        Mid-      Mid-    Mid-
1987    1988        1989      1990    1991
1.  Financial Operations (FOGAIN)
Loan Commitments                 10%     352         50%       752      1002
Percentage of Subloans           152     50%         602       80%      100%
2.  Financial Operations (FOMIN)
Percentage of Subloans            52     20%         50%       752      100%
3.  Financial Restructuring (FOMIN)
Percentage of Subloans           -       15X         40%       80X      100Z
4.  Industrial buildings and Parks
Percentage of Subloans          20%      40%         602       100%       -
5.  Institutional Development
* Establishment of Project
Evaluation units of PFIs             3 banks    4 banks   2 banks
. System Development           Design   1st         Full Imple-
phase      mentation at
execution  FOGAIN and
PFI level
6.  Staff Training 1/               Plan     Implemen-  Completed
Prepared    tation
N Number Trained                  -          150        300
7.  FOGAIN/PFI Loan Portfolio       Plan     Initiate   System
Monioring System             Prepared   system in  completed
three      for all
leading    subloans.
banks.
8.  Evaluation of Subproject          -      NAFIN's    Survey    Draft study
Impact                                   select     of im-    completed
sample     pact       and sent
and        con-       to Bank
sends      ducted    and other
proposal   and        users for
to Bank    analysis  comments.
for        commenced
implemen-  at end of
tation of  year.
study.
Details of training program with chronogram are in Project File
(Detailed T.A. program).



- 66 -
ANNEX 8
MEXICO
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Bank Loan Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year              Disbursements                  Cumulative
and Quarter                   in Quarter                  Disbursements
FY 1988
September 30, 1987                 -                           --
December 31, 1987                   1.0                          1.0
March 31, 1988                      2.0                          3.0
June 30, 1988                       2.0                          5.0
FY 1989
September 30, 1988                  7.0                        12.0
December 31, 1988                   9.0                        21.0
March 31, 1989                      9.2                        30.2
June 30, 1989                      12.0                        42.2
FY 1990
September 30, 1990                 12.1                        54.3
December 31, 1990                  12.0                        66.3
March 31, 1991                     12.0                        78.3
June 30, 1991                      10.0                        88.3
FY 1991
September 30, 1991                 12.0                       100.3
December 31, 1991                  12.0                       112.3
March 31, 1992                      8.0                       120.3
June 30, 1992                       5.0                       125.3
FY 1992
September 30, 1992                 10.0                       135.3
December 31, 1992                   6.0                       141.3
March 31, 1993                      6.0                       147.3
June 30, 1993                       5.0                       152.3
FY 1993
September 30, 1993                  5.0                       157.3
December 31, 1993                   5.0                       162.3
March 31, 1994                      5.0                       167.3
June 30, 1994                       5.0                       172.3
FY 1994
September 30, 1994                  8.0                       180.3
December 31, 1994                   5.0                       185.3



- 67 -
AW#U 9
FaM  IPL AM MOl=E DUM FM=
Table 1: VW  W 1W#FWX            PWXC=  197-56 I/
(1970.100, pato  _avers)
1986
iew                     1975    1976    1977   1978    1979    196    1981    12    1983    194    185   JAN.
;mrai mimi of
1aWU   Mtlvlty            140.7   147.5  152.0  188.5  187.4  205*7  223.9  219.5  199.7  209.2   219.5  205.2
mfac=ifg W                140.7   147.5  151.8  166.9  184.4  198.8   213.5  206.5  190.0  2M.2   212.0  205.2
crn  0os                 135.0  140*5   145.9  157.2  172.8  184.5  197.0  193.9  180.8  185.5  194.4  192.4
D    8Ar               148.9  155.7   150.3  177.8  200.8  218.6  239.5  211.8  168.A  174.1  195*5   180.7
Nb%-baabias            132.4  137.4  143*7   153.0  167.1  177.8  188.3  190.1  183.2  187.8  194.2  194.8
Untmiate Goods           143.2  151.7  155*2   171.9  189.8  205.3  220.0  213.5  198.9  213.3  225.5  217.1
captal (od.              161.5  162.6  163.4  193.8  221.3  246*5  27.7  237.9   177*8  193.7   221.7  193.3
UWAL "ACL M2CWM/
Rte of Grwth 1975-1986 (2 p.-)
oxamir Oaft:                     Inted.    Cp1al
M        Total  b _abl   Nmu Dw.    tod
1975-78       5.9Z        5.2%      6.1%       5.02         6.32         6.3%
19741         8.6%        7.82     10.4%       7.2X         8.62        12.7%
1961-63      -5.72       -4.2S    -16.0%      -1.42       -4.9%        -20.02
1963-85       5.72        3.9%      7.2%       3.22         6.32        11.82
1986.1       -6.2t       -6.12    -12.42      -4.62        -3.1.       -30.62
7546.1        3*72        3.3%      1.92       3.62         4.2.         1.32.
1/ Swce: o     de Mdco
7Z/ %-io E s



- 68 -
ANNEX .9
MEXICO
FOURTh SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
Table 2: Industrial Concentration by ?irm Size
-   of Establishment* in 1985)
Is Size of Industry by Subsector
Subsector                      Micro       Small      Medlum       Large       Total
Food Industries                22.67%      13.77!       12.902      12.752     20.4Q2
Beverages                       0.83X        1.24%      4.03%        5.,52       1.11I
Tobacco                         0.022       0.04%       0.192       0.712       N.W42
Textiles                        2.34%       5.092        8.412       8.752       3.1MR
Clothing                        9.062      11.80%       9.362        5.14%       9.502
Shoes and Leather               5.352       6.862        3022       2.412       5.562
Wood and Cork Products          2.23%        2.11!       2.09X       1.862       2.202
Furniture                       3.81X       4.052        2.55%      0.602        3.752
Paper                           0.53%        1.j3%       2.252       2.90       0.78%
Editorials and Printing         7.032       4.35X        3.58%       2.352       6.322
Chemical Industry               2.62%       5.892       8.712        9.852       3.572
Petrochemical                   0.142       0.252       0.272       0.052        0.162
Plastics and Rubber              3.552      7.41X        6.472      .5.362       4.402
Non-metallic Minerals           5.73%       5.532        3.962       5.422       5.632
Basic Metals                    1.062        1.812      2.092        2.572       1.262
Metallic Products              19.74X       16.492      14.19X      10.502      18.772
Non-electrical Machinery        5.29X        3.952       3.452       2.022       4.922
Electrical Machinery            2.132       3.62X       6.622       13.512       2.792
Transportation Equipment         1.152       1.582       1.412       4.702       1.322
Other Industries                4.712       2.842        2.442       2.682       4.25%
TOTAL                         100002    100.002    100.00!    100.002    100.002
II, Share of Subsector by Firm Size
Subsector                      Mictro        ma'll    Medium        Marg       Total
Food Industries                84.162       12.55       1.95X       1.34%    100.002
Beverages                      56.72X      20.742      11.222       11.32%    10000ox
Tobacco                        30.56%       19.442      13.89X     36.11!    1on0002
Textiles                       56.032      29.87S       8.182       5.922    100.002
Clothing                       72.592      23.202       3.052        1.172    100.002
Shoes and leather              73.20X      23.07X       2.802       0.932    100.002.
Word and Cork Products         77.322      17.91%       2.952        1.82X    1nn0nnx
Furniture                      77.372      20.182       2.11X       0.35!    100.00
Paper                          51.432      31.73%       8.8J7        7.97%    1n0n0.0
Editorials and Printing        84.602      12.84X       1.752      n0.RO2    ln.nn0
Chemical Industry              55.722      30.79%       7.S55%        .93!    lnn,nYf
Petrochemical                  66.43X      27.A6X       5.00%       n.71!    i0nn0nn
Plastics and Rubber            61.37X      31.462       4,55X       2.62%    1nn0nn0
Non-metallic Minerals          77.42%      18.342       2.17?       2.072    1nn.nn0
Basic Metals                   63.782      26.72%       5.12%       4.382    1.00nnt
Metallic Products              80.052      16.412       2.35S        1.212    1on0   2
Non-electrical Machinery       81.932      15.4nn       2.182       n*.82    1on0.0?
Electrical Ma4hinery,          58.03X      24.21S       7.342      10.422    0on0nn0
Transportation Equipment       66.522      22.47X       1.31X       7.7nx      on.,nnx
Other Industries               84.362      12.51X        1.772       1.362    1n00n.0
TOTAL                          76.08X       18.662       3.10X       2.15X    1l0O0.0



-69 -
AM 9
HXaCOo                        Table 3
F        SMALL AND fMEDIM SCAE BDUS    PFAJECW
Table 3: Exploynmnt by Submctor nd Firm Size
ft 2loyMEnt by Size of Finr  in 1985
sector                        tbM.cro      all       Mium        Large       lbtal
Food Inmhtries                 19.34Z     13.62%      12.51%      10.93%     12.73%
aeveraw                        0.89m       1.412       4.24%      6.22r%      4.18%
Tbbacco                        0.0Z%       0.06%       0.16%       0.83%      n.45%
Textiles                        2.91%      5.48X       R.49%       6.657.     6.277.
Clothii                        9.77%      11.81%       9.14%       4.21%      7.41%
Sous and Leatlhr               6.00n       6.86%       4.96%      2.44%       4.2K.
Wbod and Cork Products         2.29%       2.15%       2.26%       1.26%       1.74Z
Purniture                      4.02%       3.732       2.44%       0.39%      1.91%
Paper                          0.76X       1.422       2.28X       2.64%      2.09%
Editorials ard Printirg        6.52%       4.15%       3.50%       1.55%      3.02Z
auhical Industry                3.52%      6.05X       8.98%       8.522      7.48%
PetrochwAucals                 0.23%       0.25%       0.25%       0.02%      0.14%
Plastics and Rubber            4.58X       7.69%       6.45%       4.61%      5.647%
No|x!-taJ.ic tinerals          5.99%       5.33%       3.902       5.15%      5.06%
Basic Metals                    1.327.     1.78%       2.15%      6.40%       4.06%
Metallic Products              19.06X     16.02=      14.132       9.10%     12.64%
Nomnelectrical Mch1mry         4.89%       3.722       3.51%       1.76%      2.85%
Electrical Machinery            2.56%      3.89M       6.71%      16.37%     10.34%
-Tknsportation Equimpnt         1.39%      1.59%       1.50%       8.42%      4.91%
Othar Indiutries                3.93%      2.992       2.47%       z.55%      2.79%.
TOM                     100.0%      100.00%    100.00       100.00%    100.00
Distritubtion of Employint by 9ubsector
setor
Food Industries                16.37%     25.44%      15.96%     42.23%    1nO.O0%
leverages                       2.30%      8.01%      16.o50      73.2M%    100.00%
Tobacco                         0.56X      3.26%       5.81X      90.36%    1r0.OM%
Textiles                        5.00%     20.81%      22.00%      52.19%    1nno.O
Clothing                       14.20%     37.87%      20.03%      27.90%    lrg0.00
Shoes and Leather              15.11%     38.11%      18.80%      I7.97%    Inn.n00
Wood and Cork Products         14.16%     29.35%      21.fnl4     35.45%   IT. nW%
Furniture                     22.75%      46.53%      2n.77%      9.95"    1rV).nV
Paper                           3.93%     16.16X      17.79%      61.12%    1'v),OM
Editorials and Printing       23.28%      32_t36%     18.81:     25.25"'    ln.0OM
Chemical Industry              5.O07      19.2:2.     !Q.'49t     55.98%    i'no. T.
Petrochemical                 18.19'      "4i.49%     29.321       .        0l,.nv.0
Plastics and Rubber            8.75%      32.45%      18.58%     -n.23.3%   1 00. 
Non-metallic  Ulinerals        12.70%     24.97r      12.46,    '69.87%     p0.00;
Basic >Jtals                   3.50%      10.4,       8.5        77.o1*     I rr.m->
Metallic Products              1.o26YZ    30.15%      18.17%      35.42'.   100).r(Y
.%n-electrical :Sukchinery     18.53%     31.09%,     2. o4      3n.34%t    10n.Qnt
E1ectrical %chinery             2.67%      8.94%'    10.54%      77.86f,,    1nO.O0%
Transportation Equipmwt         3.04%      7.69%       4.97X     R4.30%    100v.0%
Other Industries               15.22%.    25.53%      14.37%     44.92%    100.o0%
-TAL                     10.78I      23.78%      16.25%     49.18%    100.00%



Miw M.WIJ. Al)   3Im-rAIF.             PWIWY  I*X.T
Table 4: ftuetny Avng*es (1974)4)
Wwrrt bodanme in hill cu .Ef prs
Ziti~i~;~- ~i- - ir- - -        1 )           1 9 dd       -    - ~ std T ci 
+ * 4.'.-y ;'.1-v s ir.u11 ~  HI   ~i.'.'.mtR    Sl        o.w1lp         W       sw            WI                     s7       /    3 M7/Aw' mAW    fMA      W/Elw
Ytar         In guahli. i    (it," ihavl         (lpign              Iuntninmts             lwmtIm-  S             lntninwnt              (7)    (7)    (1)    (Y)    ('1
l4NzS     Elur4ky)             4nwlmy)                   (1)                    (2)                   (I)
-1 .9 -4q.1           1.49    5Y.9         51.9       1f1.      146.1 ).'                                 -  11.0    IW;   t.I       * 
1971          23l1           11.1     Sl4.1        1.7      54.R        61.4       113.4       S1.S      171.9                  171.0      MA.8    11.>   74.*7    15.1    S.
19?     Z ;    ,.8      I      .S       4V 1.u     2.1      66.4        75.7       142.1       M.5  ?rn.6                       7?.4    11.8   33.8    A.         11.9   15.0
197I)          11-.          ').7     19.9         4.2      R4.1        85.2       169.1       61.9      ?1?.7                  211.'  1?.1       I    ?  4..      n.s   . O
1914          42./          sVS.      97.5    t     .5    InJIX         89.6  19MA6            82.4      271.0                  771.n      Mo.8t     I.   3 n      .1    W.1 I
1975          52.1          f1..J     11#.1        4.t)    122.1       101.7       2t1.n      336.1      146.1                  146.l    10.R   11.1   10.9   13.%   13.5
197h           79.9          74.9     I41.8 -     11.2    366.O         97.9       ?*1.9     131.5      V95.4                  lVSA4    1131    1.1   I0.    V8.*   7F.8
197J /KA                    Itt.I    1'.7         11.8    2(19.5       131.7       121.2      196.5      539.7        I-R       5?1.S     l1.h   11-31    17.5    8.3I    9.2
197A          ll4.8        14S.S.   'le.dlO      15.4    275.7        126.0       401.7      298.1      7MVl.t)      4.8       714.R     11.1   It.R    17.?             Inq .
1979          149.1.h      I'lt.9     3.S         27.1    lhH.6 IWMIA              S49.'      I.1       948.1        2S.4       57;.7      8.7    0.1    M1.R    71.    h4.5
19)           IYV4.7        9h.5    '61.2         1to.2    491.4       263.1       752.7      WA.9    1111.6          $7.3 -1  362.9    30.8   I1.5   17.6    V).?    1.q
3533         281.1#         3L.h    *I'.4        47.8    6S5.2        W57.       3032.2      952.7    1964.9        78.7      ?041.1    10.4   II.?   17.2   11.4    V..A
3q12          'I"1.R       4119.7   'P41.5        3118.   II'3         7817 n     1799.1    J539n       1tlR.1      293.7      1610.0n    I.t) S   0.7   39.1   15.4   V9.S
15ttl        hh7.#          7Zh.S 1Ilo. I         27.1   1429.5       3211.0      2ehR.4    2670.0    51T9.4        591.7       931.3      R.?     R.1   IS.h   11.1    V.t.
IY t4        II3 1    _.6  IIt#.2   2?.".9        14.1   2321.1       W1A8       6m22.0    2670.9    W32.4         I1M4.5    591h.1        7.8    7.9  '3.1    VI.?    1.St
In halanne at tim.                  tl 3,v.   s-, th3 Inutl way omt obmliedUIA with the balaomr nf thp tntal of Its ot"u  s    s a nr.mlt of r'twui.w f10trew.
(I) Wkth watttwity *f ? i2  1' hH*tys
(2) WIt mitwtoity ed XtI .Lw' .*t urn
(1) GThS. 3Wt  muwil, A..".rviaIl ivtp'rn, h.m* awcqt.me,  tiMsetvnnzat1in  tu* 3t.dk & dtdr9trafihic c6llgXttia; In pwpr of wum-3bw&, SPrtnrS._
(p) pret oiznttry I Igt-s
*aw be") de n" isq o -4 
mnrc IYHR    d  ?I
15212 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~*^



FM     SWL MD MMlt*-SwrF. D rT IRnWcr
Tbe 5: B*1qf  Sytm Credit byS ector 9FlRrtRS
(P1111m of t", 1978-100)
sector                                    19)0              1981              1i92                39RW              I R4               3985
IIDIL                                   792,58.8           952.515.3        1,057,075.7         910,243.7          flA,1R.7         I,(MW,77.R
1. kmitzatlam, Ffiterprimtt             705,781.7         78I,582.6          878,077.8          618,274.1       814,418.1           679,114.7
aid Itlivis.ts
a. i%rtvtdt.u-e, Ninl.i,            118,143.8          113,454.2          ^8,fn7.8           77,1R9.3         01,410.8           0M,95R.4
a      .            Hxrestzy ad a titStag
2. Isnwhmtries                      270,122.8          313,993.4          339,072.2         289,781.0         774,99f.4          ?m,nl4.4
2.1 Enewry IliksLtry              65,718.0           83,898.6          11,453.0          114,067.4         104,873.8           97,t11R.7
2.1.a. 1ltnolesm                  19,843.4           31,078.5          58,8%5.R           38,921.0          12,114.5           8IR,894,0
2.1.b. Elwetricity.               48,072.8           52,823.1           90,847.2          74,944.4          72,507.1           fO.'81.'
2.2 ttnfwu twLrItg I.xkvttry     181,859.8          181,249.2          IR8,871.5         15n,234.7         151,501.9           153,538.5
2.2.a. Fttffawturigs             107,312.1          113,130.8          125,418.2         112,04R8.0        1nR,116.9           1M,n.7
2.2.b. PrtkuKiIUn t,o
inunuitnsal irs           5,709.8            8,584.2           7,571.7            8,n48.9           S,897.1             S,?Y,.R
2.2.c. Pnvkrthu"} o1 st(-;-l
f o*tJaler mlsixrnls     37,094.9           48,253.4          27,03t8.I          21,878.1          10, 9.                ,07.Is
F:D;                2.24d  twIhle)sury ;uxi ..tI r
diralsrnk                11,742.9           13,20n.8           9,849.5            8,281.8           9,178.5            8,47'..?
2.3 ChnOtnKwt tt  lowheLry        42,546.8           48,844.7          31,745.8           24,178.0          73,177.0           IR,141.7
3. Snclal 1nterntt Ibmwitis          21,618.8          22,81).5           2n,911.8           71,952.7         77,7RI.1             7,WY.7
4. Services axt totlvr Atfvities   170,751.8          IR4,Q32.8          I S,143.5         154,71R.2         149R,99.1           IR,419.4
5.  lrce                            127,144.9          147,241.7          72,122.8           R1,467.0         8t,,1t9.S           AR,W7.R   i-
11. txervuunt                           88,7MS.1         170,952.8          177,99R.1         3nl,787.4         288,9441.4          1),571.I
fit. FlnrwcLal Survies                   78,2R8.9          79,118.4           42,lnn.3           11,65n.4         33,751.8            73,I1R.%



- 72 -
A.NEX 9
Table 6
MEXICO
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
Table 6: Structure of Interest Rates
(Mid-August 1986)
Inflation
3-month      Real
Nominal   Average    Ex-Post
Deposits
Savings                                    20.00%    81.80%   -33.99%
Time
Less than 30 days                         22.50%              -32.62%
Less than 85 days                         78.35%               -1.90%
Less than 175 days                        87.25%                3.002
Less than 265 days                        88.90%                3.91%
More thin 270 days                        43.25              -21.20%
Commercial Bank Paper
(Pagares)
30 days                                   80.35%               -0.80X
90 days                                   87.50%                3.14%
180 days                                  89.20%                4.07%
12 months                                 50.00%               17.4Q%
Interbank Rate                              92.70%                6.no0%
CETES
1 month                                   91.90%                5.567%
.3 months
6 months
Commercial Paper                            95.50%                7.%4W
Bank Acceptances                            9n.79%
CPP                                         84.40%                1 .3y



- 73 -
ANNEX 9
Table 7
MEXICO
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
Table 7: FOGAIN's Income Statements: 1/1/83 - 6/30/86
(USSOOO Equivalents)
_ _1l98A  ;    1803                              1984        1985         1986 1/
Income
Intereot Income
Loan Portfolio                 97,081    110,366    116,962          63,943
Other Income _I                    9.569      19,699       4,726        3 360
Total Income                     106I 650    130,065    121,68 
-
Expense
Interest Expense                 99,653      96,025      65,826        23,388
'Commitment Fees                     126         222       1,195          420
Admin. Expense                     4,027       5,455       5,556        2,170
Other Expense 3/                   5885        9,956          26            -
Total Expense -                  I10,4       111,658      72,603       25,979
Profit (Loss) for
Year                           (2,991)      18,407     49,085        41,325
1983     1984      1985   1986*
Ratios from Income Statements          X         X         Z      %
Gross Income/Average Total Assets              30.3     30.1      34.1    27.3
Net Income/Average Total Assets                (0.8)     4.3      13.7    16.8
Financing Costs/Average Total Assets           28.3     22.3      18.8      9.7
Administrative Costs/Average Total Assets   1.1           1.2       1.5     n.9
Net Income/Average Net Worth                   (3.3)    13.9      29.6    29.3
Credit Income/Average Loan Portfolio           32.5     31.6      36.8    29.4
Financial Margin/Average Loan Portfolio    (0.8)          -.0     15.7   1.5
Financing Costs/Average Loans Received         38.3     33.5      38.3    25.1
Financial Margin/Average Loans Received    (0.9)         4.9      2P.5    42.1
1/ January 1, 1986 to June 30, 1986 (Unaudited).
2/  Includes subsidy for exchange rate fluctuations.
3/ Includes exchange rate loss.
*   June 30, 1986



- 74 -
A%NEX a
'fEXICO
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDItUM SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
Tablo 8: FOGAIN's Balance Sheotst 12/31/82 - 6/30/Rhf
(U1500O's Equivalents)
I983       1984        1985         19Q 
ASSETS
r%M5ITER!4 ASSETS
Cash                                43,647      49,708      21,02            46
Other S.t. Assets                    6 321       4 437       1 825      43 74A
Total S*t.  Assets                 Wb&,66       5-6,1-4S-    2'Y,-R     43T,744
LOAN PORTFOLIO
Portio Due                           455         476       l,128         443
Current Portfolio                373.312    395 606    397 515       219 227
Total Loan Portfolio               373,767    395WxTh      39i,643     !19,670
Provision for Bad Debts                 23         113          68           37
Hot Loan Portfolio                 373744    39-049    39815-5         T191
Fixed Aa"tg  (et),                     13          124 1!9 1Z :1
Other Assets                        37,343      39 043         153          144
TOTAL ASSETS                       4   1TV     489!3t 1     M7 =T      726T57
LIABILITIES AND NET WORTH
ORT-iTERM JSUSLITtES
intoeot PayabIo            *        46,732    102,664      43,564       15,q14
Various Payables                       221         351       9,361       7,407
Certificates with SAXICO            13 640       7 560          -            -
ToUl S.T.  Liabilities              60 ,S93   fl7IS         52.725      YTT4n
LONG-TERM LiABILITIES
Certificates with SANXICO            9,315          --          --           --
Loans from UMICO                   182,731    104,88s       4,3,942     15,5R8
Loans from PAI, AID a   Nd FINSA  106,164       R6,576    lfll,344      63,718
other Liabilities and Reserves         482         539         460          572
Total L.T. Liabilities             298,tl2    147  M       145786      s"
TOTAL LIABILITTES                  3S9,30S                 19?,l       IM3,299
NET WORTH
Capital Contributions              111,22R    175,828    17r1,359      94,fl9
Retained Earnings                  (12,548)   (12,449)       3,556      27,723
Profit (Loss) for Yesr              (2,792)    18 44n7     4  MR5       41 326
Total Net Worth                    1(11,88      T1h10
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND NET WORTH  461,193    148,361    421,731         244,457
Ratios from Balance Sheets
Debt/Net Worth                  1-34.                          jl.4       mA*4
Domestic Debt/Total Debt                              81.1      71.a     39.1
Foreign Debt/Total Debt                               14.1)    2q.o    O;1.l
Foreign Debt/Total Assets                             I4,n      17.')    25"i
World B nk Loans/Total Debt                           13.2      23.4     57.1



- 75 -
. aon
F0LO3 *?4AL AMV "IED?  SCU LE       P1~RY Lw.Cr
TAb* 9: FMIAI's Wa1aad Amrsp  Om  of RFvs (Svi-of-yqar F*m)
(n tA S  UMUionw)
198 1iilI9R3                    Ifb 19A          95             to*
.4WAPT=   W-mL                                       R41  NEtr-   Wi                     S    7Mr                    RAW.
MTM~         d 0wL~t                       t1300   41.6%   1,30)   5192  13)0  43.02   I,3)0  61.!             -    -
OmdEtcado de PwtActpwAon 6a. adsion   1,00   10.             1,00    1.0          -
Ortf1cads de pwticpclon 7a.  aErin   1,050   12.02   1,050   12.02                
CArticas  de prtlcipwcian 8. Ets*on   1,40    12.02   1,400   12.02   1,400   12.02             -    -           -    -
Cedato S1aPJ* (Pi. d  Apoyo)                5,333   33.02  23,124   37.32  21,345   37.3%  12,450   51.02   A,892   63.5!
ubllaSun   omit                             2,hO0   41*6%   2,600   51.9!  2,601t  43.02   2,61)0  61.2t  4/nm   76.9t
fblatWAnd Cilt -t                                           4,001   51.92   4,O0    43.M    4,#n1   61.2!  4,M    76M.Q
bl raUd crt                                     -   -           -    -          -   -          413  6n.62    413  7s.n5r
Sukotal                               12,683  -29.7- 14,474   38.052 10,645   7.1  20,63   55.07! 15,95   49. 16!
PAX
e      ms kdvad                             4,284   30.0   6,W87   35.02  12,699   35.02  30,990   35.02  36,525   35./7
'W    Cdit                                   1,559   50.62   1,559   60.9      78D   51.2             -          -    -
Slu   a it                                  2,100   50.6%   1,88   M.9M   1,313   5l.0         788   733.?7    3%4   9A.4
bwlvlz    *it                               1,01)  50.6X        -    -          -    -           -    -          -    -
Slqph CSt (31 M dls.)                       2,231   12.5%   4,491   12.02   61,02    3.0    Iim 5   1.5!   t.4 Qn 0    .74
Subcocal                               7,390   39.11Z  7,888   33_052  8,113   MM    MM    32.3rw    ,4Aw
wi 194                                         87    8.252     99    8.252     42    8.25T       -    -          -    -
BMI 242                                       552   8*252    955    8.252  1,^7    8.252        59    8.252     55   A.252
OM 249                                         81    4.25X     98    4.252     43   4.252       -    -           -    -
BID 284                                     1.Of*   8.232 1,714- 8.252  1,775   8.25!    159   8.25X   151   8.250
S=:toCa1                               1,726   8.052  2,866    8.092  2,9n7    8.15    218    A.26%    26    A.M3
TOWl Uabklities                           26,06    31.03  52,1 I15  315.25% A4,364   33.23  54,259   42.96! 54,52f   44C.61
CA?rTALIZE CWflS
SM
8m368                                         764    8.15Z  1,407    8.15%  1,594    A.15!  1.594    8.152  1,594    A.1S
BiD 119                                         -    -          -    -      9,442  In.75t 21,A01   10.757 26,R58   IA.71'
Subcotal                                 764    8.12X  1,407    8.17X 11,036   In0.182 23,395   10.57! 2P,452   In.Nr
Exta    SourS=                             26,847   30.372 53,522   34.53 65.41)  29.36X 77,654   32.R5! 01,972.1
TotaOl C   bOsrce                          10,358  41.62  16,249   51,9!  '4,147   .r3,   45,7mg 60.6!  74,R67  75.M'
.DTAL RE90                                 37,205   33.5- 69,71"   38.62  RQ,547   1.0! 123,162   41.1! 157,RIQ   ;
1/ bnctritutioru of th  Federal GCarint and O   re*aUrces.



RntX1 SWL AND H34 SCAE  n rMm  PjaMT
Table 10: RXAI1R's 1taal O,tbnts by pcram iWe: 19F-1 985
Nuier of (Cnlits                                                           AIft In
YeRr Virdtig  Pl Ixe   J"w*triat  Thtai   Gmth    tiber  Growth    Awunwt in   (xith  1KS MI I if    (rth
Ompital   Assetx  R)rtgWigs   (Creits   in X    of PtFn     in X   WM    tiltlnbm    in%  Fxpdwvalents   tn '
198)   3,163    2,743        20       5,926      0.0    4,316       0.0        8,941       0.0       390         0.0
1981   5,Sh    4.866         27      10,201     72.2     7,366     70.6       19,293   .116.0        7R7        102.n
IH8   6,329    4,971       202      11,412     11.8    8,579      16.5       33,690      75.0       R99       (25.0)
1983   7,815    3,565     1,188      12,568     10.1    10,079     17.5       56,174      67.0       374       (36.0)
1984   6,844   4,(081       444      11,369    (9.3)   8,566    (15.0)        73,365      31.0       396         6.n
1985   7,496    4,7)9       554      12,759     12.2    9,284       8.4      123,691      69.0       399         0.7
*      co drrespntJg iamt.'; in W*X  were converted to tlS$ equivalents at the aver;. excIwle rate for each ywar, sw
jkblishEd in tlew IYYAiR1) MM*XDMO( DEL C f-lWIA1N 1986.  flh conversion rates for tah year are as
f6towl:  1910) WIV($2.95; 1M81 MX$24.51; 1982 M3GX57.17; 1983 MfX$150.29; 1984 MCS185.18; ;wd 1985 MFXSIIO.28.
1.



77  -
AM A
64'                                 1q
IVJW.L                                              599955      11.369       R.06       1140135      12.750          A
ZW?TAL                                              56,6ll      11,119       8,7        116,464      12,420
rNA1rAWL FDWIZLA, s.p&C.                             9,631       1,596        1,136     25,414       2,427        1,77
Nix DfTh254C10SL  S.K.C                              6,86        1,653      1I'm         II,")        1,62        1,3113
aAIMjU, S.E.C.                                       7,636       1,632 11291            13,362       1,01         I,("
bow N      L. i  1         SC.                       SIM5          96          775       7,691         766         FAMs
1.LUTA    cRI      , S.LC.                           3,278         532         1)        7,113          744         A"
WOW, SLC.                                            2,92l 452                 331     l6,597            4         1"A
A SUM, S.sC                                          3,315    l     9          534       6,194          7           520
Wm>   1       1m V  C S..C.                          2,610         528         375       4,93           309         VA4
WMW      S.X      .C.                                3,036       l,635       l,29l 33 u  431  464      5           437
!WM  M  AnAJ      , S.EC.                            2,007                     293       4,279         AV           319
MOLC.L, S.LC.                                        2,192         244         318       4,176         336          226
WlthMIW Si    to=   S.ENCO                           3,03l         428         281       405           29           223
WMD M CM        QD Y  SO C1, S.C                     1,666         297         235       2,9%          35R          279
RIAA 11080 , S.EC.                                   1,63          361         278       2,6%          249         2329
WrA   I1A, SLC.                                        750         150         115       2,113         224          172
MQA Meg, S..C.                                         590 o10                  78      189"          323         165
am cIA   mn.DIfM, SACO                                 478          84          62    1,224            123          91
-380~CM       G, S.LC.                                 637         143         103         824         124         1N4
NAIo    RmE, S.E.C.                                    282          43          33         729          4A          16
Im     ML MM.   , S.L.C.                               297         142         123         61           A           54
WmC^         S.N.C.                                    313          45          15         443          71          41
WoN 1&k-LE  0341 '1 SY  Dl                             109          45          35         VA           Ss          44
Ft'LNJ0, SO&CO
saw V        L             Y   UO , S.N.         *       4           2           2         213          17          14
M    NMA             D      uap ,                       57           2           2          75           I           I
* OM  PB=   MO, S.&C.                                  2.,          19          1.          in
FIM WO    WICM  AZUCA, S'.*C.                          190           -           -           -
-bES , aCB     DJWRA                                1,147         231    11     9       1,34t t3                  29*
sXk: k%A; s Drcitlon ot Omt



- 78 -
AN'NEX 9
Table 12
MEXICO
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
Table 12: FOGAIN's Portfolio By Firm Size: 1954-1985
NL%ber of                      Credit Transacted
Firm Size         Firms Assisted         X           (MEXS Millions)          2
1954-1985
Small-scale          53,445            80                  167,089          56
Medium-scale         13,480            20                  131,612          44
Total                66,925           100                  298,701          1o0
1954- 1978
Small-scale          12,043            82                    4,Q61          41
Medium-scale          2,650             18                   7 203          59
Subtotal             14,693           100                   12 T164 T
1979
Small-scale           3,921            97                    3,793          R1
Medium-scale            121             3                      873          !Q
Subtotal              4,042           100                    4,666         100
1980
Small-scale           3,539            82                    3,719          53
Medium-scale            777             18                   3,292          47
Subtotal              4,316           100                    7,011         In0
1981
Small-scale           5,745            78                    7,828          45
Medium-scale          1,621            22                    9,666          55
Subtotal              7,366           100                   17,4Q4         Ino
1982
Small-scale           6,863            80                   12,989          48
Medium-scale          1,716            20                   14,071          52
Subtotal              8,57            170                   27,060        tn
1983
Small-scale           7,962            79                   25,984          50
Medium-scale          2,117            21                   25,984          50
Subtotal             10,079           100                   51,968         10n
1984
Small-scale           4,968            58                   18.,586         1
Medium-scale          3,598            42                   41,369          6
Subtotal              8,566           100                   59,955         If"
1985
Small-scale           8,404            91                   89,229          75
Medium-scale            880             9                   29,154          25
Subtotal              9,284                                118 llA,383     Inn
SOURCE: FOGAIN, 30-Anos en Cifras.  Updated by the Pre-appraisal Mission.



mIm  9PL tA)MI             RiMW     ian'm
T;le I1: RNADs Utftort1o tt ty   at of     t citt Iat'wity 4tiw'bleR: 149%-l'Vf
~~~~~~~~0X l W'sn})
_____~uIIs~ (..a-------nmd Amets rora                                                        ~~TIi
(_4_Il  ti.*! t--    b  t; _ ciOit                     1tgdufr at(Yct                 -                      tsir nI  (Yr1  N      o if "
Ip-~ _____    4Zt,,4aI      _7      Erelt,s  _t    tattti    Z                                     2  alts 2  C_dtts  7     .      _ed   2    CYadltsi  7    llrv*  7    (Yaits    7,
poial           1fd1,f13,)1I   1411.11  `0,1ll  IfIll.6  113,92,71R  1(nJ4   3,762  II 3n)    22912R,n11 . lfm1.f , e1.n  ?'M),7fl4.4Q  uFiF.n  St%Q?7  Ifwn.I
I4 ti *4 A11,2ht,hJ    "I.x  4.7P4'n   H2.S   7,07.371l   6.7    4,1M   Io.6    2.t%.45   9.4                  77   t.  14i,fk7,W*   44.0  %1.S4    S.1
. 2'1 t  IR ' .     lr 6, P7.hs7    lt-I"  01i11   IJ.5   13.4,901.9U    12.2  In,zM    27.1    ,4 l.'149  InA.9    "9I  Ih.R  4'.h78.I%4  14.1 -7n.* A    71.1
Phi IJ to fIl        47',Vu7    Il.      f 72    -   W3,fj7,171  72.9  22,17t   98.7 Ih.f h4,JWP)  72.fi  ?7,4R 7 11.I  9.174,1417   11.7 ?4.,676   -%.A
F" ht  tit Wl                    -         I    -    2,173,121    1.9    7tS       2.n  l,4V.)fi      6.5    170   4.PI   llI,.f,       1.7    `1?77    n.f
Itin. tu, We                                    -      71,41,11    6.3  SK ,   1.4  I 29.3)              Il  h1    O."   7.271.M4    "."           4    0.0i
411U1Y.: HIAIN.  I-tsM.u. .s. Cif ems., mig4lvol hy tIlr I-Agwa.lnal Ht41m,u.
BEST. C0PY! AVWiIABAE



-80-
ANNEX 9
Trable 14
MEXICO
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
Table 14: FOGAIN's Personnel By Functional AsAignment and Location
(As of 7/15/86)
Mexico       Regional
Department                   City, D.F.   Offices   Subtotal  Vacancies   Total
General Administration             8            0           8          n          R
Internal Accounting              22             0          22          0         22
Legal Affairs                     14            0          14          0         14
Credit                           76            26         101         11        113
Credit Supervision               25             0          25          0         25
Finance                         127             0         127          2        129
Administration and Systems    138               0         138          0        138
Twi-          YK         -436        13        44Q
FOGAIN's Personnel By Area of Specialization: 108-86
1980   1981   1982   19A3   1984   1Q85   196
Economists                          7     10      10      45     41      36      39
Attorneys                           1       1            12      11     t0      in
Public Accountants                 15     19      20    '58      53      50      5n
Administrators                      5      8       8      23     22      20      20
Engineers                          10     12      12      23     21      20      20
Other Specialties                  37     68      h9    202    185    198    1Q5
Services and Administration    129    143    143    133    121    115    11I
Basic Studies                     72    258    254
Total                             276     19    516    49I    454    449    44Q
SOURCE: FOGAIN, Direction of General Administration



- 81 -
ANNEX Q
Table IS
HEXICO
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
Table 15: FOGAIN's Projected Income Statements (Excluding PAI IV Resources):
1986-1990*
(USS Millions Equivalent)
1987      1988       1989   -199
Income
Interest Income                        171.2      166.5      15R.5     170.2
Actual Portfolio                     119.5       61.5       26.9       9.1
Future Portfolio                      51.6      104.8      131.6     161.1
Other Income                             4.1        3.9        3.1        2.5
Total Income                           175.2      170.2      161.6      172.7
Costs
interest Payment (PAI)                57.1       51.8      46.2       44.8
Interest Payment (Others)             30.3       30.8      29.1       2191
Commissions                            2.4        1.2       0.4        6.2
Administrative Costs                   6.6        6.8.       6.6       6.2
Total Costs                             96.4       90.6       82.3      72.3
Balance                                 78.8       79.6       79.3     Inn.4
Ratios
Average Financial Margin                81.4       82.7       82.8     10r4.1
Incerest on Portfolio as Z
of Income                           99.72      97.8%     q8.1%      98.5%
Financial Cost of Loans as %
of Income                           51.2%      49.22     46.8%      38.2%
Fitancial Cost as %
of Total Cost                       93.1%      92.5%     91.9%      91.4%
* Mid-year projections.



-82-
ANNEX 4
rable 16
MEXICO
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
Table 16: FOGAIN's Balance Sheet Projections: 1987-1990*
(USS Millions Equivalents)
proposal of FOGAIN
1987      1988       1q89       1990
ASSETS
CURRENT ASSETS                           8.9        R.6        7.8        7.3
Long-Term Assets                       409.6      432.0      436.4      473.1
Total Portfolio                      409.5      431.2      435.9     472.7
Fixed Assets                           0.1        0.8        0.5       0.4
Other Assets                           -          -          -
Total Assets                           418.6      440.6      444.2     480.4
LIABILITIES AND NET
WORTH
Short-Term Liabilities                  19.6       12.0        7.6        5.2
Long-Term Liabilities                  IXU7        179       1437[      1335
PAI                                   92.1       90.7      87.7       92.5
NAFIN
BANXICO                                6.1        0.3        0.2       -
IDB                                    _          _         _          _
Other Liabilities                     42.0       50.8       55.5      43.4
Total Liabilit'es                      159.3      153.8      151.n     141.1
INET WORTH                             259.3      28-6.R    '23.1      33Q.3
Existing Net Worth                      76.2       78.0       78.3      73.7
Governmeat Capital Contributions         -          -          -
Capitalized Loans                       48.q       44.1       30.5      34.8
Retained Earnings                       55.4       A4.4      105.1     125.6
Profit (Loss) for Year                  78.8       79.6       79.3     100.4
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND. NET WORTH       418.6      440.6     444.2      480.4
*Mid-year projections.



RIMIH SWL AN) tfDItUM SCAIE IMU?flM  Plflllr
Thhle 17: RI4IN: Historical ad Projected Incoe Statement, 1979-Y6
(1tVx$ million)
-  hdlited   -                Project.ld
Year                                 1983       1984      1985      1986      19R7      1988       1989      1990)
Inemvw                            296.7    1 459.6   1,307.6   3,016.0   4,194.6   6,520.4  10,631.4  17,997.6
Interest                             1.3       66.3      37.2
lciomn on *tdlity Participatiol     38.6       48.0      87.3     469.0      656.6   1,047.2   2,076.2   3,395.0
Net Incuw   in Portfoltin Sales     14.1        15.9      33.8      15.6      20.3      32.9      43.q      55.7
1btal Tneam                         350.7      589.8   1,465.9   3,500.5   4,871.5   7,6(K).5  12,751.5  21,448.2
04x"ies                                                                                                                                  co
Interest to) 'Al (lopas)                                         1,288.1   2,021.4   3,198.5   5,334.9   9,744.4
Intcrest to PAt (h'piitty)                                         234.5     328.3    523.6   1,03R.    1,697.5
Administrative, (Qvratli4g          99.4       167.7     316.9     597.4     997.0   1,640.0   2,691.0   4,431.0
Oxisit.ant Rvqs                     15.1       23.9       11.8      18.0      28.0      37.0      47.0      96.0
0xmnissions to NAFlN;A               1.4         1.4     60.6       30.6      48.0      79.0     130.0     214.0
DepreciatiXIi                         0.6       4.3        1.1       3.2       5.0      35.0      25.0      35.0
had Debts                           25.6       33.0        1.1     157.3    265.0    496.7    885.2   1,98S.7
bxes, otlher                                                      45        45         45        45        45
lht.31 ()per;atliq Exix-wses       142.1      230.3    391.5   2,374.1   3,737.7   6,034.7  10,198.2  18,208.6
Otler Tlrrinu  (1;xptsc::)          (1.3)        1.1      34.6
Net Incenme                        207.3      360.6   1,109.0   1,126.4   1,133.9   1,565.7   2,553.3   3,239.6
LtPt2                                                                                          .r
(kLtoth-r 198.
-4K



- 84 -
A..0
ale to18
e I of 2
RXR 9ML AM =DM  S DUSLf PKW
Table 18: FD  Historil aid Projected B1las   huet, 1979-6
''                   ~~~(~ adlion)
Yaw                                1963      1984      1965     i966      lY8t987   1968      IQ "n
Asts:
Cah and Mu 1etabl. Scurities     330.5      433.2  1,467.9  1,234.4  15,11.6  1,907.8  1,821.0  1,'32.7
klcs Csh                                                      1,000.0  2,500.n  4,7.no.  8,250.0  13,50n.n
Acouats hocivabe
nterest SAcivable                                   431.7    431.7    431.7    431.7    431.7    431.7
mloyr Ios                        13.0      15.9      12.4      56.4     64.8      98.6    136.5      t7.t
Other Recuivabls                64*8      143.9  2,622.4  2,764.8   2,764.8  2,764.8  2,7f6.8  2,764.A
Provisid fotr B  Dbts           (36.7)    (36.7)   (36.6)  (193.9)  (458.9) ((955.6) (1,84.8) (3,P26.5)
Total                           41.1      123.1  3,029.9  5,293.4  6,814.0  8,"97.3  11,563.2  14,118.1
Portfolio IIN_.snts (Shwt Tem)
Lm  n PortfoUo Sals             154.1     115.0    125.4    218.7    452.4    880.7  1,631.0  2,142.7
o        e  Omwrtible           239.2     339*5    748.9    418.4    696.4  1,192*4  2,075.4  3,9qA.0
Sutotal                       393.3     454.5    874.3    637.1  1,150.7  2,073.1  3,7?M.4  6,14n.7
Portfolio Inmtumt
Tiwestemits at Ouet
0n  Stock                     1,292.0   1,682.0  1,911.6  6,667.n  11,296.0 20,270.n  35,987.0  70,612.0
Peferd  Stock                 1,012.8   1,631.9  2,190.4
MAiumt for  1valution           852.4   1,993.2  1,410.6  1,410.6  1,410.6  1,410.6  1,410.6  1,410.6
Effect of Bidty Vauntlon      (223.5)   (264.6)             (249.8)  (249.8)  (249.8)  (249.8)  (249.8)
t onpo   i SRl"                 68.3                        373.0      821.1   1,376.6  .2,592.9  5,1(K .3
1brinated Onvertibla           6b2.8      564.8    793.0  1,915.1  2,916.7  4,964.4  4,475n.  22,681.0
-&abcotal                   3,664.8   5,607.5  6,305.6  10,115.9  16,196.7 27,771.8 48,219.7  99,560.0
Other Asts
ileyer's Loe                    28.7       89.9      64.5    202.8    329.6    447.2   52.Q    704.7
Not Fixed Amets                   1.9       8.4      12.3     59.1    104.1    139.1    164.1    179.1
Deferred MAJts                              1.8       1.3     18.9      27.0      38.0      53.0     66.n
Subtoual                      30.6      1On.1      78.1    280.8    460.7    624.3    790.0    9A49.
Total AeUts                    4,460.3   6,718.4  11,755.8  16,327.2  24,622.1  39,466.4 64,279.3 12%,76A.6
LCPI2
October 1986



.ibie 18
85 ~     ~         ~ ~                0 
8fte. 2 of 2
Tb1* 18: R9     1Uatdal ad pijcetd hlce  ftM, 1979-8
Y4ulr                                 1963       1964       1985       1906      19R7       Iw        IqA9       l94n
Lllllla." ad Sqatty
Ozwmt tLdiblUttes
Sutbcr1pVUM    PFAYaLe             40.3        56.2   2,223.2   2,223.2   2,207.n   2,205.0   2,385.0   2,565.0
Ibu o       .e                       3.1        8.3        6.3
/CXXsJt P?swiL.                     16.1       70.8      365.3     178.4      230.0     24.0.n     260.0     29n.0
59.5      137.3   2,594.0   2,401.6   2,300.0   2,415.n   2,645.n f     ,RA5.n
L*WT&m Ubiltles
FuIn      raEuvm                    10.3        8.2       17.3      24.9       24.9       24.9      24.9       24.9
Pexpi "  da i4"* iutrpal        1,04,4.9    1,376.9   2,731.8   6,OA.4  12,001.0  23,514.6  43,629.3  94,378.9
a*totinll                     1,055.2    1,385.1   2,749.1   6,113.3  12,025.9  23,539.5  43,654.2  94,403.8
Equity.,
(imnt    ptal oxualbut.    2,076.0    2,630.5   2,673.1   3,796.4   5,148.4   6,768.4   8,713.4  11,013.4
AjiuMint for E1i  Mast             1,104.8    2,065.7   2,130.0   1,278.7   1,278.7   1,278.7   1,278.7   1,278.7
rAC-udatd EuosMC                   (644S)     139.2      499.8   1,608.8   2,735.2   3,869.1   5,434.8   7,9R8.1
C9eIAtl  ba"sIc                   207.3       360.6   1,109.0   1,126.4   1,133.9   1,565.7   2,553.3   3,239.6
Sutcsucal                     3,345.6    5,196.0   6,411.9   7,812.3  10,296.2  13,481.9  17,9N).0  23,51Q.8
Ulldrtlin and Iqatty              4,460.3    6,718.4  11,755.8  16,327.2  24,622.1  39,466.4  64,?79.3 12n,768.6
irtobs? 1996



-86 -                                   9
Table 19
~aox
FaMH S4AlL AND !1fM SCALE L\1JS  PM13ECr
Table 19: Acro-enterprises - Use of State Owsrantee FWs
State Fund        Oarntees Paid    Total    Total                wrantees      QtKantees   AvailAble
No*     AvPt   BC jty  Cowrae           No.  Granted    No.  Rleased    Coverage
A    ces            2        882    50,989      509,890   117   174,543    35   22,494         357,841
*tja CafonIa                        50,000      500,000    26    80,152                       419,84R
B. Califomia Sur                     50,210     502,100                                        502,1Inn
Ca(*ctw                              31,041     310,410     5      2,484                       107,926
aiiaps                               44,231     442,310                                        442,310
aihushua                            258,793   2,587,930    61   448,Ono                      2,13Q,930
Durarwo                              14,002     140,020    17    26,709                        113,311
GWAnjuato                            42,349     423,490    88   158,347                        265,143
Guarrro                              34,711     347,110    52   113,733                        233,377
Hidulgo                              54,016     540,160     4    18,OOO                        522,16n
Jalisa,                             140,856   1,408,560    42    69,209                      1,339,351
Mbrelos                              55j737     557,370                                        557,37n
1&mvo Leon                          230,000   2,300,000   156   180,815                      2,119,185
amaca                                56,300     565,000    58    47,643                        517,357
PueabLa                             108,418   1,084,180    53    88,133                        996,n47
QCeretaro                            71,627     716,270    11    11,517                        704,753
qiintwAa lo         3     10,400    57,398      573,980    59   105,314       16  24,692       46R,666
Son luis Potosi                      77,635     776,350      3    13,000                       763,?5n
sra                                  28,419     284,190     2    14,791                        269,399
Tabusc                              219,471   2,194,710    11    15,179                      2,179,531
lsUmccala              .             22,846     228,460    21    11,744                        216,716
mtai;ros, Twps                       11,466     114,660    21    18,244                         96,416
Yucatan                              58,676     586,760     2      5,000                       581,76n
Zacatecas                           111,604   1,116, W0    62   125,251        1   3,750      994,53Q
(bliau                               25,000     250,000                                        250, om
Total                     11,282  1,905,995  19,059,950-       l,727,"      52  50,936   17,83,M78
Sow:ce: NAFINSA



- 87 -
ANNEX 9
Table 20
MEXICO
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
Table 20: Financial Analysis of Sample Subprojects
FOGAIN SAMPLE:                    PAI SAMPLE:
1982    1983    1984    1985    1983    1984    1985
Debts/Assets            48%      43%     48%      45%      50%     62%      50%
Current Assets/
Current Liabilites       2.5      4.2     6.2      2.7      1.6     1.4      1.5
Short-term/Total
*Debt                     0.8     0.79    0.58    0.84    0.84    0.78    0.73
Fixed/Total Assets      36%      39%     38%      34%     34%      31%      35X
Financ-.al Costs/
Average Debt           19%      23%     26%      32%      11%     12%      11%
Operating Profit/
Financial Costs          5.5      5.5     4.8      3.2      5.1     4.9     4.8
Sales/Assets              1.7      2.40    2.1      2.3      1.6     2.0      1.4
Gross Sales Margin      53%      31%     32%      28%     30%      29Z      28%
Operating Margin/
Sales                  24%      14%     16%      13%     10%      11%     10%
Net Profit/Net
Worth                  22%      29%     26%      16%      16%     40%      16%
Number of Firms          13       31      26       10      14       14        9



Annex 9
- 88 -                                  Table 21
MEXICO
FOURTH SMLL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
Table 21: Structure of Interest Rates
Mid-August 1986
Real
Nominal        =-post
Deposits
Savings                           20.00X        -33.99%
Time
30+ Days                        22.50%        -32.622
85+ Days                        78.35%         -1.90%
175+ Days                        87.25%          3.00%
265+ Days                        88.901          3.912
270+ Days                        43.25X        -21.202
Commercial Bank Paper
(Pagares)
30 Days                         80.35%         -0.802
90 Days                         87.50%          3.14%
180 Days                         89.20%          4.07%
12 Months                       50.00%       -17.49X
Interbank rate                      92.701          6.00%
CITES
1 Month                           91.902          5.56%
Commercial Paper                    95.50          7.54%
Bank Acceptances                    90.791          4.94%
CPP                                 84.401          1.432
Inflation                           81.81



Annex 10
- 89 --
MEXICO
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
Selected Data and Documents Available in the Project.File
On the Industrial and Financial Sectors
Estructura de la Industria Mediana y Pequena por Sectores y Entidades (SECOFI) -
May 1981
Informacion Financiera de Empresas Mexicanos 1980-85
Indicadores del Sector Financiero - Banco de Mexico
Boletin Estadistico-Comision Nacional Bancaria y de Seguros - June 1986
Comentarlos al Programs Integral de Apoyo a la Pequena Y Mediana Industria
- sArch 1985
Others
rOGAIN - 30 Years in ?igures - 1954-84
FOGAIN Basic Data for Preparation Report - July 1986
Manual Operativo Pars La Capitalizacion de Pasivos y Sustitucion de Deuda
Publica por Inversion - August 1985
Programs de Apoyo SMI
Detailed Implementation Program for proposed Technical Assistance Activities
Justification para Etapa IV
Evaluacion Socioeconomico de Programs para prestamo 1552-ME BIRD-PAI-FOGAIN
December 1980
Draft Project Completion Report (Loans 1552-ME and 1h81-ME)



- 90 -                           ANNEX 11
MEXICO
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
Status Summary on Current Industrial Loans to Mexico
LOAN NO.       PROJECT NAME         CURRENT STATUS
(Loan Date)   (Loan Amount)
1820          Small Mining          The loan has been fully committed and to about
(8/18/82)      ($40 million)        80% disbursed.
2142           Capital Goods        Because of depressed investment levels in
(9/05/62)      ($152.3 million)    capital goods industries, commitments and
disbursements lagged far behind original
projections. In response to a Government
request, the loan has now been opened up to
non-capital goods producers.
2154           Pollution            The project is unlikely to achieve its original
(7/16/82)     Control               original objectives because of the reluctance of
($60 million)        the Government to enforce existing pollution
control legislation following the economic
crisis. Because of inadequate demand US$35.0
million was cancelled. However, following the
Government's anti-pollution program the demand
for investment funds and technical assistance
activities has shown improvement. It is
expected that the remaining loan funds will be
fully utilized and to enable the loan closing
date was extended by a year to December 31,
1987.
2325          Third Small           The loan is now about 90% committed, and a
(8/15/83)     Industry              follow-up project will be negotiated in March
(8/15/83)      ($175 million)       1987.
2331          Export                Initial disbursements and commitments were slow
(9/25/83)     Development           because of the reluctance of exporters to borrow
($350 million)       in dollars.  The loan is now almost fully
committed however, and it has achieved most of
its policy objectives.
2546           Small Mining II      The loan has now become effective.  About $0.5
(10/5/85)     ($105 million)        million has been committed; the current pipeline
of approved subprojects comprises about $2.5
million.
2746           Industrial           Loan was declared effective on October 29, 1986.
(7/29/86)     Recovery
(US$150 million)
2747          Technology            Loan was declared effective on October 2, 1986
(7/29/86)     Development           and several subprojects have already been
(US$48 million)      approved.



MEXICO
FOURTH SMAI.L AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
Organization Chart
Fund for Industrial Development for Guarantee (FOGAIN)
National
Technical
Cornmiftee
Ilntenal
Director                                      Control
General
Legal                                                                                     ^/lMnager
ODfficer                      Internal                                                     Internal
Credit    ______            C I D A P                       Contro
Committee
|Manager          Maria                  Leal                          Internol               Audit
Consuttants         Legal                                               Control              Manog .           Evaluation
Credtt                                Credit71i Finance  A|dr|indstrative
Depo nnment                                                      Department
Ma te          Manoger           Manoger                                                     ag .aoe                         Acmns.tv
Crednit          Regional         Stotistics andc                         Manager           Manager             Manager       |Aministratve|
Analysis        Operations       Speciol Studies                          Operations         rinonce             Systems          Manoger
World Bank-30847



i   ~~~~~x
"va M.xicoljjJ'
UNITED   STATES   OF   AMERICA
kEnswamdo      .,,             .>
B /RA JA             t                    > . Nogales                                 Jua, z
~CAllfORN/A                                     4'               Au ,4t       T       \,
,.CAI IFOt /1ONIA
t   <       j . R    z   ,  1, M   ,.~~~~~~ (I A   i
;UN                                                                 Porls  N   0      A
fH rmosillo            ,                                                                     Cd Ac  id
,           ~~Guoyrra5                     \              )X    
BAJA             pSwoniostio                wdad Ob-ego .Aga                                                      a4  il           A
CAI IF'OkN/A   N.00 1,svoo                                                                 ' 
s uR                                                                Parral                                           ,
XMochij                f                    
.OiO~O t   J   so   '                - Torre6n   ;        
Soti
.-~ - C a   0  u  RAN A      .                    A 
+4L*Paz                                        \    Durango             /  I-
+                             MazG kidn    *
CCobo Son Lucas                                                                    SAN  L t
)   -               Zo~~~~catecos
IV~  AR/I                                 ti
Aguoqscolientes
0Tepic  I                tf'          Y
Puerovvloro56 Gudaloia                   ,
(    -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
CO//MT    :0     po~z'Qw~ T' feO
ItLOMETtRS 0          100       200        300       400        500
MILE'                  100              200              300
Ts ,wr ho tw _ of byd bv eh W*W Be.'* steff .,knir fhr the c&ww_
of t1 ,ws ofthf dot to vl*t  eo rtned. The d_ nootar.o*the  sad Ibhe
bh i shoon O th7e mw do rot Noly, to the pt Of the W4  .'o*tVW its
oft/hot. a.t/rA j_ .t oo1W stta oo ow tfrtwordyy oWo,tooo_ t or
.eo~ttoc. df 7rJI hoondo,,..
110-



IBRD MSS
la0.                                                                                  90.                                JANUARY 19.
3a
NW                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~M E X IC O
)  k  8  National copital
     State capitols
Nve,a    R vs o                                                                     o     Principal   c itis     or     tow ns
{  NuevoLar&                                                                     -        Divided highways
Selected main roads
loatero                                                                          -. \-----iRailroads
~~~~~~~~nclo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~Rivers
9 N                    .                                                         4. O  ,.aA,_  + Principal airports
IJOtX1 N/r ,tRe-ynos_                                                      _       State boundaries
onterre      ~4.Ma}at m                                             .            -   International boundaries
00  '                         I ,,,. 
tA MA Vl I A5
I)G                                                                                                           ru~~~
's  Vi,ctRriai'
t 4.a t 1 t -  X  sCd. Modero
S.0anLussoto                   fTampicop                                                                                          oJuie
j4ANA) TO   <<J?X1 RA\UZ                                                                                Mer          idda  
>Gua I Xtol g3V/f           )          .Tpron                                                                      YUCGJ A TAN  doRd    4
Que4       aO       <> /'1.. zPo  R,o                                                                             Pe        6ZIMSLI.20
-AA accE OtCan C_mpeche 
\  rhxcoq%/ .................. A    )   t   - 'i.   \SonAndrbsTuxtlo   Jf    
s ,A '-N,,Ag > ' >, f t'~~~~~~~ <ilahra/_  _1
GUFRRFRO      Qz                 s                                                  - 
N ,             Ochtilpncinggaxc  \   BELIZE
* PUiBIA                                                   4.~~~~~~HIPA
Acap  MI.                Tt  OAXACA 7
,, Pino         \      Te w          n4                     >     ..i|
Puerf\                          Saon Anddid  TanI                         C GUATEMALAP
. ~   ~     f _                                                        ,,                                 I       I
~~Chilpancingo     \.1-k                 \                   L.c                          HO DURA
100, ~   ~       ~       Oaaa.BLZ



