Page  1
                                                      September 26, 1989
Mr. Enrique  Vilatela
Director General de Captacion
de Credito  Externo
Direccion General de Captacion
de Credito  Externo
Subsecretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico
Palacio Nacional
Primer Patio Mariano, 4o. piso - oficina 4037
06066 Mexico, D.F., Mexico
Mr. Arturo Ortiz Hidalgo
Director Internacional
Direccion Internacional y de Tesoreria
Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.
Plaza NAFINSA
Insurgentes Sur 1971
Torre Sur 9o.  Piso
012020 Mexico, D.F., Mexico
            Re:   Loan No. 2858-ME
                  (Fourth Small-and Medium-Scale Industry Project)
Dear Sir:
      Please refer to the Loan Agreement dated September 30, 1987 for the
above-referenced Project (the Loan Agreement) between the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and Nacional Financiera,
S.N.C. (the Borrower), and to the Guarantee Agreement of even date-herewith
between the United Mexican States (the Guarantor) and the Bank (the
Guarantee Agreement).
      In response to your request and the discussions between our respective
representatives, we are pleased to inform you that the Bank agrees to amend
the Loan Agreement and the Guarantee Agreement for purposes of: 1) modifying
the institutional arrangements for the Project to reflect that FIDEIN has
been dissolved; and 2) allocating the Loan proceeds among participating
institutions.  Therefore, the following amendments to the Loan and Guarantee
Agreements are proposed:
      I.   Loan Agreement
            A.    Section 1.02
                  1.    Paragraph (b) is amended to read in its entirety as
                        follows:
                        "(b)  "Fideicomisos" means collectively FOGAIN and
                        FOMIN;"
                  2.    Paragraphs (c) through (f) are deleted.
                  3.    The following new paragraphs (c) and (d) are added:
                        "(c) "PARK Project" means a specific development
                        project to be carried out by an Investment
                        Enterprise under Part B of the Project, utilizing
                        the proceeds of the Loan;"
                        "(d) "PARK Loan" means a loan made by the Borrower
                        to an Investment Enterprise to assist in financing
                        a PARK Project and to be partially financed out of
                        the proceeds of the Loan, all in accordance with
Page  2
                        the provisions of this Agreement;"
                  4.    Paragraph (v) is amended by deleting the words
                        "FIDEIN Loan" and substituting the words "PARK
                        Loan" therefor.
                  5.     Paragraph (z) is amended by deleting the  words
                        "FIDEIN Operating Regulations" therefrom.
                  6.    Paragraphs (g) through (ii) are relettered (e)
                        through (gg).
                  7.    The "and" at the end of relettered paragraph. (ff)
                        is deleted; the period at the end of relettered
                        paragraph (gg) is deleted and "; and" substituted
                        therefor.
                  8.    The following new paragraphs are added after
                        relettered paragraph (gg):
                        "(hh)"CETES" means Certificados de la Tesoreria de
                        la Federacion (Federal Treasury Certificates), as
                        defined in the Diario Oficial de la Federacion,
                        dated November 28, 1977, published by the
                        Guarantor;
                        (ii)  "CETES Rate" means the average annual yield,
                        calculated monthly, on CETES with maturities of up
                        to one month, issued during the month in which a
                        CETES Rate is calculated, or such other index
                        reflecting the cost of funds to the Guarantor as
                        shall be acceptable to the Guarantor and the Bank;
                        and
                        (jj)  "LIBOR Rate" means the average rate per annum
                        at which term deposits in dollars maturing in 3
                        months are offered in the London interbank market
                        at 11:00 a.m. (London time) two business days
                        before the date the rate of interest on the onlent
                        funds denominated in dollars is calculated.  For
                        this purpose, "business day", means a day on which
                        dealings in dollar deposits between banks may be
                        carried on in London, England, and on which banks
                        are open in Mexico City, Mexico.
                        (kk)  "Normatividad" means the Normatividad para el
                        Ejercicio de Creditos Provenientes de Organismos
                        Financieros Internacionales Destinados a la Banca
                        de Desarrollo y Fondos de Fomento con Apoyos del
                        Gobierno Federal por Diferenciales Negativos en
                        Tasas de Interes, (Regulations Governing the Use of
                        Loans from International Finance Institutions to
                        Development Banks and Funds with Assistance from
                        the Federal Government for Negative Differentials
                        in Interest Rates), issued by the Secretaria de
                        Hacienda y Credito Publico and the Secretaria de
                        Programacion y Presupuesto, by means of Oficio No.
                        102-B-049, dated November 18, 1988."
      B.    Article III of the Loan Agreement
            1.    Section 3.01 (b) is deleted and the following substituted
therefor:
                  "(b) The Borrower shall enter into contractual
                  arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, with the
                  Guarantor and each Fideicomiso, providing, inter alia,
                  for:
               (i)      onlending the proceeds of the Loan to: (A) FOGAIN
                        for purposes of carrying out Parts A and E of the
                        Project; and (B) to FOMIN for purposes of carrying
Page  3
                        out Parts C and E of the Project, under terms and
                        conditions which shall include: (1) funds onlent
                        shall be denominated and repayable either in pesos
                        or dollars; (2) the interest rate charged on funds
                        denominated in pesos shall be equal to the CETES
                        Rate and shall be paid on amounts withdrawn and
                        outstanding on a monthly basis; (3) the interest
                        rate charged on funds denominated in dollars shall
                        be equal to the LIBOR Rate plus one-half (0.5)
                        percentage point and shall be paid on amounts
                        withdrawn and outstanding on a quarterly basis; and
                        (4) principal amounts withdrawn and outstanding
                        shall be repaid semi-annually in accordance with
                        the timetable set forth in the Amortization
                        Schedule in Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and
              (ii)      provision by the Guarantor to the Fideicomisos, in
                        accordance with the Normatividad and by means of
                        specific annual budgetary allocations, of all
                        amounts required to cover: (A) the difference, if
                        any, between the applicable CETES Rate or LIBOR
                        Rate and the interest rate charged on the proceeds
                        of the Loan onlent by the Fideicomisos; and
                        (B) financial intermediation and operating costs of
                        the Fideicomisos; and
             (iii)      payment by the Guarantor to the Borrower of all
                        amounts required by the Borrower to pay the Bank on
                        account of principal, interest and other charges on
                        the proceeds of the Loan.
      (c)   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not
change or fail to enforce the contractual arrangements referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section."
            2.    Section 3.02 is amended by: (1) deleting the words "FIDEIN
Loans" from paragraph (a) thereof and substituting the words "PARK Loans"
therefor; and (2) deleting the words "FIDEIN Loan" from paragraph (b) and
substituting the words "PARK Loan" therefor.
            3.    Section 3.04 is amended to read in its entirety as
follows:
                  "Section 3.04. The Borrower, in its own capacity, in
                  respect of Parts B and D of the Project, and as trustee
                  of the Fideicomisos in respect of Parts A (1), A (2) and
                  C (1) of the Project, shall use the amounts resulting
                  from repayments of principal, and payment of interest or
                  dividends, as the case may be, on FOGAIN Loans, PARK
                  Loans, FOMIN Investments, FOMIN Restructuring Investments
                  and Micro-Enterprise Loans for purposes consistent with
                  the objectives of the Project as described in Schedule 2
                  to this Agreement."
            4.    Section 3.06 is deleted.
      C.    Article IV of the Loan Agreement
            1.    Section 4.01 is amended: (1) by deleting ", B" from the
second line thereof; and (2) by deleting the words "FIDEIN Project" and
substituting the words "PARK Project" therefor.
      D.    Article V of the Loan Agreement
            1.    Paragraphs (a) and (d) of Section 5.01 are amended
respectively by deleting the words "FIDEIN" and "FIDEIN or" from said
paragraphs.
      E.    Schedule I to the Loan Agreement
            1.    The table set forth in paragraph (1) of Schedule 1 to the
Loan Agreement is amended to read as per the attachment hereto.
Page  4
            2.    Paragraph 2 (a) is amended by deleting the words "FIDEIN
Loan" and substituting the words "PARK Loan" therefor.
      F.    Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement
            1.    Part B (1) to the Loan Agreement is amended by: (1)
deleting "1." before the first paragraph; and (2) deleting the words "FIDEIN
Operating Regulations" and substituting "the Diario Oficial of the Guarantor
dated January 22 and November 25, 1986" therefor.
            2.    Parts B (2) and B (3) are deleted in their entirety.
      G.    Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement
            1.    The words "FIDEIN Project" and "FIDEIN Projects" are
deleted whenever they appear in such schedule and the words "PARK Project"
and "PARK Projects" are substituted respectively therefor; and (b) the words
"FIDEIN Loan" and "FIDEIN Loans" are deleted whenever they appear in such
schedule and the words "PARK Loan" and "PARK Loans" are substituted
respectively therefor.
      H.    Schedule 6 to the Loan Agreement
            1.    All references to Parts B (2) and B (3) of the Project are
deleted.
      I.    Schedule 7 to the Loan Agreement
            1.    Paragraph 2 is amended: (1) by deleting the words "FIDEIN
Loans" from clause (i) thereof and substituting the words "PARK Loans"
therefor; and (2) by deleting the words "FIDEIN Loan" from clause (i) (A)
thereof and substituting the words "PARK Loan" therefor.
II.    Guarantee Agreement
      1.    "Section 2.02. The Guarantor shall enter into the contractual
            arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of the Loan
            Agreement, with the Borrower and each Fideicomiso.  Except as
            the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Guarantor shall not change
            or fail to enforce any provision of the Normatividad or such
            contractual arrangements.
      Please indicate your agreement to the foregoing amendments by signing
and dating the enclosed copy of this letter and returning the same to us.
     This amendment shall take effect on the date the Loan is declared
effective, or on the last date a party confirms its agreement to this
amendment, whichever is later.
      Because of their interest in the matter copies are being sent to
Mssrs.  Jose Angel Gurria Trevino and Antonio Cervera Sandoval at Secretaria
de Hacienda y Credito Publico.
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                         By /s/ Rainer B. Steckhan
                                 Director
                           Country Department II
                  Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Agreed:
NACIONAL FINANCIERA S.N.C.
By /s/ Arturo Ortiz Hidalgo
    Authorized Representative
Date: September 27, 1989
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
Page  5
By: /s/ Enrique Vilatela
    Authorized Representative
Date:  September 27, 1989
cc:   Lic. Jose Angel Gurria Trevino
      Subsecretario de Asuntos Financieros
      Internacionales
      Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico
      Palacio Nacional, Primer Patio Mariano piso 4
      Oficina 427
      Mexico, D.F. Mexico
      Lic.  Antonio Cervera Sandoval
      Director de Organismos Financieros Internacionales
      Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico
      Direccion General de Credito Publico
      Palacio Nacional - Edificio 4 Piso 4
      06066 Mexico, D.F. Mexico
                                                             Attachment 1
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
each Category and the percentage of expenditures of items so to be financed
in each Category:
                              Amount of the
                              Loan Allocated              % of
                              (Expressed in               Expenditures
Category                      Dollar Equivalent           to be Financed
(1)   FOGAIN Loans
      for FOGAIN
      Subprojects under:
      (a)   Part A (1)           1O,000,000               80% of the amounts
            of the                                        disbursed by the
            Project                                       Borrower under
                                                          each FOGAIN  Loan
      (b)   Part A (2)           1O,000,000
            of the
            Project
(2)   PARK Loans                 20,000,000               80% of
      under Part B                                        the amounts
      of the Project                                      disbursed by the
                                                          Borrower under each
                                                          PARK Loan
(3)   FOMIN Invest-
      ments under:
      (a)   Part C (1)           1O,000,000               80% of the amounts
            (i) of the                                    disbursed by the
            Project                                       Borrower under each
                                                          FOMIN Investment
      (b)  Part C (1)            10,000,000
           (ii) of the
           Project
(4)   FOMIN Restruc-
      turing Invest-
      ment under:
      (a)   Part C (1)           10,000,000               100% of the amounts
            (i) of the                                    disbursed by the
Page  6
           Project                                        Borrower under each
                                                          FOMIN Restructuring
                                                          Investment
     (b) Part C (1)              15,000,000
         (ii) of the
         Project
(5)  Micro-Enter-               10,000,000                90% of the amounts
     prise Loans                                          disbursed by the
     under Part D                                         Borrower under each
     of the                                               Micro-Enterprise
     Project                                              Loan
(6)   Consultants'
      services,
      training activities
      and equipment under:
      (a)   Parts A (3),         4,400,000
            C (2), and E (1),
            (2) and (3)                                   100%
            of the
            Project
      (b)   Part E (4)             600,000
            of the
            Project
(7)   Amount cancelled          85,000,000
      pursuant to
      Section 6.01 of
      the General
      Conditions
      TOTAL                    185,000,000
