Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2858 ME
         (Fourth Small- and Medium-Scale Industry Project)
                              between
                       UNITED MEXICAN STATES
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                     Dated September 30, 1987
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2858 ME
                        GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT,  dated  September  30,  1987,  between  the UNITED
MEXICAN  STATES  (the   Guarantor)   and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A)  the  Guarantor  and  Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.
(the Borrower), having been  satisfied  as  to the feasibility and
priority of  the  Project  described  in  Schedule  2  to the Loan
Agreement, have requested the Bank  to  assist in the financing of
the Project; and
     (B)  by the Loan Agreement of  even date herewith between the
Bank and the  Borrower,  the  Bank  has  agreed  to  extend to the
Borrower a loan in  various  currencies  equivalent to one hundred
and eighty-five million dollars  ($185,000,000),  on the terms and
conditions set forth in the  Loan Agreement, but only on condition
that the  Guarantor  agree  to  guarantee  the  obligations of the
Borrower in respect of  such  loan  as provided in this Agreement;
and
     WHEREAS the Guarantor, in  consideration of the Bank's enter-
Page  2
ing into the Loan Agreement  with  the  Borrower, has agreed so to
guarantee such obligations of  the  Borrower and to undertake such
other obligations as hereinafter set forth;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth in Schedule  4  to the Loan Agreement (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to  this  Agreement  and  in  Section  1.02  of  the Loan
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                  Guarantee; Provision of Funds;
     Section   2.01.   The    Guarantor   hereby   unconditionally
guarantees, as primary obligor and  not  as surety merely, the due
and punctual payment of the  principal  of, and interest and other
charges on, the Loan, and  the  premium, if any, on the prepayment
of the  Loan,  and  the  punctual  performance  of  all  the other
obligations  of  the  Borrower,  all  as  set  forth  in  the Loan
Agreement.
     Section 2.02. The Guarantor  shall enter into the contractual
arrangements with the Borrower referred  to in Section 3.01 (b) of
the Loan Agreement  and,  unless  the  Bank shall otherwise agree,
shall not change or fail to enforce any provisions thereof.
     Section 2.03.  Without  limitation  or  restriction  upon the
provisions  of  Section  2.01  of  this  Agreement,  the Guarantor
specifically undertakes,  whenever  there  is  reasonable cause to
believe  that  the  funds  available   to  the  Borrower  will  be
inadequate to meet  the  estimated  expenditures  required for the
carrying out of the Project, to make arrangements, satisfactory to
the Bank, promptly to provide  the  Borrower or cause the Borrower
to be  provided  with  such  funds  as  are  needed  to  meet such
expenditures.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. The  Guarantor  declares  its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set  forth  in Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement, and to this  end,  shall  carry  out  Part E (4) of the
Project through its Secretaria  de  Comercio y Fomento Industrial,
with  due  diligence  and   efficiency   and  in  conformity  with
appropriate administrative and financial practices.
     Section 3.02.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise agree,
consultants' services required for Part  E  (4) of the Project and
to be financed out of the  proceeds  of the Loan shall be governed
by the provisions of Schedule 6 to the Loan Agreement.
     Section  3.03.  The  Guarantor   shall  maintain,  until  the
completion of the  Project,  the  Coordinating  Committee with the
functions and responsibilities set forth in Oficio No. 305.III.4.-
600 dated June 18, 1987, of the Minister of Finance.
     Section 3.04. For the  purposes  of  Section 6.02 (c) and (d)
and 7.01 (e) of the  General Conditions, the obligations of Mexico
under the General Interest  Rate Agreement are hereby incorporated
as obligations of the Guarantor  as  if  they were fully set forth
Page  3
herein.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Guarantor shall maintain or cause to be
maintained separate records  and  accounts  adequate to reflect in
accordance  with  sound   accounting   practices  the  operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of Part E (4) of the Project
of the departments or  agencies  of  the Guarantor responsible for
carrying out such Part of the Project.
     (b)  The Guarantor shall:
          (i)  have the accounts referred  to  in paragraph (a) of
               this  Section  for  each  fiscal  year  audited, in
               accordance   with   generally   accepted   auditing
               standards and  procedures  consistently applied, by
               independent and qualified auditors;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each such year, a  certified  copy of the report of
               such audit by said  auditors,  of such scope and in
               such  detail  as  the  Bank  shall  have reasonably
               requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to  the  Bank  such  other information con-
               cerning said accounts  and  the  audit thereof, and
               said records as the  Bank  shall  from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  for  Part  E  (4)  with respect to
which withdrawals from the Loan Account  were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Guarantor shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with  paragraph  (a)   of  this  Section,  separate
               records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain or cause to be  retained, until at least one
               year after the Bank  has  received the audit report
               for the fiscal  year  in  which the last withdrawal
               from  the  Loan  Account   was  made,  all  records
               (contracts, orders,  invoices,  bills, receipts and
               other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such separate  accounts are included in
               the annual audit  referred  to  in paragraph (b) of
               this Section and  that  the report thereof contains
               in respect of such  accounts, a separate opinion by
               said auditors as  to  whether  the  proceeds of the
               Loan withdrawn in respect of such expenditures were
               used for the purposes for which they were provided.
                             ARTICLE V
            Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
     Section 5.01. The Director General  de Credito Publico of the
Secretaria de  Hacienda  y  Credito  Publico  of  the Guarantor is
designated as representative of the  Guarantor for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 5.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Guarantor:
Page  4
          Direccion General de Credito Publico
          Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico
          Palacio Nacional
          Edificio 10 P.B.
          06066 Mexico, D.F.
          Mexico
                                            Telex:
                                                0177 4300
                                                Mexico City
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                       440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                248423 (RCA) or
                                                64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                     UNITED MEXICAN STATES
                     By /s/ Gustavo Petricioli
                                         Authorized Representative
                     INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                        RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                     By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
                                           Regional Vice President
                                   Latin America and the Caribbean
