Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                          F<CO
Report No. P-3765-YAR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CRDIT
OF SDR 9.5 MILLION
TO THE
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FOR A
SIXTH EDUCATION PROJECT
April 6, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Yemeni rial (YR1)
Calendar 1983                     February 1984
$1  =  YRls 4.50 1/                      4.90
YRl 1 =  $0.22                             0.20
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
BTF         Basic Training Facility
CPO         Central Planning Organization
CYDA        Confederation of Yemeni Development Associations
DNE         Department of Non-Formal Education
DTC         District Training Center
ERDC        Educational Research and Development Center
LDA         Local Development Association
MCSAR       Ministry of Civil Service and Administrative Reform
MOE         Ministry of Education
NBNFE       National Board for Non-Formal Education
NLFE        Non-Formal Education
NIPA        National Institute for Public Administration
PIU         Project Implementation Unit
PTTI        Primary Teacher Training Institute
SBU         School Building Unit
VTC         Vocational Training Center
1/ No par value for the Yemeni rial has yet been declared to the DMF.  All
exchange transactions are effected at the Central Bank rate which has
been pegged to the US dollar since February 1973.



FOR OFFICIAI, USE ONLY
Yemen Arab Republic
Sixth Education Project
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower.               Yemen Arab Republic (YAR)
Amount:                 Special Drawing Rights 9.5 million (approximately
310.0 million equivalent)
Terms;                  Standard
Project Description.   The proposed project is designed to increase the
quality and quantity of basic educational services by
strengthening its primary and non-formal education
system. It would: (a) expand the facilities for
training of primary school teachers, especially in
rural areas, and improve access of females to educa-
tion; (b) expand literacy and basic occupational
skills training in rural areas; and (c) improve the
public administration training programs. The project
comprises: (a) the construction, equipping and fur-
nishing of four primary teacher training institutes
(PTTIs); (b) boarding facilities for male trainees;
(c) extension to an existing female PTTI to increase
its annual intake; (d) the construction, equipping
and furnishing of a senior PTTI; (e) the construction,
equipping and furnishing of two district training
centers (DTCs); (f) a basic training facility for the
construction, equipping and furnishing of village
training units; and (g) technical assistance for
training of teaching staff of the senior PTTI, im-
provement of teaching programs and training of the
staff of the National Institute for Public Adminis-
tration (NIPA), studies to support education finance
reforms and fellowships for Yemeni staff for training
abroad. The project's main benefits would be to aug-
ment the supply of trained male and female teachers
and improve the quality of teacher training. It
would provide literacy and basic training skills for
about 8,000 persons every year, and promote the par-
ticipation of women in development.  It would make a
modest contribution towards upgrading the civil ser-
vice.  The main risk facing the project is the timely
availability of local funds. To minimize this risk,
the Government has agreed to review annually with the
Association the requirement for local funding and to
make adequate provision for the requisite funds in
its budget.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost;
(Project costs are exempted                  Local       Foreign        Total
from customs duties and taxes)               ----------$ million-
A. Construction, Furniture and
Equipment For.
Five PTTIs                            4.1           3.7           7.8
1 Senior PTTI                         1.6          1.3           2.9
2 District Training Centers           1.2          1.1           2.3
Subtotal                           6.9          6.1          13.0
B.  Basic Training Facility                   0.2          0.2           0.4
C. Technical Assistance
Experts                               0.1          0.4           0.5
Fellowships                           0.2          1.0           1.2
Studies                               0.1          0.2           0.3
Subtotal                           0.4          1.6           2.0
Project Base Cost                           7.5          7.9          15.4
Physical contingencies                      0.7          0.7           1.4
Price contingencies                         1.3          1.2           2.5
Subtotal                           2.0          1.9           3.9
Total Project Cost                          9.5          9.8          19.3
Financing Plan;
Government                                  9.3          -             9.3
IDA Credit                                 0.2          9.8          10.0
Estimated IDA Disbursements;  IDA FY   1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991
_______________  million----------------…
Annual                                 0.1    1.2   2.7   3.1   1.8   0.9   0.2
Cumulative                             0.1    1.3   4.0   7.1   8.9   9.8  10.0
Estimated Completion Datez    June 30, 1990.
Rate of Return;                 Not applicable.
Staff Appraisal Report;         Report No. 4634 dated April 4, 1984



INTERNATIONAL DEVELDPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF IDA
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC FOR
A SIXTH EDUCATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) for Special Drawing Rights
(SDRs) 9.5 million (approximately US$10.0 million equivalent), on standard IDA
terms, to help finance a Sixth Education project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A report on domestic resource mobilization (No. 3554-YAR) dated
January 6, 1982 has been distributed to the Executive Directors. A report on
medium-term policy which reviews the public investment program was recently
discussed with the Government. Country data are attached in Annex I.
Introduction
3.        Over the last decade YAR has experienced far-reaching changes in its
socioeconomic structure and the material welfare of its citizens. The repub-
lican government which came to power following the 1962 Revolution succeeded
in establishing within a surprisingly short period of time the foundations of
a modern state.
4.        Political integration and the build-up of public institutions, while
maintaining a liberal market orientation, have provided the basis for rapid
development of the public and private sectors. Under the Three-Year Develop-
ment Program (1974-76) and the First Five-Year Plan (1977-81), the foundations
of the country's physical and social infrastructure were laid and expanded,
and first attempts were made at lifting agriculture, the mainstay of the
economy, out of its medieval setting; industrialization was also started,
albeit on a small scale.
5.        Rapid domestic economic growth has been accompanied and enhanced by
the large inflow of remittances and transfers by Yemenis abroad, particularly
workers in Saudi Arabia and the Gulf States. These are estimated to have
increased from around $65 million in 1971/72 to a level that has fluctuated
around $1.2 billion on an annual basis between 1977 and 1982. Largely as a
result of these cash inflows, YAR's real per capita GNP has increased
significantly over the last ten years, reaching an estimated $500 in 1982
(World Bank Atlas methodology).
1/ Except for paras. 8-10, substantially the same as Part I of the President's
Report (P-3740-YAR), dated March 2, 1984, for the Central Highlands
Agricultural Development Credit approved by the Executive Directors on
March 27, 1984.



- 2 -
6.        Although there are no reliable data on income and consumption dis-
tribution, there are reasons to believe that the benefits from recent growth
have been widely distributed. Strong family ties ensure that many people
benefit from the increase in incomes. Public social expenditures, especially
in education and health, increased substantially, and the associated benefits
accrue directly to an increasing segment of the population.
Major Development Issues
7.        Overall economic performance during the First Plan period (1977-81)
has been satisfactory.  Real CDP grew at around 6 percent per annum.  Invest-
ment effort was impressive averaging around one-third of GNP. These achieve-
ments, remarkable as they are, should not, however, detract from the fact that
YAR continues to be one of the world's least developed countries. Few mineral
deposits have been discovered so far. YAR's commodity exports are negligible,
reflecting the country's limited resources and the underdeveloped state of its
economy. Productivity levels are still extremely low, especially in agricul-
ture which accounts for about 70 percent of the labor force. Agriculture's
development has been constrained by the scarcity of agricultural land and
water and the high cost of production.
8.        Water related issues are among the most serious in the medium- and
long-run. Despite their scarcity, water resources are being depleted rapidly
around cities and towns. A number of initiatives are, therefore, called for
to address these problems. (i) establishing a comprehensive water resources
data base; (ii) improving coordination among the various agencies operating in
the water sector; (ii) introducing legislation to manage water use, and (iv)
strengthening cost recovery policies. A technical assistance component to
assist the Government in strengthening water management policy is envisioned
for the next IDA-assisted project in the sector.
9.        Despite the impressive achievements in the development of social
infrastructure, much remains to be done. The adult literacy and enrollment
rates are still very low; the shortage of skilled and semi-skilled manpower is
an overriding constraint to development and limits the capacity of the public
administration to manage and implement a growing and increasingly complex
development program. Health indicators (Annex I) depict serious problems that
call for large resources and an improved policy. The rapid population growth
(estimated at 2.9 percent per annum) also suggests that, despite cultural
constraints, the Government should start analyzing recent demographic trends
to reach a better understanding of the consequences of this high growth rate
in order to develop an appropriate policy.
10.       YAR's physical infrastructure remains underdeveloped despite the
fact that it has received the lion's share of public investment under the
First and Second Five-Year Plans. Thus, although the length of the main road
network has tripled over the last decade, many areas are still without ade-
quate road connections. This is normal in a country with a very rugged
terrain and scattered population and where the first paved road connecting the
main harbor to the capital city was completed only about two decades ago.



- 3 -
11.       The budget deficit has emerged as a major concern in recent years.
Over the past five years, Government expenditures have increased at a pace
more than double that of revenues. By 1982, revenues represented only about
40 percent of expenditures and the budget deficit increased to 36 percent of
GDP. At the same time, the share of the budget deficit financed by external
loans dropped from an average 44 percent in 1977-81 to 16 percent only in
1982, which compelled the Government to increase its borrowings from the bank-
ing system (mainly the Central Bank). As a result, the money supply grew
rapidly during the recent years, and by more than 25 percent in 1982. Despite
this rapid growth, inflation hardly exceeded 6 percent in recent years since
the growth of money supply was accompanied by a continuous increase in imports
and a decline in foreign reserves, from 16 months of imports of goods and
services in 1977/78 to 3.5 months by end 1982 (and to less than 3 months in
March 1983). The continuation of such a large budget deficit would reduce the
reserves further to a level where an increase in money supply would most likely
result in higher inflation.
12.       Reducing the budget deficit calls for:  (a) in the short-run, cutting
public investment expenditures; and (b) in the medium-run, bringing current
expenditures under control, mobilizing more taxes and establishing adequate
users' fees. The Government is increasingly aware of the seriousness of the
situation and has taken a number of measures to keep expenditures within the
levels authorized by the 1983 budget. These include a selective freeze on new
hiring, restrictions on purchases of cars and furniture and on the creation of
new public authorities, etc. Budgeted capital expenditures for 1984 are 22
percent lower than their 1983 level. The Bank is assisting the Government in
reducing the public investment program of the Second Five-Year Plan (1982-86)
and the report which reviews this program was recently discussed with the
Government (para. 2). Budgeted current expenditures for 1984 are at their
1983 level. On the revenues side, the Government has recently reimposed
customs tariffs on previously exempted foodstuffs and increased the tax on
qat.  The Government is also in the process of converting the taxation of
petroleum products from a specific to an ad-valorem basis, enlarging the scope
of excise taxation and establishing some users' charges in health and educa-
tion and municipal taxation. Most of these measures have been recommended by
the Bank report on domestic resource mobilization (para. 2).l/ The effective-
ness of these measures, however, will depend on the vigor with which they will
be implemented.
Government Objectives
13.       Since the early 1970s, the country has been trying to develop human
resources and build new institutions, to strengthen the physical and social
infrastructure, to raise the productivity of the commodity-producing sectors,
and to improve the standard of living of the people, giving priority to their
basic needs. Most of the First Plan's targets which were in line with these
objectives have been met except in the agriculture sector where output of some
1/ Mobilization of Domestic Financial Resources in the Yemen Arab Republic,
No. 3554a-YAR.



-4-
traditional crops has declined and overall growth fell considerably below
targeted levels primarily because of the abandonment of marginal rain-fed
areas where income opportunities could not compete with the opportunities of
migration. The production of qat (a mild stimulant) has been on the increase
and has competed for agricultural land.
14.       The Second Five-Year Plan (1982-86) has a 7 percent CDP growth
target calling for a total investment of around $6.5 billion (1981 prices)
over the plan period. The sectoral distribution of investment underlies a
continued broad-fronted strategy with an emphasis on physical infrastructure,
agriculture and manpower development. The plan's financing envisioned heavy
dependence on external sources with around 70 percent of investment expected
to be covered by grants and loan disbursements and direct foreign private
investment. However, since this expected level of foreign finance does not
appear to be forthcoming and because of the extremely tight budgetary
situation that has developed recently, the Government is in the process of
revising its investment program and the Bank is assisting in this effort
(para. 12).
Capital Flows and External Debt
15.        Since the 1962 Revolution, YAR has received large amounts of foreign
assistance. Given the country's low per capita income and its UN classifica-
tion as a "least-developed country," most of the aid has been provided in the
form of grants and concessionary loans. Cumulative aid disbursements, in-
cluding grants, came to around $2.7 billion by the end of 1982. The principal
donors have been Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, the United Arab Emirates, Iraq, USA and
the Federal Republic of Germany as well as IDA and the Arab development funds.
16.       About one-half of the total assistance given so far was provided as
grants, mostly for food aid, technical assistance and, more recently, for bud-
get support, primarily from Saudi Arabia. Food aid has been provided through
the World Food Program and by a number of bilateral donors. A significant part
of official grants has been made available in the form of technical assistance.
Given the extreme shortage of skilled manpower in YAR, this type of aid has
high priority and will be needed by the country for many years to come. Be-
sides the grants, YAR received sizeable amounts of official loans. Drawings
on these loans have increased in recent years, reaching $262 million in 1981
and $246 million in 1982. Most of the official loans and credits have been
committed for the financing of specific projects, with the main emphasis on
roads, agriculture, and utilities.
17.        The terms of official loan assistance have been very favorable.
Loans from the USSR and the People's Republic of China are, for the most part,
free of interest. Western European countries have generally charged between
3/4 percent and 2-1/2 percent. Interest rates charged by Arab countries have
varied from 0 to 4 percent. Loan maturities range from 5-50 years, with an
average of 20 years.



- 5 -
18.       YAR's external public debt outstanding on December 31, 1982 -.S
estimated at $2244 million, of which 1312 million was disbursed. IDA credits
accounted for $136 million or about 10 percent of the total disbursed and out-
standing debt reported. Because of the very favorable terms of borrowing, the
debt service payments amounted to $55 million in 1982, equivalent to around
3.6 percent of gross foreign exchange earnings (including workers' remittances
and private transfers). Service payments could rise significantly to about 10
percent of the gross foreign exchange earnings by the end of the 1980s.
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS 1/
19.       This credit would be the thirty-eighth to YAR, bringing total IDA
commitments to $376.5 million net of cancellations.  The main three elements
of IDA's assistance in YAR have been.  to concentrate on developing the basic
institutions, skills and physical infrastructure which are prerequisites for
development; to develop production and income in the dominant productive
sector, agriculture; and to support the Government in its programs to meet
basic needs in rural and urban areas. To achieve these objectives, IDA has
extended twelve credits, totaling $128.4 million, for agriculture, fisheries
and rural infrastructure; fifteen credits, totaling 4158.6 million, for
infrastructure including highways, ports, water supply and sewerage, power
distribution, and urban development; five credits, totaling $51.0 million, for
education and training; two credits, totaling $14.0 million, for industry; a
$2.0 million credit to promote the exploration of the petroleum and geothermal
resources to private companies; and a $10.5 million credit to strengthen and
expand the capability of the Ministry of Health to plan, staff and manage the
country's health care system. In FY78, an investment of $2.4 million by the
International Finance Corporation (IFC) was approved to help finance a dairy
and juice project. Another IFC investment of $4.0 million was approved in May
1983 to help finance a dry cell battery project. Further opportunities for
IFC involvement are being explored.
20.       A major constraint to YAR's social and economic development has been,
and will remain for some time, the critical shortage of professional, slcilled
and semi-skilled manpower, and the insufficient experience and weakness of its
institutions. World Bank strategy has emphasized strengthening institutions
and manpower capabilities through increased training of local staff and con-
tinued technical assistance, as well as through direct financing for education.
Thus all IDA-assisted projects in YAR contain substantial institution-building
components.  Two particularly important examples of the World Bank's support
have been in the Central Planning Organization (CPO) and the Ministry of Agri-
culture and Fisheries (MAF). In CPO, the World Bank (through three grants
totaling $520,000) and the Kuwait Fund have financed a team of planning and
economic advisers to assist in the establishment of a planning machinery. The
Bank has also been the executing agency for a UNDP-financed project to assist
the CPO in the preparation of the Second Five-Year Plan (1982-86) (para. 14).
1/ Substantially the same as Part II of the President's Report (P-3740-YAR),
dated March 2, 1984, for the Central Highlands Agricultural Development
project approved by the Executive Directors on March 27, 1984.



- 6 -
In MAF, the Bank supplied the services of seven advisers initially financed by
UNDP with IDA as executing agency, and now financed jointly by IDA, the EEC
Special Action Fund (under the Second Tihama project) and UNDP.  The Agricul-
tural Research Station at Taiz is also financed as part of this institutional
support.
21.       YAR's disbursement performance (disbursements as a percentage of
total commitments) has been affected by a number of implementation problems,
although it still compares favorably to the EMENA region's average. Among the
recurrent problems that are common to most countries at YAR's stage of develop-
ment are; delays in recruitment of consultants, delays in award of contracts
and resolution of conflicts with contractors, and finalizing cofinancing
arrangements. In addition to these common problems, there has been one in-
stance (the Fisheries Development project) where fundamental project objec-
tives were threatened by actions of the implementing agency. In this parti-
cular case, the Government has taken corrective measures. The Government and
IDA have also agreed to hold project implementation reviews twice a year to
monitor progress closely and address problems promptly.
22.       Future World Bank operations are expected to consolidate past
achievements in the main infrastructure subsectors, spread the benefits of
agricultural and rural development projects to new outlying areas, accelerate
assistance to the Government in the energy field, and continue to meet the
large requirements of education and training. Particular attention will be
given to YAR's ability to implement projects by insuring the availability of
key staff and technical assistance needs. A geothermal exploration project
has been negotiated and is expected to be presented to the Executive Directors
in late May 1984. A petroleum products distribution project has been
appraised. An agricultural development project in the undeveloped Wadi Jawf
region has been prepared. Future operations are expected in the areas of
industrial finance, power distribution and transport, and could also include a
supplemental credit in the water supply and sewerage sector.
23.       YAR has contributed an increasing portion of local currency financing
in the years when the budgetary situation was favorable. However, in view of
the deterioration in the budget and the fact that YAR remains among the least-
developed countries, it still requires special assistance through financing of
a large part of project costs, including local expenditures when necessary.
As in the past, the costs of future projects are expected to be substantially
higher than the amounts that IDA can provide, and the Association shall con-
tinue to cooperate closely with other donors so as to maximize its catalytic
role in stimulating cofinancing. IDA-supported projects have so far led to
about $370 million equivalent of cofinancing from other aid donors.
PART III - THE EDUCATION SECTOR
General Education
24.       The level of human resources development in YAR is one of the lowest
in the world. It is only a little more than a decade since the Government has



- 7 -
initiated the establishment of a modern education system.  Only 21 percent of
YAR's adult population is literate and enrollment ratios for the formal educa-
tion system in 1981-82 were about 49 percent at the primary level, 7 percent
at the preparatory level, 3 percent at the secondary level, and 1 percent at
the university level. 1/
25        The Government recognizes that, to implement its overall development
sti:ategy, there is a fundamental need for an educated workforce with necessary
skills to respond to the demands of a changing economy. Accordingly, educa-
tional development policies have been directed towards expanding basic school-
ing, while training programs have been oriented towards meeting skilled and
semi-skilled manpower needs. The Ministry of Education (MOE) is responsible
for primary, preparatory, secondary and technical education.  The Governorate
offices and local development associations (LDAs) play an advisory role, espe-
cially in regard to school locations. The University of Sanaa has, at present,
five faculties: Arts, Sciences, Education, Commerce and Sharia (Islamic Law).
Plans are underway to establish two more faculties; Engineering (as part of
the IDA-assisted Education IV Project) and Medicine.
Educational Objectives
26.       In recent years the Government has made a major commitment of re-
sources to provide basic education for all school-age children and to develop
an education and training system adapted to the country's needs. The MOE,
assisted by other donors, placed much emphasis on the establishment of schools
to realize these objectives. As a result, enrollment has increased very
quickly, by about one-third per year since 1978/79 at the primary level and by
one-fifth at the preparatory and secondary levels, although from a low base.
While the increased enrollment at the primary level is encouraging, the
following features of the present situation are matters of concern. First,
there is a shortage of Yemeni primary school teachers. Second, the proportion
of female students is very low. Only 12 percent of primary school students
(about 8 percent of the females in the age group 6-12) were females in 1982.
This is attributable to the prevailing, though slowly changing, strong social
customs limiting female participation in education. Third, the dropout rate
from primary schools is high, with the result that only about 15 percent of
students enrolled at the first grade eventually graduate from the sixth grade.
This high ratio of drop-outs is due to the low quality and shortage of teach-
ers, the inadequate educational materials, the high percentage (75 percent) of
incomplete schools, besides students being withdrawn from schools to assist
their families on the farms. The proposed project would help to increase the
availability and improve the quality of teachers.
27.       The educational objectives of the MOE in the Second Five-Year Plan
are to;  (a) expand primary education and improve its quality by expanding the
output of teachers, recruiting teachers with higher qualifications, intensify-
ing in-service training and improving the teachers' training curricula;
1/ These figures differ slightly from corresponding figures on page 2 of
Annex I because the above figures are more up-to-date.



- 8 -
(b) expand functional literacy and basic skill training programs for both male
and female workers; (c) expand vocational and technical education to meet lower
and middle-level manpower requirements; and (d) improve the efficiency of the
MOE through its restructuring and reorganization to improve the utilization of
its human and financial resources. These objectives are basically sound.
Enrollment in primary schools is projected to grow at 11 percent per annum
over the period 1982/83 through 1986/87, and then at 6 percent per annum from
1987/88 to 1995/96. Even then, the proportion of the population in the age
group 6-12 attending primary schools would reach only 66 percent. The total
demand for primary teachers, taking into account the need to replace teachers
that leave, would increase from about 13,000 in 1982/83 to about 42,000 in
1995/96.
Primary Education and Teachers' Training
28.       The expansion and qualitative improvement of formal primary educa-
tion remain among YAR's most crucial needs. Only when primary education is
well established can other levels and types of education be developed and
provide a sound foundation for effective vocational and professional training
to meet manpower needs.
29.       The development of a viable primary education system is constrained
by a severe shortage of trained Yemeni teachers. The Government has endeavored
to build up the pool of trained teachers by setting up a number of primary
teacher training institutes (PTTIs). Until recently, these PTTIs had two
programs: (a) a three-year upper secondary level program, (grades 10-12)
located in major cities; and (b) a three-year post-primary program (grades
7-9). The graduates from the latter program were judged to be too young and
poorly prepared to begin teaching immediately. The Government, therefore,
replaced it in 1981/82 by a new five-year post-primary program (grades 7-11).
This new program will mainly draw on populations in the rural areas that are
not covered by the upper secondary schools. As more experience is gained
regarding this new five-year program, the Government will evaluate its
achievements in relation to the three-year upper-secondary level program and
decide whether to continue with both or to choose one. Furthermore, it is
expected that when the teacher training system matures, the senior PTTI would
serve as the main model for training.
30.       The teacher training programs have experienced considerable problems
in recruiting and retaining students.  These problems are due to;  *(a) the
limited number of primary school graduates; and (b) the attractiveness of
specialized secondary schools in agriculture, technical subjects and communi-
cations, and the higher prestige and financial reward of careers other than
teaching. The pool of candidates for training can be expanded only gradually.
Meanwhile, to attract available candidates for the teacher training program,
the Government has provided increased stipends and boarding facilities. More-
over, it has decided to establish teacher training programs in rural areas
before installing any new general lower secondary programs. This should help
attract primary school graduates to the teacher training programs. To make
teaching an attractive career, the Government has increased teachers' salaries
by more than 20 percent and provided other incentives, including exemption



- 9 -
from military service. These measures have proven to be effective and have
helped achieve a fuller utilization of the existing PTTIs. The enrollments
increased by 60 percent between 1980/81 and 1982/83. The rate of overall
capacity utilization has increased dramatically in the last two years and
stood at an average of around 80 percent in 1982/83, and is probably larger in
1983/84. In fact, some of the existing PTTIs are overcrowded and already
using double shifts. Thus, in view of the large anticipated growth in demand
for qualified teachers (para. 27), these facilities need to be expanded, which
is one of the main objectives of the proposed project.
31.        In view of the shortage of trained Yemeni teachers, YAR has relied
on expatriate teachers, mainly from Egypt and the Sudan. The number of primary
and secondary expatriate teachers grew considerably fom 3,360 in 1978/79 to
about 13,300 in 1982/83 and, despite an increasing availability of Yemeni
teachers from the existing training programs, is expected to rise to 22,500 in
1986/87. This situation merely reflects the growing demand for teachers in
YAR and the inadequate number of Yemeni teachers to cope with demand, despite
concerted attempts to increase their supply. Apart from its social implica-
tions, the large number of expatriate teachers also has a significant impact
on YAR's balance of payments and is a costly alternative to the training of
Yemeni teachers.
Non-Formal Education
32.       Widespread illiteracy (about 80 percent in 1982) is a major con-
straint to the development of the country, and not least in agriculture, the
sector from which most Yemenis derive a living. Basic skills training for
adults in rural areas has become more important since modern techniques entered
the rural economy. In response to this need, the MOE's Department of Non-
Formal Education (DNE) began in 1976 a program of establishing district train-
ing centers (DTCs) in small towns and Village Training Units to provide liter-
acy classes and basic skills training for men and women. These DTCs and
village training units are, in turn, responsible to the National Board for
Nonformal Education (NBNFE) which determines policy and budget requirements.
The NBNFE was formed under the first IDA-assisted project (Cr. 421-YAR) and is
composed of the Ministers of Education, Agriculture, Health, and Socia'L Ser-
vices, a representative of the Confederation of Yemeni Development Associations
(CYDA), as well as other concerned officials.
33.       Under the first and second education projects (Cr. 421-YAR and
Cr. 611-YAR), seven DTCs were established and three more are being established
under the fifth project (Cr. 1340-YAR). The DTCs offer villagers literacy
courses, as well as courses in agricultural skills, handicrafts, home econo-
mics, health and nutrition, and basic skills training in carpentry, electricity
e          and automotive mechanics.  About 17,000 participated in these programs in
1982/83. Encouraged by the rural population's response to the non-formal
basic training program, the Government plans to expand the program gradually
to cover the entire country. The Association's report on manpower development
in YAR (No. 3181a-YAR, dated March 27, 1981) recommended strengthening and
expanding existing programs and upgrading unskilled workers through such
programs as the DTC.



- 10 -
Public Administration
34.       As with the rest of the economy, the entire public administration is
constrained by the lack of adequate technically qualified personnel. To meet
the personnel needs in public administration, the National Institute of Public
Administration (NIPA) was established in 1974. Though formally attached to
the Ministry of Civil Service and Administrative Reform (MCSAR) since 1981, it
has operational and financial autonomy under a Governing Board of Trustees, of
which the Minister of MCSAR is the Chairman.  NIPA operates from three centers:
its headquarters in Sanaa, and two branches in Taiz and Hodeidah recently
established with IDA assistance under the on-going third education project
(Cr. 915-YAR).
Education Finance
35.       In 1981, the share of the education sector in total Government ex-
penditures exceeded 11 percent, as compared to 8 percent in 1975/76. The pro-
portion of GNP allocated to the education sector exceeded 5 percent in 1981,
which is comparable with the proportion devoted to education in countries at
similar stages of development. In addition, private contributions in kind,
essentially for school accommodation, made through the Local Development
Associations amounted to about 10 percent of Government expenditures on educa-
tion. If the planned growth in education is attained, an estimated 12 percent
of GNP will be needed to be allocated for education. The cost of education
per pupil in YAR is high by international standards for three main reasons.
(a) low enrollment and high drop out rates; (b) high teacher salaries; and
(c) a large share of the education budget (39 percent in 1981) financing
capital expenditures. A major project objective is to reduce the cost of
education by substituting Yemeni teachers for the more costly expatriate
teachers, by supporting the expansion of training of Yemeni teachers.
36.       While continuing to emphasize education, the Government is increas-
ingly concerned with the growing educational expenditures. A recent IDA study
of education administration and finance recommended measures to limit this
growth by a more efficient use of resources and by requiring contributions
from beneficiaries to cover a part of the mounting costs. The Association has
discussed these findings with the government. The MOE has already taken some
steps to lower costs by undertaking completion of incomplete primary schools
(para. 26), emphasizing standardized designs, ensuring contractual obligations
of minimum acceptable class hours for expatriate teachers, encouraging the
recruitment and retention of Yemeni teachers, the training of teachers to
teach all subjects at the primary level and by combining grades to permit
multi-grade teaching. In addition to measures aimed at reducing costs, the
Government also recognizes the need for mobilization of resources from the
beneficiaries.  To this end, it has agreed to undertake, cnder the proposed
project (para. 47), a study of the economic, social and institutional impli-
cations of measures aimed at reforms in education finance, including the
introduction of fees and increased cost sharing by local communities and to
develop alternative approaches. The Government will carry out this study
through Yemeni experts, and has agreed to exchange views with the Association
on its findings.



- 11 -
Previous IDA Assistance in the Education Sector
37.       In view of the critical shortage of trained manpower in YAR, IDA has
been involved in manpower development at al'l levels, with emphasis on teacher
training, non-formal education, vocational training and improvement of public
administration. The proposed project would be the sixth IDA-assisted project
in the education sector in YAR. IDA's involvement in this sector started in
1973. The First Education project (Cr. 421-YAR), completed in 1980, provided
support for expanding and upgrading primary and secondary teacher training,
establishing training programs for skilled workers and technicians and launch-
ing the non-formal basic training scheme for out-of-school youths and adults.
*          The draft project performance audit report (PPAR), dated December 16, 1°83,
and the project completion report (PCR) noted the significant contribution of
the project towards institutional improvements within MOE, both in terms of
administration, planning, and curriculum development, and the strengthening of
local capabilities for designing and supervising school building construc-
tion. The Second Education project (Cr. 611-YAR), completed in 1982, rein-
forced and expanded the major thrust of the first project in the areas of
teacher training, vocational training and basic education; it also supported
the basic training fund as part of the basic training scheme and supported the
local production of educational materials. The draft PPAR (dated December 29,
1983) and the PCR coimmented that implementation was timely and effective and
that educational objectives were generally met; it also noted the significant
impact of the DTCs on rural development by successfully meeting local needs
for training through the support of the basic training fund, and by the time
of project completion, the full utilization of the PTTIs for females. The
Third Education project (Cr. 915-YAR), approved in 1979, supported the Govern-
ment's aim of expanding secondary education in agriculture and livestock prac-
tices, and strengthening public administration. Preinvestment feasibility
studies related to basic health care training included in the project led to
an IDA-assisted health project. The Fourth Education project (Cr. 1203-YAR),
approved in 1982, is designed to increase the utilization of the then existing
PTTIs and vocational technical training centers (VTCs) to meet a serious
shortage of Yemeni engineers through the establishment of an Engineering
College in Sanaa University, and to strengthen MOE's capacity to undertake
educational policy studies through the establishment of an Educational
Research and Development Center (ERDC). The Fifth Education project
(Cr. 1340-YAR), approved in March 1983, supports the establishment of a first
"tranche" of PTTIs in rural areas. it also provides further support to the
DTC network in rural areas, supported by a Basic Training Facility (BTF) for
funding village training programs.  The ongoing projects are progressing
satisfactorily and along with the proposed project form a cohesive core of
IDA-assisted projects in the sector that emphasize basic education and train-
ing in line with the country's most urgent needs.
38.       Lessons derived from the implementation of the two completed proj-
ects (Cr. 421-YAR and Cr. 611-YAR) and applied to subsequent projects and to
the design of this project include; (i) the provision by the Borrower of
appropriate incentives (allowances, boarding, job prospects, etc.) to attract
trainees to the teaching profession and to vocational training; (ii) the
provision of the BTF towards the rapid development of DTCs; and (iii) adequate



- 12 -
staffing of the PIU and of counterpart training for the School Building Unit
staff.
39.        YAR's chronic shortage of skilled and semi-skilled manpower is proj-
ected to continue beyond the eighties. The solution to this problem can be
realized only over the longer-term, and consists in measures to increase the
efficiency of flow through the formal education system, increase the number
and capacity of training centers and their utilization, and encourage a greater
participation of qualified women in the labor force, especially in the field
of education, consistent with the social values and traditions of the country.
This would require sustained Government efforts over time, and a continued
support by external aid agencies and friendly countries. The proposed project
would provide a part of the needed support.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
40.        The proposed project was prepared by the YAR Government with assis-
tance from IDA and appraised in March 1983. Negotiations for the proposed
credit were held in Washington from March 26-29, 1984. The YAR delegation was
headed by His Excellency Dr. Abdul Wahid Al-Zindani, Minister of Education,
and included representatives of the Central Planning Organization (CPO) and
the Ministry of Education (MOE). A Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Yemen
Arab Republic Sixth Education Project" (No. 4634-YAR, dated April 4, 1984) is
being circulated separately to the Executive Directors. The main features of
the Credit and the Project are summarized in the Credit and Project Summary
and in Annex III. A map of the project area (IBRD 17218) is attached.
Project Objectives and Description
41.        The proposed project is designed to improve the quality and increase
the quantity of basic educational services in YAR by increasing the supply of
Yemeni teachers, providing non-formal education (NFE), and improving the
quality of public administration. Specifically, the project would (a) expand
the training of primary school teachers; (b) expand literacy and basic occupa-
tional skills training for rural out-of-school adolescents and adults; and (c)
improve the quality of the training programs for civil servants.
Primary Teacher Training Institutes (PTTIs)
42.       The lack of Yemeni primary school teachers is costly in both econo-
mic and social terms (para. 35). To help alleviate the shortage, which is
especially severe in rural areas, the proposed project provides for the con-
struction, equipping and furnishing of four Primary Teacher Training Insti-
tutes (PTTIs) of the five-year type with a total capacity of 880 student
places. The annual output of the four PTTIs will be about 140 teachers. These
PTTIs will be located in Jahana, Al Hajar, Zabid and Al-Khabt. As experience
with past projects has indicated the need for provision of boarding facilities
for PTTI trainees, the project includes boarding facilities for 60 percent of
the students; the rest would commute from nearby locations. It would also



- 13 -
expand the facilities in the female PTTI at Taiz by 320 places, with an annual
output of 65 female teachers. With this expansion and the expectation that
females would also enroll in two of the four new PTTIs under the project,
there should be a significant increase in the number of female teachers,
thereby enhancing the economic opportunities for women. As it would draw its
students largely from the immediate area, no boarding facilities are included
in the Taiz PTTI. The 70 teaching positions required to staff these PTTIs are
expected to be filled by experienced Yemeni teachers either currently being
trained or to be trained at Eastern Michigan University (where they complete a
master's program) under an ongoing project financed by the United States
Agency for International Development.
43.       An innovative Senior PTTI (grades 13-14) which would introduce a new
program at post-secondary level would also be established under this project
to improve the quality of primary school teachers. This PTTI will also, for
the first time, provide advanced education and professional training to gradu-
ates of exceptional merit from the other primary teacher training programs.
It will have a total capacity of 280 and an annual output of 130 students.
Detailed curricula for the Senior PTTI would be developed with technical
assistance provided under this project. Fellowships, also provided under this
project, would ensure properly trained Yemeni staff for the new institution.
Non-Formal Education (NFE) and District Training Centers (DTCs)
44.       The rural NFE programs, which have been implemented so far by MOE
under the IDA-assisted projects, provided community based literacy and basic
occupation and skills training to about 17,000 beneficiaries in 1982/83
(para. 33). The training has been provided through DTCs and village training
units. In order to expand this training, especially in remote rural areas,
the proposed project provides for the construction and furnishing of two DTCs
at Nadera and Ma'rib, areas currently lacking NFE facilities. The new DTCs
would include simple boarding facilities for instructor-trainees.
45.       The Government plans eventually to expand the DTC network to cover
every region of YAR. To assist the Government in the development of this
program and to enhance its effectiveness, the Education Research and Develop-
ment Center (ERDC) has agreed under the fifth project to conduct, by 1985, a
study in close cooperation with the Department of Non-formal Education to
assess the additional support needed for curriculum development, education
materials production and instructor training.
Basic Training Facility (BTF)
46.       Under the Second Education project (Cr. 611-YAR), a $1 million basic
training fund was set-up to enable the DTCs to establish village training
units in areas that surround them. This fund provided the needed flexibility
in responding to and encouraging local initiative.  It helped to support 75
village units. It was administered by the National Board for Non-Formal Edu-
cation (NBNFE) according to agreed guidelines, and was utilized in providing
equipment, furniture and educational materials. The Fifth Education project
included the provision of 81.0 million for this facility. The proposed proj-
ect includes $0.4 million equivalent for the further development of the basic



- 14 -
training scheme and the village training units in accordance with the agreed
NBNFE guidelines (Development Credit Agreement, Annex to Schedule 2).
Technical Assistance
47.       The proposed project includes technical assistance in four areas:
(a) three years of experts' services to assist in the development of curricula
of the Senior PTTI and forty-two staff years of fellowships for the training
of its staff; (b) two staff-years of specialist services to improve the train-
ing in NIPA and seven staff years of fellowships for NIPA staff to be trained
abroad, and six staff-months of specialist services to review and evaluate the
role of NIPA within a proposed national training plan for civil servants ex-
pected to be developed by MCSAR with UNDP assistance. This proposed plan is
seen as a major undertaking by this new ministry and therefore, it is impor-
tant to ensure that NIPA's role and contributions are fully articulated in
order to be integrated in the proposed plan; (c) six staff-nonths of specialist
services to evaluate the feasibility and implications of proposals to contain
rising educational costs and to mobilize resources to reduce the Government's
burden of educational expenditures; and (d) twelve staff-months for feasibility
studies and engineering designs for a possible future project.
Project Implementation
48.       The proposed project will be implemented over a period of six years.
Under the general supervision of the Deputy Minister of Education, a Project
Coordinator would have the overall responsibility for the project excepting
for the NIPA component. The School Building Unit (SBU) would be responsible
for the physical aspects of the project, including architectural designs,
procurement, construction supervision, and maintenance of project accounts.
Sites have already been selected for all institutions, and land acquisition
for the PTTIs and DTCs is expected to be completed by July 1984. Preliminary
designs for the buildings have been approved by IDA, and basic lists of equip-
ment and furniture have been reviewed by IDA. Detailed construction drawings,
equipment specifications and bid documents for civil works would be ready for
the Association's review by September 1984. Action for procurement of civil
works and equipment would be initiated thereafter, and the procurement of
equipment would be synchronized so as to be available when the buildings are
ready for use. The SBU would also coordinate the project accounts, and fur-
nish audited accounts within six months from the end of each fiscal year
(Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.01).
Project Costs and Financing
49.       The total cost of the project, including contingencies, is estimated
at about $19.3 million equivalent, of which about 51 percent, or $9.8 million
is in foreign exchange. Physical contingencies of 10 percent for civil works,
furniture and equipment, and 5 percent for technical assistance, are assumed
in the cost estimates. The project's base cost is estimated in 1984 prices.
Price contingencies for the period 1983-90 have been applied to all items at
the following rates; for locally procured items (civil works: 9 percent in
1985, 8 percent in 1986 through 1990; equipment: 8 percent in 1985 and 7 per-
cent in 1986 through 1990), and for foreign expenditures (civil works and



- 15 -
equipment; 8 percent in 1985, 9 percent in 1986 through 1988, 7.5 percent in
1989 and 6 percent in 1990). Experts' services of about 140 man-months have
been estimated at an average of about $11,000 per man-month for short-term
consultants, and about $4,500 per man-month for longer-term specialists,
including salaries, fees, overhead, international travel and subsistence.
These estimates are based on recent experience in YAR.
50.       The proposed IDA credit of SDRs 9.5 million (approximately $10 mil-
lion equivalent) would finance about 52 percent of the total project costs.
It would finance 100 percent of the project's foreign exchange requirements.
Of the estimated local costs of $9.5 million equivalent, the Government would
finance $9.3 million, with the IDA Credit meeting $0.2 million towards the
local expenditures of DTCs and the village training units.  The annual recurr-
ing expenditures of the institutions being established under the proposed
project are estimated at about $8.0 million. They would constitute about 2
percent of the estimated current expenditures on education in 1987, when the
facilities are expected to be operational.
Procurement
51.       Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below:
Procurement Method
(US$ million)
Project Element           ICB        LCB      Other       N.A.       Total
Civil works construction    13.32        0.15       -                    13.47
(4.83)    (0.15)      -                    (4.98)
Furniture                     1.15       -          -                     1.15
(1.04)     -          -                    (1.04)
Equipment                      2.01      0.23       -                     2.24
(1.81)    (0.23)      -                    (2.04)
Technical assistance          -          -          2.40                  2.40
-         -         (1.92)                (1.92)
Operating cost                -          -          -         0.02        0.02
-         -          -        (0.02)     (0.02)
TOTAL            16.48      0.38       2.40      0.02       19.28
(7.68)    (0.38)    (1.92)    (0.02)    (10.00)
Note; Figures in paranthesis are the respective amounts financed under
r                 this project.
Civil works contracts (amounting to about $13.3 million) would be awarded on
the basis of international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with World
Bank procurement guidelines. Contracts for the construction of village
training facilities estimated at $0.2 million, (average size of about 410,000



- 16 -
each) would be carried out on the basis of local competitive bidding procedures
which are satisfactory to the Association. Contracts for furniture and equip-
ment (amounting to $3.4 million), in excess of $50,000, would be awarded in
accordance with Bank guidelines for ICB. Small items or groups of items,
estimated to cost less than $50,000, or items of a specialized nature, for
which ICB would not be practical, would be procured under normal Government
procedures, which are satisfactory to IDA, and would include, to the extent
possible, quotations from at least three manufacturers or suppliers; the total
value of such procurement would not exceed $600,000, about 18 percent of the
estimated cost of equipment and furniture including contingencies. Consultant
services for technical assistance will be selected in accordance with IDA
Guidelines.
Disbursement
52.       The proceeds of the proposed credit would be disbursed as follows:
(a) civil works, 36 percent of total expenditures for PTTIs and DTCs, and 100
percent for village training units; (b) furniture and equipment, 100 percent
of foreign expenditures, 100 percent of local expenditures ex-factory, for
locally manufactured items and 85 percent of local expenditures for items pro-
cured locally; (c) technical assistance and training, 100 percent of foreign
expenditures; and (d) BTF activities, 100 percent subject to a ceiling of
$50,000 for each village training unit. The credit is expected to be fully
disbursed by December 31, 1990. In order to facilitate timely withdrawal of
the proceeds of the credit, the Government will open, maintain and operate a
special account with the Central Bank of Yemen on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association. The initial deposit in this account would be
about $0.4 million equivalent. Opening of this account would be a condition
of credit effectiveness (Development Credit Agreement, Section 5.01).
Project Benefits and Risks
53.       The principal benefits of this project are;  (a) improved quality of
primary teacher training, an increase in the educational level of the primary
teachers, a 30 percent increase in the annual output of teachers from an
anticipated annual addition of about 335 teachers; (b) increased participation
of women in the teaching profession; and (c) a better regional distribution of
teacher training facilities, through improvement of educational facilities in
rural areas.
54.       Through its support of non-formal education, the project would expect
to provide additional literacy and basic skills training in rural areas for
about 8,000 persons every year and promote the participation of women in
development.  It would also make a modest contribution towards strengthening
and upgrading the civil service by upgrading the teaching staff of NIPA. The
project faces a potential risk regarding the timely availability of local
funds. However, within the context of the prevailing tight budgetary con-
straint, the Government assigns high priority to this project and has included
it in its revised Five-Year Plan. The Association agrees with the Government
on the priority of teacher training as well as training in basic skills in
order to overcome the persistent trained manpower constraint and to alleviate



- 17 -
the mounting cost to the budget of the costly expatriate teachers.  To ensure
that the local resources are available, the Government would review the situa-
tion with the Association by September 30 of each year and thereafter include
in its annual budget the funds required for the next fiscal year.  Another
possible risk could involve the Senior PTTI, which might have to compete for
recruits from a limited pool of secondary school graduates. The incentives
provided by the Government for the teacher trainees and teachers are geared to
ensure an adequate supply of candidates for the project PTTIs.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
55.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Yemen Arab
Republic and the Association and the recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Association's Articles of Agreement are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
56.       Features of the Development Credit Agreement of special interest are
referred to in Section III of Annex III. The opening of a special account for
the project with the Central Bank of Yemen is a condition of credit effective-
ness (Development Credit Agreement, Section 5.01).
57.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Arti-
cles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
58.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Washington, D.C.
April 6, 1984
t



- 18 -
ANNEX I
T A B L E  3A                                       Page  1  of  5
YEMEN, ARAB REP. Of    - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
YEMEN, ARAB REP. OF                   REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AvERAGES) /a
MOST                     (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960-      1970'   ESTIMATE/       N. AFRICA & HID EAST   LAT. AMERICA & CARIB
AIIZ (THUSAND S. EM)
TOTAL                               195.0       195.0       195.0
AGRICULTURAL                         96.6        97.3        97.9
GCP PER CAPITA (US$)                      ..       120.0       460.0  1/         1340.0                    2088.2
ENERGY CONsoNTEiON PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)        7.0        15.0        62.0              810.4                    1407.6
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,HID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)   4163.0       5258.0      7251.0/c
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)         5.4         6.0        10.8               47.4                      65.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                             12.3
STATIONARY POPULATION (MELL)                              38.7
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                              2155
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. RM.                        21.3        27.0        36.1               36.0                      35.6
PER SQ. KM. AGRI. LAND            43.1        54.0         71.9             449.0                       93.2
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (2)
0-14 YRS                         42.4         43.0        45.0               43.9                      40.1
15-64 YRS                         54.4        53.9         51.9               52.8                      55.8
65 AND ABOVE                       3.2         3.1         3.2                3.3                       4.1
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (Z)
TOTAL                               2.3        2.3          2.9                2.9                       2.3
URBAN                              8.1         8.0          8.2               4.6                        3.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)        49.7        48.8        48.5               42.5                      31.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)        28.9        26.5        22.8               12.0                        8.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.4         3.3         3.3                3.0                        2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)           ..
USERS (Z OF MARRIED WOMEN)          ..          ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71.100)                      119.0        84.0        96.0               97.5                     113.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (7 OF REQUIREMENTS)      90.0        76.0         76.0              102.3                     111.3
PROTEINS (CRAMS PER DAY)          69.0        55.0        58.0               72.0                      67.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         18.0        14.0        19.0/d             17.8                      34.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE         60.4          ..         50.0              15.2                        5.3
NEALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)        35.8        38.5        42.6               57.2                      64.6
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)      211.6          ..       190.0              104.2                      62.6
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (%POP)
TOTAL                                ..        4.0          4.OJe             59.3                      64.8
UR8AN                                ,.       45.0        30.o7              84.9                      77.8
RURAL                                          2 2.0        2 . 0/ae         3 7.5                      44.3
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(I OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         ..          ..                 ..                       54.6
URBAN                                ..         ..          ..                 ..                      69.8
RURAL                                ..         ..          ..                 ..                       29.8
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN        130090.0    24370.0    11670.0               3536.0                    1776.0
POP. PER NURSING PERSON                ..         ..      4580.0             1820.7                    1012.2
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           2730.0       1430.0/f   1700.0               643.3                     477.0
URBAN                                ' '         *       230.0               545.0                    667.5
RURAL                                ..          ..      6750.0             2462.0                    1921.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ,.         ..        14.3               26.4                      27.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                ..         ..          5.O/g
URBAN                               ..          ..          4.2Yj,h
RURAL                                '            '         6.
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                ..         ..         2.8/g
URBAN                               ..          ..          1.87i,h
RURAL                               .,          ..          3.17j/.
ACCESS TO ELECT. (Z OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ,.         ..          ..                46.2
URBAN                               ..          ..         56.5/g,h           77.6
RURAL                                      ..                ..               16.1
1/ The 1982 estimate is $500.



- 19 -
ANNEX I
T A B L E  3A                                          Page  2  of  5
YEMEN, ARAB REP. OF      - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
YEMEN, ARAB REP. OF                     REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                        (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960- 1b97    ESTIMATE-              N. AFRICA & MID EAST    LAT. AMERICA & CARIB
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOTAL                      8.0         12.0         47.0                89.6                       105.0
MALE                      14.0        23.0          82.0               104.8                      106.3
FEMALE                    0.4           2.0        12.0                 72.4                      103.6
SECONDARY: TOTAL                       ..          1.0          5.0                41.7                        40.0
MALE                        ..         2.0            ..                52.8                        38.6
FEMALE                     ..          0.1           ..                 31.2                        41.2
VOCATIONAL (% OF SECONDARY)             3.2/1        2.2          4.6/g              10.3                        34.0
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                              45.0/i       51.0         44.0                31.9                        30.7
SECONDARY                            24.07i       24.0         18.0/g              23.3                        16.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                 2.5/i       10.0/i       21.0                43.3                         79.5
CONSOF ION
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP               ..          ..           ..                18.0                        45.6
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP             ..         15.3/f       15.6               138.1                       228.2
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP                 ..          ..          0.2                45.6                       108.3
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION                 ..         10.7           . .               31.0                        64.1
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA          ..           ..          O.9/d                1.7                        2.9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)            1263.0       1481.0       1809.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                      3.7          4.5          5.4                10.7                        24.8
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                83.0         79.0         75.0                42.5                        31.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                    7.0          9.0         11.0                27.8                        23.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                30.3         28.2         24.9                25.6                        31.3
MALE                                 57.7         55.0         49.9                45.4                        49.8
FEMALE                                2.3          2.5          2.6                 5.6                        14.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.5          1.6          1.9                 1.8                         1.4
INCafE DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5% OF HOUSEHOLDS
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS
LOWEST 207 OF HOUSEHOLDS                ..
LOWEST 40% OF HOUSEHOLDS                ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..        366.0               276.1                       289.8
RURAL                                   ..          ..           ..               177.1                       184.5
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..           ..               400.0                       519.8
RURAL                                  ..           ..        157.0               283.3                       372.1
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (%)
URBAN                                  ..           ..           ..                22.0
RURAL                                  ..           ..           ..                30.8
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Estimate" between 1979 and 1981.
/c  Resident population, includes migrant workers abroad for less than a year; /d 1977; /e 1976; /f 1972; /g 1975; /h In
the major cities of Sanna, Taiz and Hodaidah; /i 1962; /j 1973.
May 1983



ANNEX I
- 20 -                                                                            Page 3 of 5
DpPI5ITOtJS Of SOCIAL IOOZCATOOS
tasc Although the d-c  .re droot fr,tot-               generalyjug"  the oc   athrtctu             -gd re1Lbl, it ehoatd  Lt.o  h, outed chat thy soy to  be b:tteoctno
cuprheb--uco   r    ad o  stedar                                       ..l.ct  tcccc   ooe   used bydhte.ro,.re   ortt,ro         data.  The detbase.,  -tottihoc, ocafot to
detorthe orders uf aagoit-.de, indirota  breeds, tot oh,o rooter!:. rertoict color dli feranros togatro  cauotrtoc.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~dLff,  L
Tt.rfctegroaps  -e  (L) the to.e  ...c..  gru   fth,         I ltcutr ed (2)  aro-onr  groetthso--tt     higher  -aco,  itor-  than th.otr  getup of the
auS ro e country (euCopt tar  'iigh bot  it   op  tro    ru  ohE.'0ld eCots  floo -0 tftriao,   010-. tact  is chosen h--sote  .f..teuge                               CL tooutoa
oe-oied it euloIt tg torgc-fattoio   to  othr   Thes-aa                         .g.I,o   l   -teto  i t  poapartog thsoal-         t  oc If   oca-  y a  a It..o.. ougtt        otyao.d
MAlO  fthuuesrd cq.kc.l                                                                                   ouattre   tytir      oua  o  diobdedby Outcr  of pra.ctioteg
Tr ..I - Teta- crtae  re   ro.riaog            .d area cod toba-d                                                                   I    Iea  6,pyitaaqi   idtc   a  rdiral  choo  ato  oratIlr
19T0 sod i9911 dat.                                                                                 Proait  e   ert             eor-  ooa  o  dioid,-d by oCaga rA   Pr-Ttirio
for Ceap, poetots*crsc:  tthoc tacoco  to ito fuitrll   1060,                                         LusnaotaIec
1970 sod 1980  data.                                                                                Por,lc,io-  PIr H-ceifl1 teA  -  .,cL, orto_od_roral-Ppitos otl
ora    rArrl)Ai dlA.oo by thergraeci ceouoro  hspitI.1 beds
Ge?  cdCPt6  tol-  O  re  a ta  a iotcsrparottaictprcs,cot aiatophio  o  pt ao   ror tor   petc  oa  tatyt  o
calcuatedby sae pocaruIo cehoot  s l.etd Brk A to;I i07-dt  asis)l                       reabti tatto  geoer,    coci tal5 ar  eststt-Ps-ntape-motot c"sctbte
190           IL7,  o  190dta                                                                         ru  hopial  inld    haplctuloeo    ooias   o    at
L;.  d.l..                                                                                         Il~~~~~~~~~~~~~saptis   uaio  rr    o  itaIaho   CAtego    tai5yCentors
paor     ooire    lOn, 170  tod  l                -t os.gecg   teg- .teoi   pototea oheoil-ioa)rr-o  odPua
I.taabio "I c-Jyi-oo                                                                                    -A  ogehldtoct:  c  agrop-o  idItdac  hostteItlo   qa tCt.
PULTubal ANDVIuLato    ctradooc    hI   otlt    o  tSrtulity                                           net hosohol.d   foe pLt.t  totoo   eu1.rpuor
rae.Po.citpoeocr    1yoo960t rte    ctp to970hre .cea   castor of rursoo                                                              uro-too,hr           o  eareisart.oue
lasiasuonlieapptacucirh   oniotgot   coorCeT                                                          t  tror c1ootolaeac;uc                          fuaic      ..ioooaoicu
opto   toelcl,adfai .P.ryoup    th  ro    pI 9da lt-gh , respec ditip. byth.c too0boc CTo bdo  o-aesto   tao                                                                        0
yer.Te,bo-er    c   rrt  i Rateo   a Ito. hoo  thre1  eoria                                            oc-  ue    acs
atpootoeapraginotot  'Ao   s. TI  toupo r     oIll  -tte  to-  I  toy  puedajno    erlooLtto
suc  gaara to o  roorredcesIcn i  cot ty.Sb   cotorep                                      orltsot  f al   ge  opc r ericryIro_ospooefage o_erpeote
Tagysta ioary   r -lotco t  ro--a  is The ot   ohm-  sC- bi Thoo                                 ice-s      de poil ae h         -oIccabCa th  of fIIa)   -rhoo - ap. - .
Poptaiat  coo          II laIdoostl -~f.    l-  L.prr..                                                        too, -b..  lee  o--rou d ca ll ra.rt-fp prtoo oi-riafoy   to
yea a. ha.acrttlropa   lao-  - Cc,ouoe  as ahc- e -cr agIouf  oa   Ige-geepai                                     P Icdet
-.oiy;  1960. 1910-.Caol.llO                                      -t-aro.                         roa ionl   rrileo            -rc.  of~ octono..-. ocnootirI_ttl
PPootuto aue toorup -....00   ~Oldn    .04cehrs  ,ooC.rdklo-at  (15-                                  unoot  notia..            auoll,c   tor,opooibogef   trel
t          P.tnro 190  tOllIC_   1901 ~ ~ 1- Aunt.                                            yoilteabhr panic  J - pioy    o   a oofr.t)odoetotIldI
yerpopoanioc tar 1l010 -ct,  0-1-U  oni :o;--ciC-ptapondlog i-oaty
Po1..,tattoofr13-O    0370    i   00A.apretg o-7yi I    totl aal    fpo lo   aged CT  pepo ad  00c.r.
CeMidrotco(a  taod p,Ii- Ooolo   hiotl  pe r thootto  of-tiA)fri..g.  .                                                         I
Psar  papulktool- lOo,  1077, aod-1991ICoca.Ctft...fFlld-
fetu   yat 1960t (crcooc-l ican   ot.pe   haad  fod-ea                                               utoorOe   en  haudt-oo.c 
197ttoo Oh,070  aol 1901 to-    u                                                                 Ia'ael,r   lao   chat olto   Ouo;ecaecsogoa,hoto
Cease Bopooeootg o  Ot---aonppo   00          dr- daut-o1c y....    -kil hoar to5                        otEltyehoICu. ""
hop Io,a ro-doc-tice   f     -eld  t       of      r-pcroeo .  pto fnaf-dpetlf                  tadlo  eobe   reto,ao   ooalo       l   o                       frtintfrrdt
9itdl.                                                                                         ltte-sdheoitor   Inroa   ,otan  -1-tar                -1aro  -atettootedt
Fassiyplsrttcg-Artecpooat.  fI.I.   id -toa(oot,dIAc,iahooocyoe                          aeataetr  ;ouaposteascyohrCpa-riirotCpeoa
ethehotto    ritto-e  atlo   19ot ool  usl  glor)rg-oo-oiag abuIIhe   Ibes og
Prugras..                                                                                            TO.hR  ..   r       b  dl teloets (re C hootood- pho  tcocol.  d.1Ifet loops ftp hpuadtasteol
PPaaoiy ...o E.,ro-t -ect  (pertnotooridoal   Orotgo,rla                                                 eaopbi   ptrnho1o-toyoolootoi-engldoaat.r.ItcnoaTreolo
CrosaBrofcfildr  -hariyoo,111            yerlhtnl th-co -ro   fruec idutitc    toooacp0tculrftsesgte c
I"'rreoce     looterag-de 9Pa    d-tph                                                    OcosPT ONpriplno(rro-aooolcolto,teopo
[nApo of Poo  1r9ioclo !9   oe - Caita1 dOo-1.f,(-   loo  o;pr  aptapoitata    de                                            h' pocl   orcc  o   corlls.I  eto  l
uotu,sirtudtotooofolOoiooaoIo              O-tooc,ufdoaaadth'diyO    bapascles   ophasoot
foedord  isoopatrodap  cA.b.. t. .-:Coaoo-ie)ea Acc      - rieargoAaltd                      Cinoolt.Iy  a-     edh   c   peait    p0ultsoootuae
h-eao0cnA f-u-e.h1o   rt-p-Idod-00rcaeotsi.t                                                           iakos l  d-o   the yca-,t-cloo-og Aaisuo   to. at to-it- core,   god
basd a  naiotl aceao pod-to  -r-te -rtaial lOhi-6, 10701, goa19d
Par cp ta aa- lon   o  os2orle...... c-  o  at1 ......rd ee-t--  - Cooptd  tIoeToo                                        :-he Prte(Ohaso C. -...aa.toa l- y   CpTie   pesos -rbl  ICogars
s.sEgygouai     o   o  rh- -1       pp log coat.it...o lotaotp   It ...  pit  po                      i..    stt abeoloyht  haI       ocLlf  oueoos_    tdrt     tc,cor  o
dayr.                                                                                               T  .-kslbstpie    csrt   oetcoalo  a,iprsls  oaaior.o   i   bt    t  t  t o,-ro  to   ..r....tuo...a  ored oarT
ag  cdse   iscbu  ooa  ppuo lo  toshongI  prco   tpauc                                         ldsn  f_ peronIt...   - tahoe tot        onn, cocrosio,sfatcoro
tsttayi; ot CIced  copday   coopl                 odtadflo  ocuhot                                  PoteuaiAyn         i Raojotrt  -   1tool   IClo  Lni.o..      -   Ppicpin0
sosodeds ae boo   tha  thos  or 1  9roa  of  onal  roct o 00 2-7-C  grass              re ttogae  o  kotaea   o  popdaisi too, cod bagniceL brod.                          d
deled  ro   otcls pdraIss 1  g-oc.prOr  1961-65,itPal17
oaersdgt  dcr_o_   tro, liek     toIepi16,  I970 coO Itldae. -Id,uspenoid1e0,                                          170..
at hloithINfO 10V13 sod115019dat,                                                                     ehoolohe tetstcrosd  ait  cotaosohs    9on ot
ktaaoftfau,erlertetot.          pc    ce-    -t,L,jIat             corl -ootrsioadiycdnuad   Ito- c1     cso  a  not-foo esdottsiOa
sohoroeeoplliorsi  ohcraoa,-ooliott,eeaoooluatosatoata                       atardais.
house.   t ruralsoot. pasooghl  ad ore  u'-o0  roply tat toe   oaecott  or         codcarol -pecoertof copuoWWfloeao  stulrorall fto arelbsf-at
saseesat  hs  acooal  Oonothac  cos~oaAipeoortlo,005ianof9oo
the day in ieoohto0 toe tastlt csater oe etc. ~ ~        ~          ~          Dt
Auoaeso  oost  tie.s m        eoLr.  .Ctct. t-cn   - totAl         ho  cod
dopt. tc    -auoostelccoo,ioo   euoty  ept
Cidisos  as4 pat.otgh  at~ tOr        rep lh-- osM- po -olf ba         Pac-eacs arteooasIt-                                                    . Ch..    t.J   -I..V               b     Ch.
cay loelud   s!,aoottsttonood  Atioo,ato  otc ce otthat  tntstdco 1., of...                                                  rop, -oe-sc  sodW.1 Busd  Nsa   40oi -to    f
htaoaeaoyetto'tf easte-cutepP yscster-baposayasroooc  totago of cii                                                    graeta.tr  M,alyal  atot Prejaeslaoa  Degcactaet
petolasatd ~    ~          ~         ~         .9 sttstId.  oloc                                                                             O~IS



- 21 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS (US$ Mln)                               ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH
1982                    (Constant Price)
(Current Prices)           FY1977-81       FY1982
GNP at Market Prices 1/               3685                      6            5
GDP at Market Prices                  3253                      6            5
Gross Domestic Investments             1384                    26            4
Gross National Savings                  872                     1           -4
Exports of GNFS                         324                    24           21
Imports of GNFS                       2417                     13            6
OUPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY (1981)
Value Added    Resident Labor Force         V.A. Per Worker
US$ Mln       %    Thousand         %        us$         %
Agriculture              820       32         830        69           988       47
Industry                 206        8          54          5        3815      182
Services                1492       60         318        26         4691      224
TOTAL/AVERAGE       2518      100        1202       100         2095      100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE (YRls Mln)
% of GNP
1978/79   1979/80   1981   1982        1982
Current Receipts                 2161       2755      3277    3720        22
Current Expenditure              1847       2531      3253    4584        28
Current Deficit(-)/Surplus(+)  314           224        24    -864        -5
Capital Expenditure              2618       2492      3807    4321        26
Extrabudgetary Expenditure          -        523       788    2098        12
Overall Deficit                   848       2333      2943    5262        31
External Assistance, Net         1904        976      2437    2865        17
(including Grants)
MONEY CREDIT AND PRICES
---YRls Million Outstanding End Period---
1980       1981      1982   March 1983
Money Supply                     9180       9905    12519   13075
r          Claims on Government             2017       4039      8488    9332
Claims on Private Sector         2939       3234      3346    3513
----------Percentages--------
1979/80      1981      1982
Money Supply as % of GNP         63         66        75
Annual Increase in;
Money Supply                 16          8        26
Consumer Price Index        11           5         3
1/ Not including private transfers by Yemeni migrants whose duration of
stay abroad exceeds one year.



- 22 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (US$ Mln) 1/
1978/79   1980   1981   1982
Exports of Goods, fob                  3       13     10       5
Imports of Goods, cif             -1250   -1915  -1748  -1967
Trade Balance                     -1247   -1902  -1738  -1962
Non Factor Services, net             -36     -21    -51    -37
Transfers and Factor
Income, net                       833    1084    788    924
Balance on Current Account         -450    -839  -1001   -1075
tM & LT Capital, net                 416      600    542      635
Official Grants                   312      148    337       445
Official Loans, net 2/             104     452    205       190
Disbursements                  (114)   (467)  (262)   (232)
Repayments                     (-10)   (-15)  (-57)   (-42)
Other Capital (including
errors and omissions), net        194      128    198        76
Increase in Reserves (-)           -160      111    261       364
EXTERNAL PUBLIC DEBT                           DEBT SERVICES RATIO (1982) 3/
(US$ million)                1982                                         %
Total Outstanding             2244          Total Outstanding and
of which disbursed            1312          Disbursed                      3.6
1/ Based on Central Bank statistics. These figures differ from those in
the National Accounts produced by CPO.
2/  Based on figures published in the Central Bank's financial statistical                     )
bulletins. These figures differ slightly from debt information
compiled on a loan-by-loan basis.
3/  Workers' remittances and transfers included in denominator.
EMlDB
August 1983



- 23 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
(As of September 30, 1983 - $ Million)
A. Statement of IDA Credits 1/
Amount
Credit                                                             (less cancellations)
Number Year       Borrower                Purpose                    IDA   Undisbursed
Eleven credits fully disbursed                         88.5
662   1976 Yemen Arab Republic Livestock Credit and Processing 5.0             0.6
670   1976 Yemen Arab Republic Sanaa Water Supply II               10.0        2.6
714   1977 Yemen Arab Republic Port Development                     6.0        0.6
794   1978 Yemen Arab Republic highways III                        11.5        4.2
805   1978 Yemen Arab Republic Tihama Agriculture II               10.5        2.3
837   1978 Yemen Arab Republic Power Distribution                  10.0        3.1
880   1979 Yemen Arab Republic Tihama Agriculture III              15.0       12.7
915   1979 Yemen Arab Republic Education III                       10.0        3.4
950   1980 Yemen Arab Republic Ibb and Dhamar Water Supply    12.0            11.8
978   1980 Yemen Arab Republic Tihama Agriculture IV                5.5        2.8
1025   1980 Yemen Arab Republic Fisheries Development               17.0       12.2
1067   1980 Yemen Arab Republic S. Uplands Rural Dev. II            17.0 2/    8.7 2/
1102   1981 Yemen Arab Republic Regional Electrification            12.0        3.0
1122   1981 Yemen Arab Republic Industrial Development              12.0        5.4
1202   1982 Yemen Arab Republic Sanaa Urban Development             15.0       12.6
1203   1982 Yemen Arab Republic Education IV                        12.0        9.9
1216   1982 Yemen Arab Republic Petroleum and Geothermal Exp.   2.0             1.3
1259 3/1982 Yemen Arab Republic Agr. Research and Development   6.0             5.7
1267   1982 Yemen Arab Republic highways IV                          7.0        6.6
1294   1982 Yemen Arab Republic Health                              10.5        9.0
1308   1982 Yemen Arab Republic Agricultural Credit                  8.0        7.9
1340   1983 Yemen Arab Republic Education V                         10.0        9.7
1361 3/1983 Yemen Arab Republic Power III                           19.0       18.5
Total                                                 331.5 4/
ot which has been repaid                              0.2
Total now held by IDA                                 331.3
Total undisbursed                                                154.6
1/   The status of projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on
all Bank/IDA-financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly
and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
2/   Beginning with Credit 1067-YAR, credits have been denominated in Special
Drawing Rights. The dollar amounts in these columns represent the dollar
equivalents at the time of credit negotiations for the IDA amounts and the
dollar equivalents as of September 30, 1983, for the undisbursed amounts.
3/   Not yet effective.
4/   Excludes a credit of $13.0 million for the Fifth Highway Project which was
approved by the Executive Directors on September 13, 1983 and signed on
October 17, 1983, a credit of $12.0 million for the Second Urban Project,
which was approved by the Executive Directors on February 21, 1984 and
signed on March 29, 1984, and a credit of $8.0 million for the Central
Highlands Agricultural Development Project approved by the Executive
Directors on March 27, 1984.



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B.   Statement of IFC Investments
(Amount in US$ millions)
Year             Obligor            Type of Business    Loan   Equity   Total
1978    Yemen Dairy and Juice       Dairy Products         2.4       -       2.4
Industries Co. Ltd.
1983    Yemen Dry Batteries         Dry Cell Batteries   3.25        0.75   4.0
Total Gross Commitments                           5.65      0.75   6.4
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments, sales                                 --       _       --
iotal commitments now held by IFC                  5.65     0.75   6.4
Total Disbursed                                    2.4              2.4
Total Undisbursed                                 3.25      0.75   4.0
C.   Other bank Group Activities
Two Bank grants of $200,000 each, and one of $120,000 were approved
in July 1971, September 1973 and January 1976 to help finance, jointly with
the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development, a team of planning and
economic advisors and later a management/administrative expert. The Kuwait
Fund provided grants of about $200,000, $300,000 and $425,000.



- 25 -
ANNEX III
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
SIXTH EDUCATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I;  Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by country to prepare                Five months (January
project;                                     to May 1982)
(b)  The agencies which prepared the project;  Government
(c)  Date of first presentation to IDA;             May 1982
(d)  Date of departure of appraisal mission;   March 6, 1983
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations;            March 29, 1984
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness;                  September 15, 1984
Section II; Special Implementation Action by IDA
None
Section III; Special Conditions
Opening of a Special Account for the project in the Central Bank
of Yemen is a condition of credit effectiveness (para. 52).






IBRD 17218
, o.        c sr ron                                          44*                                                                                     4s4                      APRIL 1984
,,rco                 R             EPUR{ISC4O{CRAN ' gS A U D I  A R A B I A                                                YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC:
SIXTH EDUCATION PROJECT
-AUD ARI-IAI E .AN                                                                                          *      Distnict Training Centers
RM,rnossae  ',               ,f/ i Senior Primary Teocher Training Institute
NAJRAN                                    A      Primary Tearcher Trrining Institutes
A55S. sSOt C.S M                          /                                              \                                                0 _ J- * District Training Centers (Educaftion 7
C... °.. \ 50roALIA   '   r                                                             *A    Primary Teocher Training Institutes (Education V)
SOnAtA  /                                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P-sd Pronary Roads
so.  ant                             ~~~~SAMARA
-Hr, - -->| Primany Roods Under Construction
JtZANw5g\                         1                  V         ,  ,  ,, >               , 1                                          Other Rosads
rV             \                 ~ . SAADAH                                          '                                       Alrports
BANI                                                               0      Cit esTowns and Villages
UWAIR                           B                                         Nationol Capitais
Main Wads
!2                        .,                                                                                '" -  -Provncial Boundrries
r                                      1-I AHARAD                      \                        .~ -.  ,.                        *-  -*  Internot,-onl Boundornes
0
MAIDO                                   SHIHARA
. ... ..   -~+  40  4    0       80 100
-l5                                                           AL                    KoL
ABS               MAHABIS4A             |                             7                         N
7                                                                     ~      ~     ~~~           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 20  dO  6
yS            -    i_g ,-                                                                                                                 Mute>AJA_it, A   f 
LUIIAIYA                                                                         AR)A B
AL(HUSHM            WAD            J ALJQOR
00                     MAWRD.   .) ALZ AL,M./
MAi '   d  >RANI
HO9EI9   CAMP S@GSOOKA                                                       RANAA -4  -     =
AL\ , K.HA, CT AL I          UT         S   \                  '                       <      AL .
1   1        '                S               :' \,-;   , RAAA          .-'.   ,        (.---    i~       /
ZA} D°YA BAFAQIH °AAO
0~~~~~~~~~~~~D TOA                  HI           U       AtZ  ?A                      X A ..
\      i  '                       \          1        \sKA~~~~~~FRSHA MIRH    RAHISpA     |
:            ~~MOCHA/  R0A                                                 K                                 0 
JIL                                                                                          H IYbOUSUF  HAYFAN)
ANSO TURBAH  M tIS
DJBAB  )~ ~ DRA   -               AA
N /                             xAl.ADIN-.AT.                                                              ..       l              -
E T H I ONP I  A                     _L /                                       ,
//                                                                      ' R    E :                        F -4r
/     D J I B O                 U r |    ,.--:=                                                                                                =*=                      =-5
W~~~~~~~~~~~A~~~~~~~~~~ZABI~~~~oanMtwsM 0Mwnstsnwsnsm MnwmC5 na
A ~  ~       ~     ~      45     -                                                          n OMn.mMoannwa,   cmAt                       MaOa



I~



_     ,;   }  SLAMIC                                                     44-                                                                                      46'
RAQ      REP OFARAiSO
K      IR      AN\.    REP OF  AFre ANISIAN                                                                                       YEMEN   ARAB   REPUBLIC
IDA-ASSISTED PROJECTS BY SECTOR
iSAUDI ARASIA        "                      AN   Li  D  I             R  A   N i                                                                    PROJECTS
R.-                                                                                                                         ou    Cooperativ  and Ag ciuItUROI Credit Rook
'FE gP                                                                                                                                                c CtAcRl Research Centers
tEBOOS         Av                     i          -                                                                                              Dem-issratioo  Forms
AA00Wm,                                                                                                                                            Groi  Storage
ALIAI      -                                   )1    FishMres
_     Health
.  (,  ,    SAADAH       '          ,_       r---                                  US    Education
SAADAHK #nHgwy
) :   >                i   (                  j                       d                                                   tL  P   Power DOslribution Areas
i7                    C& _I                                         /   Ii                                                  *     Power Stations
Transmission L[res
:     Water Supply
P Fort Deunlap-ent
- -.-r- -   -_____  _                                                                                  Urh6n DOnolop-ont
EXISTING FEATURES
S- ,)-   -                                                                                                                          ---.      ,- Primary Roads
p                                            -------  ~~~~~~~~~~~Socoadarp Roads
51   /  ~~~~~~~~~~~~-!-g~~~~~~~ -o                        \                                             s~~~~~~~~N  Airports
5Hath        t    --                                                         Parts
''   ' '   :  o''    \   L  X -   \\SI                    PES    Go.n.ro.s.t Capitals
0*                                                              I                             -~~~~~~~~~~~~                           CC ~~~~~jNationa  Capitals                         B6
i ES                              ow v ;  '  r 5 !  i   _    <;t                -- --  ProivuiNol B-undris16
1¢   /   -         i            \      /  9      r Smword           -                              -*~~~- Intaroational Roundaries
r = - t \ E ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~levotian (meters)
HA.1>        i       -(   .,                                                                        1500
I  I                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~300
~ If  nw.v.       AL. MAH-BWE1                                        _                                      Mac\
/SANA'                Pgh I                                                                  ,
HODE                                                                                                                                                      KI   ~~~.fJFLOMETERS
,-            wodloo~~~t Al Abp-fDHMR                                                           1F,r
7ad<~                    /                    Had6ahm                        /                  v      <  
5- ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ -
5ayV   LN   _rF_                                 ' <- _  X  _ S; XAL BEIDAI'-
Si                                                   1~~~~vI ~ JRAu- I-  -
HODEID  At            )          f             i bohOMETERS AR
Na o5  ha                    /,r                                                 AN I/i ^l.  ..r v   A A WATEN EErp              Rll
.dr,at Al  yAh                   Nu                                    N -            .E
Ratroah\  r~              -- T - :-Ž2;;A.                  I.P   PE  - O          W:Ž2 nAE  I  SDW :ŽFLIE  I   IE /
,,             ,,,en ,/, ,OCT[                                                                                                         ,7
Soowaik   -AN  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~-'                                                         I   -        .<K
ml  ;      'rShi,aa'w                                   \ 5> UTD  mc CPE111 &-'AL RF11E IA                           -r- I
N ~ ~  ~ ~~           ~~~                       Qat-ahah{\                            OTO[LDEe [17
\ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~I fC)   Hoo                                                              fOR DNENORm I                       so
t-\   osh                 0    C                    GE    y'rBHi5mv-                 BBSLN   hGRICULT URsSNRPE           or
wuRrr FtAD FU27AL BN` NanRR N I05
>fS h                                                                            - issa5TRIun  EvEuTN- A               am-
,)                        N                               NOANrI, B                           ear
RPIt),AR.-                                    A 0~~~N5 cruoSt a tFIGommas
Ti,Aun A A RD&                     1ic
2>                                                                                      OLUR &rEEm  N                    00
-                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~      ~        ~     ~~~~~~Inot  ruAv TRur      iRaM
T H  ~~~~~~~~~~~;ADEN                                                                                                               tINNAB5iCBLUNR N                     e
Bah el Mo,deh                                                                               cu_           L t     NectNTr  f     us
man u-rircL LNETcPOPcavB         iss
iouT  IVNRLOSRm1                    R             d
Nr`   I  iF
~~~~0~~~~~                                                                                 NIRO, i                             50~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TSOC   )LM
PFiTNNnNrSErN    rNLotSr            O
NRORuS _0
orurnB  vTovim                                rS
Pra an ae Ban rrmaad r PE OBatOnvO laSrev  e ewaweoE t            aAL   Im                                          mS
meoun  n    auiiprnO  tva uea  h  omOr edB  toasa-Rrat50Bsra                                                                   '



