Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.5772-PAK
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PAKISTAN
KARACHI SPECIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
November 27, 1985
Urban and Water Supply Division
South Asia Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PAKISTAN
KARACHI SPECIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit = Rupee (Rs)
Rs  1.00      = US$0.0625
US$ 1.00      = Rs 16.00
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
mm         millimeter (0.039 inches)
m      =   meter (3.28 feet)
km     =   kilometer (0.62 miLes)
km2    =   1 square km (0.386 square miles)
ha     =   hectare (2.47 acres = 10,000 square meters)
C      =   Imperial gallon (Imperial gallon = 1.2 US gallons = 4.55 liters
MCD    =   Million Gallons Per Day (MGD = 4,545 m3/day)
cusec  =   Cubic foot per second (1,000 cusecs = 28.3 m3/sec)
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB    =   Asian Development Bank
DKA    =   Department of Katchi Abadis
(katchi abadi = slum, squatter settlement)
GDP    =   Gross Domestic Product
GOP        Government of Pakistan
GOS    =   Government of Sind
HBFC   =   House Building Finance Corporation
IDA    =   International Development Association
KMC    =   Karachi Metropolitan Corporation
KWMB   =   Karachi Water Management Board
KWSB   =   Karachi Water and Sewerage Board
KDA    =   Karachi DeveLopment Authority
KSDP   =   Karachi Special Development Project
KTC    =   Karachi Transport Corporation
PMU    =   Project Monitoring Unit
TEB    =   Traffic Engineering Bureau
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
KARACHI SPECIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.    BACKGROUND ..* .........             ........              .....      1
A. Introduction .............00....-....................    .......  1
B. Urban Development in Pakistan   ..........................        1
C. Role of the Bank in Pakistan's Urban Development .......          3
D. The Province of Sind ...................................          5
E. The City of Karachi ........5....**       ..............*...      5
F. Institutions          ...................   ......................  6
C. Resource Mobilization and Cost Recovery           ................  7
Hi  Service LeveLs .......c...         ............................  9
ew Initiatives  ...............................................    10
II.   THE PROJEc-T  ee..                             .....11
A. Objectives ........      .11
B. Rationale for Bank Support                                       11
C. M.ain Features ......................                            11
D. Detailed Project Description ...........15
III.  PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING ........                                20
A. Cost Estimates  ........................................    20
B. Financing Plan .........................................    22
IV.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ...................25
A. Execution   .........25
B. Implementation Schedule                                          25
C. Procurement                                                      25
D. Operations and Maintenance                                       29
E. Disbursements .........................           ........    30
F. Accounts and Audits ......................*69 ...                31
G. Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting Requirements ......    33
H. Supervision  ...........c...c....c.c.........c.0    33
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Karachi in November 1984. The mission consisted of Messrs. Menckhoff,
Armstrong-Wright, Dillinger, D'Souza, Jones, MacWilliam, Malik, Silva, Banes
and Dent. It was, for part of its duration, joined by Mr. Wegelin of the
Asian Development Bank.
I This documnt ha a resticted ditbution and may be used by recipients only in the perromance of
theur offa dutieL Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wtout World Dank authoriZea



Page No.
V.    IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES ................... .........*.... ..    33
A. Project Organization                                              33
B. Karachi Metropolitan Corporation ..........34
C. Karachi Water and Sewerage Board ......36
D. Karachi Development Authority  .................... e.    40
E. Karachi Transport Corporation .......................    41
VI.   RESOURCE MOBILIZATION, GOST RECOVERY AND AFFORDABILITY               43
A. Water and Sewerage Charges .............................    43
B. Property Taxes ...........44
C. Charges for Katchi Abadi Upgrading                                44
D. Affordability                           ..................b46
VII.  PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS ...........................    46
A. Economic Evaluaticn                                               46
B. Impact on the Poor    ............ ........................    48
Co Risks                                                             48
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ....................    49
LIST OF ANNEXES ........................                                   51
1. Operational Action Plan                                              51
2. Summary of Estimated Project Costs ........................    57
3. Detailed Project Costs ............................... so**&    58
4. KWSB- Financial Projections .............................    60
5. KMC - Financial Projections                                          66
6. Affordability Analysis of Katchi Abadi Upgrading Component.    68
7. List of Selected Documents Available in the Project File             70
PHOTOGRAPHS
MAPS
1. IBRD 18798 - Katchi Abadies Improvement Schemes
2. IBRD 18799 - Jurisdictions of Various Local Bodies
3. IBRD 18800 - Proposed Expansion of Water Supply and
Sewerage Facilities
4. IBRD 18801 - Transport and Traffic Engineering Improvements



-iii-
PAKISTAN
KARACHI SPECIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit and Project Sumnary
Borrower:         Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Beneficiaries:    Karachi Development Authority (KDA)
Karachi Metropolitan Corporation (KMC)
Karachi Transport Corporation (KTC)
Karachi Water and Sewerage Board (KWSB)
Government of Sind (GOS)
Amount:           SDR 65.4 million (US$70 million equivalent)
Terms:            Standard
Relending Terms:  From the Government of Pakistan to the Government of
Sind on standard IDA terms. Except for the funds
required for financing the studies it will be
implementing, GOS will relend the proceeds of the
credit to KDA, KMC, KIC and KWSB, on terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA.
Project
Description:    The objectives of the proposed project are to:
(a) strengthen the institutional capacity of local
agencies to deliver urban services; (b) improve
resource mobilization and cost recovery; (c) demonstrate
the feasibility of new approaches to providing services
to the urban poor; and (d) directly improve basic urban
services. These objectives will be achieved through
a series of subsectoral interventions, with physical
improvements combined with specific institutional
and financial measures in the areas of water supply and
sewerage, flood control and drainage, transportation,
katchi abadi upgrading, solid waste management, resource
generation, and metropolitan management. The main risk
to the proposed project will be the ability of some of
the implementing agencies to attract and retain capable
staff.



-iv-
Estimated Costs 1/                      Local         Foreign         Total
--(US$ million)----
Land                                     0.8             -              0.8
Civil Works                             61.7             8.4           70.1
Materials and Equipment                  8.5            19.0           27.5
Training and Technical Assistance        2.4             5.6            8.0
Incrc-mental Staff Salaries              0.3             -             0.3
Base Cost                            73.7           33.0          106.7
Physical Contingencies                   4.9            1.7            6.6
Price Contingencies                     27.4            7.9           35.3
TOTAL PROJECT COST                     106.0           42.6           148.6
Financing Plan                          Local         Foreign         Total
----- --US$ million)---- ----
Government of Pakistan                   34.2            -            34.2
IDA                                      57.4          12.6           70.0
Asian Development Bank                   14.4          30.0           44.4
106.0          42.6          148.6
Estimated Disbursements:
FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93
Annual                       9.5   14.2   16.3   12.5    9.2    7.3    1.0
Cumulative                   9.5   23.7   40.0   52.5   61.7   69.0   70.0
Rate of Return: 44Z
1/ Includes taxes and duties of US$8.1 million equivalent.



PAKISTAN
KARACHI SPECIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Introduction
1.01    This report outlines the proposed project which was appraised in
November 1984. Prior to project preparation, several studies were undertaken
to review sector issues and opportunities and to propose policy adjustments,
which the project will support, including Sind Urban Sector Memorandum
(Report 4503-PAK, Kay 1984).
B. Urban Development in Pakistan
1.02    Nearly 30% of Pakistan's population of 92 million (mid-1984 estimate)
live in towns of more than 5,000 inhabitants. Urban population growth is
rapid, averaging 4.1Z per year between 1972 and 1981, compared to an annual
growth rate of 2.1% in rural areas. Urban growth is expected to continue
unabated in the last two decades of the century, yielding an urban population
of 58 million--40Z of the national population--in the year 2000.
1.03    Although difficult to quantify precisely, the growth of the country's
urban economy in recent years has been impressive. Over the past decade,
national non-agricultural GDP grew at an average annual real rate about twice
the rate of the agricultural sector.
1.04    Investment in infrastructure and shelter, however, has lagged behind
urban economic growth. Piped water systems exist only in large cities.
Sewage treatment is practically nonexistent, and disposal is a problem in
most areas; moreover, there is an increasing pollution problem caused by
industrial wastes. The annual production of formal sector housing and serv-
iced plots is equaL to only half the annual increase in urban households.
The result is an increasing recourse to squatter settlements (katchi abadis),
lacking tenure security and most basic services. Nationally, the proportion
of the urban population living in katchi abadis is estimated at 25%. The
proportion is significantly higher in the most rapidly growing cities: 35% in
Karachi; 60Z in Faisalabad.
1.05    The contrast between economic growth and lagging infrastructure
investment in part reflects the poverty of many of the entrants to Pakistan's
cities. Migration from poorer rural areas accounts for nearly 40% of urban
population growth, and poverty remains widespread despite the vitality of the
urban economy. An overriding characteristic of the urban scene is the
inability of the Government to translate economic growth into improved urban
efficiency and living conditions. This has three main causes detailed below.



-2-
1.06    First, the Level of resource mobilization and cost recovery in urban
areas is low. Local governments derive only a small proportion of their
revenues from direct taxes and user charges, and therefore have to rely
primarily on the receipts from octroi. 1/ While the octroi has proven a
buoyant revenue source, total local revenues have scarcely kept up with
inflation and population growth over the past five years. Cost recovery in
the water supply sector is generally poor, financial planning weak, and
efforts to raise tariff levels often frustrated by the argument that such
increases are only possible when service improves. While public agencies are
relatively successful in recovering the direct costs of area development
projects, cost recovery in slum upgrading projects is negligible. The situa-
tion in housing finance is similar. The effective interest rate charged by
the House Building Finance Corporation (the principal source of housing
finance) is Lower than the rate required to mobilize savings in the domestic
economy. As a result, investment in both urban infrastructure and housing
heavily depends on allocations from the Federal budget. Total Federal
allocations for urban water supply, sewerage and housing (excluding govern-
ment employees housing) totalled Rs 3.4 billion during the Fifth Plan period
(1978-83). GOP plans to reduce this funding level during the Sixth Plan,
projecting a much increased contribution of local bodies to this sector.
1.07    A second constraint is institutional. Efficient service delivery is
undermined by the fragmentation of responsibility for urban service delivery
among provincial agencies, development authorities and local governments.
The public sector at most levels has difficulty attracting and retaining
qualified staff. Agencies tend to be poorly organized, with functions often
dispersed across several departments, and their financial planning and
management is inadequate.
1.08    Standards and procedures are a third constraint.  Current standards
for land use, infrastructure, and building are not affordable to the poor and
thus have the effect of excluding a large proportion of the urban population
from formal sector development projects. Site layouts have not made optimal
use of available land, especially in terms of minimizing plot sizes and
maximizing marketable areas. Infrastructure standards have generally been
geared toward upper and middle income gl'oups rather than what would be affor-
dable tc the poor. Building regulations have followed the belief that every
family should have a 'pucca' (permanent) house, without regard to affor-
dability. Finance for plot purchases is typically short term (up to 3 years)
and requires a heavy downpayment. As a result, conventional housing in
public development projects cannot be afforded by an estimated 55Z of all
urban households. Land acquisition, development and allocation policies also
1/ A form of local customs duty or entry tax levied on goods entering urban
areas.



-3-
limit access by low income households to serviced sites. In most cities, the
problem is primarily one of land acquisition and development. While Pakis-
tani law permits a form of land readjustment, 1/ cumbersome procedures limit
its use. In Karachi, the problem is primarily one of allocation. The public
sector has successfully impli .iented massive plot development schemes on the
desert land surrounding Ka.---hi. Due to market forces and the present
allocation system, most of these plots are purchased by investors who do not
build on the land, and few plots are purchased by low income households.
1.09    Several of these constraints have been recognized by COP and are
addressed in the current Plan. A tripling of the contribution of local
bodies to urban investment (compared to Fifth Plan levels) is proposed. The
Plan calls for tariff levels in the water supply sector sufficient to cover
cash operating costs and debt service, full recovery of investment costs in
sites and services projerts, and recovery of 50Z of costs from beneficiaries
in upgrading projects. Standards for development in sites and services
projects would be lowered, with smaller plot sizes and a waiver of building
regulations for low income owner-builders.
1.10    These proposals would represent a major step forward.  However,
implementation depends chiefly on financial and institutional improvements at
the local and provincial levels. Progress is slow in these difficult areas.
C. Role of the Bank in Pakistan's Urban Development
1.11    Bank involvement in Pakistan's urban development has taken the form
of support for projects in Karachi and Lahore, sector work, and a dialogue
with officials at the national, provincial and local levels. The Bank
provided some professional assistance to the federal government in their
studies on urban management and a national human settlements policy. The
immediate objective of Bank involvement in the sector is to help in
strengthening local agencies, increase local resource mobilization, and
fostcr the adoption of more efficient means of urban land, infrastructure and
service delivery. To date, city-specific projects have been the primary
means of pursuing this objective.
1.12    The first two credits in the sector financed two phases of water
supply and sewerage improvements in Lahore. The first, a US$1.75 milLion
credit (Cr. 106-PAK), became effective in 1967; the Second Lahore Water
Supply, Sewerage and Drainage Project, a US$26.6 million credit (Cr.
630-PAK), became effective in 1976. The principal objectives of these
projects were to foster the development of a financially sound water and
1/ Privately owned land is assembled and developed by public agencies. Land
owners are compensated through the return to them of a portion of the
developed land.



-4-
sewerage utility agency for metropolitan Lahore, significantly improve the
level of service, and help prepare an urban project. The Water and Sanita-
tion Agency (WASA), established in 1977, successfully completed the second
project, and although its initial financial performance was disappointing,
this later improved through an operational action plan prepared in 1982,
incorporating specific steps and targets for operational and financial
measures. The agreed performance targets have since been achieved, as
reflected in the recently prepared Project Completion Report.
1.13    In 1984, a US$25 million credit (Cr. 1374-PAK) for improvement of
Karachi's bulk water supply system became effective. As in Lahore, the
project supports the strengthening of an autonomous water and sewerage agency
for the metropolitan area. During project preparation, the Karachi Water and
Sewerage Board (KWSB) was established and an operational action plan was
devised for the new agency; this plan is currently being impl-mented (see
paras 5.12-5.19).
1.14    The Bank's first multi-sector urban project in Pakistan, the Lahore
Urban Development Project, also became effective in 1984. The US$16 million
credit (Cr. 1348-PAK) finances upgrading in Lahore's Walled City, sites and
services development, and improvements to solid waste management. The main
project objectives are to demonstrate low cost shelter policies, to arrest
the decay in urban living conditions, and to strengthen the two project
implementing agencies: Lahore Municipal Corporation and Lahore Development
Authority. The Lahore project also includes the House Building Finance
Corporation (HBFC) as a project intermediary, providing finance to low-income
beneficiaries for house construction as well as for incremental construction
and house repair in the Walled City. HBFC is also involved in the funding of
an area development scheme.
1.15    While Bank-supported urban and water supply projects have generally
been successful in achieving their institution-building objectives and physi-
cal targets, financial improvements have often been delayed by a failure to
identify and agree on specific measures and targets. To overcome these
problems, the more recent projects address major issues in two ways. First,
action plans, identifying specific steps to be taken by each agency, have
been agreed upon during project preparation. These plans, regularly updated,
are used to monitor progress during processing and supervision. Second, the
extent of sector work preceding project preparation has been increased. The
Karachi Special Development Project (KSDP) thus incorporates the findings of
studies on Sind and Karachi finances and on the urban sector in Sind. These
identified, inter alia, the need to improve the organization and coordination
of functions and responsibilities among agencies in Lhe urban sector, the
potential for increased use of property taxes and user charges, and need for
improvement in the pricing and use of public lands. These conclusions
provide the basis for specific actions incorporated in KSDP, and for studies
to be financed by the proposed credit.



D. The Province of Sind
1.16    Sind has a total population of about 22 million, of which about 10
million live in urban areas. Six million live in Karachi. Outside Karachi,
only Hyderabad (800,000) and Sukkur (200,000) have developed as sizeable
commercial centers, but these are growing slowly. Most of the other towns
in Sind are located near the national highway or railway lines and are
primarily agricultural marketing and service centers. The contrast between
Karachi and the rest of Sind is great: on the one hand is the rapidly expand-
ing and dynamic metropolis serving many national functions, while on the
other is a large, poor, and backward area. Relatively little linkage exists
between the two economies.
1.17    The provincial government considers this a major problem and has been
trying to channel some of Karachi's economic growth to the rest of Sind. In
this, it aims not only at reducing the disparity between Karachi and the
smaller towns, but also at relieving pressure on Karachi's urban services.
Dramatic changes in the regional imbalance cannot be expected in the foresee-
able future, however, as strong economic forces continue to spur the growth
of Karachi. Attempts to reduce this imbalance focus on reforms in the
agricultural sector to lessen disparities in income distribution and
encourage investment. At the same time, efforts are now being made to
improve urban service delivery in Karachi, which has increasingly lagged
behind the needs of the growing population. To achieve this, pricing
policies are being introduced which would mobilize from beneficiaries the
resources required for the operation and expansion of the services; this in
itself would reduce the need for provincial subsidies to Karachi and thus
free funds for the remainder of Sind. It could also affect the locational
decisions made by entrepreneurs and help direct some growth to other parts of
Sind.
E. The City of Karachi
1.18    Karachi developed from a small fishing village endowed with a fine
natural harbor into an important commercial center which in 1947 still had
only about 500,000 inhabitants. As the n w nation's capital, it received an
enormous influx of refugees after Independence and grew to 1.7 million
population by 1959 when the seat of national government was transferred to
Islamabad. Despite this shift of Government, immigration continued unabated,
and the population doubled in the following decade. Although the rate of
growth has slowed--from 5.71 per year during the 1960's to 4.3Z during the
1970's--Karachi is expected to have well over 11 million inhabitants by the
end of this century.
1.19    The city's attractiveness to migrants is due to its economic
vitality. In 1972, Karachi accounted for 151 of Pakistan's gross domestic
product (with only 52 of its population); 42X of value added in large-scale
manufacturing; 50Z of bank deposits; and 25% of federal revenues. While it



-6-
is the capital of Sind Province, its primary functions are clearly of
national scope: it is Pakistan's commercial, banking, and industrial center,
has the nation's only port, and offers opportunities for employment like no
other city in the country. Significantly, more that 80% of immigration into
the city comes from provinces other than Sind.
F. Institutions
1.20    Three departments of the provincial government play a major role in
urban development. The Planning and Development Department (POD) evaluates
major public investment proposals, and controLs the allocation of Annual
DeveLopment Program funds. The Department of Town Planning, Housing, Local
Government and Rural Development oversees Karachi's development authority
and local government. The Transport Department controls Karachi's Govern-
ment-owned bus company (KTC) and the Regional Transport Authority which
reguLates private buses and paratransit services in Karachi.
1.21    Karachi Metropolitan Corporation (KHC) is the local government serv-
ing most of the built-up area of metropolitan Karachi. KMC is an elected
body, governed by a mayor and council. Its primary responsibilities consist
of solid waste management, street maintenance, katchi abadi upgrading, public
primary education and medical services. Until the recent creation of the
Karachi Water and Sewerage Board, KMC was also directly responsible for water
distribution and sewerage services within its jurisdiction.
1.22    Karachi Water and Sewerage Board (KWSB), a subsidiary of RMC, was
formed in 1983 through the merger of KNC's water distribution and sewerage
functions, and the bulk water production operations of the Karachi Develop-
ment Authority. KWSB now performs these functions throughout the
metropolitan area.
1.23    Karachi Development Authority (KDA) is the city's primary builder
of infrastructure. KDA's principal activity is the development of residen-
tial plots on publicly owned land on the city's periphery. Since its crea-
tion in 1957, KDA has developed and sold approximately 600,000 plots. KDA
also builds apartments, roads and flood control works, and continues the
construction of some water supply projects, as executing agent for KWSB.
Once sold or completed, KDA's projects are usually turned over to KHC or
KWSB, which are responsible for their maintenance. The city's master plan-
ning, building control and traffic engineering functions are also performed
by KDA.
1.24    Compared with the achievements of municipal authorities elsewhere,
the performance of Karachi's agencies has been impressive, especially with
regard to their implementation capacity. However, problems of coordination
among the various agencies have hampered urban service delivery to some
degree. Two problems are outstanding. First, no effective mechanism exists
for assessing the investment priorities of the metropolitan area as a whole,



-7-
weighing needs against capital and recurrent resource constraints, and
developing a coherent medium term investment program. Instead, KDA and KMC
each maintain their own investment programs, with provincial funding, when
available, provided on a project-by-project basis. As a result, priority
investments are often postponed, and major capital investment programs are
undertaken without due consideration for their future operation and main-
tenance requirements. The establishment of KWSB constitutes a successful
effort to address this problem in the water and sewerage subsector, but the
precedent remains to be extended to other subsectors.
1.25    Second, opportunities for low-cost nlot provision for residential and
industrial use are missed, partly due to lack of coordination between KDA and
KMC. There are striking anomalies between KDA's massive plot development
program and the continued expansion of katchi abadis. The growth of the
latter is partly due to KDA's pricing, standards and plot allocation
policies, which effectively limit the access of low income households to its
projects. In the absence of affordable alternatives, it has been impossible
to enforce the restrictions on katchi abadis provided for in law. Closer
coordination between the two agencies, to ensure that pLots of appropriate
standards are provided in the right place at the right time to attract
would-be squatters, would substantially improve the situation.
1.26    Similar problems of coordination also make service delivery within
local agencies difficult. As is often the case in large municipal
authorities, key functions of KMC are distributed among several different
departments. Katchi abadi upgrading, up to now a directorate under the
Engineering Department, must rely on staff of the Land and Estates Department
for the regularization of plots. Solid waste collection, a Health Department
function, has to depend on vehicles maintained by the Engineering Department.
C.  Resource Mobilization and Cost Recovery
1.27    The level of local resource mobilization in Karachi is low.  In
1983/34, taxes and charges imposed by KMC and KWSB were equivalent to US$14
per capita; this is about half the level found in Bombay, a similarly thriv-
ing industrial city. Local resource mobilization is, moreover, heavily
dependent upon the octroi. This has adverse economic side-effects and
reflects a failure to fully exploit the potentially self-financing nature of
many urban services.
1.28    In 1983/84, octroi revenues accounted for about 60% of the tax and
charge revenues of KHC and KWSB. KMC has statutory access to a general
property tax, administered by the Government of Sind, but due to present
assessment practices and infrequent revaluations, its yields account for only
10% of KMC/KWSB revenues. KMC also imposes a fire and conservancy tax, based
on GOS property assessments and collected by KWSB. Low assessments and
collection problems limit yields of this tax to less than 3Z of total
KMC/KWSB revenues.



-8-
1.29    Water charges imposed by KWSB contribute about 20Z of KMCIKWSB
revenues. This represents a substantial improvement over the performance
of KWSB's predecessors (see para 5.13). Present water revenues are, however,
insufficient to cover the cash operating costs and debt service on KWSB's
water operations, necessitating a recurrent subsidy for water operations from
KMC's general revenues. No direct charge for sewerage service now exists;
this service is fully funded by recurrent subsidies from KMC.
1.30    The level of cost recovery in KMC's katchi abadi upgrading program
is negligible. KMC attempts to recover part of the costs of infrastructure
through the sale of long term leases, but present lease prices are sufficient
to cover only 30Z of upgrading costs, excluding land. Recovery even at this
level is poor, as regularization procedures are cumbersome and persons resid-
ing in katchi abadis since 1978 have de facto security and consequently
little incentive to obtain leases.
1.31    KMC's subsidy to these three potentially self-financing opera-
tions--water, sewerage, and katchi abadi upgrading--totalled Rs 219 million,
or 31Z of recurrent expenditure in 1984/85. This represents a significant
drain on the resources available to fund those activities performed by
KMC--solid waste collection, public education and health care-for which
direct charging is not appropriate. Under the ongoing Karachi Water Supply
Project and the proposed project, resource mobilization measures are expected
to eliminate KMC's subsidy to these three activities by 1989/90.
1.32    Government bus service, similarly, requires a heavy subsidy from
general tax revenues. In 1983/84, less than half of KTC's cash operating
expenses were covered from fares; the remainder was funded by subsidies from
the Government of Sind. This low level of bus revenues in part reflects
concessional student fares mandated by G0S. Other factors are a high level
of pilferage from fareboxes, and a low level of bus outshedding due to inade-
quate maintenance.
1.33    The greatest lost opportunity for local resource generation in
Karachi arises in the pricing of land. As it is located in an arid region,
Karachi is surrounded by publicly owned land. This is presently transferred
from GOS to KDA, which develops it and sells it to private individuals. KDA
is mandated to develop each of its schemes on a no-profit-no-loss basis. The
calculation of costs in KDA's schemes includes only a nominal charge of Rs 2
per square yard for land, and excludes the upstream (water production and
transmission) and downstream (sewerage and wastewater disposal) costs. KDA's
final selling price is often as low as one-fifth the market (resale) price.
This pricing policy is a costly one for the public sector. Public land is
the public sector's principal asset in and around Karachi. Present pricing
policies result in the transfer of that asset, largely to higher income
groups, with little benefit for the public as a whole. It prevents KDA from
obtaining sufficient revenues from land development to establish a continuous



-9-
and expanding program for low income households. Moreover, it encourages
speculation and therefore decreases the supply of land effectively available
for development in Karachi. The issue of 1Rnd pricing has been raised in the
Sind Urban Sector Memorandum and remains a major issue in the Bank's urban
sector policy dialogue, to be continued under the proposed project.
H. Service Levels
1.34    Larg-ly because of these institutional and financial constraints,
urban services in Karachi are severely deficient. Piped water is supplied
at an a-erage level of 20 gallons per person per day. Service is intermittent
and, due to defective pipes and lack of pressure during periods of inter-
rupted service, the supply sometimes becomes contaminated. Only 25% of
households have individual connections; the remaining population is served by
standpipes at a ratio of one standpipe per 300 persons.
1.35    Waterborne sewerage service is available to less than one quarter
of the population, mainly higher income groups. The treatment capacity of
the two existing plants is only 22% of the total daily delivery of potable
water. As a result, most piped sewage as well as much of the waste from
unserviced areas flows directly into open drains and streams.
1.36    Solid waste production averages 3000 tons per day. Of this, only
one-third is collected and disposed of at formal tipping sites. The rest is
dumped at various sites throughout the city, or remains uncollected to rot in
streets and alleys. Moreover, garbage tends to accumulate in drains and
outfalls, thereby aggravating the problem of flooding and waterlogging during
the monsoon season.
1.37    Nowhere are these services so poorly provided as in the 362 katchi
abadis 'squatter settlements) covering 14,000 acres of metropolitan Karachi.
Housing over 2 million people--35Z of Karachi's population--the katchi abadis
are also characterized by unplanned layouts and inadequate circulation and
public spaces. Moreover, insecurity of tenure acts as a disincentive to the
maintenance and improvement of buildings.
1.38    As a corsequence of Karachi's low-density expansion and the enormous
growth in the number of cars, traffic conditions and transport efficiency are
rapidly getting worse. While its thoroughfares are generally wide and
well-spaced, they suffer from increasing traffic congestion. This affects
the efficiency of goods distribution and also reduces the productivity of
buses and minibuses, which cater for 97% of all public transport passengers.
Modern traffic engineeering was introduced on a small scale in the early
1980's, but this was insufficient to prevent the deterioration of traffic
flow conditions and, most alarmingly, the rapid increase in traffic acci-
dents. Traffic safety, congestion and public transport services are now
widely considered to be among Karachi's principal problems.



-10-
I. New Initiatives
1.39    While Karachi faces a number of institutional and financial issues,
it must also be recognized that the city and its agencies have the potential
to address these issues more effectively than most other cities in developing
countries. Although limited in numbers, competent leadership and skilled
staff exist in Karachi's key agencies but effective mechanisms for providing
the broad planning, programming and financial support required to ensure
concerted action and to induce substantial policy changes have been lacking.
1.40    Recognizing the growing problems of Karachi, the increasing risk of
unrest, and the tremendous importance of Karachi in Pakistan's economy, GOP
and GOS in 1983 set up a joint working party under the leadership of the
Federal Ministry of Planning to prepare a Special Program 1/ for achieving
long term improvements in the functioning of the city. This Program was
presented to a Special Consortium meeting in Paris in December 1983, to
obtain technical and financial support from the international community.
Subsequencly, the Bank was asked to take the lead in assessing the proposed
Program and in coordinating donor support.
1.41    The Program as initially presented included investments totaling
about Rs 5,350 million (US$335 million), but with only limited emphasis on
critical institutional and financial issues. During 1984 further work was
done to prioritize investments and to develop further the policy elements
of the proposed Program. The cost of the Program was eventually reduced to
about s 2,378 million (US$149 million), principally by shifting major
investments in bus transport and pipe manufacturing to the private sector,
by modifying design standards, and by sequencing investments more carefully
with some premature investments postponed until a future as yet undefined
second phase of the Program. The resulting first phase of the Program con-
stitutes the proposed Karachi Special Development Project.
1.42    The Asian Development Bank has been involved in the preparation of
the proposed project and will provide cofinancing assistance (see para 3.05).
The French Government has provided technical assistance in the preparation of
transport elements of the project and is considering further financial assis-
tance (see para 5.29). The British Overseas Development Administration and
the Swiss Development Cooperation Directotate have helped finance consultants
for project appraisal by IDA.
1/ Special development programs and projects exist for each Province in
Pakistan. They are jointly defined by GOP and the respective Provincial
Government to include high priority investments. Funds for such special
programs and projects are provided by GOP over and above regular annual
allocations to the Provinces.



-11-
II. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
2.01    The main project objectives are to:
(a) strengthen the institutional capacity of local agencies
to deliver urban services and to manage the
metropolitan area;
(b) improve resource mobilization and cost recovery;
(c) demonstrate the feasibility of new approaches to
providing services to the urban poor; and
(d) directly improve basic urban services, with particular
orientation to the needs of the low income population.
2.02    KSDP aims to achieve these objectives through a series of interven-
tions in five subsectors: water supply and sewerage, flood control, trans-
portation, katchi abadi upgrading, and solid waste management. In each
subsector, physical improvements will be combined with specific institutional
and financial measures consistent with overall project objectives. Global
issues of metropolitan management and resource generation, which cannot be
addressed at the subsectoral level, will be addressed in separate studies.
The studies are designed to produce action plans for implementation beginning
mid-way through the project period.
B. Rationale for Bank Support
2.03 The Bank's urban sector work in Pakistan, and Sind in particular, has
yielded a constructive policy dialogue with Government. Following the start
of the Karachi Water Supply Project (Cr. 1374-PAK), Government is now
prepared to address major problems in other subsectors in Karachi. KSDP
provides the opportunity for the Bank to act as a catalyst in promoting
immediate action on several of these problems and to support studies on
issues which would take more time to resolve. In addition to introducing
sector-specific policy measures, the project's multi-sectoral scope will help
promote a more comprehensive approach to metropolitan development in Karachi
than has been possible in the past. The Bank has also been instrumental in
mobilizing other sources of external funding, for instance, by helping to
arrange parallel financing with ADB, for which KSDP will be the first urban
lending operation in Pakistan.
C. Hain Features
2.04    Table 1 summarizes the subprojects to be implemented under KSDP by
various agencies. Of a total base cost of US$102.4 million, 38Z will be



-12-
allocated to water supply and sewerage investment; 10% to flood control and
drainage; 19% to transportation, 24% to katchi abadi upgrading, and 6% to
solid waste management. The remaining 3Z of funds will be allocated to
metropolitan management and resource generation studies, project management
and accounting assistance to KMC. Four subprojects wilL be financially
assisted by the Asian Development Bank (ADB) which, through a parallel
credit, is expected to finance about 30% of total project cost (net of inter-
est during construction, see para 3.05).
2.05    Specific measures for institutional strengthening under KSDP include
the reorganization of katchi abadi upgrading and solid waste departments
within KMC and the restructuring of traffic engineering responsibilities in
Karachi. Moreover, technical assistance will be provided to KTC, to KMC's
finance, solid waste and katchi abadi upgrading departments, to KDA's traffic
engineering bureau and, in the form of feasibility studies, to various
departments in KMC, KWSB and KDA.
2.u6 Resource mobilization measures include (1) the raising of charges for
katchi abadi regularization so they are sufficient to cover upgrading costs,
(2) the introduction of an earmarked revenue source for KWSB's sewerage
operation, and (3) the extension of the financial targets for KWSB's water
operations agreed in the context of the ongoing Karachi Water Supply Project
(Credit 1374). These three measures are expected to reduce KMC's annual
recurrent subsidy to these activities from Rs 219 million in 1984/85 to Rs 13
million in 1986/87, and to eliminate subsidies entirely by 1989/90, as shown
in Table 2. Measures to improve the financial performance of KTC are also
included in the project. Moreover, a general property revaluation by GOS has
been scheduled to coincide with the project.
Operational Action Plan
2.07    The implementation of physical improvements and policy measures wilL
follow a number of benchmark dates by which specific policy actions should be
taken and by which particular physical improvements should be completed.
While these acticns and improvements are discussed in various places of the
appraisal reuort, they have been grouped into an Operational Action Plan (see
Annex 1) which will facilitate the monitoring of the physical progress of
KSDP and the achievement of its policy objectives. At credit negotiations,
confirmation was given by the executing agencies on the components and dates
contained in the Operational Action Pian. Assurances were also obtained that,
during project implementation, the action plan will be annually reviewed and
updated in consultation with and satisfactory to IDA.



SUL I
KsDP  -  SmmIT nPojI  DUCIfIpo3
BASE COST  EanCUTING
SUBPROJECT               (08$ f )   AGCNCY        M  SICAL UXFROYETZ               INITITTO11IVIElAL ACUIMES               PIUEmniUOLICT  SUyDIlE
WATER AND SIERAGE
KG Canal                     12.6        LW9I     . Rehabilitation                    w aull cost recovery for water
Standby Syphons               5.1        RUSE    . Wew truck lines                    supply operations; Introduction
* Sewege Treatment Plants    20.6          RUSS    . Rehabilitation and expeanion    of independent revenue source
severage study                0.6        1USD                                         for $eworage, eWaiig at full        . 8ewercae study *ad prepera-
cost recovsry                        tlio of Ivestmeat F ° im
FLOOD CMnTOM AND MAINAGE
Kulir Flood Protection        5.1         IDA       h lund construclion             . lestructuring of operations
Storuvater Drainage           2.0         KDA    . Outfall drains construction        and .aintenance responsibility   . Itormater draieage study
TRANSPORTATION
KTC Efficiency Improvements 3.1           KTC    . Depot upgrading                    Difinvestuent of unused plant    . Management assistance
Traffic Engineering           7.7         RDA    . Traffic schemeu                 R.etructuroing of traffie              . Techaical assistance
Road Network Inprovements   7.6           KDA    . Roads and bridges                  eangioering responsibilities;
Name Transit Study            1.2         KDA                                         creatLon of Traffie Opemwlious   . Study of bigh-capacity
Cos_nittee                           syatws
RATCRI ASADI UPGRADING                    INC    Upgrading * regularization for    Reorgaixatlion of reep. agency   . Land mgrket study
* Orangsi  laldia              16.3                 . 2300 acres, 350,000 residents . Simplification of procedures          . Pilot land developpap t schie
Inner areas                   8.2                 . 1100 acres, 2J0,000 residents .P lot ebarge increase to               * Technical assistance
aehieve full cost reovery                                                   I
Pilot land development  chine . Nw  physical standards
* SCLID WASTE HAGENEUT          6.2         INC    . Vehicles, equipment, work-    . Reorganication of reap. agency   . Technical assistance
shops, landfill sites           . Zapansion of servies ino
low-income areas
OTHER
Netrop. )(anagesent Study    1.1          GOS                                        . Action plans to be devoloped       . Inter-and intra-agency study
* Resource Generation Study   0.7           COS                                          based on study recomndatione   . Study to raise Govt. revenues
INC Financial Management    0.4           IKC                                        . Update accounts; improve methods . Identify loWner-trsr  imptovo'te
Project Honitoring Unit       0.9         GO                                       .V Wv 0e    agency                    . Pkeparation of future projects
TOTAL LASE COST             !02.4
* Physical Lnprovments to be supported by ADE loan (see pat, 3.04)
NOTE: ee Annex 2 for relationship between total project costs and base coats.



-14-
Table 2: IMPACT OF FINANCIAL IMPROVEMENT ON KMC SUBSIDIES
MILLIONS OF RUPEES
1984/85 1985/86 1986/87 1987/88 1988/89 1989/90
WATER SUPPLY
Revenue                  230.0    353.5   407.8   470.3   582.3    655.9
Cash expenditure*        328.6    352.4   378.7   409.1   442.3    523.7
Subsidy                   98.6       0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0       0.0
SEWERAGE
Revenue                    3.0       3.5    81.1    94.5   107.7    122.7
Cash expenditure*         76,6     83.2    93.9   101.4   109.2    117.3
Subsidy                   73.6      79.7    12.8      6.9     1.5       0.0
KATCHI ABADI UPGRADING**
Principal receivable       3.7      55.7   126.2   166.5   176.4    213.5
Annual expenditure        50.0      54.1   122.0   165.8   159.7    160.7
Net unrecoverable         46.3       0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0
TOTAL SUBSIDY,
UNRECOVERABLE          218.5     79.7    12.8      6.9      1.5       0.0
As Z of KMC recurrent   31%        11%      2%       1%      0%        0%
expenditure
* Operating expense less depreciation, plus debt service.
* Principal receivable is sum of payments due for work done in current
year, excluding interest
Receivables and annual expenditures include work funded by katchi
abadi revolving fund



-15-
D. Detailed Project Description
Water and Sewerage
2.08    Rehabilitation of K-C Canal (base cost:  USSl2.6 million, Rs 202
million).  The K-G canal is a vital part of the system linking Karachi with
its principal source of water, the Indus River. The original design
specified concrete lining for the entire 17 mile length of the canal, but
funding constraints dictated that only a short section could be lined. The
banks of the unlined part are suffering from excessive seepage and are col-
lapsing in places. These collapses threaten the viability of the canal which
needs urgent repair. Present canal capacity is 210 cubic feet per second
(cusecs), compared with a design capacity and requirement from this source of
1200 cusecs. The subproject will finance the canal rehabilitation, including
earthworks and provision of concrete lining to the bed and walls to permit a
flow of 1200 cusecs.
2.09    Standby Syphons  (US$5.1 million, Rs 81 million).  The prestressed
concrete pipe syphons No. 19 and 20 (two parallel pipes each) are vital
components of the system through which water is pumped from the Indus River
to Karachi.  They have, however, suffered serious major bursts frequentLy
disrupting water supplies to the city.  To ensure that supplies can be main-
tained in case of further bursts and allow for major maintenance work to be
carried out on the existing syphons, an additional 84 inch diameter standby
syphon will be built in parallel to each of the existing units. Their
lengths will be approximately the same as those of the existing syphons, i.e.
16,500 feet (No. 19) and 12,000 feet (No. 20). The pipes for the new syphons
will be specially fabricated using sulphate resisting cement, bitumen coated,
and laid on a 12 inch thick sand cushion to avoid corrosion. Transition
chambers will be provided to link the new and the existing syphons.
2.10    Sewage Treatment Plant Upgrading  (US$20.6 million, Rs 328 million).
This component includes the rehabilitation and expansion of Karachi's two
sewage treatment plants. Worn-out equipment will be replaced or repaired.
The combined capacity of the two plants will be increased from the present
throughput of 35 million gallons per day (MGD) to about 127 MGD, by enlarging
the inlet facilities, eliminating recirculation, and raising primary treat-
ment capacity of the plants; of the total amount treated, only 20 MCD will go
through a biological process. About 15 km of collapsed sewers will be
replaced, and additional improvements will be made to the existing trunk
sewerage network feeding each plant. Moreover, disused power generation
units will be renovated and activated to produce up to 25 million kWh per
year of electricity from methane gas produced by the digestion of sewage
sludge. The sewage plant upgrading will be accompanied by a comprehensive
feasibility study (see below) and by the introduction of an earmarked revenue
source for KWSB's sewerage operations, to replace the present system of ad
hoc transfers from KMC (paras 6.03 - 6.05).



-16-
2.11    Sewerage and Wastewater Disposal Study (US$0.6 million, Rs 10 mil-
lion). Due to Karachi's rapid growth and recent developments in
cost-effective treatment technoLogy, the existing 1974 master plan for
sewerage in Karachi needs to be updated. The study to be financed under the
project will revise demand forecasts, investigate alternative disposal sys-
tems and technologies, examine the problem of industrial wastes, and propose
a phased program of investments through the year 2000. The study will also
propose improvements in organization, management, maintenance and cost
recovery in sewerage operations.
Flood Control and Drainage
2.12    Malir River Flood Protection Scheme (US$8.1 million, Rs 129 million).
Flooding o. the Malir River during the short monsoon period often causes
extensive damage to heavily developed areas along the river's banks. A major
flood in 1977 killed 367 people and resulted in losses to industrial property
estimated at Rs 1 billion. Following the 1977 flood, a five-phase program of
flood control works was developed. Two of the phases have been implemented,
and works on the third phase are in progress. The project will finance the
fourth and part of the fifth (final) phase of flood control works. One of
the flood control bunds has been designed in such a way that a new road can
follow its alignment (para 2.16).
2.13    Stormwater Drainage Scheme  (US$2.0 million, Rs 31 million).  The
Old City is heavily populated and is one of the principal business centers
of Greater Karachi. Storm drainage from this area discharges into the
adjacent tidal areas through four outfall channels, which are at present
unlined and have no protection from the constant ingress and egress of tidal
waters. These problems are aggravated by inadequate carrying capacity and
chokage due to uncollected garbage and silting, and as a consequence many
streets flood during the rainy season. Thus, as a first stage of a longer
term phased program of improvements to the storm drainage system, cleaning,
minor modifications, construction of channels and provision of tidal gates to
the four main outfalls of the Old City will be carried out. This will be
complemented by a comprehensive study to update and expand the 22 year old
drainage master plan.
Transportation
2.14    KTC Efficiency Improvements (US$3.1 million, Rs 50 million). This
subproject aims at productivity improvements for the Government-owned bus
company to (a) reduce operating costs, (b) increase the supply of bus serv-
ices, and (c) reduce the need for Government subsidies. An ambitious
proposal to double KTC bus services within a year was, during the appraisal
of KSDP, scaled down to a more realistic target of increasing services by 50%
over four years, without fleet expansion. This will be achieved through
productivity improvements, including raising the outshedding rate of the



-17-
existing fleet. The subproject envisages extensive technical assistance,
training and depot upgrading, including some machinery and improvements to
hardstands, buildings and utilities. The physical investments will be imple-
mented during the latter part of KSDP and are contingent on the achievement
of specified operational and financial targets (see para 5.27 and Operational
Action Plan, Annex 1).
2.15    Traffic Engineering Program (US$7.7 million, Rs 123 million).  Aimed
at supporting low cost solutions to traffic congestion and means of improving
traffic safety, the subproject will finance channelization of intersections,
lane markings, sign posting, parking control, pedestrian overpasses, and
coordinated traffic signals. Training facilities for traffic poLice, and a
road safety education program wiLl also be financed by the project. These
investments are linked to an expansion and strengthening of the functions of
the Traffic Engineering Bureau and the establishment of a high level Traffic
Operations Committee (para 5.21).
2.16    Road Network Improvements (US$7.6 million, Rs 121 million). This
subproject will finance improvements at three key bottlenecks in Karachi's
road network: (1) A new bridge will be built across the M4alir River to link
central Karachi with the expanding industrial/residential area of Korangi.
The bridge will replace an existing causeway which is closed by annual flood-
ing and requires extensive annual repairs; (2) a new road along the Malir
flood control bund (para 2.12) will link the new Malir bridge to one of the
city's circumferential highways, permitting traffic to bypass the congested
city center; and (3) a road overpass will be built over the railway at
Quaidabad. This will greatly improve the access from Korangi to Karachi's
second port and to National Highway 1, eliminating an existing railway grade
crossing which is closed about 100 times daily.
2.17    Mass Transit Study (US$1.2 million, Rs 20 million). To complement
traffic engineering and road investments, a major study will be undertaken
to take a longer-range view of the city's public transport needs and options.
It will evaluate alternative high-performance bus and light rail systems in
the light of projected demand, evaluate their economic and operational
feasibility, and recommend an investment program for 1988-1995. Broad
guidelines for longer term mass transit development and for private sector
involvement will be included.
Katchi Abadi Upgrading and Regularization
2.18    This subproject (US$24.5 million, Rs 392 million) will upgrade about
3400 acres of land in 18 katchi abadis, benefitting nearly 600,000 people.
All land to be upgraded is in public ownership. The project will improve
basic urban infrastructure and services, and provide occupants with security
of tenure in the form of 99-year leases. The upgrading of the two largest
katchi abadis on the fringe of Karachi, Orangi and Baldia, will be supported
by ADB's credit.



-18-
2.19    A pilot project of guided land development on about 100 acres of land
is also included in KSDP. The project will create about 2500 plots with the
most basic services, in an area of incipient katchi abadi development. A
portion of the pLots will be made available to households relocated from the
upgrading projects. The primary objective of the pilot project is to test
the feasibility of a lower-standard approach than used in the past for the
provision of serviced plots to low income households. If successful, it may
provide the basis for a dcparture from the present plot development and
allocation practices of KDA.
2.20    Investment in the subproject are linked to major institutional and
financial reforms, including the creation of a Katchi Abadi Department within
KMC and the introduction of user charges sufficient to cover all upgrading
costs. A simplified leasing procedure will be introduced, reducing the
number of steps from eleven to five. Funds recovered through user charges
will be deposited in a revolving fund, which will be used to finance further
upgrading schemes. Details of the proposed institutionaL and financial
measures are described in paras 5.03 and 6.07-6.12.
2.21    This package of investments and immediate institutional and policy
reforms will be accompanied by a study of longer term issues in the subsec-
tor. The study will investi&ate the present operation of the land market in
Karachi and the policies o' agencies involved in the development and sale of
land. It will recommend measures to improve access for low income households
to land, and measures to exploit better the potential of public land as a
Government asset.
Solid Waste Management
2.22    This subproject (US$6.2 million, Rs 100 million) will finance a major
expansion of KMC's solid waste management operations, thereby increasing the
collection and disposal of solid waste from 302 of all households at present
to 60Z coverage by the end of the KSDP implementation period. Three quarters
of the proposed investment will be for vehicles--essentially large-capacity
refuse vans. In addition, six zonal workshops, for vehicle parking, fuelling
and first line maintenance will be upgraded, and two new sanitary landfill
disposal sites will be developed. These investments are linked to a reor-
ganization of KMC's solid waste management operations (para 5.04).
Metropolitan Studies and Financial Management
2.23    Metropolitan Management and Budgeting Study (US$1.1 million, Rs 18
million). The study will examine problems of inter-agency coordination,
focussing on gaps in service provision and problems of investment/maintenance
coordination that result from the present distribution of responsibilities.
Internal management problems of key metropolitan agencies will also be
examined.



-19-
2.24    Metropolitan Resource Generation Study  (US$0.7 million, Rs 11 mil-
lion). The study will examine the constraints on resource generation t'ffor-
dability, intergovernmental fiscal policies, local fiscal policies and tax
administration) and recommend measures to increase revenues available to
local agencies.
2.25    Results of Metropolitan Studies.  A steering committee, chaired by
the GOS Finance Secretary, will oversee the consultants on both metropolitan
studies. Both studies are expected to yield action plans suitable for
implementation beginning in the project period; as appropriate these may
include programs for staff training. Assurances were obtained at nego-
tiations that, after review and discussion with IDA, appropriate recommenda-
tions will be implemented during project implementation.
2.26    KMC F:nancial Management (US$0.4 million, Rs 7 million). This sub-
project will finance a team of local consultants to: (1) assist KMC in
updating its accounts and in implementing short term procedural improvements
in its existing system; (2) identify more fundamental changes in procedures,
legislation and personnel practices and design an action plan for their
implementation; and (3) provide on the job training. A two-year consultancy
is envisaged, overlapping with the metropolitan studies.
Training
2.27   Training of local government personnel is an important function of
KSDP, in line with the overall project objective to strengthen the institu-
tional capacity of local agencies. Accordingly, training components are
included in virtually all subprojects described above. Personnel training
will be achieved through on the job training, in house technical advisors,
and specific training programs. On the job training will be part of the
responsibilities of the consultants working with KDA's Traffic Engineering
Bureau, KTC, KMC's Finance and Katchi Abadi Departments and KWSB's sewerage
operations. A full time consultant will also work in the new Solid Waste
Management Department of KMC, along with the local staff, on the design and
implementation of the new solid waste management organization and staff
training program.
2.28    In the longer term, staff training will be institutionalized in
Karachi's local agencies. Therefore, the terms of reference for the
metropolitan management and the metropolitan resource generation studies
specify as one of their outputs the design of training programs for govern-
ment staff in order to improve metropolitan management and finance. A total
of US$300,000 is included in the project cost to start implementing these
training programs upon completion of the studies in FY 1987/88.



-20-
III. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimates
3.01    Total project costs, including contingencies, are estimated at Rs
2378 million (US$148.6 million). The foreign exchange requirement is Rs 682
million (US$42.6 million) or 29% of total project costs. Taxes and duties
are estimated at Rs 130 million (US$8.1 million). The total cost of all
subprojects assisted by the proposed IDA credit is Rs 1427 million (US$89.2
million), or 60% of overall project costs. The remaining 40% (Rs 951 mil-
lion, or US$59.4 million) are associated with the subprojects to be assisted
by ADB.  Summary cost estimates are given in Table 3, a breakdown for each
subproject in Annex 2, and detailed cost estimates in Annex 3.
3.Oz    Base cost estimates for IDA-assisted components are in December 1984
prices, which are also the basis for the PCI and PC2 documents submitted by
the Karachi agencies to the provincial and federal planning authorities; the
base costs have not been updated to current prices in order to maintain
consistency with Government practice. Base costs for ADB-assisted components
are in June 1985 prices, consistent with the practice adopted by ADB's
appraisal mission. Price increases since the respective base dates are
included in price contingencies. Cost estimates for civil works are based
partly on preliminary and partly on final designs, and on the costs of
similar works carried out recently in Karachi. Estimates for equipment,
vehicles, and materials are based on recent quotations from suppliers. Physi-
cal contingencies on civil works and equipment range from 5% to 10Z, depend-
ing on the type of subproject and the status of preparation.
3.03    Design and supervision costs are estimated at 5% of base costs for
water and flood control subprojects, and at 7-9% for road, traffic, katchi
abadi upgrading and solid waste subprojects. Price contingencies for foreign
costs are based on international inflation estimates of 1.1, 6.25Z and 7.75Z
for the fiscal years 1984/85 through 1986/87, and 8% for the years there-
after. Domestic inflation rates zre estimated at 12% and 10% for 1984/85 and
1985/86, and at 9Z for the years thereafter. These inflation rates, and the
assumption that KSDP would be implemented within 6 years (para 4.03), are the
basis for calculating price contingencies. The implementation period is
equal to the average for IDA-assisted urban projects in South Asia and is
considered feasible given the experience of the major executing agencies.



-21-
TABLE 3
KSDP - SUMMARY COST ESTIMATES
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total                Z of
Rs                        US$           % Foreign  Base
SUBSECTOR             million                   million           Exchange  Cost
Water Supply
and Sewerage   422      199     621    26.4    12.5    38.9       32        38
Flood Control
and Drainage   152        8     160      9.6     0.5    10.1       5        10
Transportation  233       81     314    14.6      5.0    19.6      26        19
Katchi Abadi
Upgrading      291      101     392    18.2      6.3    24.5      26        24
SoLid Waste
Management       7       93     100      0.4     5.8     6.2      93         6
Other,incl.      22       28      50      1.3     1.8     3.1      56         3
Training
TOTAL BASE
COST          1127      510    1637    70.5    31.9   102.4       31       100
Design &
Supervision     52       17      69      3.2     1.1     4.3      25         4
Physical
Contingencies   79       28     107      4.9     1.7     6.6      26         7
Subtotal       1258     555    1813    78.6    34.7   113.3        31       111
Price
Contingencies  438      127     565    27.4      7.9    35.3      22        34
TOTAL PROJECT
COST          1696     682    2378   106.0    42.6   148.6        29       145
Of which
Taxes:         130        0     130    8.1       0      8.1
V:         7.7              5.5    7.7              5.5
NOTE:  See Annex 2 for cost breakdown by subproject
and external funding agency.



-22-
Status of Preparation
3.04    Final designs and bid documents have been completed or are in
advanced stages of preparation for the water supply, flood protection, road
and solid waste subprojects. The same applies for the first year's implemen-
tation of the traffic engineering subproject. It is expected that contracts
valued at a total of about US$4 million will have been awarded by January
1986. The original plan for sewage treatment plant upgrading has been
revised, and the detailed design of this subproject is expected to be com-
pleted by about September 1986. Terms of reference have been prepared and
reviewed for the four major studies. Consultant proposaLs are being invited
and it is expected that the major studies will have commenced by mid-1986. A
Project Monitoring Unit has been established and its director appointed (see
para 5.01).
B. Financing Plan
3.05    External financing will be provided in parallel by the Asian Develop-
ment Bank (US$44.4 million) and IDA (US$70 million). In addition, ADB will
provide US$6.5 million for interest during construction. Net of interest
financing, the proposed external financing of US$114.4 million will finance
77% of total project costs, or 81% of total project cost net of taxes and
duties.  It will cover 100% of foreign exchange costs (US$42.6 millLon) and
682 of local costs. ADB will help finance the sewage treatment plant, solid
waste management, upgrading of two katchi abadis, and the resource generation
study. IDA will help finance the remaininE subprojects. The GOP will
provide the balance of the funding, or US$34.2 million equivalent.
Counterpart Finance and Flow of Funds
3.06    A plan for the flow of project funds is shown in Chart 1.  The IDA
credit of US$70 million will be made available to GOP, on standard IDA terms.
ADB funds equivalent to US$44.4 million, will be lent to GOP from ADB's Asian
Development Fund. GOP will pass the procoeds of the two credits to GOS on
the terms and conditions on which they were respectively received. GOP will
contribute the balance of US$34.2 million from its own resources, passed to
GOS on a grant basis.
3.07    The total project funds to be managed by GOS, US$148.6 million will
be distributed as follows:
- US$39.3 million will be passed from GOS to KDA for execution
of flood control, drainage, traffic engineering, and road
improvements, and the mass transit study;
- US$4.4 million will be passed from GOS to KTC for execution
of the KTC improvement subproject;



-23-
CHA   1
FUNDS FLOW
| IDA                           ATi  R    1 
US$ SMN  70.0    $ MN                 44.4
(US MN 114.6)
GOVT. OF PAKISTAN
. US$ MN   34.2
(US$ MN 1148.6)
1                           [GSEXECuME
|GOVT. OF SI    -(US$ M  3.4)     SUBROJECTS
(US$ MN 145.2)
(US$LPM33                (U$  RMNR 4.4)         (US$ MN   101.5)
KAAH                  KARACHI                KARACH
DEVELOPOMEN              TRANiSPORT            IMETROPOLIT 'AN
AUTHORITY              .cORORATION              CORPORATION
(US$ MN  56.3)
KAAH
WATER AND
SEWERAGE
BOARD
BUS,LAS 
FARES ,                 CHARGES,,
LOCAL            WATER ,
CONSERVANCY
CHARGES
1/ Excludes US$6.5 million in financing of interest during construction.



-24-
- US$101.5 million wilL be passed from GOS to KMC. KMC wilL
execute the katchi abadi upgrading, solid waste management,
and accounting assistance subprojects; it will also onlend
US$56.3 million to KWSB for the implementation of water
supply and sewerage subprojects;
- US$3.4 million will be retained by GOS for execution of the
metropolitan management and resource generation studies, and
for project management.
3.08    Cost recovery by executing agencies will take the form of water
tariffs and conservancy (incl. sewerage) charges in KWSB-executed projects,
lease-charges for katchi abadi upgrading, local taxes for solid waste manage-
ment, and bus fares for KTC improvements.
3.09    The proceeds of the IDA credit will be onlent by GOS under the fol-
lowing terms and conditions: (i) to KHC for katchi abadi upgrading, at an
annual surcharge of 7Z with a repayment period of 25 years, including 6
years' grace; (ii) to KTC for physical improvements, and to KWSB through KMC
for the water supply subprojects, at an annual surcharge of 11% with a repay-
ment period of 25 years including 6 years' grace; and (iii) to KDA for the
flood control, drainage and transportation subprojects, and to KMC, KWSB
(through KMC) and KTC for various studies, technical assistance and training,
on a grant basis. The signing of subsidiary loan agreements between GOS and
the relevant implementing agencies is a condition of credit effectiveness.



-25-
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Execution
4.01    The preparation of final designs and bid documents, and the execution
of each subproject will be under the responsibility of the following
entities:
Executing    External
Agency     Finance
(a)  Rehabilitation of Kinjhar-Gujjo Canal                 KWSB         IDA
(b)  Standby Syphons                                       KWSB         IDA
(c)  Sewage Treatment Plant Upgrading                      KWSB         ADB
(d)  Sewerage and Wastewater Disposal Study                KWSB         IDA
(e)  Malir River Flood Protection Scheme                    KDA         IDA
(f)  Stormwater Drainage Scheme                             KDA         IDA
(g)  Efficiency Improvements for Karachi Transport Corp.  KTC           IDA
(h)  Traffic Engineering Program                            KDA         IDA
(i)  Road Network Improvements                              KDA         IDA
(j)  Mass Transit Study                                     KDA         IDA
(k)  Katchi Abadi Upgrading and Regularization              KMC       ADB/IDA
(1)  Solid Waste Management                                 KMC         ADB
(m) Metropolitan Management and Budgeting Study             GOS         IDA
(n)  Metropolitan Resource Generation Study                 GOS         ADB
4.02    Four of the above subprojects (items d, j, m and n) are major studies
which will be conducted by consortia of local and foreign consultants. Tech-
nical guidance to the consultants will be provided by specifically designated
steering committees including representatives of GOS, and the respective
local agencies. Similar arrangements are envisaged for smaller studies that
are part of the stormwater drainage and katchi abadi upgrading subprojects.
S. Implementation Schedule
4.03    COS and the local executing agencies expect project implementation
to be completed in about 4 years.  That implementation schedule is shown in
Chart 2. While the Karachi authorities have shown themselves to be efficient
in project execution and should be supported in aiming for a relatively short
implementation span, unforeseen delays should be allowed for. Hence, price
contingencies, financial analysis and economic evaluation have been based on
a 6-year implementation period, which is the historical average implementa-
tion period for urban projects in South Asia.
C. Procurement
4.04    Table 4 breaks down total project costs, including contingencies,
for the principal types of procurement. On all IDA-supported subprojects,
procurement will take place in accordance with Bank guidelines. Contracts
of about US$24 million will be awarded through local competitive bidding
(LCB), while contracts for about US$53 million will be awarded through inter-
national competitive bidding (ICB). Existing local bidding procedures have
been reviewed. While the review sho-aed that the procedures generally ensure
adequate competition, encourage economy and efficiency, and



-26-
Chart 2
KARACHI SPECIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
1985        1916              197      1      196              196             910        l
SWROUT             F-WS/6            -        7             7M- _ eV89/90                                    FtWP
1   2   3  A          2  3 2   3  .4                       3  2    '1  2       3  4 _   2   3
KG C'ANAI.us *...                 p.  pn-s                 us        ~
STANDBYSVPHONS           .-  .. .-. _        _         _     _    _   _   _  _   _       -
SEWAGE TREATMENT      . .. r. p.  *I.,  .,
SIMIERAGE SIUDY
ROD OD                    -. .. _  _ _ _                                         -
SrORMWAI  DRAINS        I... u X  _       __
KdC Itw1PAOVEMENTfS                       .~mgSES              PIPP
TRAFRIC ENGINEERING                                                          
ROAD IMPROvEMENTS        ...     .  -      U                m _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
WISS IQANSrF SrUJDY_ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _
VATCJ4I ABADI uPGIRADING
Laic Dev S_herne                       _   _   _ m  m    -  -
| Lnd Market Studv
SOLID WASIE MANAGEMEN.
Equiprrment
METncP MANAGEIENT SiuoY                                      I _   _
RESOURCE GENERAONSNDY                 _ _          _ _
KMC RNANOAL ADVKE                  _       _    _    _    _    _    _
Legar4:
s.... ... Detailede IOgendefnrq
ImRierneOtihon                                                                           Wld Oanik-27560
-resnrrig &Eva.Uatbon



-27-
do not preclude foreign bidders from participating in locally advertised
bidding, the review also revealed that the procedures do not fully comply
with Bank guidelines in some areas, e.g.: (a) inadequate time is allowed by
some agencies for bid submission, (b) bid evaluation criteria are not always
sufficientLy clear, (c) the lowest priced bid is sometimes favored, rather
than the lowest evaluated responsive bid, and (d) bid opening does not always
occur promptly after bid submission. Assurances were obtained during nego-
tiations that Bank procurement guidelines will be complied with; attention
will have to be given during project execution to avoid the anomalies listed
above.
Table 4: PROCUREMENT METHOD /a
(US$ million)
Component                  ICB      LCB      Other /b    N.A. /c       Total
Land                                                       0.8           0.8
Civil Works               49.9      22.0       29.5                     101.4
(39.8)    (17.5)                              (57.3)
Equipment                  2.7       2.2       22.9                      27.8
(2.7)     (1.1)                               (3.8)
Technical Assistance                            1.1        8.9           10.0
(8.9)          (8.9)
Incr. Staff Salaries                                       0.5            0.5
Duties and Taxes                                5.9        2.2            8.1
TOTAL                52.6      24.2       59.4       12.4          148.6
(42.5)    (1R.6)                (8.9)         (70.0)
/a Figures in parentheses are amounts to be financed by IDA.
T7 SuLprojects assisted by Asian Development Bank
Wi Not applicable
Equipment
4.05    A sum of US$27.8 million, inclusive of contingencies, will be for
procurement of goods, vehicles, and equipment. Of this amount, US$2.7 mil-
lion will be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding under
IDA procurement guidelines. A margin of preference of 15Z or the applicable
customs duty, whichever is lower, wilL be extended to local manufactu-ers in
bid evaluation. Contracts for equipment totalling US$22.9 million will be
awarded under ADB procurement guidelines. Contracts for equipment totalling



-28-
US$2.2 million will be awarded on the basis of Local competitive bidding.
This includes such items as office machinery and road safety equipment, in
relatively small quantities which would not attract the interest of foreign
suppliers.
Civil Works
4.06    Expenditures of US$101.4 million inclusive of contingencies will be
incurred on civil works. Of this amount, contracts worth US$49.9 million
will be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding (under IDA
procurement guidelines) for major works involving the K-C Canal, syphons,
drainage, and roadworks. A margin of preference of 7.5Z on ICB civil works
contracts will be extended to qualified Local contractors in bid evaluation.
Contracts for the flood control works on the left bank of the Malir River
will be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding, and so will be the
initial traffic engineering improvements. Contracts for civil works totall-
ing US$29.5 million will be awarded under ADB procurement guidelines.
4.07    Contracts for civil works in the katchi abadi upgrading subprojects
will be small. Given the Large number of these contracts and the simple,
labor intensive technology employed, it is not expected that they will
attract the interest of foreign bidders. These works will therefore be
executed on the basis of local competitive bidding or, in some cases, be
built by force account. Force account is proposed for some of the smaLl
katchi abadis, where work will have to be executed within narrow confines or
have to take account of special conditions such as high water levels. Past
experience has shown that it is often difficult to find contractors willing
to undertake such work at competitive prices; also, the effective planning
and scheduling of many small contracts in such a complex environment often
goes beyond the capabilities of the supervising agency. Works to be done by
force account will not exceed an 'ggregate value of US$3 million equivalent.
4.08    In the interests of efficiency, civil works will be aggregated into
large contracts wherever feasible. In the inner katchi abadis, upgrading
works will generally be grouped and contracts awarded on an "area" rather
than a "component" basis in order to: (a) minimize the period of disruption
due to construction; (b) maximize the impact of the completed improvement
which would ease cost recovery from beneficiaries; (c) improve coordination
of civil works; and (d) facilitate the supervision of contractors.
Technical Assistance
4.09    A sum of US$10 million, inclusive of contingencies, will be incurred
on technical assistance and training. Of this amount, contracts totalling
US$8.9 million, covering the five IDA-financed studies and technical assis-
tance to KMIC, KTC, the Traffic Engineering Bureau and the Project Monitoring
Unit (to assist in the preparation of possible future projects; see para
5.01), will be awarded in accordance with Bank guidelines for the use of



-29-
consultants. Contracts totalling US$1.1 million, covering the resource
generation study and implementation assistance on the sewage treatment plant,
*olid waste. and ADB-financed portion of the katchi abadi upgrading sub-
project, wilL be contracted according to ADB guidelines.
Contract Review
4.10    For large contracts in IDA-assisted subprojects, the final designs,
specifications, advertisements for bids, bid evaluations, contract awards
and contract terms are subject to prior review by IDA. This includes all
equipment contracts above US$300,000 and all civil works contracts above
US$700,000. This will cover about 70% of the total value of all IDA-assisted
equipment and civil works contracts. Other contracts will be reviewed after
award but prior to disbursements.
Land Acquisition
4.11    For most subprojects, including the upgrading of katchi abadis, land
has already been owned by Government for many years. However, some land had
to be acquired to permit the full implementation of the following sub-
projects:
- Malir Flood Protection       416 acres
- Road Network Improvements      6 acres
- Solid Waste Management       150 acres
In all cases, the specific parcels of land required have been identified and
their acquisition is underway. No problems are anticipated in completing
acquisition and it is expected that all land will be in the hands of the
respective agencies by March 31, 1986.
4.12    About 400 dwellings, mostly occupied by squatters, needed to be
removed as part of the Malir flood protection scheme. KDA, the agency respon-
sible for the implementation of this subproject, has allocated alternative
plots to the people who are already in the course of shifting their residen-
ces.
D. Operations and Maintenance
4.13    Emphasis on capital works projects, fragmentation and unclear
delineation of responsibilities, and lack of funds often prevent satisfactory
performance in the operation and maintenance of public utilities and
municipal services. Appropriate levels of operation and maintenance and a
proper pricing structure for urban services generally are, therefore, a
priority objective of the project.
4.14    GOS and the respective government agencies agree that full cost
recovery, to the extent practical, is essential for continued upgrading and



-30-
augmentation of urban services as well as for proper operation and main-
tenance of both past and future investments. Therefore, KSDP emphasizes
(i) assessment of adequate levels of operations and maintenance expenditure,
(ii) introduction of measures to recover full costs, specifically for water
supply, sewerage, and katchi abadi upgrading, (iii) revision of institutional
responsibilities for operations and maintenance, specifically for traffic
engineering, katchi abadi upgrading and solid waste management, (iv) studies
to improve the institutional set-up in certain other fields, specifically
stormwater drainage and mass transit, and (v) study to strengthen global
metropoLitan management; a principaL objective of this is the improvement of
budgeting coordination between capital and recurrent expenditures.
E. Disbursements
4.15    Disbursements from the IDA credit wilL be made against expendituras
for vehicles, equipment, civil works, technical assistance and training, ac
the folLowing percentages:
(a) 100% of foreign expenditure, or 1OOZ of local expenditure
(ex factory), for goods and equipment procured through
international competitive bidding (ICB);
Cb) 50% of expenditure for goods and equipment procured through
Local competitive bidding (LCB);
Cc) 76Z of expenditure for civil works;
Cd) 100% of expenditure on consultants services, technical
assistance and training.
4.16    Disbursements will be fully documented except for:  (a) payments made
under civil works contracts for one or more progress payments not exceeding
US$75,000; (b) payments made for civil works by force account; and (c) pay-
ments for locally procured items of equipment costing US$50,000 or less.
Such disbursements will be made against statements of expenditures (SOEs),
the documentation for which will not be submitted to IDA but retained and
made available for inspection during the course of project review missions.
The SOEs will be included in the annual audit which COS will be required to
furnish to IDA within nine months from the end of each fiscal year.



-31-
4.17    The proceeds of the US$70 million IDA credit are allocated against
the following three main components:
-  Vehicles and equipment              US$3.8  million (5X)
-  Civil Works                         US$57.3 million (82X)
-  Consultants services, technical   US$8.9. million (13Z)
assistance and training
Retroactive financing of up to US$1.4 million will be provided to cover
eligible expenditures incurred after November 1985.
4.18    As described in paragraph 4.03, cost estimates and financial and
economic analyses of the project are based on a 6-year implementation period.
Accordingly, disbursements are projected to continue until September 30,
1992, the proposed Credit Closing Date, i.e. two quarters after the end of
the expected 6-year implementation period. The estimated disbursement
schedule is shown in Table 5.
Special Accounts
4.19    To ensure that project activities are carried out promptly, the
Government will open and maintain in US Dollars two Special Accounts with
the National Bank of Pakistan. One will be for the subprojects to be
executed by KDA, and the other one for the subprojects to be executed by
KMC/KWSB. The opening of these accounts will be done in accordance with
procedures and on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. Most
IDA-financed expenditures will be made through the Special Accounts. The
initial deposit by IDA into the KDA and KMC/KWSB Special Accounts will be
US$4.0 million (each account $2 million), representing IDA's share of expen-
ditures for about four months. RepLenishments will be made on the basis of
withdrawal statements submitted by the executing agencies.
F. Accounts and Audits
4.20    Separate project accounts will be maintained by each of the executing
agencies involved, giving breakdowns for land acquisition; civil works;
vehicles and equipment; consulting services, technical assistance and train-
ing. The project expenditures will be accounted for separately by category
for each fiscal year. The Project Monitoring Unit (PMU) within the GOS
Planning and Deveiopment Department (see para 5.01) will have the respon-
sibility of collecting project accounts from the executing agencies, review-
ing them and arranging annual audits by independent auditors acceptable to
IDA. The annual audits of project accounts in all implementing agencies will
be submitted to IDA within nine months after the close of each fiscal year.



-32-
TABLE S
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
Quarterly          Cumulative    Cumulative
Fiscal        Quarter        Disbursements       Disbursements   Percentage
Year          Ending          (USs milLion)      (US$ million)         Z
1987      Sept. 30, 1986         1.0                 1.0               1
Dec. 31,  1986        2.5                 3.5                5
March 31, 1987        2.5                 6.0                9
June 30,  1987        3.5                 9.5               14
1988      Sept. 30, 1987        3.5                 13.0              19
Dec. 31,  1987        3.5                16.5              24
March 31, 1988        3.5                20.0              29
June 30,  1988        3.7                23.7              34
1989      Sept. 30, 1988        4.1                 27.8              40
Dec. 31,  1988        4.1                31.9              46
March 31, 1989        4.1                36.0              51
June 30,  1989        4.0                40.0              57
1990      Sept. 30, 1989         3.2                43.2              62
Dec. 31,  1989        3.2                46.4              66
March 31, 1990        3.2                49.6               71
June 30,  1990        2.9                52.5               75
1991      Sept. 30, 1990         2.4                54.9              78
Dec. 31,  1990        2.4                57.3              82
March 31, 1991        2.3                59.6              85
June 30,  1991        2.1                61.7              88
1992      Sept 30,  1991         2.0                63.7              91
Dec. 31,  1991        2.0                65.7              94
March 31, 1992        1.8                67.5              96
June 30,  1992        1.5                69.0              99
1993      Sept. 30, 1992         1.0                70.0             100



-33-
G. Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting Requirements
4.21    Each of the executing agencies will prepare brief monthly progress
reports, which would be submitted to the PMU. The PMU will make recommenda-
tions on any corrective actions considered necessary to ensure that project
component objectives, implementation schedules and cost estimates are
achieved. Based on the monthly reports and its own supervision and controls,
the PMU will prepare quarterly reports on the progress of the project high-
lighting any major problems and suggestions for overcoming them. The
quarterly reports setting out physical and financial data regarding each
component, will be submitted to IDA within one month following the end of
each reporting quarter.
4.22    The PMU will establish reporting formats, monitoring indicators and
develop evaluation techniques to measure progress in meeting physical, finan-
cial, institutional and programmatic goals and ultimately to measure project
achievements. The monitoring procedures and format will be periodically
reviewed with IDA and updated as necessary.
H. Supervision
4.23    About i50 staff weeks of Bank supervision will be required over the
six-year project execution period. This is slightly more than the South Asia
average of 20 staff weeks per year for supervision of urban projects.
However, as the project covers a number of subsectors, it is more complex
than the average urban project. Moreover, it is the first urban project in
Karachi, and thus warrants special attention, especially during the initial
years of project execution.
V.   IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES
A. Project Organization
5.01    Overall project monitoring and coordination will be performed by a
Project Monitoring Unit, which has been set up as a discrete unit within the
GOS Planning and Development Department. The Director of the PMU has been
appointed. The PMU will monitor the implementation of physical components,
the execution of studies to be conducted under the KSDP and the achievement
of cost recovery targets and other policy measures. The PMU will also peri-
odically update, with each agency, its work schedule, coordinate operations
among the agencies, ensure the timely availability of resources, maintain
records of disbursement applications and payments, and prepare periodic
reports for review by IDA and Government. During the second half of the
ocoject period, the PMU will be responsible for the preparation of possible
future projects in Sind.



-34-
B. Karachi Metropolitan Corporation (KMC)
5.02    KMC will implement the katchi abadi upgrading and solid waste manage-
ment subprojects; it will also receive technical assistance to improve its
financial management. KMC has jurisdiction over most of metropolitan
Karachi, ard is governed by an elected mayor and council. It has about
30,000 employees and an annual budget of about Rs. 1.2 billion (US$75 mil-
lion).
Organization and Staffing
5.03    Katchi Abadi Upgrading.  Until recently, KMC's katchi abadi upgrading
operations were assigned to a directorate within the Department of Engineer-
ing. Tho directorate was responsible for surveying and preparing improvement
plans, but actual implementation depended on the investment priorities of the
various utility agencies and the KMC council. The Land and Estates Department
was responsible for cost recovery and regularization of tenure. Coordination
among the various entities was poor and the scale of upgrading activities
small, relative to the size of the problem. In November 1985, the KMC Coun-
cil approved the upgrading of the directorate to department status. The new
Department of Katchi Abadis (DKA) is responsible for the design and award of
contracts, and for the supervision of construction (except those involving
utilities.) Cost recovery, community development, and tenure regularization
functions are also grouped within the department. All funding for the
upgrading project will be channeled through DKA, and funds recovered through
lease payments will be deposited in a revolving fund, whose proceeds will be
used to finance continuation of the upgrading program and of low-cost land
development schemes.
5.04    Solid Waste Management.  KMC's solid waste management operations were
until recently the responsibility of the Director of Health Services. In
practice, day-to-day operations control was exercised at the fourth-tier
management level (by subinspectors), the highest management post devoted
exclusively to solid waste management. Service delivery was limited by the
availability of vehicles. Though the Health Department was nominally respon-
sible for maintenance and minor repair, the main burden fell on the central
workshops, under the Engineering Department. The provision of spare parts
and fuel, in turn, was the responsibility of the Materials a-i Purchasing
Department. Management control was thus fragmented, responsibilities were
divided, and the main burden of this major municipal respons-Nility fell on
doctors, whose professional skills are in an entirely different field. In
November 1985, the KMC Council approved the creation of a separate Solid
Waste Management Department, with responsibility for all solid waste manage-
ment, by bringing together the relevant staff of the Health and Engineering
Departments.



-35-
5.05    Organizational improvements in both katchi abadi upgrading and solid
waste management will require significant reassignment of staff respon-
sibilities. Together with physical investments and financial measures, they
are considered an integral part of the subprojects. Targets have been iden-
tified in the operational action plan, and progress on implementation will be
monitored.
5.06    Financial Management.  KMC operates on a cash-based accounting sys-
tem. The budget document serves as the principal instrument of financial
planning and expenditure control. Internal audit is performed by a provin-
cial agent, posted on-site. This system is effective in controlling expendi-
tures but fails to provide an adequate basis for financial policy making,
accountability and timely financial reporting. KMC has taken steps to improve
its accounting system, with a recent effort to introduce a simple form of
double-entry bookkeeping. However, it lacks the staff to improve the system
on a timely basis and is encumbered by obsolete procedures and regulations.
Funds are therefore provided under RSDP to employ local consultants during
the first two years of project implementation to assist KMC in upgrading its
existing financial system, to review existing systems and regulations, to
recommend appropriate reforms, and to provide training.
Finances
5.07    KMC derives about 75% of recurrent revenues from octroi, an import
tax imposed on goods entering the city. The majority of octroi revenues are
collected at the port where the tax is assessed on an ad-valorem basis; thus,
revenues rise automatically with increasing prices and trade. Between FY
1979180 and FY 1982/83, octroi revenues increased at an average annual rate
of 25%. Despite the buoyancy of its revenues, KMC's financial position is
strained because of the functions which must be financed on a recurrent
basis. In addition to the operating expenditures for solid waste management,
primary education, street maintenance and drainage, KMC must cover the
operating deficits of KWSB. KMC's subsidy to KWSB equalled 22% of KMC's
recurrent expenditure in FY 1983/84, or 39% of KWSB's recurrent expenditure.
5.08   Alternative sources of revenue are not being exploited to any major
degree. KMC has statutory access to a property tax, which is assessed and
collected by the provincial government. Yields are low, as properties are
missing from the assessment lists, revaluations are infrequent, the present
system of valuation fails to capture taxable capacity, and billing and col-
lection practices are deficient. KMC also imposes a fire and conservancy
tax. Its assessments are based on GOS property valuation lists, and its
yields are correspondingly small.
5.09    In the absence of alternative sources of finance, KMC must find the
majority of its capital expenditures from current account surpluses. Inter-
nally generated capital resources (including miscellaneous receipts) totalled
Rs 398 million in 1983/84.  Of this amount, roughly 13% was consumed by



-36-
capital grants to KWSB for water and sewerage investment. An additional 13X
was spent on KMC's ongoing katchi abadi upgrading program.
5.10    Under the resource mobilization and cost recovery measures incor-
porated in the project, recurrent subsidies to KWSB wilL be phased out, as
shown in Table 6. With the water tariff increase implemented in October 1985
and the planned introduction of the new conservancy tax, it is expected that
KWSB's subsidy will be reduced to 2% of KMC recurrent expenditure in FY
1986/87. Later increases in the conservancy surcharge will eliminate all
recurrent subsidies to KWSB by 1989/90. Projected water tariff increases
after FY 1985/86 will permit KWSB to fund an increasing share of its capital
investment program from internal resources, reducing the proportion of KMC
funding from internally generated capital resources from 13% in 1983/84 to 4%
in 1986/87. Increases in lease charges for katchi abadis will, similarly,
reduce the need for funding from KMC internally generated resources. Funds
generated from lease payments in schemes financed under KSDP will be
deposited in a revolving fund to finance subsequent schemes (see para 6.11).
5.11    While GOS intends to undertake a general revaluation of property
early in the project period, increases in property tax yields are expected
to be relatively small. This is because the GOS assessment method, though
ostensibly based on aknual rental value, in practice uses physical charac-
teristics to determine value. Such a 'points' system, though potentially
high yielding, allows the assessor to ignore increasing market values in
determining property values. Means of significantly increasing revenues
would be identified in the proposed metropolitan resource generation study.
C. Karachi Water and Sewerage Board (KWSB)
5.12    KWSB will execute the water supply and sewerage subprojects. KWSB
is a subsidiary of KMC and is headed by a managing director; it has authority
to set tariffs and personnel policy, - bject to KMC approval.
Organization and Staffing
5.13    KWSB was created in 1983 through the merger of the Karachi Water
Management Board (KWMB), the water operations of the KDA and the sewerage
operations of KMC. As line staff largely continued in their existing func-
tions, the reorganization went smoothly. Technical assistance to KWSB's
Finance Department is included in the ongoing Karachi Water Supply Project
(Credit 1374). Recommendations of the consultants, including the com-
puterization of the accounting system and a reorganization of the finance
department, are in the process of implementation.



-37-                                          Table 6
KARACHI SPECIAL DEVELOPHENI PROJECT
KARACHI METROPOLITAN CORPORATION
SUMNARY FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS (CASH BASIS)
1993/04  1984/05  1985106  1986/97  1987I0e  1989899  1999190  1990/91  1991/92  1992193
CURRENT ACCOUNT
REVENUE
OCTROI                       713.3   825.9    953.9   1091.9  1249.5   1430.1   1636.7  1873.2  2143.9  2453.7
PROPERTY                     122.9    15.4    148.9    162.3    177.0    152.9    210.2    229.2   249.9    272.3
OTHER                        117.e    166.7    183.4   240.9   277.4    317.0    362.3    360.8   412.6    471.9
TOTAL                        954.0   1128.0   1296.3   1495.0   1703.9   1940.0   2209.3   2463.2   2806.3   3197.7
EXPENDITURE
SOLID WASTE IGHT             163.9    166.9    192.8    220.6    252.5    289.0    330.8    37e.5   433.2    495.8
YEHICLE RENEWALS FUND          0.0      0.0      4.0     10.9    15.9      18.9     19.9      0.0      0.0      0.0
ROAD MAINT.                  101.2    112.4    129.9    148.6   170.1    194.6    222.7   254.9   291.9    333.9
EDUCATION, MEDICAL           140.3   165.9    191.6    219.3   251.0    297.3   329.8    376.3   430.6   492.9
OTHER KMC RECUR               61.9    93.7    108.2    123.9   141.8    162.2    195.7   212.5   243.2    278.4
SUBTOTAL                     467.3   538.9    626.4   723.3   031.2    952.0   1087.8   1222.3  1398.9   1601.0
KMSD RECUNT SUBSIDY           134.7    172.2     79.7     12.E      6.9      1.5      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
DBOT SERVICE: KSDP              0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0    19.6    93.9    120.9
OTHR              4.1      4.1      4.1      4.1      4.1      4.1      4.1      4.1      4.1      4.1
TOTAL EXPENDITURE             606.1    715.2    710.2   740.2    942.2    957.6   1091.9   1246.0  1406.8   1726.0
#KVSB SUSIDY AS I
TOTAL RECURPENT EXPENDITUR      222      241      11       21       1       02      0o        0x       07.       01
CAITAL ACCOUNT
RECEIPTS
SURPLUS ON CURPENT ACCT      347.9    412.8    576.1    754.8   861.6   982.4   1117.4  1217.3  1319.5   1471.8
OTHER INTERNAL                26.4    27.3    29.3       30.9    32.8      34.7    36.7      39.9     41.2      43.7
IDA,ADD LOANS                  0.0      0.0     71.4    153.9   17e.e    150.8      90.5    52.7    26.8        0.0
OTHER SOURCES                 24.1    27.9      29.3     30.6    32.1    34.1       36.1    39.3    40.5        42.9
TOTAL                        399.4   467.9    705.0   970.1  1105.2  1201.9   1270.7  1347.2  1429.1   1558.4
EXPENDITURE
KS    PROJECT                  0.0      0.0     71.4    153.9   178.8    150.8      90.5     52.7    26.8        0.0
ROADS. MEDCAL. ETC           350.8    415.5   577.2    781.9   999.1  1021.1   1162.6   1274.5  1393.9   1558.4
SUBTOTAL                     350.9    415.5    648.5    935.8  1077.9   1171.9   1243.0  1327.2  1420.7   1559.4
KNSD CAPiTAL GkANTS           47.6    52.4      56.5    34.3    27.3       30.0    27.6    20.0        7.3       0.?
TOTAL                        398.4   467.9    705.0    970.1   1105.2   1201.9   1270.7  1347.2  1428.1   1558.4
*USD GRANTS AS 2 INTENLLY
6ENERATD CAPITAL RECEIPTS       13X      122       9X       42       31       31       22       22       1       02



-38-
Finance
5.14    About 33Z of KWSB's net water production is distributed to bulk
consumers, principalLy industrial and defense installations. These consumers
are billed on the basis of metered consumption. Defective meters have
resulted in disputes over billings. Frequently bills are based on meter
readings taken several years ago and do not reflect growth in consumption.
Monitoring of billing and collection performance has also been inadequate,
with the resuLt that major arrears have gone undetected. KWSB has addressed
the latter problem through the establishment of a computerized billing and
collection system, and stepped-up action to collect major arrears. Prelimi-
nary data suggest these measures have been effective. In 1983/84, total
receipts from bulk operations (including arrears) slightly exceeded current
billings. While KWSB has initiated a parallel program of meter rep.iir for
bulk consumers, equivalent results are not yet in evidence.
5.15    The remaining 67% of net water production is supplied to unmetered
'retail' customers. Residential retail customers with individual water
connections are billed on the basis of floor area; those without individual
connections are charged a flat fee. Industrial and commercial retail cus-
tomers are billed on the basis of annual rental value, with a higher rate
charged to consumers with individual water connections. Retail revenues have
been constrained by an incomplete customer registry and poor collection
performance. KWSB undertook a comprehensive resurvey of retail customers in
1983, which revealed approximately one-third of customers missing from the
existing customer registry. Data gathered by the survey will permit the
computerization of retail billing and collections. Full implementation of the
new billing system, however, has been delayed by keypunching problems, and by
disputes in areas where water charges are being introduced for the first
time. KWSB intends to complete the implementation early in 1986.
5.16    Financial targets for KWSB's water operations were agreed upon during
negotiations of Credit 1374 and were incorporated in a project action plan.
The plan calls for KWSB to generate gross revenues from operations sufficient
to cover operating costs (excluding depreciation) and debt service, beginning
in FY 1985/86. In October 1985, KMC enacted a tariff increase of 25Z for
retail customers and of 502 for bulk customers, which is expected to suffice
to meet the FY 1985/86 target. IDA projections (Table 7) based on assump-
tions detailed in Annex 4 indicate that tariff increases of about 10% would
be required to meet financial targets in subsequent years.
5.17    At negotiations, assurances were obtained that KWSB will continue to
comply, for the duration of KSDP, with the financial targets of Credit 1374.
Accordingly, KWSB will recover from user charges all its cash expenses and,



-39-                                     Table 7
KARACHI SPECIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KARACHI WATER AND SEWERAGE BOARD
SUMNMARY INCOME STATEMENT PROJECTIONS (CASH BASIS)
MATER OPERATIONS            1983/84  1984/85  1985196  1996/07  1987i80  1988/89  1989/90  1990/91  1991/92  1992/93  1993(94
RECEIPTS
BULK METERED REYENUE          99.4    108.0    164.1    197.9   214.8    291.9    325.5    362.9   404.3    450.1    500.7
RETAIL FL AREA REVENUE       106.0    110.2    176.4    205.7   239.8   273.3   311.4   354.8   404.3   460.7    525.0
OTHER REVENUE                 10.8     11.9     13.0     14.3     15.7     17.3     19.0     20.9     23.0      25.3     27.9
SUBSIDY                       66.8     98.6      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
TOTAL                         283.0    328.6    353.5    407.8   470.3    582.3    655.9    738.7   831.6    936.1   1053.6
EXPENDITURE
ESTABLISHMENT                 83.8    91.8      99.2    106.3    114.0    122.2    131.0    140.4    150.5    161.4    173.0
OTHER RECUR COSTS            100.9    218.5    234.9    254.1    276.9    301.9    329.3    359.5   392.7    429.2    469.4
DEPRECIATION                  53.2     58.3     64.3     72.8    81.9    91.3    100.0    109.9   121.2    132.8    142.2
TOTAL OP COSTS                317.9   368.7    398.4    433.3   472.6    515.3    560.2    609.7    664.4    723.4    784.6
SURPLUSIDEFICIT               -34.9    -40.0    -44.9    -25.5    -2.3      67.0     95.7    128.9   167.2    212.8    269.0
INTEP.EST                     16.0     15.8     15.5     15.2    14.8    14.5    52.5    78.3    76.1    141.1    250.2
NET INCOME                    -50.9   -55.8    -60.4    -40.7    -17.1      52.6     43.2     50.7     91.2     71.6      18.8
OPERATING REYENUE AS I
WORKING EXP.. DEBT
SERVICE COSTS                   767      70Z     100!     109!    115!    132!        1251     1241    130Z      1231     1121
CONTRIB TO INVESTMENT            NA       NA        1l       II%     24!      521      46!       46U      41!      25!      39Z
SEWERAGE OPERATIONS
RECEIPTS
MATER TARIFF SRHARSE           0.0      0.0      0.0     77.1    89.9   102.5    116.8   186.3   212.3   241.9    275.6
OTHER REVENUE                  2.5      3.0      3.5      4.0      4.5      5.2      5.9      6.8      7.8       8.9     10.2
SUBSIDY                       67.9    73.6      79.7     12.8      6.9      1.5      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
TOTAL                          70.4     76.6     83.2     93.9   101.4   109.2    122.7   193.1   220.0    250.8    285.8
EXPENDITURE
ESTABLISHMENT                 20.6    22.5      24.4     26.1    28.0    30.0    32.2        34.5    37.0      39.6      42.5
OTHER RECUR COSTS             42.1     46.3     50.9     56.0    61.6      67.7    74.5    81.9    90.1        99.2    109.1
DEPRECIATION                  10.6     11.6     12.8     15.8    21.2    27.4    32.8    36.1    40.9    45.9            50.9
TOTAL OP COSTS                 73.2    80.4      98.0     97.9   110.8   125.2    139.5    152.6   168.0   184.6    202.4
SURPLUS/DEFICIT                -2.8    -3.8      -4.9     -4.0    -9.4   -16.0   -16.8        40.5    52.0    66.2        83.4
INTEREST                       5.8      5.7      5.5      8.9      8.7      9.4      8.1     44.6    43.4    42.1       40.7
NEr INCOME                     -8.6    -9.5   -10.4   -12.9   -1E.0   -24.4   -24.9    -4.1             8.6    24.1       42.7
OPERATING REVENUE AS I
WORKING EXP., DEBT
SERVICE COSTS                    0I       0!       0!      86!      93!      99!     105Z      110!    11!      1271     137!
CONTRIE TO INVEST M  T                                                                  4!       II     28X       37!      512



-40-
in addition, sufficient funds to contribute 10Z towards its investment needs
in 1986/87, 20X in 1987/88, and 30X in subsequent years. The remainder of
financing required for infrastructure investments will, in all probability,
continue to come in the form of transfers or loans from KMC, GOS and other
agencies.
5.18    An additional issue affecting KWSB's financial condition is the
extent of its liability for debt incurred by KDA on water investments prior
to 1983. These include provincial loans for the Greater Karachi Water Supply
Schen,e, and several foreign loans. As of June 1983, accumulated principal
and interest totalled Rs 217 million. Debt service on these loans, if
refinanced at prevailing interest rates, could amount to as much as 10X of
the KWSB's recurrent expenditure. Chartered accountants have been retained
by GOS to determine the extent of the KWSB's liability for these loans. The
tariff projections in Table 7 assume KWSB will be liable for debt service on
the principal outstanding as of the date KDA ceased debt service, but not for
interest accumulated since that date.
5.19    KWSB's sewerage operations are supported by open-ended transfers from
KMC's general revenues. An earmarked revenue source for sewerage will be
introduced under the project (paras 6.03-6.05). Rates will be increased
during project implementation sufficiently to produce gross revenues equal to'
operating costs (excluding depreciation) and debt service, by 1989/90.
D. Karachi Development Authority (KDA)
5.20    KDA will execute the transportation, flood control and drainage
subprojects. KDA is a statutory body constituted under President Order V
of 1957. It is controlled by a Governing Body of 13 members, with the Com-
missioner of the Karachi Division of Sind as Chairman, and the Mayor, Deputy
Mayor and Director General KDA as members; overall, 9 of the 13 members are
elected public representatives. The main functions of KDA are planning and
development, co-ordination with line agencies, provision of sites and serv-
ices schemes, and provision of urban infrastructure on behalf of GOS and
local agencies. KDA has developed a strong technical and professional cadre
in the fields of planning and development of land and infrastructure. Its
performance as an executing agency for major works under the Karachi Water
Supply Project (Credit 1374) indicates that it would be fully capable of
executing its responsibilities under KSDP. This role involves no sustained
financial obligations such as debt service (to be paid by GOS) or maintenance
(largely the responsibility of KHC).
5.21    Within KDA, the Traffic Engineering Bureau (TEB) will be responsible
for the detailed design of traffic engineering improvements and will oversee
their implementation by local agencies. At present TEB operates with a
relatively small staff and is responsible only for overall traffic planning
and for the design of KDA constructed traffic schemes. The project envisages
a permanent expansion of TEB's role, to include the planning, design,



-41-
implementation, maintenance and monitoring of traffic schemes throughout the
metropolitan area, including responsibility for signalization, other traffic
management measures, and traffic safety programs. In addition, a high-level
Traffic Operations Committee has been established during project preparation
to coordinate the traffic-related activities of KDA, KMC, the Cantonment
Boards, and other agencies.
E. Karachi Transport Corporation (KTC)
5.22    Karachi Transport Corporation will implement the KTC improvement
subproject.   KTC is a public enterprise, wholly owned by the Government o'.
Sind. Created in 1977, KTC provides about 10% of all mass transit in
metropolitan Karachi. Private buses and minibuses provide the remainder.
Organization and Staffing
5.23    Day-to-day operations of KTC are the responsibility of a managing
director who reports to a Board of Directors under the chairmanship of the
GOS Additional Chief Secretary. Total staff strength is 4206. KTC has his-
torically suffered from weak management, poor financial controls, and over-
staffing, which have resulted in persistent financial problems.
Finance
5.24    KTC's operating revenues in FY 1982/83 totaled Rs 88 million, less
than half its operating expenses of Rs 181 million. In FY 1983/84, operating
revenues declined to Rs 87 million and operating expenses increased to Rs 193
million; thus, the ratio of expenses to revenues deteriorated from 2.05 in
1982/83 to 2.22 in 1983/84. Preliminary indications for FY 1984/85 suggest a
slight improvement in KTC's financial performance.
5.25    KTC's financial problems are due to the inefficiency of its opera-
tions. Except for concessional student fares, KTC's tariffs are identical to
those charged by profit-making private bus operations. Poor financial control
over fare collections are a major problem, with pilferage estimated to equal
one fourth of revenues. Inadequate maintenance and staff absenteeism further
reduce KTC's revenue potential: only about 300 buses, i.e. 40% of its serv-
iceable fleet, are turned out on a typical weekday.
5.26   The proposed KTC subproject will emphasize institutional and opera-
tional improvements to increase the productivity of KTC and to substantially
reduce public subsidies to KTC by the end of the project period. There will
be no fleet expansion. The growth in travel demand will be met largely by
privately operated buses and minibuses which already carry about 90% of all
passengers in Karachi.
5.27   The first phase of the subproject will consist of about 100 man-months
of technical assistance to staff a four-man Management Support Unit for two



-42-
years. It was agreed during negotiations that all other investments are
included in a second phase which will be contingent on KTC achieving the
following performance targets for a period of 12 consecutive months.
(i) Outshedding ratio of 80% of the serviceable fleet, compared to
40% today;
(ii) Manning ratio of 8.8 staff per bus, compared to 13.2 today;
(iii) 170 commercial kilometers per bus per day, compared to 156
today;
(iv) Four breakdowns per 10,000 bus kilometers, compared to 10.6
today; and
(v) Operating ratio (operating expenditures divided by total
revenues) of 1.54, compared to 2.17 today.
5.28    As shown in the Operational Action Plan (Annex 1), the following key
actions will be taken as part of the KTC subproject:
(a) By December 31, 1985, KTC will submit to IDA a time-bound program
for limited plant disinvestment and for staff reduction/attrition
of about 10% by FY 1987/88.
(b) By March 31, 1986, GOS will provide Rs 24 million (US$1.5
million) to KTC for the purchase of badly needed spare parts
(this amount is not included in the project cost);
(c) By May 31, 1986, KTC will establish a Management Support
Unit with four senior advisers finar.ned through the project.
5.29    The Management Support Unit will assist GOS and KTC in further defin-
ing and implementing the managerial and operational improvements and training
programs required to achieve the targets listed above. The French Government
has provided technical assistance to help prepare the preliminary action plan
and to help establish the above performance targets. This work was completed
in August 1985. Further French assistance may be forthcoming (para 1.42).



-43-
VI. RESOURCE MOBILIZATION, COST RECOVERY AND AFFORDABILITY
6.01    About 62% of project costs will be recovered directly from
beneficiaries. Costs of water and sewerage investments will be fully
recovered through water tariffs and a sewerage charge implicit in the revised
conservancy tax. Costs of upgrading and sites and services will be fully
recovered through sale of long-term leases and utility connection fees. The
remaining 38% of project costs will not be recovered directly. They include
costs of solid waste management, road, traffic and flood control i.tvestments,
studies, and technicaL assistance. However, broader resource mobilization
measures (including property taxes) will increase general revenues avaiLable
for such investments.
A. Water and Sewerage Charges
6.02    Investment costs in water production will be recovered through bulk
and retail water tariffs, which were recently increased under the terms
agreed in connection with the ongoing Karachi Water Supply Project (Credit
1374).
6.03    No mezhanism now exists for directly charging for sewerage services.
Gross operating costs and capital expenditures are funded through ad hoc
transfers from KMC. KWSB administers a conservancy (sanitation) and fire tax
on behalf of KMC, but its yields net of collection costs are turned over to
KMC. Billing lists are incomplete and assessments out of date. Differences
in assessment methods and definitions of liability require KWSB to maintain
separate administrative systems for water charges and conservancy/fire char-
ges. As a result of these problems, yields are low and administration costs
unnecessarily high.
6.04    Under the project, the system for assessing and collecting the con-
servancy/fire tax will be combined with that used for water charges. This
will broaden the base of the tax to include all properties on the KWSB water
customer registry, and will eliminate duplication in revenue administration.
A share of revenues will still be turned over to KMC. This share will be
fixed, assuring KIWSB of a reliable designated revenue source for its sewerage
operations.
6.05    Under the plan agreed upon at negotiations, the conservancy surcharge
will be set at 75% of the retail water tariff, with 50% of the proceeds to be
retained by KWSB and the remainder to be transferred to KMC. Implementation
is expected to begin in the 1985186 billing year. IDA projections based on
assumptions in Annex 4 indicate that KWSB's share of the surcharge will be
sufficient to cover 90% of working expenses and debt service on sewerage
operations in 1986/87, and 100% of those costs of 1988/89. While debt serv-
ice on KSDP-financed sewerage investment are likely to result in negative
cash flow in the two subsequent years, conservancy surcharge revenues are



-44-
projected to generate internal funds sufficient to cover a significant
proportion of sewerage investment beginning in FY 1992/93.
B.  Property Taxes
6.06    GOc is considering a general revaluation of properties in Karachi,
to begin early in 1986. Due to the present system of valuation, assessments
are expected to increase by only 30%. Reform of the GOS property tax is
complicated by the existence of a parallel property related tax in the form
of KWSB's water charge. Consolidation or coordination of the two taxes would
be desirabLe. Due to the compLexity of the issue, proposals for changes in
the COS vaLuation system and for coordination with KWSB's water charge have
been incorporated in the terms of reference for the Metropolitan Resource
Generation Study, for implementation beginning in October 1988 (see Opera-
tional Action Plan, Annex 1).
C. Charges for Katchi Abadi Upgrading
6.07    Costs of upgrading katchi abadis will be recovered through the sale
of 99-year leases. Lease rates have been set to permit full cost recovery
for on-site infrastructure, related off-site infrastructure and community
facilities. Land is priced at Rs 5 per square yard. Though this is substan-
tially less than the market rate, it is intended to introduce the principle
of charging for publicly owned land, and represents a significant departure
from present practice.
6.08    Prices on individual plots vary by location and plot size, rangin2g
from Rs 35 to Rs 300 per square yard. Higher prices for commercial property
reflect their greater market value. Higher prices for large residential
properties are based on equity considerations, but also reflect both higher
costs of extending services and higher market value.
6.09    For those beneficiaries who do not pay the lease price in full, a
downpayment of at least 25% will be required, with the balance of the lease
rate recovered over 4 years, at a 12% annual surcharge. This surcharge is
substantially above the average effective rate on housing loans charged by
the House Building Finance Corporation, which is about 7.5%. With inflation
expected to average 9% over the repayment period, the surcharge is positive
in real terms.
6.10    The Operational Action Plan calls for the new upgrading lease rates
to be approved by the KMC Council by March 31, 1986. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that (a) the new lease rates and procedures will be
applied; (b) an annual surcharge of not less than 12% will be charged to
beneficiaries in katchi abadi upgrading schemes; and (c) lease payments will
be deposited in a revolving fund to finance similar projects in the future.
6.11    Table 8 shows the projected cash flow of the katchi abadi revolving
fund. The projections assume a six and seven fiscal year implementation
period for katchi abadis on the fringe, and center of Karachi, respectively



-45.                                              Table 8
Katchi Abadi Upgrading
Revolvina Fund Projections
(RS MN)
1985/96  1986b/0  1987198  1988189  1999/90  1990/91  1991/92  1992/93  1993/94  1994/95
RECEIPTS
LOAN
AID/QOS                    47.9    100.1    109.1      82.2      25.3      0.0      0.0       0.0
IDA/60S                    6.2      13.0     19.7     34.6      50.1     52.7     26.8       0.0
TOTAL                      54.1    113.1    127.8    116.8       75.4     52.7     26.8       0.0
LEASE PAYMENTS               13.9     49.0     99.4    152.9    199.9    220.7    219.8    204.2    178.6    153.1
TOTAL                       68.0    162.0    226.2    269.7    275.3    273.4    245.6    204.2    178.6    153.1
EXPENDITURE
KSDP-FINAWCED             54.1    113.1    127.9    116.9       75.4     52.7     26.8       0.0      0.0      0.0
FUND-FINANCED                        9.9     39.1     42.9      85.3     97.3    109.9      99.5    106.6     79.3
TOTAL UPGRADING           54.1    122.0    165.9    159.7    160.7    140.1    136.7        98.5    106.6     79.3
AUDI TO CASH RESERVE          5.0      2.0     17.5     24.7      27.2     23.5      10.4     -0.9     -7.3    -12.0
TOTAL                       59.1    123.9    t83.3    184.4    198.0    163.5    147.1        97.5     99.3     66.5
NET CASH FLON                  9.9     39.1     42.9     85.3      87.3    109.9     98.5    106.6      79.3     86.6
CASH RESERVE                   5.0      7.0     24.5     49.2      76.4     99.9    110.4    109.4    102.1    89.3
PRINCIPAL RECEIVABLE
KSDP FINANCED              55.7    115.7    125.3    133.9    135.9       78.5      15.8      0.0      0.0      0.0
FURND-FINANCED               0.0     10.5     41.2      12.6     77.7    109.5    137.8    123.5    133.7      99.4
TOTAL                      55.7    126.2    166.5    176.4    213.5    188.0    153.6    123.5    133.7        9.4
DUE:    FY86                13.9                                                                                         13.9
FY87               17.4      31.6                                                                               49.0
FY99               17.4      39.4     41.6                                                                       90.4
FY99               17.4      39.4     52.0     44.1                                                             152.9
FY90                         39.4     52.0     55.1      53.4                                                   199.8
FY91                                  52.0     55.1      66.7     47.0                                         220.7
FY92                                           55.1      66.7    59.7      38.4                                210.9
FY93                                                     66.7     59.7     48.0      30.9                      204.2
FY94                                                              50.7     48.0      30.6     33.4              179.6
FY95                                                                       48.0      38.6     41.7     24.9    153.1
CALCULATION OF FUND-FINCD  ACTIVITY
* NET OF ALLOCATIONS FOR PILOT LAND DEVELOPMET  ND STUDY
NET CASH FLOW, PRECEEDING YEAR          8.9     39.1     42.9      95.3     87.3    109.9      99.5    106.6     79.3      86.6
UP6R0D COST PER M2 (RS)                52.6     57.3     62.4      68.1     74.2     90.9      88.1     96.1    104.7    114.1
UPRAINS 112 MN)                         0.2      0.7      0.7       1.3      1.2       1.4      1.1      1.1      0.8       0.8
LEASE PAYABLE (I/OT LOAN)              10.5     41.2     42.6      77.7    109.5    137.8    123.5    133.7       9.4    108.5
(LEASE PATE PER K2)                  62.0     62.0     62.0      62.0     93.0    101.4    110.5    120.4    131.3    143.1
FUN-FINANCED UP6RADINS IS FUNDE  FRON NET CASH FLOM IN PRECEEDING YEAR
CASH RESERVE IS NAINTAINED AT 5OZ OF RECEIPTS FROM LEASE PAYMENTS IN PREVIOUS YEAR
LEASE CHARES AMRE INCREASED 40Z IN 1990191 (EQUAL TO INFLATION IN UPGRADING COSTS)
AND BY RATE OF INFLATION IN BSEIENT YEARS
LAND DEVELDPIN£T                       4.7      9.4       4.7



-46-
and a 25% downpayment from beneficiaries, with the balance due to be
recovered over 4 years at a 12% annual surcharge. Additional upgrading,
beginning as early as FY1986/87, will be funded from payments received in the
preceding year, after allowing for the accumuLation of a cash reserve. Due
to inflation, increases in lease rates will be required to maintain an ade-
quate level of upgradirg in real terms. The projections assume a 40%
increase in 1990/91, and annual increases at the rate of inflation in sub-
sequent years.
6.12    Charges for Guided Land Development.  Land and infrastructure costs
of the small guided land development scheme will be recovered through the
sale of plots, to be paid by beneficiaries over a four year period. Lease
rates and design standards will be determined such that: (a) at least half
the plots will be sold for Rs 1500 or less (1985 prices) and thereby be
affordable to households below the poverty threshold (equivalent to the
income level of households living on small katchi abadi plots), and (b) all
land and development costs wiLl be fully recovered at not less than 12%
annual surcharge. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the design
and pricing of the guided land development scheme will follow these criteria.
D. Affordability
6.13    For most residential plots, annual charges in upgrading projects will
range from Rs 287 to Rs 4077 per plot. Based on income data for repre-
sentative katchi abadis, these charges account for less than 13% of
occupants' monthly incomes on all but the most expensive 22% of plots (see
Annex 6). Chargez in the Larger, more expensive plots represent less than
25Z of household income in most cases. These lease rates are well within the
limit of affordability of the target population.
VII. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Economic Evaluation
7.01    Economic rates of return were calculated for those subprojects with
readily quantifiable benefits: K-G Canal upgrading, traffic engineering,
road network improvements, flood protection and katchi abadi upgrading.
These subprojects account for about 69% of total project cost and have an
average economic rate of return of 44%. Studies and subprojects with
primarily environmental and health benefits--sewerage and solid waste--were
not subject to quantitative economic analysis.
Water Supply
7.02    The economic rate of return cn proposed improvements to the K-G Canal
is estimated at 29%. Rehabilitation of the canal will obviate the need for
increased withdrawals from the Jam Branch, an irrigation canaL roughly paral-
leling the K-G canal between the Indus River and Gujjo. Minimium benefits of



-47-
the project are therefore calculated on the basis of agricultural production
that would be eliminated if the project were not undertaken. Based on data
from irrigation projects elsewhere in the region, the net incremental return
per cubic meter of irrigation water is estimated at Rs 0.57, yielding gross
benefits of Rs 157 million annually. The actual rate of return for the
subproject will be greater than its agricultural impact alone, as costs of
water treatment will be reduced, due to the lower turbidity of water suppLied
through the K-C Canal.
Traffic Engineering
7.03    The expected rate of return on traffic engineering investments is
25%. This figure is based on benefit/cost calculations for the Sadar traffic
scheme, the principal component of the subproject. In these calculations, the
value of benefits is b3ased on expected savings in vehicle operating costs and
time savings, both arising from reduced congestion made possible by the
project. Other benefits, including improved pedestrian conditions, the
release of police from traffic control duties and savings from accident
prevention will arise from the project, but are not included in the rate of
return calculation. The rate of return is nevertheless high, and reflects
the relatively low cost of the scheme, and the large number of beneficiaries.
Road Network Improvements
7.04    The aggregate rate of return on road network improvements financed
under the project is 51%. Rates of return for individual works are 18%
(Quaidabad Overpass); 26% (Nalir Bridge); 56% (Korangi Road) and 110% (Bund
Road). In this calculation, the value of benefits is based on expected time
savings and reduced vehicle operating costs. These will arise from reduced
congestion, reduced delays at a railway grade crossing, improved road surface
conditions, and shorter vehicle trips made possible by the investments to be
financed. Costs include recurrent maintenance estimated at 5% initial
investment cost.
Flood Protection
7.05    The expected rate of return on flood protection inve.tments is 31%.
Benefits are calculated on the basis of the cost of flood damage which will
be prevented by the project. Alternative projections of the frequency of
low, medium and high flood conditions were used to test the sensitivity of
the subproject's rate of return. Within the plausible range of flood fre-
quencies, rates of return ranged from about 30% to 50%.
Katchi Abadi Upgrading
7.06    The expected rate of return on katchi abadi upgrading is 60%.
Benefit valuation is based on estimates of increases in sales values brought
obout by improvements made under the project, including the granting of Legal



-48-
tenure. These estimates are based on surveys of sales values in katchi
abadis with similar location characteristics, undertaken during project
preparation. Sales values per square yard of plot area (controlling for
other property characteristics) average Rs 1100 before upgrading, increasing
to Rs 1355 after upgrading. Costs included in the calculation include
infrastructure costs, design, supervision, physical contingencies, and
estimated land values. The rate of return is sensitive to the value assigned
to land. An estimate of Rs 75 per square yard was used in the present cal-
culation.
B. Impact on the Poor
7.07    The katchi abadi upgrading, flood control and part of the solid waste
management components, accounting for about 36% of project cost, will
directly benefit people below the poverty level. About 40Z of KSDP
beneficiaries--over a million persons--are poor. The katchi abadi upgrading
subproject is designed to demonstrate affordable methods of improving service
delivery to the 2 million inhabitants of katchi abadis in Karachi. In the
upgrading program to be financed, 55% of beneficiaries belong to households
with incomes below the poverty threshold. Plot charges have been set such
that 78% of plots will be affordable to persons in the poverty group.
7.08    The more brcadly targeted project components also confer a substan-
tial proportion of their benefits on the poor. Eighty percent of the 200,000
beneficiaries of flood control works are classified as low-income. Improve-
ments in solid waste collection will particularly benefit the poor, who
reside in areas where service is presently the worst. Transportation
improvements are expected to help stabilize the cost of mass transit, on
which low income households rely.
C. Risks
7.09    The major project risk concerns the ability of agencies which will
be expanded under the project to attract and keep capable staff. Three
agencies--the TEB and the new Katchi Abadi and Solid Waste Management Depart-
ments of KMC--will take on substantially expanded roles under the project. A
fourth, the Project Monitoring Unit, has been created. Low salaries prevail-
ing in the public sector, and a lengthy procedure for creating new staff
positions, are obstacles to the timely provision of adequate staff. Progress
on staffing will be monitored closely during project implementation through
the Operational Action Plan.



-49-
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01    Assurances were obtained that:
(a) Project implementation will ae carried out in accordance with
an Operational Action Plan which will be annually reviewed and
updated in consultation with IDA (para 2.07 and Annex 1).
(b) After review, appropriate recommendations of the metropolitan
management and resource generation studies will be implemented
during project implementation (pare 2.25).
(c) Terms and conditions of funds flows, counterpart financing, and
relending will be acceptable to IDA (para 3.09).
(d) The PMU will send quarterly progress reports to IDA within
one month from the end of each quarter (para 4.21).
(e) With regard to water supply operations, KWSB will recover from user
charges all its cash expenses (including debt service) and, in
addition, sufficient funds to contribute 10% towards its investment
needs in FY 1986/87, 20% in FY 1987/88, and 302 thereafter
(para 5.17).
(f) Service-related sewerage charges will be introduced and
adjusted periodically to enable KWSB to recover from user
charges all its cash expenses (including debt service) by
1989/90 and, in addition, sufficient funds to contribute a
steadily increasing share towards sewerage investment needs
(para 6.05).
(g) An annual surcharge of not less than 122 will be charged to
beneficiaries of katchi abadi upgrading projects, and new lease
rates and procedures will be applied (para 6.10).
(h) Revenues arising from katchi abadi upgrading projects will
be deposited in a revolving fund to be used to finance similar
projects in the future (para 6.10).
(i) The guided land development scheme will follow design criteria
that permit (i) a selling price for at least half the plots
of Rs 1500 or less and (ii) full cost recovery for all land
and development costs, at not less than 12Z annual surcharge
(para 6.12).



-50-
8.02    Conditions of credit effectiveness will be:
(a) Signing of Subsidiary Loan Agreements between GOS, KMC,
KWSB and KTC.
(b) Approval by the Executive Committee of the National Economic
Council of the PC-1 document pertaining to the project.
(c)  Fulfillment of all conditions precedent to the effectiveness
of the ADB Funding Agreement.
8.03    Achievement of specified KTC performance targets will be a condition
for disbursement against expenditures for KTC depot upgrading and equipment
(para 5.27).
8.04    With the above assurances, the proposed project constitutes a
suitable basis for an IDA credit of SDR 65.4 million (US$70 million) on
standard terms. The borrower would be the Islamic Republic of Pakistan.



-51-
ANNEX 1
Page 1
PAKISTAN
KARACHI SPECIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
OPERATIONAL ACTION PLAN
A. TECHNICAL ASPECTS
1.   Water Supply and Sewerage Subprojects (by KWSB)
send TOR     appoint consultants
Design of sewage treatment plant           1/31/86           4/30/86
issue bid    award       complete   testing &
documents   contracts    works       reporting
KG Canal (first phase)         5/31/86      8/31/86      5/31/87    8/31/87
(second  "  )         5/31/87     8/31/87      5/31/88    8/31/88
it    (third   "  )         5/31/88      8/31/88      5/31/89   11/30/89
Standby syphons               12/31/85      4/01/86    12/31/88    6/30/89
Sewage treatment plant        11/30/86      2/28/87      8/31/88    2/28/89
Sewerage and wastewater study:
send out terms of reference               11/30/85
constitute steering committee             11/30/85
appoint consultants                        4/01/86
complete draft final report                3/31/87
review and finalize report                 8/31/87
Govt. to approve recommendations          10/31/87
draw up action plan                       12/31/87
2.   Flood Control and Drainage Subprojects (by KDA)
issue bid     award    complete   evaluation
documents   contracts    works      & report
Left-bank bund, cunnettee       8/31/85      11/30/85   5/31/86    8/31/86
Stone pitching, left bank       8/31/85      12/31/85   6/30/86    9/30/86
Drainage inlet                  4/30/86       9/30/86   6/30/87    9/30/87
Bridge on Chakora Nalla         7/31/86      11/30/86  12/31/87    3/31/88
Other flood control works       11/30/85      4/01/86   9/30/86   12/31/86
Stormwater draiils              4/30/86       9/30/86   6/30/87    9/30/87



-52-
ANNEX 1
Page 2
Stormwater drainage study:
send out terms of reference                                    11/30/85
constitute steering committee                                  12/31/85
appoint consultants                                             4/30/86
complete draft final report                                     4/30/87
review and finalize report                                      8/31/87
Government to approve recommendations                          10/31/87
draw up action plan                                            12/31/87
3. Karachi Transport Corporation (KTC)
Agree with IDA on performance targets                               9/30/85
Prepare action plan on limited staff reductions and
plant disinvestment                                              12/31/85
Send out terms of reference for technical assistance                2/28/86
GOS to provide Rs 24 million for spare parts                         3/31/86
Establish a Management Support Unit and appoint
consultants to provide technical assistance                       5/31/86
Report on performance monitoring through 6/30/87                     7/31/87
Prepare bid documents for depot machinery                            1/31/88
Prepare bid documents for buildings and hardstands                   1/31/88
Report on performance monitoring through 6/30/88 to
justify civil works and machinery investments                     7/31/88
Draft TOR for route rationalization study                           2/29/88
Appoint consultants for route rationalization study                 11/30/8B
Report on performance monitoring                                     7/31/89
and annually
thereafter
4.  Other Transportation Subprojects  (by KDA)
issue bid     award    complete   evaluation
documents   contracts    works       & report
Pedestrian overbridges          9/20/85    11/20/85   11/20/86        6/30/87
Traffic signals                 6/30/85    10/31/86   12/31/88        6/30/89
Saddar traffic scheme          11/30/85      2/28/86    6/30/87    12/31/87
Sharah-e-Pakistan scheme        7/31/86      9/30/86   12/31/87       6/30/88
Other traffic schemes          12/31/86      3/31/87    6/30/89    12/31/89
Malir bridge                    3/31/86      9/30/86    6/30/89    12/31/89
Quaidabad overpass              8/31/86    12/31/16    6/30/89    12/31/89
Korangi Road                    8/31186    12/31/86   12/31/88    12/31/89
Bund road                      12/31/85      6/30/86    6/30/88    12i31/89



-53-
ANNEX 1
Page 3
send TOR     appoint consultants
Traffic engineering advisory services       11/30/85             4/01186
Mass transit study                          11/30/85             5/31/86
Mass transit study:
constitute steering committee                    12/31/85
complete draft final report                      12/31/87
review and finalize report                        2/29/88
Covernment to approve recomendations              4/30/88
draw up action plan                               6/30/88
5. Katchi Abadi Upgrading (by KMC)
Cumulative Achievements by
12/31/86  12731/87  12/31/88  12/31/89  12/31/90
Orangi and Baldia:
design completed (acres)    532      1,200      1,750     2,310      2,310
households upgraded        7,800    17,000    28,000    40,000    52,000
water connections          1,950     4,300      7,000    10,000    13,000
leases issued              7,800    17,000    28,000    40,000    52,000
Other Katchi Abadis:
design completed (acres)    450        850      1,130     1,130      1,130
households upgraded        6,000    15,500    30,800    40,000    40,000
water connections          1,500     3,900      7,800    10,000    12,500
leases issued              6,000    15,500    30,800    40,000    40,000
Guided land development scheme:
complete master plan acceptable to IDA          10/31/85
complete designs and specifications              1/31/86
award contract                                   4/01/86
define details of plot allocation procedure   10/31/86
complete civil works                             3/31/87
evaluation and report                            6/30/87
Land market study:
send TOR to shortlisted consultants             11/30/85
constitute steering conmittee                    1/31/86
appoint consultants                              4/01/86
complete draft final report                      2/28/87
review and finalize report                       8/31/87
Government to approve recommendations           10/31/87
draw up action plan                             12/31/87



-54-                          ANNEX 1
Page 4
6. Solid Waste Management (by KMC)
issue bid     award    compLete   evaluation
documents   contracts    works       & report
Workshop construction          12/31/85      4/01/86    2/28/87       6/30/87
Workshop equipment              3/31/86      6/30/86    2/28/87       6/30/87
Sanitary landfill              12/31/85      4/01/86    2/28/87      6/30/87
Vehicles, bins & trolleys
Lot 1                       12/31/85      4/01/86    6/30/86    10/31/86
Lot 2                       12/31/86      2/28/87    6/30/87    10/31/87
Lot 3                       12/31/87      2/29/88    6/30/88    10/31/88
Lot 4                       12/31/88      2/28/89    6/30/89    12/31/89
Acquire landfill site at Manghopir                  12/31/85
Appoint SWM adviser                                  4/01/86
Start implementing plan of improved
SWM services to katchi abadis                     9/30/86
7.   Metropolitan SLud.L. '%by GOS)
metropolitan          resource
management          generation
Define shortlisting criteria            9/30/85              9/30/85
Send TOR to shortlisted consultants  11/30/85               11/30(85
Appoint consultants                     4/01/86              4/01/86
Complete draEt. final report            8/31/87              8/31/87
Review and finalize report              2/29/88              2/29/88
Government to approve recommendations 4/30/88                4/30/88
Draw up action plan                     6/30/88              6/30/88
B. INSTITUTIONAL MEASURES
1. Water Supply and Sewerage (by KWSB)
Approve organizational structure to improve                       8/31/85
management of waste water operations
Start impLementing institutional action plan, to be agreed        6/30/86
upon conclusion of ongoing water supply study
Start implementing institutional action plan, to be agreed        2/29/88
upon conclusion of proposed sewerage study
2. Flood Control and Drainage
Based on conclusions of stormwater drainage study, GOS to        10/31/87
assign O&M responsibilities for drains
Start implementing plan to strengthen O&M for drains              2/29/88



-55-                         ANNEX 1
Page 5
3. Transportation (by KDA)
Draft ordinance identifying responsibilities for traffic
engineering and defining financial support for TEB on a
a continuing basis                                             6/30/85
Approve and notify traffic engineering ordinance                10/27/85
Strengthen professional staffing in TEB                          3/31/86
Start implementing institutional arrangements for public         8/31/88
transport, to be agreed upon conclusion of mass transit
study
4. Katchi Abadi Upgrading (by K[C)
Council to approve creation of KAD and corresponding             9/30/85
positions
Appoint Director of KAD                                         12/31/85
Fully staff KAD                                                  3/31/86
Send IDA detailed description of leasing and community           6/30/86
participation procedures
Start implementing institutional arrangements concerning         2/29/88
land management for low-cost development, to be agreed
upon conclusion of land market study
5. Solid Waste Management (by KMC)
Council to approve creation of Solid Waste Department            9/30/85
and corresponding positions
Appoint Director of new Department                              12/31/85
Fully staff new Department                                       3/31/86
SWM adviser to commence work                                     4/30/86
6. Metropolitan Management and Finance
Define plan to strengthen KWSB's Financial Department            6/30/86
Start implementing KIWSB plan                                    9/30/86
Complete report to strengthen KMC's Financial Department         4/30/87
Start implementing KMC plan                                      6/30/87
Agree with IDA on action plan to streamline                      8/31/88
metropolitan management
Start implementing metropolitan management plan                 10/31/88
C. FINANCIAL MEASURES
1. Water Supply and Sewerage
Implement any water tariff increase required to comply           9/30/85
with targets of Credit 1374
KWSB to prepare action plan for the introduction of new          9/30/85
conservancy tax
Agree on value of KiSB's assets and liabilities                 12/31/85
KWSB to fully implement new billing system                       3/31/86



-56-
ANNEX 1
Page 6
Review financial performance of water operations and              3/31/86 and
revise tariffs as required to comply with action                annually
plan agreed under Credit 1374                                   thereafter
Review financial performance of sewerage operations               3/31/86 and
and revise conservancy tax as required to comply                annually
with action plan agreed at KWSB negotiations                    thereafter
2. Katchi Abadi Upgrading
Council to approve new lease rates                                3/31/86
Establish credit facility and revolving fund                      6/30/86
Define streamlined billing procedure for regularized plots        6/30/86
Cumulative Achievements b
12/31/L6 12/31/87 12/31/88 12/31/89 12/31/90
Orangi and Baldia:
Households billed            7,800   17,000   28,000   40,000   52,000
Amounts collected (Rs mn)      19        69      157       282      410
Other areas
Households billed            6,000   15,500   30,800   40,000   40,000
Amounts collected (Rs mn)       6        23       53        95       138
Cash flow surplus (Rs mn)      25        92      210       377      548
3. Solid Waste Management (by KMC)
Establish renewals fund for solid waste vehicles                  7/01/86
4. Metropolitan Resource Generation
Complete revaluation of property tax assessments                  6/30/86
Agree with IDA on action plan to implement resource               8/31/88
generation measures, based on the results of
metropolitan resource generation study
Start implementing resource generation plan                      10/31/88



KSDP  -  SUUMARY OF ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS
Local     Foreign    Total    Local        Foreign      Total    Z Foreign   Z of IDA & ADB
SUBPROJECT                           Rs   million                          US$ aillio_   Exchange                 Base Cost 1/
ASSISTED BY IDA
KG Canal                         196          6         202      12.2        0.4       12.6          3             12.3
Standby Syphons                   73          8          81      4.6         0.5        5.1         10              4.9
Sewerage Study                     4          6          10      0.2         0.4        0.6         57              0.6
Malir Flood Protection           127          2         129      8.0         0.1        8.1          2              7.9
Stormwater Drainage               25          6          31      1.6         0.4        2.0         19              1.9
KTC Efficiency Improvements       29         21          50       1.8        1.3        3.1         42              3.1
Traffic Engineering               83         40         123       5.2        2.5        7.7         32              7.5
Road Network Improvements        115          6         121       7.2        0.4        7.6          5              7.4
Hass Transit Study                 6         14          20      0.4         0.8        1.2         71              1.2
R.A. Upgrading:Inner Areas       104         27         131       6.5        1.7        8.2         21              8.0
Metrop. Management Study           8         10          18      0.5         0.6        1.1         53              1.1           L
KMC Financial Management           6          1           7      0.3         0.1        0.4         15              0.4
Project Monitoring Unit            6          8          14      0.4         0.5        0.9         59              0 9
Total Base Cost                  782        155         937     48.9         9.7       58.6         17             57.2
Design and Supervision            49          0          49      3.1           0        3.1          0
Physical Contingencies            45          4          49      2.8         0.2        3.0          9
Price Contingencies              349         43         392     21.8         2.7       24.5         11
Total IDA Subprojects           1225        202        1427     76.6        12.6       89.2         14
ASSISTED BY ADB
Sewage Treatment Plants          149        179         328      9.4        11.2.      20.6         55             20.0
K.A. Upgrading:Orangi, Baldia  187           74         261     11.7         4.6       16.3         28             16.0
Solid Waste Management             7         93         100      0.4         5.8        6.2         93              6.1
Resource Generation Study          2          9          11      0.1         0.6        0.7         78              0.7
Total Base Costs                 345        355         700     21.6        22.2       43.8         51             42.8
Design and Supervision             3         17          20      0.1         1.1        1.2         87
Physical Contingencies            34         24          58      2.1         1.5        3.6         41
Price Contingencies               89         84         173      5.6 5.2               10.8         49                           I
Total ADB Subprojects            471        480         951     29.4        30.0       59.4         50
GRAND TOTAL       1696        682        2378    106.0        42.6      148.6         29            145.3
1, Combined IDA and ADB Base Cost : Rs 937 million + Rs 700 mtllion w Rs 1637 aillion (US$102.4 million).



ANNEX 3
Page 1
DETAILED PROJECT COSTS    -  IA-assisted  Subprojsets
PAWE A                -------RNS m --                            _  PERE
CY198b CY1997 CYIY11 C9199 CY1990 C11991 TOTAL  OF
K-B CANAL                                          .                    TOTAL
CIVIL WORKS             29.4  39.1  35.2   31.3   27.4  33.3  195.7  13.72
TAXES                    0.9    1.2    1.1    1.0    0.9    1.1    6.2   0.42
TOTAL                   30.3  40.4  36.3  32.3   21.3  34.3 201.9  14.12
SYPHONS
EOUIPMENT                1.0    1.3    1.3    0.5    0.2    0.0    4.2    0.32
CIVIL WORKS             16.2  21.1  21.1    9.1    2.9    0.0  70.3    4.92
TAXES                    1.6   2.1   2.1    0.!    0.3    0.0    7.0   0.52
TOTAL                   18.7  24.4  24.4  10.6    3.3    0.0   91.4   L.X2
SEWAGE STUDY
TECH ASST                5.0    3.9    1.2    0.0    0.0    0.0   10.0    0.7%
NALIR FLOOD
LAND                    12.4    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  12.4   0.92
CIVIL WORKS             28.7  37.9  39.1    9.2    0.0    0.0  114.9    8.I2
TAXES                    0.5    0.7    0.7    0.2    0.0    0.0    2.1    '.12
TOTAL                   41.7  39.6  39.8    9.4    0.0    0.0  129.4    9.11
MRAINS
EQUIPMENT                0.8   I.e    2.9    0.9    0.0   0.0    0.0    0.02
CIVIL WORKS              2.3    5.6   8.9    2.5    0.0   0.0   19.4    z.+4
TECH ASST                0.5    1.2    1.9    0.5    0.0    0.0    4.0   0.31
TAXES                    0.2    0.5    0.9    0.2    0.0    0.0    1.7   0.12
TOTAL                    3.8    9.1  14.4   4.1    0.0    0.0   31.4   2.22
KARACHI TRANSPORT CO
EOI!IPMENT               0.6    1.2   1.2    1.2    1.2    0.6    6.0    0.42
CIVIL WORYS              1.6    3.2   3.2    3.2    3.2    1.6  16.0    1.12
TECH ASST                2.8    5.6    5.6    5.6    5.6    2.8   28.0    2.02
TOTAL                    5.0  10.0  10.0  10.0   10.0    5.0  50.0   3.52
TRAFFIC ENGINEEPING
EQUIPMENT                6.9    9.3    9.9    7.6    5.5    3.4  42.4   3.02
CIVIL WORKS             10.6  14.6  15.2  11.9    9.6    5.3  66.2    4.61
TECH ASST                1.7    2.3   2.4    1.9    1.4    0.8  10.4   0.7%
TAXES                    O.6   0.0    0.9    0.6    0.5    0.3    3.5   0.21
TOTAL                   19.6  27.0  28.2   22.1   15.9    9.8  122.5    6.62
ROAD NETWORK
CIVIL WOPRS             17.3  23.1  23.1  26.8   19.6    3.5  115.3   8.12
TAXES                    0.    1.2    1.2    1.5    1.0    0.2    6.1   0.42
TOTAL                   19.2  24.3  24.3  30.3  20.6    3.6  121.3   9.52
MASS TRANSIT STUDY
TECH ASST                6.6    7.2    5.2   1.0    0.0    0.0  20.0    1.42
UPSPADING
CIVIL WORKS              s.e   15.0   22.6  27.6   26.3  25.1  125.4    8.92
TECH ASST                0.4    0.7    1.1    1.3    1.2    1.2    5.9   0.42
TDTAL                    9.2   15.9   23.6  29.9  27.6  26.3  131.3   9.22



-59-                                    ~~~~~~~ANNEX  3
Page 2
PABE D
NETRO HANA6EENT STUDY
TECH ASST                 2.0    5.2    9.5    2.3    0.0    0.0   19.0    1.3%
ACCOUNTIN6 ASST TO KYC
TECH ASST                 2.3    2.4    1.7    0.3    0.0    0.0    6.7    0.52
PROJECT NANAGEENT
TECH ASST                  1.3    1.4    1.4    1.4    1.4    1.4    8.4    0.62
INC STAFF SALARIES        0.9    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    5.9    0.42
TOTAL                     2.1    2.4    2.4    2.4    2.4    2.4   14.3    1.0%
TOTAL BASE COST         164.4  210.5  220.0  153.7  109.1   81.4  930.1   65.71
PHYSICAL CtOTING          7.1   10.0   11.0    9.0    6.5    4.9   1B.5    3.4%
DESIGN AND SUPERVISION   7.5   10.6   11.6    0.9    6.2    4.7   49.3    3.51
PRICE CONTINM            24.3   57.0   96.5   81.9   73.4   69.0  391.1   27.42
TOTAL PROJECT           203.3  290.1  329.1  253.4  194.2  159.0 1426.9  100.0O



-60-
ANNEX 4
Page 1
PAKISTAN
KARACHI SPECIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KARACHI WATER AND SEWERAGE BOARD (KWSB)
SUMMARY OF ASSUMPTIONS FOR FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
Financial projections for KWSB have been prepared on the basis of
FY1983/84 final accounts and estimates of consultants employed during project
preparation. Annex tables 1 and 2 are summaries; detailed statements are
available in project files.
WATER OPERATIONS
Income Statement Items
1. Production: Hub and Dumlotti provide 93 MGD throughout projection
period; Indus production through Dhabeji increases from 210 MGD to 280 MGD
with completion of KWSP in 1988/89; production through Gharo remains constant
at 20 MGD. Due to downstream system constraint, completion of K-G
rehabilitation does not increase available water.
2. Retail (floor area) revenue: Number of retail accounts billed and
collected increases 4Z between FY83/84 and FY84/85; 28Z in following period,
and at rate of population growth subsequently, due to (a) increasing retail
connections, and (b) improved collection performance arising from implementa-
tion of new retail customer billing system. Tariff structure increased 25Z
in FY85/86; '": in FY86/87 and FY87/88; and 7.5% annually in subsequent
years.
3. Bulk (metered) revenue: Losses in transmission are 272 in
1983/84, decline by one percentage point annually in subsequent years. Bulk
consumption remains constant at 33Z of consumption. Percent of bulk consump-
tion effectively metered and collected is 70% in 1983/84; 75Z in 1984/85 and
1985/86, increasing by two percentage points annually in subsequent years.
Tariffs increase 50% in 1985/86; 1OZ in FY86/87 and FY87/88, and 7.5Z
annually in subsequent years.
4. Subsidy: KMC recurrent subsidy is equal to cash deficit on opera-
tions and debt service.



-61-
ANNEX 4
Page 2
5. Operating costs: Establishmesit costs increase at 80X of rate of
inflation. Expenditures on other inputs increase at 102. Expenditure on
"improvements" assumed to be 672 recurrent; 332 capital.
6. Depreciation: Estimated at 3.5% of fixed assets
7. Interest: IncLudes interest on KDA water investments other than
debentures. KDA Loans in default assumed to be refinanced at 11%, based on
principal outstanding as of 1979.
Funds Statement Items
1. Loans: Includes borrowing from Provincial Government for Hub
Phase 1 and 2; IDA and ADB assisted KWSP and KSDP projects; and Indus V.
2. KMC grants: Grants for distribution network expansion. Declines
as internal funds increase, such that cash flow is zero or positive.
3. Investments: Include planned phasing of Hub 1, KWSP, and KSDP;
with more tentative phasing of Hub 2 and Indus V.
4. Debt service includes interest and principal repayments on exist-
ing debt (as above) and new debt to be incurred. Debt service on
KSDP-financed projects begins in year following scheduled completion of
respective subproject.
Balance Sheet Items
1.  Fixed assets are valqed at historical cost, plus additions at
cost including capitalized interest during construction. Plant is transferred
from work in progress to fixed assests in operation in the year following
expenditure.
2. Equity includes KDA debentures and KHC capital grants.
3. Long term debt includes outstanding principal on KDA water
investments other than debentures; plus future borrowings, minus principal
repayment.



-62-
ANNEX 4
Page 3
SEWERAGE OPERATIONS
Income Statement Items
1. Tariff revenue: Tariffs introduced in 1986/87 at 75% of retail
water tariff, with 50% of proceeds retained by KWSB.l/
2.  Revenue from sale of sludge: increases at 5% over rate of infla-
tion
3. Subsidy: KMC subsidy calculated as cash deficit on operations
and debt service; declines over projection period with increasing conservancy
revenues.
4. Operating costs: Establishment costs increase at 80% of rate of
inflation. Expenditure on other inputs increase at 10Z p.a. through projec-
tion period. Expenditure on improvements assumed to be 50% recurrent, 50%
capital.
5. Depreciation: Estimated at 3.5% of value of fixed assets.
6. Interest: Includes interest on sewerage and sewerage/water loans
'ontracted by KMC, plus interest on ADB project loan.
Funds Statement Items           I
1. Loans: Includes proceeds of ongoing Lyari and N. Nazimbad
projects, plus ADB project.
2.  KMC grants: Grants for expansion of collection network.  Declines
as internal funds increase, such that cash flow is zero or positive.
3. Investments: Includes ongoing Lyari and N. Nazimbad projects,
ADB project (including related capitalized interest), and expenditure on
_..ollection network.
4. Debt service includes interest and principal repayment on exist-
ing debt and new debt to be incurred. Debt service on ADB project begins in
year following scheduled completion.
1/ Share of proceeds increased to 70% in FY 1990/91.



-63-
ANNEX 4
Page 4
Balance Sheet Items
1. Fixed assets are valued at historical cost, plus additons at cost
including capitalized interest during construction. Plant is transferred from
work in progress to fixed assets in operation in year foLlowing expenditure.
2. Equity includes KMC capital grants.
3. Long term debt includes outstanding principal on sewerage and
sewerage water loans contracted by KMC, plus future borrowings, minus prin-
cipal repayment.



-64-                                                  ANNEX 4
Pa-ge 5-
KARACHI MATER AND SEWERAGE HARD
NATER SUPPLY OPERATIONS
SUNMARY OF FINANCIAL STATENENTS(CASH BASIS'
INCONE STATEMENT ITEMS    1983/54  1914105  1995/06  1996/97  1997108  1998/99  1999/90  IOY/91  1991/92  1992/93  1993/94
TOTAL PRODUCTION (ugd)      323.0   323.0    323.0    323.0    323.0    393.0    393.0    393.0    393.0    393.0    393.0
BULK REVENUE
LOSSES IN TRAMS. IZI          27!      26%      25?      24?      232       221      21!      201      191       IBZ      17?
CONSUMPTION EGY)            96. 1    07.2    90.4      99.6     90.8    111.9    113.3    114.9    116.2    117.6    119.1
OF WHICH BULK. (XI            331      33?      33?      33!      33?       33?      331      33?      33?      33?       33?
BILLED,COLLECTED (UX          70?      752      75!      771      792       91?      93!      05?      972      99?       912
EFFECTIVE REV BASE IBBY)    19.9    21.6      21.9     22.9     23.7     29.9      31.0     32.2     33.4     34.5      35.9
BULK REVENUE                99.4    109.0    164.1    197.9    214.9    291.9    325.5    362.9    404.3    450.1    500.7
FLOOR AREA-BASED REVENUE    106.0   110.2    176.4    205.7    239.6    273.3    311.4    354.0   404.3    460.7    525.O
OTHER REVENUE               1.0    11.9       13.0     14.3     15.7      17.3     19.0     20.9     23.0     25.3      27.9
KIC SUBSIDY                  66.9    90.6       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0
TOTAL RECEIPTS              293.0   325.6    353.5    407.9    470.3    592.3    655.9    739.7   031.6    936.1   1053.6
ESTABLISHMENT                93.9    91.0      99.2    106.3    114.0    122.2    131.0    140.4    150.5    161.4    173.0
ENERGY, OTHER               190.9   219.5    23449   254.1    276.9    301.0    329.3    359.5    392.7    429.2    469.4
DEPPECIATION                 53.2    59.3      64.3     72.9    91.6      91.3    100.0    109.9    121.2    132.9    142.2
TOTAL OPERATING COSTS       317.9   369.7    399.4   433.3   472.6    515.3    560.2    609.7   664.4    723.4    794.6
SUPPLUSIDEFICIT             -34.9   -40.0    -4A.9    -25.5    -2.3       67.0      95.7    129.9   167.2    212.9    269.0
INTEREST                     16.0    15.9      15.5     15.2    14.9      14.5      52.5    79.3    76.1    141.1    250.2
NET INCOME                  -50.9   -55.8    -60.4    -40.7   -17.1       52.6      43.2     50.7     91.2     71.6      19.8
FUNDS STATEMENT ITEMS
INTERNA  SOURCES            1£.3    18.3    19.4    47.3    79.5    159.3    195.7   236.9   269.4    345.5    411.2
BORROWING                   117.9   140.0    209.0    216.6   230.5    201.1    230.8    266.9   269.5    199.9    223.9
K'C EQUITY 1W.               29.0    31.9      33.9      9.5      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
TOTAL SOURCES               165.1   190.1   262.3    273.4    310.0    359.4    426.4   505.6   557.9    545.4    635.1
KSDP CAP INVESTMENT           0.0      0.0     31.1    75.9      90.5     90.9      63.4     61.7    33.5       0.0       0.0
KNSP EIDA Cr 1374)           71.0   131.5    153.0      94.0     19.5       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0
OTHER CAPITAL IHY.           26.0      0.0      0.0      0.0    50.0      90.0    113.0    150.0   150.0    150.0    150.0
INTEREST DURING CONS.        14.9      8.5     23.9    46.7      70.6     3'j.2     54.3     55.1     06.0     49.9     73.9
DEBT SERVICE                 18.3    18.3      18.3     16.3     19.3      19.3     63.5     95.4    95.4    172.5    301.4
TOTAL APPLICATIONS          165.1   19.1    261.3    273.4   291.2    266.0    345.5    410.7   '27.0    440.7    600.4
NET CASH FLOM                 0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0    1i.e      93.4      60.9     96.9    130.9    104.7      34.6
BALANCE SHEET ITEMS
NET F1 ED ASSETS           1312.9  1496.4   1665.0   1847.3  2039.5   2194.9   2377.0   2590.4  2800.8   2936.2   3093.1
TOTAL ASSETS               1372.8   2496.4   1665.0   1947.3   2057.3   2307.2   2570.2   2970.5  3211.8   3451.9   3643.4
DEBT                        443.6   5B9.1    786.2    99.7   1226.8   1424.1   1643.6   1893.5  2143.7   2312.2   2484.8
EQUITY                      929.2   905.3   97e.8    847.6   830.5   803.1    926.3    977.0  1069.2   1139.9   1159.6
TQTAL DEBT AED EQUITY      1372.e  1406.4   1665.0   1847.3   2057.3   2307.2   2570.2  2870.5  3211.9   3451.9   3643.4
FINANCIAL TARGETS
OPEPATING REVENUE AS I
MORVING ENP., DEPT SEPt.      76Z      70X     100?     IOBZ     1151      1321     125X     1241     130Z     123?      1121
CONTRIP TO INYESTMENT          NA       NA        1       I1.     24X       52?      461      46?      41?      257.      392



ANNEX 4
-65  -  -                                        Page  6
KARACHI MATER AND SEHERAGE HOARD
SEMERAGE OPERATIONS
SUMMARY OF FINANCIAL STATEIENTS (CASH BASIS)
INCOME STATEMENT ITENS    1993/94  1994i95  1905191  1996187  198718B  1989/89  199990  199019   1991/92  1992193  1993/94
MATER tARIFF SURCHARGE         0.0      0.0       0.0     77.t      99.9    102.5    116.8    196.3    212.3    241.9    275.6
OTHER REVENUE                  2.5      3.0       3.5      4.0       4.5      5.2       5.9      6.0       7.9      8.9      10.2
KMC SUBSIDY                   67.9     73.6      79.7     12.0       6.9      1.5       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
TOTAL RECEIPTS                70.4     76.6      83.2     93.9    101.4    109.2    122.7    193.1    220.0    250.0    295.8
ESTADLISHNENT                 20.6     22.5      24.4     26.1      29.0     30.0      32.2     34.5      37.0     39.6      42.5
ENERGY, OTHER                 42.1     46.3      50.9     56.0      61.6     67.7      74.5     81.9      90.1     99.2    109.1
DEPRECIATION                  10.6     11.6      12.9     15.0      21.2     27.4      32.8     36.1      40.9     45.8      50.9
TOTAL UPERATING COSTS         73.2     90.4      1e.0     97.9    110.0    125.2    139.5    152.6    169.0    184.6    202.4
SURPLUS/DEFICIT               -2.8     -3.8      -4.9     -4.0      -9.4    -16.0    -16.8      40.5      52.0     66.2      83.4
INTEREST                       5.8      5.7       5.5      9.9       9.7      0.4       8.1     44.6      43.4     42.1      40.7
NET INCONE                    -9.6     -9.5    -10.4    -12.9    -10.0    -24.4    -24.9        -4.1       9.6     24.1      42.7
FUNDS STATEMENT ITEMS
INTERNAL SOURCES               7.8      7.8       7.9     11.0      11.8     11.5      16.1     76.7      92.9    112.0    134.3
BORROWING                     11.0     12.5      63.3    129.9    150.3    124.2       61.5    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
MC E0UITY [NV.                19.7     20.5      22.6     24.9      27.3     30.0      27.6     20.0       7.3      0.0       0.0
TOTAL SOURCES                 37.5     40.9      93.9    166.6    189.4    165.7    105.!    196.6    200.3    212.0    234.3
KSDP CAP INVESTMENT            0.0      0.0      60.1    125.7    137.0    100.4       29.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
OTHEP CAPITAL IVY.            29.7     31.5      22.6     24.0      27.3     30.0      33.0    136.4    140.0    144.0    148.4
INTEREST DUR!N6 CONS.          O.0      1.5       3.2      4.2      13.3     23.9     32.5       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
DEBT SERVICE                   7.8      7.0       7.9     11.0      11.8     11.5      10.6     60.3      60.3     60.1      60.1
TDTAL APPLICATIONS            37.5     40.1      93.8    166.6    189.4    165.7    105.1    1%.6    200.3    204.1    209.5
NET CASH FLOM*                  .0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      25.8
BALANCE SHEET ITEMS
NET FIXED ASSETS             191.1    212.4    295.5    424.4    580.8    707.6    16?.3    869.5    968.6   1066.3   1164.3
TOTAL ASSETS                 191.1    212.4    295.5    424.4    580.8    707.6    769.3    869.5    969.6   1074.7   1199.1
DEBT                          72.0     82.3    143.2    270.2    417.3    539.4    597.3    681.7    764.8    846.9    927.4
EQU!TY                       119.1    130.1    142.3    154.2    163.5    169.2    172.4    187.8    203.0   227.9    270.6
TOTAL DEBT AND EQUITY       l19.3    212.4    285.5    424.4    580.9    707.6    769.3    e69.5    968.6   1074.7   1199.1
FINANCIAL TARGETS
OPERATIN6 REVENUE AS i!
WORKING EXP., DEBT
SERVICE COSTS                   0!       07.       07.     86        93!      99!      105      110Q.     119!     1271i    137Z
CONTRI8 TO INYESTMENT                               nz     -14!       -5X      -1Z        4!       III      281      37%       5!Z
*BPOUGHT TO PS 0 BY KMC St'BSIDY IN INITIAL YEARS



-66-
ANNEX 5
Page 1
PAKISTAN
KARACHT SPECIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KARACIII METROPOLITAN CORPORATION (KMC)
SUMMARY OF ASSUMPTIONS FOR FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
Financial projections for KMC were prepared on the basis of KMC actual
financial results through FY1982183, and revised budget estimates for
1983/84. Published figures were adjusted to reflect the separate projections
of water and sewerage activities under KISB.
Current Account Items
1. Revenues: Octro. revenues assumed to increase at 5% over rate of infla-
tion (equivalent to zero growth in real per capita terms.) Property tax
revenues increase at rate of inflation. Conservancy tax revenues based on
sharing formula with KWSB beginning FY1986/87. Yields of other taxes and
fees increase at 5X over rate of inflation.
2. Expenditure: Recurrent expenditure on solid waste, roads, education,
medical and miscellaneous functions increases at 5X over rate of inflation.
Recurrent subsidies for KWSB water and sewerage operations are as determined
under KWSB financial projections.
3. Debt service: Debt service excludes debt arising from water and sewer
investments (assumed by KWSB). Debt service on other provincial loans
remains constant at FY1983/84 levels, as most future provincial capital
contributions outside KSDP assumed to be on grant basis. Debt service on
KSDP loans begins in year following scheduled completion of each project.
KSDP-financed technical assistance for accounting is funded on grant basis.
Capital Account Items
1. Internal sources, grants: Receipts from sale of land and other internal
capital sources increase at rate of inflation. Capital contributions from
COS, GOP increase at rate of inflation.



-67-
ANNEX 5
Page 2
2. Capital receipts from sale of leases in slum upgrading program are
assumed deposited in revolving fund, and are therefore excluded from finan-
cial projections. (Debt service on katchi abadi loans are repaid from
general revenues).
3. Loans: Proceeds from KSDP loans equal 100Z of expenditure on slum
upgrading, 100X of expenditure on solid waste and 100X of expenditure on
technical assistance for accounting.
4. Capital expenditure: Capital grants to KWSB for water and sewerage works
are as determined in KWSB financial projections. "Other capital expenditure"
includes expenditure on road, medical, education and other functions and is
equal to capital resources remaining after KWSB grants and KSDP-related
capital expenditure.



-68-
AN EX 6
Page 1.
ICSOP
AfEfordability Analysis for the
Katchi Abadi  Upgrading Companont 1/
I - LAND AND DCEVLOPKEUT COSTS
BDae    -     Percentage-       'To Be
coecd   Physic. Design Iatr.    Recovered
unit    Conceng S3up.Xg Constr3  3ts/sq.yd.
Land cost           /sq yd 2/   5.00        0       0     11         5.40
On-site infrast.   /sq yd 47   33.70       10       8     11        43.24
Other dewel. cost tsq yd         0.00       0       0      0          0.00
*DEVMAOPBD LAND COST/GROSS sq yd TO St RECOV3ZED                    U8.G6S
It - LAND USE & PRICING OaF N-SIDTIAL LOD
*PERCENT           Pricing of
Von-IesidemtiaL
Lan
Total area in ha S/         40.00   100.00Z
circulation         1       28.63    28.632
open spcecom. fac. 2          6.38     6.382            -
coo rcial #1 sq yd           9590      2.402           300.00
*TOTAL  LAKETLE sq yd    259960    64.992
*TOTAL RESID. AREA sq yd   250370    62.592
*TOTAL  Wl. OF PLOTS          2413     8shd size:        7
'POPULAT. DENSITY/ha          422
*DEVELOPED LAND COST/NET sq yd  O 8  aECOV D                        7.
rri - PRICiNG & AFFORDABILITY Or RESIDENTIAL PLOTS
Plot types                   #1      #2     #3      #4
!lonthly income/hshd 6/          745     810    1188    1393
Plot size in sq yd            35.00   77.00  120.00  174.00
PLot/type percent.             19.42   31.53   27.32   15.08
*NUMBER OF PLOTS/ITYPE  7/       469     761     659      36A
PLt. sa.Leprice/net sq yd 8/  35.00   35.00   61.40  100.00
Superst. cost/plot                 0       C       0       0
Other cosc per ploc                0       0       a        0
*TOTAL CAPITAL/HSLD             1225    2695    7368   17400
Dav payment percent            25.00    25.00   25.00   25.00
Interaet rate/year            12.00    12.00   12.00   12.00
Loan tern (yers)                   4        4       4        4
*LOAN NON    PAYMN             23.92    52.62  143.86  339.71
'z of mOwTHLY rNcoME            3.21     6.05   12.1!   2Z.39
iv - COST aECOVElY
*meOUNT aCOVERED LOI DEVELOPED LAUD COST/llT sq yd: 82.99
*AVECRGE DEVELOPED LAND COST PIM NET sq yd              14.84



-69-
ANNEX 6
NOTES                                                                  pae-
U0TE8                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Page 2
1. The analysis presented here is based on data collected through the
socio-economic surveys and piLot schemes designed Ear Colimar and Orangi and
uses weighted averages for costs, land uses, incomes and plot types.
Affordability analysis were produced Eor each of the pilot schemes in Golimar
and Orangi and are in the project files.
2. All katchi abadies being upgraded are located in pubLic land. A token
amount of Rs.Ssq.yd. is being charged in the project costs.
3.  The cost of capital to KMC for this project is 11.  However, average
interest during construction is 8.3Z of total costs ac year 0. Calculations
for this average interest rate during construction which take into
consideration the phasing of project costs and downpayments, and yearly
inflation are kept in the project file.
4. The base unit cost for infrastructure includes alL costs for site
preparation, on site and off site infrastructure, and other developmnt
costs.
5.  Total area used is area of one katchi abadi onLy, and it does not affect
sale prices since they are based on a unit cost.
6. A correlation between household incomes and pLot size is assumed, i.e.
poorer families live in smaller plots.
7. Coim_rcial and very large size plots, which account for about 6Z of total
plots, are not included in the affordability analysis.
8. Sale price per sq.yd. are based on the new proposed lease rates.



-70-
ANNEX 7
Page 1
PAKISTAN
KARACHI SPECIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LIST OF SELECTED DOCUHENTS AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
1.      BACKGROUND
1.1     The Karachi Development Plan 1974-1985, prepared
by KDA Master Plan Department with the assistance of
UNDP, Final Report, August 1974.
1.2     National Seminar on Metropolitan Management, Lahore
Development Authority, February 21-22, 1982.
1.3     M.B. Abbasi, Income Distribution Pattern in Sind,
March 1982.
1.4     Summary of Conclusions and Recommendations,
Subcommittee on Effective City Administration, abcut 1982.
1.5     Francis Amos and Kenneth Davey, Government and Growth in
Karachi, University of Birmingham, June 1981.
1.6     Salman Faruqui, Karachi: Physical Situation of Human
Settlements, KDA, 1982.
1.7     Peter Nientied, Usmania Mahajir Colony in 1973 and 1983,
Research in a centrally located Katchi Abadi in Katachi,
Free University, Amsterdam, 1984.
1.8     Jan van der Linden, Squatting by Organized Invasion in
Karachi, Third World Planning Review, November 1982.
1.9     Jan van der Linden, Ghousia Colony, Preliminary Report
Survey Data 1983, Free University, Amsterdam, March 1984.
1.10    Emiel A. Wegelin, The Economics of Land Tenure
Regularisation in Katchi Abadi Improvement, Amsterdam
Free University, December 1980.
1.11    Report of the Working Group on Urban Transport for the
Sixth Five-Year Plan, Planning Commission, Islamabad, 1983.



-71-
ANNEX 7
Page 2
1.12    Report on Transport in Karachi, Transport Commission,
May 1982.
1.13    ALternative National Human Settlements Strategies,
Interim Report, PEPAC for GOP Environment and Urban
Affairs Division, 1984 (approx.)
2.      THE PROGRAM AND THE PROJECT
2.1     Special Development Programme for Karachi, Government of
Pakistan, November 1983.
2.2     PCI, Project Management Unit for Karachi Special
Development Programme, GOS Planning and Development
Department, March 1985 (approx.)
Water Supply and Sewerage
2.3     Special Development Plan for Karachi (Water Supply),
Osmani and Company, February 1984.
2.4     Special Development Plan for Karachi (Sewerage), Osmani
and Company, February 1984.
2.5     Kinjhar Gujo Canal, Nespak, November 1984 (2 volumes)
2.6     PCI, Improvement of K-C Canal, KWSB, 1985
2.7     Draft Report on Construction of Standby Syphons Nos. 19
and 20, prepared for KWSB by Engineering Consultants,
November 1984.
2.8     PCI, Construction of Standby Syphon 19 and 20, KWSB, 1985
2.9     Rehabilitation and Uprating of Sewage Treatment Plants TPI
and TPII, prepared for KWSB by Balfours Consulting
Engineers and Engineering Consultants, November 1984.
2.10    PCI, Rehabilitation and Modification of Sewage Treatment
Plant No. I and II, KWSB, 1985.
2.11    PCII, Feasibility Study for the Preparation of a Sewerage
and Wastewater Disposal Project in Karachi, KWSB, 1985.
Flood Control and Drainage
2.12    Final Feasibility Report on Malir River Flood Protection
Scheme (Phase IV), prepared for KDA by Associated
Consulting Engineers Ltd., March 1985.
2.13    Modified PCI Form for Malir River Flood Protection Scheme,
KDA, January 1985.



-72-
ANNEX 7
Page 3
2.14    Final Feasibility Report on Stormwater Drainage Scheme,
Outfalls, prepared for KDA by Associated Consulting
Engineers, March 1985.
2.15    PCI Form for Stormwiter Drainage Scheme (Outfalls), KDA,
January 1985.
Transportation
2.16    KTC Improvement Programme 1984-89, Esesjay Consult,
Engineering Consultants and Economic Advisory Services,
March 1985.
2.17    Private Sector Bus Strengthening Programne, Esesjay
Consult and Economic Advisory Services, November 1984.
2.18    KSDP Traffic Engineering, Project Preparation, KDA Traffic
Engineering Bureau, November 1984 (4 volumes).
2.19    KSDP Traffic Engineering PCI, KDA, 1985
2.20    Final Feasibility Study for Improvement of Regional Road
Network, prepared for KDA by Engineering Consultants,
February 1985.
2.21    Extension of Shaheed-e-Millat Road, Special Development
Programme for Karachi, feasibility report for KDA by Umar
Munshi, February 1984.
2.22    PCI Proforma for Improvement of Regional Rapid Network,
prepared for KDA by Engineering Consultants, February
1985.
2.23    Outline Proposal Karachi Light Rail Rapid Transit, KDA,
1984.
2.24    Transport Sector Study - Urban RaiLway Services for
Karachi, Special Development Programme for Karachi,
Pakistan Railway Advisory and Consultancy Services,
March, 1984.
2.25    TOR for Technical Assistance, Mass Transit Study, prepared
for KDA by Steer, Davies & Gleave, May 1985.
2.26    PCII Form for Mass Transit Study for Karachi, KDA,
December 1984.



-73-
ANNEX 7
Page 4
Katchi Abadi Upgrading
2.27    Peter Dawes, Proposed IBRD Project to Upgrade the Katchi
Abadies of Karachi, September and October 1984 (two
reports)
2.28    KSDP Katchi Abadies Improvement Scheme, 3 reports, Nespak,
March 1985 (approx.)
2.29    L I - Katchi Abadis Improvement Programme, KMC, February
1985.
Solid Waste Management
2.30    David W. '.ckson, KSDP Solid Waste Management Component,
Summary Report, September 1984.
2.31    SDP Solid Waste Management Project, Project Report (3 Volumes),
Nespak, April 1985.
2.32    PCI Solid Waste Management, KMC, February 1985.
Metropolitan Studies
2.33    PCII Form, Metropolitan Management and Budgetary Study,
COS Finance Department, March 1985 (approx.)
2.34    PCII Form, Metropolitan Resource Generation Study, COS
Finance Department, March 1985 (approx.)
3.      FINANCIAL ASPECTS
3.1     Highlight K.M.C. Budget 1984-85, KMC, 1984.
3.2     Explanatory Memorandum 1984-85, KMC Finance Department,
1984.
3.3     Financial Analysis of KMC by IDA appraisal mission
3.4     Financial Projections by KWSB, May 1985
3.5     KWSB, Physical Verification of Fixed Assets, Stores and Spares
and their Valuation and Verification of Assets and Liabilities,
Ford Rhodes Robson Morrow, April 1985
3.6     Financial Analysi: of KWSB, Rahim Jan and Company, November 1984
3.7     Fin: ncial Analysis of KWSB by IDA appraisal mission
3.8     K.D.A. Budget - 1981-82 (Highlights).
3.9     Financial Analysis of KTC, Esesjay Consult, November 1984.



As a consequence of Karachi's low-density expansion and the disproportional.
growth in the number of cars, traffic conditions and transport efficiency
are rapidly getting worse. The project would support low cost soLutions to
traffic congestion, improving traffic safety, and institutional
strengthening.



-  0
-        -rjki-  s    ,                              4i S_ ;      l-C~   ~. 
v~~                                -     -    .# - -=
.; ?'^' ;
- 
The project would finance flood control works to prevent monsoon flooding,
which has been causing extensive damage to heavily developed areas.
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t i -
As part of a longer term phased program of improvements to the city's
stomdrinae sste, ceanng,minor modifications and construction of
channels and tida'l gates to the four main outfalls of the Old City would be
carried out under the project.



Only one third of Karachi's solid waste is collected and disposed of at
formal tipping sites. The project would double and streamline solid waste
operations.



- -a  --
5         ~-~ -r                 a '
K-s--@  -      -     4         - x_-  
Ez'-~~~~ -..  rrm ,              <---- -3    
<_ u S ,' r. ' * h, - W
_,~~~~ _'                  ',:aa,   __,
The earthen banks of the K.C. Canal are suffering from excessive seepage
ind are collapsing in places. The project would finance the canal
rehabilitation, including earthworks and concrete lining.



Syphons No. 19 and 20, vital components of the city's water system,
frequently burst. The project would finance two standby syphons.
The project would finance the rehabilitation and expansion of Karachi's two
sewage creatment plants.



FS
-~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ea
w , in,.    
IA  t                                } 
r:7 '-I
'Er
7  In.
_ .1P ';Pr;j__;_____  
-s     33                            F              , , ;        _; _, F
Thirty-l' i   tv '  r.;  t          pT lt i PlJj)ll at ion -K ar-achi I ive in settlements
charact-r .ted 'v tin:' .r:rUed I avou ts, miniimal  .er-Jices, and no security of
tenure (kah rh         . 4.  n[e pr(JIct  i''rd ..pr.aid    .400 acres of land in
18 katchi aba.A -. r- -.m-A   i ng about 4U0,II()i] people



IBRD 18798R
NORZTH kCARACHI
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
fiztF% 7          r              .             
KHILABA;D\,                              P A K I S T A N
\   / //  a;"5TGANc0ltNr lKARACHI SPECIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KATCHI ABADIES IMPROVEMENT SCHEMES
____ boad.e. *. t. Uwoded un,, the Ph,t.c
Seltected hrondwy toods
_ Sammp Ai..
t    DHAVSItASllA f /ASAN \  A
N\XEXER~~~~~~~~O                                 OH 4C OU IVA   NATHA KHAN GOT                   /            .
\     Yf       3           Y      /   o    ~~~~~~~~~ ~~GOHARASAD   X
Zo  FUROANANOAD~~~
i,IhIE'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~=                                                    00 0'1
was. ~~~~~~~~~~  U's-~~~~~~1



;0  a- 1 F ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IR D 13 7399R
X , ~~~~~~-_ _", _- ~~~~~~~~NORtH KARACH/    \
JURISDICIIONS OF tVARUI  OU     I  OtS ;OA~                                          1! O DAIhNUSY-s
-    AIIIIOICI1ON IOIJNOAN.S                                                                   H I
|MAUCKI MIIO#OIPAN CO KISTAfON AIIS   T          AIN OA
KAIACHI OIWlOPtNT AUtHOTY AL A5D-   EECID OMN PCOROJEtC           AO
CANTONJISD AITAS                                     S VWAARAIEAS OUAS O                         |             ,NDIi
PUItIC WO2TS DEPAlTMENT AIM-                    INTIENATIOLN LOUNOAMS                                                                                            *     X
CIVIL AVIATION AREA                                                                                                                           U:,
e5    _    9SITE ITNDUSTOIAL ANEAl                                                                                                                           AWIS   YA ur
JULY .   .1



11W                                                                             11W61
"T \ I /Ag (A440    2P AKISTAN
KARACHI SPECIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROPOSED EXPANSION OF WATER SUFPLY AND SEWERAGE FACILMES
ht   i .            _S~ PzU~d Ca,ywi~ btgo  WgiwI..p9pf                            Fm CA ,qw &W H6k W.x. :AK*  waftT
-           A   --                         -        AM _  lW.Mvw                              --- r  - 
4                        I~~~~~ wQ. 8I'*A~  Uw                                w..  16eh       of T~WA Mim.
*   m.~~~~~1 ~-.IN.  "of 0.40 COWI
U                                   K G(ONa L ¶AjT 19  -ty S=STEM                                                                                                                         -      ,         *
-oJ N-s.
INCIA                                                             .. d- ~6lwn        e
AlNE IM6



IBAD 1B8OI R
NOiM A HI~~~~~~~~~P   IST  
|                       j       ;  H g _HI | ,, v    st            ~~~~~~~~PAKISTAN
KARACHI SPECIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TRANSPORT AND TRAFFIC ENGINEERING IMPROVEMENTS
X~  . a Ag SIN  SEA
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e .                      1y   \   =&
X --.-F-                                                                                                  t
*"_W-"-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o                                            -r  Now    -tas LAG RwNDm~s&
main Ra    n .
-   Wwad SocwWaV lw&JUL  '@5






