Documenl of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report ;So. 15591
IMPLEMENTATION C0MPLETION REPORT
PA1tISTAN
UNRiCRI SPECIAL DEVELOPSENT PRDJECT
iCR. 1652-PAK)
Aoril 25, 1996
Infrastructure Operations Divison
Country Department I
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be ussed by recipients only in tbe performance of
their official duties. Ik contents msy not dhervise be disclosed without World Bank authonzation.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit         =      Rupees (Rs.)
Rs.1                        US$ 0.033
US$ 1                 =      Rs. 30.7
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
mm                    millimeter (0.039 inches)
m             =       meter (3.28 feet)
kmI                   kilometer (0.62 miles)
km2                   1 square km (0.386 square miles)
ha                    hectare (2.47 acres = 10,000 square meters)
G                     Imperial gallon (Imperial gallon = 1.2 US gallons = 4.55 litres)
MGD                   Million gallons per day (MGD = 4,545 m3/day)
cusec                 Cubic foot per second (1,000 cusecs = 28.3 m3/sec)
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
July 1 to June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB           =       Asian Development Bank
GOP                   Government of Pakistan
GOS                   Government of Sindh
IDA           =       International Development Association
KAD           =       Katchi Abadi Directorate of KMC(katchi abadi = slum, squatter settlement)
KMC                   Karachi Metropolitan Corporation
KWSB          =       Karachi Water and Sewerage Board
KDA                   Karachi Development Authority
KSDP                  Karachi Special Development Project
KTC                   Karachi Transport Corporation
P&D           =       Planning and Development Department
PSP                   Private Sector Participation
PMU                   Project Monitoring Unit
SAR           =       Staff Appraisal Report
SSDP          =       Sindh Special Development Project
SWD           =       Solid Waste Department of KMC
TEB           =       Traffic Engineering Bureau



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATTON COMPLETMON REPORT
PAKISTAN
KARACHI SPECIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit No. 1652-PAK)
Table of Contents
PMg No
PREFACE .......................................................                                   1
EVALUATION SUMMARY ........................................................ 2
PART - I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Evaluation of Objectives.                                                                     5
B. Achievement of Objectives.                                                                     6
C.  Major Factors Affecting the Projectr.c  7
D. Project Sustaioabiity.                                                                         8
E. Bank Performance.9
F. Borrower Performance .10
G. Assessment of Outcome .12
H. Future Operations .12
,. Key Lessons Learned .13
J.   Evaluation of Programme Objective Categories .14
PART - II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:       Sumnmary of Assessment
Table 2:       Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:       Project Timetable
Table 4:       Credit Disbursements: Cunulative, Estimated and Actual
Table 5:       Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:       Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:       Studies Included in Project
Table 8A:      Project Costs
Table 8B:      Project Financing
Table 9:       Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:      Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:      Compliance with Operation Manual Statements
Table 12:      Bank Resources: Staff Input
Table 13:      Bank Resources: Missions
APPENDICES
A.     Mission's Aide-Memoire (with Operation Plan)
B.     Borrower's Evaluation
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
I official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiihout World Bank authorization.  l






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
KARACHI SPECIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Cr. 1652-PAK)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Karachi Special Development Project
in Pakistan, for which Credit 1652-PAK in the amount of, 65.4 million SDR equivalent (US$ 70 million)
was approved on February 24, 1986 and made effective on June 24, 1986.
The credit was closed on September 30, 1994, after 3 extensions, 2 years behind the originally
scheduled closing date. About 94% of the credit was disbursed, and the last disbursement took place on
February 21, 1995. The balance of unutilized SDR 4,210,114 was cancelled. Co-financing for the project
was provided by the Asian Development Bank under Ln.793-PAK, in an amount of SDR 45.6 million. The
ADB loan was closed on December 31, 1995.
The ICR was prepared by Shahid Kardar (Consultant), under supervision of Navaid A. Qureshi,
SA1PK, and reviewed by Wiebe Moes, SAIIN. The ICR draft was circulated to the borrower and the co-
financier for comments, but none were received.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision mission in July, 1994. It is
based on material in the project file, discussions with implementing agency officials, and comments
received from a former Bank task manager for the project. The borrower contributed to the preparation of
the ICR by preparing its own evaluation of the project's execution and initial preparation, and by co-
operating with the ICR team by providing additional background material for the revised economic analysis
from agency records.



I



-2-
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
KARACHI SPECIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Cr. 1652-PAK)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction.
1.    The objectives of the project were to: (i) directly improve basic urban services, with particular
orientation to the needs of the low income population, (ii) strengthen the institutional capacity of local
agencies to deliver urban services and to manage the metropolitan area, (iii) improve resource mobilisation
and cost recovery, and (iv) demonstrate the feasibility of new approaches to providing services to the urban
poor.
2.    Project covenants related to: (i) the financial performance of KWSB, (ii) appropriate strengthening
of KMC's KAD & SWD, (iii) full cost recovery for KMC's katchi abadi upgrading and pilot land
development components, and (iv) efficiency improvements in KTC's operations, were expected to promote
achievement of the project objectives.
3.    The objectives were clearly defined and generally consistent with the Bank's evolving strategy for
the urban sector in Pakistan.
Implementation Experience and Results.
4.    The project substantially achieved its physical objectives. Most of the physical works and studies
envisioned under the project were completed, and about 94% of the credit was disbursed. The project
provided an acceptable overall rate of return at final development. It was partly successful in meeting its
institutional strengthening objectives in the case of TEB, KWSB/DW and KMC's Finance Department.
However, it is uncertain whether the progress made in this area can be sustained, in an environment where
public sector agencies are generally handicapped by the lack of performance based incentive structures,
cumbersome bureaucratic procedures, and frequent political interference in postings and transfers etc.,
resulting in weak and ineffective leadership and a high turnover of key agency staff. The project failed to
achieve its financial objectives, even though several of the proposed resource mobilisation measures were
implemented. Although katchi abadi lease charges were raised to cover upgrading costs, the rate of lease
take-up remained very low and only 13% of the costs were recovered by the closing date. Inspite of the
successful introduction of a sewerage surcharge by KWSB, and an over four-fold increase in tariffs over a
six year period, KWSB's operations continued to fall short of the financial covenants, and required major
subsidies from KMC to cover costs. The government failed to implement necessary measures to improve
KTC's financial/operational performance.
5.    The operation was rated a "problem project" since September, 1990, mainly because of
unsatisfactory project management, poor compliance with covenants and problems with timely availability
of counterpart funds. These 'generic" issues which also affected other projects in the Pakistan portfolio,
were periodically raised during annual country implementation reviews between the Bank and senior
government officials.



6.    Project completion was delayed by two years. The final project cost of the IDA financed portion at
Rs. 2,794 m (US$83.54 m), compares with the appraisal estimate of Rs. 1,427 m (US$89.2 m). In rupee
terms the total cost was 96% higher than appraisal estiiates. The difference in cost is attributable to
various factors including: inadequate preparation/ deficient cost estimates of some original components;
changes in scope of work during implementation; additional sub-projects; weak contract management
resulting in numerous contractor claims (e.g. on the components implemented by KDA); depreciation in the
value of the rupee; and significantly higher costs for consultants' services for studies. However, these
increases were largely offset by the movement in the SDR-rupee parity; and cancellation of the components
covering KMC's area development scheme and KTC's efficiency improvement. Financing arrangements
remained unchanged from those agreed at appraisal.
7.    In view of the limited supervision capacity, and project implementation experience of the
borrower/implementing agencies, the range of institutional strengthening measures and resource
mobilisation targets included in the project proved too ambitious to be implemented during the project
period. Factors which contributed to implementation delays and the only partial achievement of project
objectives included: project complexity (the large number of agencies and sub-sectors involved); inadequate
contract management capabilities of the implernenting agencies; poor selection of consultants and poor
prequalification/performance of contractors; fiscal constraints resulting in lack of timely release of
counterpart funds by the government; inadequate knowledge of Bank procedures; inadequate commitment
to the overall development objectives of the project, with a heavy focus on physical works; and
governments' unwillingness to take difficult policy decisions concerning institutional restructuring and
resource mobilization that could have had adverse political implications.
8.    Project identification by the Bank was satisfactory. However, some components were insufficiently
prepared, and the project implementation schedule was too optimistic. Implementing agency capacities, and
borrower ownership/commitment to components pertaining to institutional strengthening, policy reform and
resource mobilisation were not adequately assessed at appraisal. The Bank's performance during project
supervision was generally satisfactory. The strength and blend of skills deployed were adequate, although
some operational difficulties were experienced because of lack of staff continuity, as the project was
supervised by five different task managers.
9.    Project preparation by the borrower was deficient, and implementation moved slowly in the initial
period. However, institutional capability to meet targets gradually improved during implementation and
pace of execution improved substantially during the closing years of the project. Overall implementation
performance varied widely between agencies. Commitment to institutional change/improvement generally
remained weak, and agencies made only a few of the changes required to improve management efficiency
and institutional capacity. The government's failure to implement measures to improve KTC's operational
efficiency and financial performance, and abandonment of the plan to revise property valuations for tax
purposes during the project period adversely affected the quality and pace of project implementation.
Covenant compliance was deficient and financial covenants in respect of tariffs, user charges and cost
recovery remained in default throughout the duration of the project. Several agencies also remained in
default of the covenant requiring the timely submission of audit reports for much of the project period.
Long administrative delays were experienced in the recruitment of consultants, especially at KTC and
KAD. Recommendations of the Metropolitan Management and Resource Generation Studies could not be
finalised by government and implemented during the project period. Progress reporting, project monitoring,
evaluation and co-ordination remained deficient because of the weak role played by the PMU.



10.   In view of the principal objectives of the project, the overall outcome of the project was
unsatisfactory. The project successfully achieved it's physical objectives of directly improving basic urban
services, with particular orientation to the needs of the low income population. It achieved partial success
with regard to its institutional development objectives, as there was some improvemnent in the effectiveness
of local agencies in preparing, designing and executing future projects. However, the project failed to
achieve substantial financial strengthening of the targeted implementing agencies, even though some
resource mobilisation and cost recovery measures were implemented. The project also failed to demonstrate
sustainable new approaches for the provision of services to the urban poor.
Summary of Findings. Future Operations. and Key Lessons Learned.
11.   The operation plans, institutional arrangements and estimated annual operation and maintenance
costs for the assets created under the project have been indicated. These assets have now largely been
handed over to the entities responsible for their operation and maintenance (O&M). In most cases
institutional arrangements for operation of similar assets already exist, and O&M staff are already on
board and generally familiar with their role and functions. However, there is a risk that overall resource
constraints may cause inadequate maintenance budgets to be provided to these agencies, thereby reducing
the useful lives of the project works. In view of the nature of the assets created (roads, bridges, flood
protection works etc.), key indicators for project operation mostly comprise of such broad indicators as
annual O&M allocations and staffing levels. Adequate operation and maintenance of these assets will need
to be monitored during follow on projects, Cr.1987 and Cr.2558.
12.   The key lessons for future urban sector projects in Pakistan, include the following:
a)     Project design should be simplified. Projects should focus on specific sub-sectors, and have more
modest objectives. The quality of project preparation should be improved. Agencies responsible for
operation and maintenance of the works should be associated early on in the project cycle.
b)     While designing institutional strengthening and revenue generation proposals, political compulsions
and administrative capabilities should be carefully analysed. Borrower commitment should be sought
through up-front actions, to ensure a satisfactory project outcome.
c)    Inter-agency co-ordination must be improved, and responsibilities consolidated at the metropolitan
level for the efficient delivery of urban services. Internal government procedures need to be streamlined and
effective project monitoring systems instituted.
d)     Greater community participation and ownership is required for upgrading low  income
communities. Cost recovery for upgrading works in low income communities can be better achieved, if only
selected urban services demanded by the community and backed by up-front community contributions, are
provided.
e)     Greater borrower ownership, and a longer tern  commitment of resources for technical
assistance/training is required for making sustainable institutional improvements. Specific initiatives need
to be supported by the introduction of performance based incentive structures at the macro level.
f)     Private sector participation in the financing and operation of urban services may have a greater
impact on the provision of services in the future, than the traditional approach that has relied primarily on
the institutional and financial strengthening of public sector agencies.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
KARACHI SPECIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit No. 1652-PAK)
A. EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
1.1.   The principal objectives of the credit were to:
a)    directly improve basic urban services, with particular orientation to the needs of the low
income population;
b)    strengthen the institutional capacity of local agencies to deliver urban services and to
manage the metropolitan area;
c)    improve resource mobilisation and cost recovery; and
d)    demonstrate the feasibility of new approaches to providing services to the urban poor.
1.2.   These objectives were to be achieved through a series of interventions in five sub-sectors: water
supply and sewerage, flood control, transportation, katchi abadi upgrading, and solid waste management.
Physical investments for the expansion and rehabilitation of infrastructure facilities were to be combined
with specific institutional and financial measures in line with overall project objectives. Resource
mobilisation measures included:
a)    revising of lease charges for katchi abadi regularization.
b)    introduction of an earmarked revenue source for KWSB's sewerage operation.
c)    extension of financial targets for KWSB's water operations agreed under an earlier IDA
operation (Cr. 1374).
d)    measures to improve financial performnance of KTC.
e)    a general property revaluation by GOSindh to coincide with the project.
The first three measures were expected to eliminate KMC's annual recurrent subsidy to these
activities by 89/90.
1.3.   Macro issues concerned with metropolitan budgeting, financial management and resource
generation were programmed to be addressed through separate studies, designed to produce action plans, to
be implemented mid-way through the project period.
1.4.   The objectives were clearly defined and generally consistent with the Bank's evolving strategy for
the urban sector in Pakistan. However, the specific institutional strengthening measures and resource
mobilisation targets included in the project were far too ambitious, given the prevailing institutional
environment, and lack of political will demonstrated by the government's past performance on issues
related to cost recovery. Although the project included some technical assistance support for the
implementing agencies, monitoring and co-ordination of a complex multi-agency, multi-sectoral project of
this nature proved to be much too demanding, given the limited supervision capacity available with the
borrower/implementing agencies.



- 6 -
1.5.   The project as designed, was generally responsive to the borrower's circumstances and priorities,
as it recognised and attempted to address basic physical, institutional and financial constraints to growth
and productivity in key sub-sectors of the urban economy of Palistan's largest city, with emphasis on the
needs of the poor.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
2.1.   The project substantially achieved and in some sub-sectors exceeded its physical objectives related
to the  provision of infrastructure facilities and urban services. The construction of Shaheed-e-Millat
Bridge and computerisation of KMC's records under Phase II of the Accounting Assistance were new
components added to utilise project savings. It provided direct benefits particularly to the low income
population, through provision of secure land title, water supply, sanitation and paved roads in Katchi
Abadis and resulted in significant improvements to the urban environment through lowered levels of
vehicular pollution/traffic congestion, improved traffic safety, drainage, flood control and solid waste
collection. Although the target of 40,000 leases was only partly achieved, issuance of land titles/leases was
an apparent improvement, considering the fact that it was the first time for Katchi Abadi residents to get
leases after paying for the cost of upgraded services and a notional amount for the land.
2.2.   The project was partly successful in meeting its institutional strengthening objectives. Its
achievements included: (i) the restructuring of traffic engineering responsibilities in Karachi through the
creation of TEB at KDA; (ii) the computerization of financial records and management information
systems through technical assistance provided to the KMC Finance Wing; and (iii) continuation of the
institutional strengthening program at KWSB's Development Wing, initiated under Cr.1374-PAK.
However, the level of success in the reorganization of KAD and SWD at KMC was rather limited as
capacity building was handicapped on account of inadequate level of professional staffing. The long-term
benefits of the KTC staff training program implemented under the project are open to question, given the
continuing uncertainty about the agency's future.
2.3.   The achievement of the project's financial objectives was negligible, although several of the
proposed resource mobilisation measures were implemented to varying degrees. Katchi abadi lease charges
were raised to cover upgrading costs. However, the pace of leasing remained very slow and only 13% of
the costs were recovered by the closing date. A sewerage surcharge was successfully introduced, and
KWSB tariffs were periodically raised. However, KWSB's operations continued to fall short of the
financial covenants, and required major subsidies from KMC to cover costs. These problems are presently
being tackled under Cr. 1987, where IDA is assisting KWSB explore private sector participation options to
improve its financial and operational performance. The Government's elected officials at the Provincial
level felt unable to take the politically unpopular decisions regarding staff retrenchment, withdrawal of
student ridership subsidies and other cost reduction measures that were essential to achieve a turnaround in
the financial performance of KTC. It was more expedient to simply continue to subsidize KTC's growing
losses from the provincial exchequer. Political uncertainty possibly contributed to the decision to defer the
planned revaluation of property tax in Karachi. IDA is currently working with GOS under the follow on
Cr.2558, towards the deregulation of bus fares, the privatisation of KTC and the revaluation of urban
properties.
2.4.   The project failed to demonstrate feasible new approaches to providing services for the urban poor.
The katchi abadi upgrading component did not prove to be financially sustainable, while the guided land



development scheme had to be dropped, when it became clear that development costs would substantially
exceed sales revenues.
2.5.   The SAR indicated ERRs for components with readily quantifiable benefits, including the
K.G.Canal, traffic engineering, road network improvement, Malir flood protection and katchi abadi
upgrading. At appraisal, these sub-projects accounted for 69% of the project cost, and had an estimated
average ERR of 44%. Supporting documentation and underlying assumptions relating to the original
economic analysis were not available in the project files. The revised average ERR for these components
(which actually account for 65% of the final IDA project component cost) on final development, has been
estimated as 22%. If the new Shaheed-e-Millat overbridge component is added to this list, the components
with readily quantifiable benefits add up to 74% of the project cost, with a re-estimated average ERR of
21%. Although the overall project benefits at final development are only about 50% of appraisal estimates,
they are still higher than the opportunity cost of capital, and therefore acceptable. The reduction in ERR
can be attributed primarily to project implementation delays and substantially higher than estimated
component completion costs of a few specific components. Individual component ERRs appear in Table 9.
The greatest reduction in the revised ERR has been caused by an almost four-fold increase in the
completion cost of K.G.Canal, a component which accounts for 27% of the overall project cost, but has a
revised ERR of only 10%, at final development.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
3.1.   Project completion was delayed by two years. The basic factors which contributed to the delay in
project implementation, and the only partial achievement of project objectives were: poor project design;
inadequate contract management capabilities of the implementing agencies; poor selection of consultants
and poor prequalification of contractors and their subsequent unsatisfactory performance; inadequate
knowledge of the Bank's Procurement Guidelines and Disbursement procedures; and a lack of commitment
to the overall development objectives of the project with a heavy focus on physical works. Implementation
problems were compounded on account of the large number of agencies involved, and the variety of
institutional improvements and resource mobilisation measures attempted.
3.2.   Frequent civil disturbances and heightening of political tensions in the latter part of the nineteen
eighties, adversely affected the physical progress of works, the institutional environment prevailing within
implementing agencies, and the political willingness of GOS to take difficult policy decisions concerning
institutional restructuring and resource mobilisation, that could have adverse political implications.
3.3.   It took six months to make credit effective after approval because of delays experienced in
finalising the Subsidiary Loan Agreements and in satisfying the cross-effectiveness requirement regarding
the signing of the ADB Funding Agreement, a condition which was eventually withdrawn.
3.4.   Other factors affecting project implementation included:
a)    Factors beyond government control, such as: unrealistic original implementation schedules
because of the insufficient project preparation and Bank's overestimation of capabilities of
the implementing agencies.
b)    Factors subject to government control, such as: shortage of counterpart funds on account
of acute fiscal problems faced by the provincial exchequer and the major rains and floods
during 1992; poor inter-agency co-ordination; weak project monitoring and evaluation;



- 8 -
frequent transfers of key staff; and inadequate delegation of financial powers to local
government entities such as KMC.
c)     Factors subject to implementation agency control, such as: inadequate preparation of
initial designs; delays in procurement of consultants services; delays related to land
acquisition and shifting of encroachments and underground services; inadequate staffing;
cumbersome payment procedures; poor project management and supervision; and unclear
responsibility for leasing and cost recovery in case of KMC/KAD.
3.5.   In May 1991, at the borrower's request, IDA agreed to include additional sub-projects under the
credit to utilise '"avings" resulting from the cancellation of certain components and change in the exchange
rate between the Rupee and the SDR. These sub-projects included construction of Shaheed-e-Millat Bridge,
KMC Accounting Assistance Phase II, and the Karachi Mass Transit Study Phase II. This late inclusion of
new components eventually necessitated the extension of the closing date by about a year.
Cost Chan2es
3.6.   The final project cost of the IDA financed portion at Rs. 2,794 m (US$83.54), compares with the
appraisal estimate of Rs. 1,427 m (US$89.2 m)(ref. Table ga). In rupee terms the total cost was 96%
higher than appraisal estimates. The difference in cost is attributable to various factors including:
inadequate preparation/ deficient cost estimates of some original components; changes in scope of work
during implementation; additional sub-projects; weak contract management leading to excessive contractor
claims (particularly on KDA components); depreciation in the value of the rupee; the actual cost of shifting
existing underground services; and significantly higher than estimated costs for consultants' services for
studies and project design. However, increases in rupee costs were largely absorbed by the movement in the
SDR-rupee parity; and cancellation of the components covering KMC's area development scheme and
KTC's efficiency improvement.
3.7.   The ADB Loan became effective in October 1987 and was scheduled for completion by March
1992. Disbursements on the Sewerage component remained suspended for 19 months in 1991/92 because
of the dispute regarding payment of arrears between KESC and KWSB. About 45% of the loan had been
utilised by end 1994. The ADB Loan was closed on December 31, 1995.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
4.1.   Overall project sustainability is quite unlikely. Most of the physical assets created through the
project have already been handed over to entities responsible for their eventual operation and maintenance.
However, there is a risk that overall resource constraints and the low priority traditionally given to O&M
expenditures may cause inadequate maintenance budgets to be provided to these agencies, thereby
endangering the sustainability of the project in general, and reducing the useful lives of the works in
particular. This risk is compounded due to lack of 'bwnership" in cases where these entities were neither
consulted nor associated in the asset creation in the first place, and are now strapped with this liability.
There is also uncertainty regarding the future of TEB within KDA, and hence the source of funding for the
O&M of the urban traffic control component.
4.2.   For several reasons, sustainability of the institutional strengthening measures attempted under the
project is uncertain. Performance of project entities continues to be constrained by weak and ineffective



-9-
leadership, and cumbersome bureaucratic procedures. The prevailing environment is characterised by
frequent political changes at the provincial and local government level. Political interference in postings,
transfers, routine administrative matters and at times technical decisions, has resulted in insecurity, low
morale and a general lack of initiative among public functionaries. In these circumstances broader
governance issues need to be tackled, and a more clearly defined role agreed for local government
institutions, before specific institutional improvement measures can show significant results. Follow up
institutional support included for KWSB under Cr.1987 and GOS, KDA and KMC under Cr.2558 will be
necessary to consolidate the institutional strengthening measures introduced under this project.
4.3.   Continued implementation of resource mobilisation measures initiated under the project is linked to
the presence of a supportive policy environment which in turn depends on the broader issues of governance.
During project implementation, the KAD lacked necessary political support and administrative commitment
to implement cost recovery, and regularise settlements improved under the project through the distribution
of leases, even though evidence indicates that beneficiary households were willing to acquire leases at full
cost recovery levels. As a result, the sustainability of the katchi abadi upgrading component as a replicable
model for provision of affordable urban services to the poor is unlikely. Sustainable improvements in
KWSB's financial affairs, that have defied an over four-fold increase in its tariffs over the past six years,
are now being attempted under Cr. 1987 through a comprehensive Action Plan which includes: significant
staff reductions, a net 20% annual increase in tariffs, reduction of payment arrears from major government
entities, and control of expenditures.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
5.1.   Project identification by the Bank was satisfactory, being consistent with the government's
priorities, and with the Bank's strategy for the country and the sector. However, project design and
implementation arrangements were complicated by the fact that the project embraced a number of agencies
and sub-sectors, and included another co-financier.
5.2.   Project preparation and appraisal by the Bank was unsatisfactory. Some components though
insufficiently prepared were appraised, and the implementation schedule was too optimistic. At appraisal,
the Bank did not adequately assess implementing agency capacities, and the risk of insufficient borrower
commitment to certain components, particularly those pertaining to institutional strengthening, policy
reform and resource mobilisation measures. This lack of ownership eventually reflected in only a partial
achievement of the project's objectives. Although the risks of inadequate staffing of the three entities being
expanded under the project (TEB, KAD and SWD), were recognised in the SAR, these were expected to be
addressed through close monitoring of the OAP during implementation. This approach failed to work.
Perhaps 'the obsession with new lending"among Bank staff was part of the reasons why the Bank pushed
the project forward in these circumstances.
5.3.   The responsibilities envisioned for the newly created PMU included the co-ordination of the
activities of various agencies, monitoring implementatioq of policy reforms and ensuring timely availability
of counterpart resources. This mandate turned out to be too ambitious and wide ranging, given PMU's
limited capacity and its position within the government hierarchy. The executing agencies preferred to
interact directly with the Bank, as they were not adrninistratively accountable to PMU. As a result, the
PMU remained largely ineffective throughout project implementation.



- 10 -
5.4.   The Bank's performance during project supervision was generally satisfactory. Supervision
missions made concerted efforts to ensure that the physical and institutional objectives of the project were
realised. However, in view of the complicated nature of the project, the slow movement of institutional
strengthening components, and the limited success with resource mobilisation measures, the attention of the
supervisory missions in the later years of project implementation was increasingly taken up by matters
relating to the implementation of physical works and studies. Physical investments in KTC were dropped
due to KTC's lack of commitment to policy reform and resource mobilisation. It was recognised that policy
and institutional reform, and resource mobilisation measures would require much greater borrower
ownership and commitment to be effective and sustainable. A considerable part of this unfinished agenda
has been carried over to follow up IDA operations Cr. 1987 and Cr.2558, where it is being addressed in a
broader context.
5.5.   The visits of supervision missions were well timed, and sufficient time was spent in the field to
review project progress. Issues were promptly identified and addressed. Advice to resolve these problems
was generally sound. Problems faced on account of lack of technical expertise within agencies and
inadequate performance of consultants were overcome through the support and guidance provided by
missions. The strength and blend of skills deployed by IDA were adequate, although some operational
difficulties were experienced because of lack of staff continuity - the project was supervised by five
different task managers.
5.6.   The compliance with loan covenants was regularly monitored, and suitable modifications made
wherever necessary in the interest of project implementation. However, compliance with financial
covenants remained in default. The Bank responded favourably to the borrower's request to include new
components in the project to utilise project savings.
5.7.  IDA supervision missions rated Cr.1652 as a "problem project" since September, 1990, mainly
because of unsatisfactory project management, poor compliance with covenants and problems with timely
availability of counterpart funds. These '"eneric" issues which have also affected other projects in the
Pakistan portfolio, were periodically raised during country implementation reviews between the Bank and
senior government officials.
5.8.   The Bank, the GOS and the executing agencies worked well together. Regular formal and infonnal
exchanges took place throughout the implementation period. This close interaction helped develop a
friendly environment which should benefit the implementation of follow on projects.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
6.1.   Project preparation was deficient. The capacity of agencies to prepare, design and execute projects
was enhanced through "learning by doing" and exposure to new technologies during implementation.
Project implementation moved slowly in the initial period because of institutional inertia and some early
problems encountered in the implementation of physical works. Inadequate prequalification of contractors
and weak supervision was a major reason for this slow pace of implementation. However, institutional
capability to meet targets gradually improved during implementation and pace of execution improved
substantially during the closing years of the project, as agencies made efforts to remedy the situation.
Physical works and studies was satisfactorily completed during the project period. Overall implementation
performance varied widely between agencies. Implementation agencies made only a few of the changes



- 11 -
proposed to improve management efficiency and institutional capacity. Commitment to institutional
change/improvement generally remained weak.
6.2.   Certain government actions adversely affected the quality and pace of project implementation.
These included lack of necessary policy decisions to implement KTC's efficiency improvements and
improved financial performance, abandonment of the plan to revise property valuations for tax purposes
during the project period, and the lack of timely availability of counterpart funds, which acted as a serious
constraint to implementation throughout the project period.
6.3.   KMC's performance was satisfactory with regard to the institutional strengthening of its Finance
Wing, as well as the physical works connected with the katchi abadi upgrading programme. However, it
failed to place suitable complementary staff in the KAD on a timely basis, to effectively utilise technical
assistance for institutional strengthening, and to implement substantial cost recovery for the upgrading
program.
6.4.   The TEB demonstrated a reasonable capacity to implement and manage the traffic control systems
installed under the project. However, contractor performance tended to be poor on most of the remaining
physical works executed by KDA, as sub-projects were plagued by protracted completion delays, major
contractor claims and cost overruns. Except for the Shaheed-e-Millat Bridge project, where an international
consultant led team effectively supervised a technically competent contractor, the quality of KDA's
contract management, construction supervision and project monitoring/reporting was generally poor.
Payments to contractors and consultants, faced significant delays. Overall, the improvements in KDA's
capacity to deliver well constructed facilities during the project period were modest. The establishment of
the traffic police training institute took a long time because of the inter-agency issues involved, frequent
changes of key decision makers, and weak commitment to the component.
6.5.   KWSB completed the physical works and studies envisioned under the IDA financed component in
a satisfactory manner, and was successful in reducing its billing cycle from annual to quarterly basis.
Although the project was successful in establishing a source of revenue for financing KWSB's sewerage
operations, the agency was unable to comply with the relevant financial covenants. The main reason for
this non-compliance is the lack of metered consumption. Unmetered supply to individual customers
accounts for about two-thirds of the water produced. Charges are based on customer floor areas and plot
sizes. So long as this practice continues, tariffs cannot moderate wasteful consumption. Also, sharply
rising personnel and administrative costs have been a problem. These issues are being tackled under
Cr. 1987-PAK.
6.6.   Compliance with financial covenants in respect of tariffs, user charges and cost recovery through
lease sales, remained in default throughout the duration of the project. Also, for much of the project period
several agencies, particularly KMC and PMU, remained in default of the covenants in respect of the timely
submission of audit reports. Thus on balance covenant compliance was clearly deficient.
6.7.   IDA's procurement guidelines for works, goods and services were generally followed, as were the
eligibility criteria set out in the credit and project agreements. However, long administrative delays were
experienced in the recruitment of consultants, especially at KTC and KAD. Recommendations of the
Metropolitan Management and Resource Generation Studies could not be finalised by government and
implemented during the project period.



- 12 -
6.8.   Progress reporting, project monitoring, evaluation and co-ordination remained deficient because of
the weak role played by the PMU. The quality of information reported varied widely between agencies. It
was particularly difficult to obtain complete information regularly from KTC and KMC.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
7.1.   In view of the principal objectives of the project, the overall outcome of the project was
unsatisfactory.
7.2.   The project successfully achieved it's physical objectives of directly improving basic urban
services, with particular orientation to the needs of the low income population. The project has an
acceptable overall ERR at final development.
7.3.   The project achieved only partial success with regard to institutional development objectives. There
was some improvement in the effectiveness of local agencies (particularly KWSB, KMC and TEB) in
preparing, designing and executing future projects through technical assistance, training, and the experience
gained during project implementation.
7.4.   Some resource mobilisation and cost recovery measures relating to KWSB and KMC's operations
were implemented. However, the results fell significantly short of project objectives. Substantial measures
could not be initiated to improve KTC's financial performance, in the absence of necessary policy decisions
by GOS.
7.5.   The project failed to demonstrate feasible new approaches for the provision of services to the urban
poor. KMC's guided land development scheme had to be abandoned. The first phase of the IDA supported
katchi abadi upgrading component covering some 40,000 households was successfully completed.
However, substantial cost recovery was not achieved by Credit closure, and hence the initiative did not
prove to be financially sustainable.
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
8.1. The operation plans, institutional arrangements and estimated annual operation and maintenance
costs for the assets created under the project are appended to this report. In most cases, the agencies
charged with this role have already been operating and maintaining similar assets in the past. Therefore,
institutional arrangements already exist, staff are mostly on board and generally familiar with their role and
functions.
8.2 .   Key indicators for project operation appear in Table 6. In the absence of performance indicators in
the SAR, and in view of the nature of some of the assets created (roads, bridges, etc.), it is difficult in some
cases to develop monitorable criteria, other than broad indicators consisting of annual O&M allocations
and staffing levels, for assessing the continued proper maintenance of assets and to ensure that the
objectives of the operational plans are realised.
8.3.   Adequate operation and maintenance of these assets will need to be monitored during follow on
projects, Cr.1987 and Cr.2558.



- 13 -
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
9.1.   The key lessons learned from this project relevant for other urban sector projects in Pakistan, are
discussed below.
9.2.   Simplified Project Design
a)    The size and complexity of projects should be reduced. Projects should focus on specific
sub-sectors, have modest objectives and a limited number of components that can be easily
executed through one or a few implementing agencies, with project directors having appropriate
administrative and financial powers.
b)    Projects involving a large number of agencies, and a host of components suffer from poor
horizontal and vertical co-ordination and are difficult to implement. Where unavoidable, such
complex projects should include appropriate centralised institutional arrangements with adequate
authority for project co-ordination, monitoring and evaluation. The ineffectiveness of the PMU, has
shown that co-ordination responsibility, must be accompanied by adequate powers.
9.3.   Early involvement of O&M Agencies
Agencies that will eventually be charged with the management of the constructed assets
should be associated with the process of asset creation during the project preparation, design and
implementation stages.
9.4.   Demand Driven Provision of Services
In undertaking upgrading works in low income communities, the objectives of cost
recovery can be better achieved if only selected services demanded by the community are provided,
linked to the community's willingness to provide up-front contributions. This approach has been
agreed for the proposed IDA financed NWFP Community Infrastructure Project.
9.5.  Improved Quality of Project Preparation
Tlhe quality of project preparation needs substantial improvement. For civil works,
adequate pre-construction surveys and thorough field investigations must be undertaken up front,
to minimise the possibility of subsequent change orders, during contract implementation. Project
design, detailed phasing of individual components and the TORs for all technical assistance should
be completed prior to project appraisal, so that reliable component cost estimates, practical
implementation plans, and realistic disbursement projections are established. Comprehensive
mechanisms for cost recovery, based on a close examination of prevailing conditions, available
institutional capacity and demonstrated borrower commitment, should also be designed by
appraisal.
9.6.   Project Implementation Arrangements
a)    Efficient delivery of urban services is constrained by the fragmented responsibility between
provincial government departments, local government agencies and development authorities. There
is a need to improve co-ordination of functions and responsibilities at the metropolitan level. At the
same time, project design should be simplified.
b)    Agencies having limited in-house expertise should supplement their capacity by recruiting
experienced consultants for carrying out supervision, contract administration and construction
management.



- 14 -
c)     The process of selection of consultants and contractors needs improvement through the
application of more rigorous short-listing and pre-qualification criteria. Internal governnent
procedures need to be streamlined for approving revised component costs, studies, variation orders,
for ensuring speedier payments to contractors and consultants, and to institute systems for effective
monitoring, and prompt remedial action against non-performers.
9.7.   Longer Term Agenda for Institutional and Financial Strengthening
a)     The project has clearly demonstrated that greater borrower ownership, and a longer term
commitment of resources for technical assistance and training is required for making sustainable
institutional improvements. Specific institutional strengthening initiatives need to be accompanied
by appropriate macro level changes involving the introduction of a performance based incentive
structures. Unless fundamental governance issues (uncertain/unstable political situation; political
interference in administrative functions; promotions and transfers based on criteria other than
performance/merit etc.) are sorted out, the type of institutional strengthening measures attempted
under the project can only yield very limited results.
b)    Institutional strengthening and revenue generation proposals, in future projects, need to be
carefully designed, keeping in view the limits placed by prevailing political compulsions and
administrative capabilities. The government's commitment needs to be demonstrated through up-
front actions, to ensure a satisfactory project outcome.
c)     The PSP approach in financing and operations of urban services (now being attempted
under both Cr.1987 and Cr.2558) may have a greater impact on the provision of services in the
future, than the traditional approach consisting of direct institutional and financial strengthening of
public sector agencies alone.
J. EVALUATION OF PROGRAMME OBJECTIVE CATEGORIES
10.1.  Poverty reduction and other social objectives aimed at the improvement in living conditions of the
less privileged segments of the population were partially achieved. These groups benefited directly from the
Katchi Abadi upgrading and flood control components.
10.2.  The environmental objectives were only indirectly programmed into the project. They were
addressed in the components concerned with flood protection embankments, sewerage and drainage works,
solid waste disposal, transportation and traffic improvement and the upgrading of Katchi Abadis.
10.3.  The objective of private sector development was not directly built into the project. The project was
only partly successful in developing some limited capacity of contractors and consultants in the private
sector.






PART-II
STATISTICAL TABLES






Table 1
Summary of Assessments
Substantial Partial Negligible   Not
A. Achievement of                                      applicable
Objectives:
Macroeconomic                                              X
policies
Sector policies                      X
Financial objectives                           X
Institutional                        X
development
Physical objectives        X
Poverty reduction                    X
Gender concerns                                            X
Other social                         X
objectives
Environmental              X
objectives
Public sector                        X
management
Private sector                       X
development
Likely         Unlikely   Uncertain
B. Project                                                  X
Sustainability
Highly
C. Bank Performance:    Satisfactory    Satisfactory  Deficient
Identification                                X
Preparation                                               X
assistance
Appraisal                                                  X
Supervision                                   X
Highly
D. Borrower              Satisfactory    Satisfactory  Deficient
Performance:
Preparation                                               X
Implementation                                            X
Covenant compliance                                       X
Operation                                     K
Highly                         Unsatis-
Satisfactory    Satisfactory  factory
E. Assessment of                                            X
Outcome



Table-2
Related Bank Credits
Credit Title                        Purpose                      Year of       Status
approval                    l
Proceeding
Operations
1. Cr.106-PAK          Water supply and sewerage improvement  1963             Completed
in Lahore
2. Cr.1630-PAK         The Second Lahore Water Supply,           1976          Completed
Sewerage and Drainage Project
3. Cr. 1348-PAR        The Lahore Urban Development Project    1983            Completed
Upgrading of Lahore's walled city,
sites and services development (to
demonstrate low cost shelter
policies) and improvements to solid
waster management.
4. Cr.1374-PAK         Improvement of Karachi's bulk water       1984          Completed
supply system. It supported the
strengthening of an autonomous water
and sewerage agency for the
metropolitan area.
Following Operations
1. Cr.1895-PAK         Upgrading of urban services,             1988          Ongoing
extension of water supply, sewerage
and drainage systems and improvement
of traffic in Lahore, technical
assistance in municipal finance and
property tax systems and
institutional strengthening.
2. Cr.1987-PAK         Second Water Supply and Sanitation        1989          Ongoing
Project.
Improvement of Karachi's water supply
and institutional strengthening.
3. Cr.1987-1-PAK       Supplemental credit.                     1993           Ongoing
4. Cr.2558-PAK         Sindh Special Development Project        1994           Ongoing
Improvement of environmental and
infrastructural problems of Karachi
and 3 interior cities, support policy
reform at provincial and municipal
level and strengthening of key urban
institutions.



Table-3
Proiect Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                  Date Planned Date Revised Date actual/
Latest est.
Identification                                                     Feb/Mar 1984
Preparation                                                        Mar/Nov 1984
Appraisal Mission                       Nov 1984                   Nov 1984
Credit Negotiations                     Nov  1985                  Nov  1985
Broad presentation/approval             Jan 14, 1986               Jan 14, 1986
Signing                                 Jan/Feb 1986               Feb 24, 1986
Credit Effectiveness                   May 1986                    Jun 23, 1986
Mid term review                         N.A.         N.A.          N.A.
Project completion                      Sep 30, 1992 Sep 30, 1994 Sep 30, 1994
Credit closing                          Sep 30, 1992 Sep 30, 1994 Sep 30, 1994
Table-4
Credit Disbursements - Cumulative Estimated
and Actual Disbursements
(US $ Million)
IDA             Appraisal          Actual          Actual as Z
Financial       Estimate                           of estimate
Year
1987               9.5              6.40               67.3
1988              23.7              8.61               36.3
1989              40.0             11.68               29.2
1990              52.5             21.13               40.2
1991              61.7             36.76               59.6
1992              69.0             55.00               79.7
1993              70.0             68.46               97.8
1994              70.0             79.11              113.0
1995              70.0             83.69              119.6
Date of
final dis-                     Feb 21, 1995
bursement



Table 5
Key Indicators for Project Implementation
I. Key Implementation Indicators      Estimated                        Actual
in SAR
1. KAD - No. of Households upgrad.   40,000         115% (45,900 Households).
- No. of Leases Issued.        40,000        Only 31% leases issued by credit
closure 16,352 (36%) leases issued by
Feb. 1995.
- Cost Recovery.               Rs.138 m      Rs.73.7 m (25% of act. costs) by
(100%)       Feb.1995.
2. KWSB - By credit closure KWSB's   100%           Whereas a sewerage surcharge was
sewerage surcharge was to cover                   introduced, and there has been an
100 Z of costs of sewerage                         over four-fold increase in KWSB
services, so as to eliminate                        tariffs over the past six year, over
KMC's annual recurrent subsidy                       all financial targets could not be
to KWSB for such services.                          achieved and dependence on KMC's
annual subsidy continues.  The issue
is now being addressed under the
ongoing Cr.1987.
3. KTC - Outshedding ratio of 80%                   Performance targets in respect of
of serveable fleet, manning                       outshedding and manning ratios
ratio of 8.8 staff per bus, 170                    frequency of breakdown and operating
commercial kilometers per day,                      ratio were not achieved.  The bulk of
4 breakdowns per 10,000                             the funds earmarked for KTC were then
kilometers and an operating                         reallocated.
ratio of 1.54.
II. Modified Indicators
1. N.A.
2. N.A.
3. N.A.
III. Other Indicators
1. Total Project Exp.(IDA Comp.)      Rs.1,427 m   Rs.2,794 m (196%)
2. IDA Disbursement                   US$70 m       US$83.54 m (120%)



Table 6
Key Indicators for Proiect Operation
I.  Key Operating Indicators in SAR                      Estimated         Actual
1.
2.
II.  Modified Indicators
1.
2.
III. Modified Indicators for Future Operation
1.  For all components:
a)  Annual O&M allocations                           Ref.Op. Plan
b)  Staffing levels                                  Ref.Op. Plan
2. Individual Oper. Performance Indicators:
a) For KG Canal
Turbidity level at C.O.D. Filter
Plant (FTU):
-  Desirable                                   5                1
-  Max. Permissible                            25               5
b)  For Standby Syphons
-  No. of system closures/year:                  2                1
-  No. of times used/year                        12               2
-  Tot. hours of service/year                    144              72
c)  For Malir Flood Protection
-  Max.flow in Malir Riv (cusecs):               *
-  Total annual damage to adjoining              *
property due to flooding
d)  For Urban Traffic Control System
-  Average travel time along surveyed            Ref. TEB's
routes:                                       travel time
survey.
-  Tot. Junction hours of traffic                *
signal down-time/year
-  Number of traffic accident/year                                1970-86
in junction vicinity.                                          1201-94
e)  For Katchi Abadi Upgrading
-  Number of leases issued/year                  40,000           15,539
-  Percentage of cost recovery.                  100%             11.5-94
*     Implementing Agencies have been asked to Provide Estimates of Operational
Performance Indicators. Their response is still awaited.



Table-7
Studies in the Proiect
Study                 Purpose as Defined at Appraisal        Status   Agency            Impact
A. WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE
1. Design of sewerage          Design of upgraded sewerage treatment Completed KWSB    Satisfactory.
treatment plant             plant.
2. Sewerage and waste water   Study to revise demand forecasts and  Completed KWSB    Satisfactory. Sewerage
study                       investigate alternative disposal                           requirements drawn up
systems and technologies and propose                       to year 2003. Future
improvements in organization,                              projects being
management, maintenance and cost                           developed on basis of
recovery in sewerage operations.                           study.
B. FLOOD CONTROL AND DRAINAGE
3. Storm water drainage study Study to update and expand the 22         Completed KDA      Satisfactory.
year old drainage master plan.
4. Traffic engineering         Training for traffic police and road  Completed KDA         Satisfactory. Traffic
advisory services           safety education - local and overseas                       training institute set
training.                                                  up. Local and overseas
training imparted to
relevant staff in the
police department and
in KDA's Traffic
Engineering Bureau.
5. Mass transit study          To take a longer term view of            Completed KDA      Satisfactory for
Karachi's public transportation needs                      preparation of future
and options.                                               investment programme.
C. KATCHI ABADI UPGRADING
6. Design of works for         To improve basic urban infrastructure Completed KMC         Satisfactory.
provision of services       and services by testing the
feasibility of providing lower
specification services to plots
occupied by low income households.
7. Land market study           Study to investigate land markets and Completed KMC         Government approval
recommend measures to improve access                       awaited.
of low income households to land.



Study                 Purpose as Defined at Appraisal        Status   Agency            Impact
D. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
8. Technical assistance and   Local and overseas training.             To be      KTC     As KTC did not meet the
training                                                            completed          performance targets all
by credit         components other than
closure.          those concerning
technical assistance
and training were
canceled. Relevant KTC
staff participated in
short courses and study
tours. At some branch
locations specific
hands on training in
maintenance of accoun-
ting records was
provided.
9. Route rationalization                                               Not        RTC     No impact.
study                                                               carried
out.
1O.Metropolitan management    Examine problems of inter-agency         Completed GOS      Government approval
and budgetary study         coordination and internal management                       awaited.
focusing on gaps in service
provision, problems of investment
and maintenance coordination.



Table- 8a
Proiect Costs
Appraisal Estimate               Actual Costs E21
Component                 Local  Foreign  Total  US S    Local  Foreign  Total  US S
Costs  Exchange (Rs.M) (M)t11  Costs  Exchange (Rs.M) (M)t3]
(Rs.M) Costs                      (Rs.M) Costs
(Rs. M)                           (Rs. M)
IDA Assisted:
1. K.G.Canal                              196       6      202   12.6                      744
2. Standy Syphons                          73        8      81    5.1                       195
3. Sewerage Study                           4        6       10    0.6                       12
4. Malir Flood Protection                 127        2      129    8.1                      285
5. Stormwater Drainage                     25        6      31    2.0                       119
6. KTC Efficiency Improvements             29       21      50    3.1                        33
7. Traffic Engineering                     83       40     123    7.7                       268
8. Road Network Improvements              115        6     121    7.6                       352
9. Mass Transit Study (Ph.1)                6       14      20    1.2                        70
10 Katchi Abadi Upgrading                 104      27      131    8.2                       183
11 Metrop. Management Study                 8       10      18    1.1                       30
12 KMC Financial Management(Ph.1)           6        1       7    0.4                         4
13 Project Monitoring Unit                  6       8       14    0.9                        22
14 Shaheed-e-Millat Bridge                  0        0      0        0                     243
15 KTC Training Programme                   0        0      0        0                       16
16 Mass Transit Study (Ph.2)                0        0      0        0                      101
17 KMC Financial Management(Ph.2)           0        0      0        0                      35
Total base cost:                          782      155     937   58.6
Design and supervision                     49        0       49    3.1
PhysicaL contingencies                     45        4      49    3.0
Price contingencies                       349       43     392   24.5
Total IDA Asst. Project Cost            1,225      202   1,427   89.2                      2,712
Assisted by ADB
1. Sewage Treatment Plants                149     179      328   20.6                       561
2. Kat.Abadi Upgr.(Orangi/Baldia)         187       74     261   16.3                        167
3. Solid Waste Management                   7       93      100    6.2                       115
4. Resource Generation Study                2        9       11    0.7                        16
Total base cost                           345     355      700   43.8
Design and supervision                      3       17      20    1.2
Physical contingencies                     34       24      58    3.6
Price contingencies                        89       84     173    5.6
Total ADS Asst. Project Cost              471     480      951   59.4                        859
GRAND TOTAL                             1,696     682   2,378  148.6                      3,571
Notes:
I1]     Exchange rate at appraisal = US$1 = Rs. 16.0.
(2)     Actual costs include contingencies. Figures based on expenditures reported by PMU on the IDA
assisted components up to Feb. 1995, and for the ongoing ADS assisted Component up to Dec.
1994.
(31     Exchange rate =US$1   Rs.



Tabe-8b
Probct Financina
APPRAISAL ESTIMATE                REVISED                       ACTUAL
Source                  Pak Rs.M  USS M  SDR-000 Pak Rs.M  USS M  SDR-000 Pik Rs.M  USS M  SDR-000
IDA               1,120      70.0  65,400   2,055                62,338   2,042    66.5   61,190
ADB                 710      44.4              1,633             45,622      859*             19,866*
Gov't of Pakistan          547      34.2             1,059                          813*
Total:            2,378    148.6              4,748                        3,714 *
Exchange Rates:
At Appraisal                US$ 1 = Rs 16.00  SDR 1 = US$
At closing                  USS 1 = Rs. 30.70 SDR 1 = USS
Includes only expenditures incurred up to December 31, 1994 for the
ADB assisted component.



zab1--9
Proiect Results: Economic Return and Benefits
Economic Rate of Return   Appraisal Estimate   Actual (at Final
Development)
Oriainal Components
1. K.G.Canal Upgrading           29 %               10.2 %
2. Traffic Engineering           25 %               14.5 %
3. Road Network Improv.          51 %               31.7 %
4. Flood Protection              31 %               26.9 %
5. Katchi Abadi Upgrad           60 %               45.2 %
New Comoonents
1. Shaheed-e-Millat                                 14.3 1
Bridge
Combined (orig)               44 1               22 1
(all)                                  21 %



B. Economic Rate of Retum
KSDP    KSDP - K.G. CANAL COMPONENT
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
Year    ---- PROJECT COST-----                BENEFITS          Net
Capital       O&M        Total         ATTRIBUTABLE    Benefits
Cost          Cost       Cost          TO PROJECT
1987        0.44        0.00        0.44             0.00           (0.44)
1988        4.75        0.00        4.75             0.00           (4.75)
1989       33.54        0.00       33.54             0.00          (33.54)
1990      163.06        0.00      163.06             0.00         (163.06)
1991      178.25        0.00      178.25             0.00         (178.25)
1992      138.65        0.00      138.65             0.00         (138.65)
1993      178.51        0.00      178.51             0.00         (178.51)
1994       87.71        0.00       87.71            24.42          (63.29)
1995        3.00        7.88       10.88            24.42           13.54
1996        0.00        7.88        7.88            24.42           16.55
1997        0.00        7.88        7.88            24.42           16.55
1998        0.00        7.88        7.88            24.42           16.55
1999        0.00        7.88        7.88           118.36          110.48
2000        0.00        7.88        7.88           118.36          110.48
2001        0.00        7.88        7.88           118.36          110.48
2002        0.00        7.88        7.88           118.36          110.48
2003        0.00        7.88        7.88           118.36          110.48
2004        0.00       15.76       15.76           212.30          196.54
2005        0.00       15.76       15.76           212.30          196.54
2006        0.00       15.76       15.76           212.30          196.54
2007        0.00       15.76       15.76           212.30          196.54
2008        0.00       15.76       15.76           212.30          196.54
2009        0.00       15.76       15.76           353.21          337.45
2010        0.00       15.76       15.76           353.21          337.45
2011        0.00       15.76       15.76           353.21          337.45
2012        0.00       15.76       15.76           353.21          337.45
2013        0.00       15.76       15.76           353.21          337.45
Total        787.92                1,016.42         3,541.52        2,525.10
Net Present Value @ 13%             426.50           310.50          (116.00)
Benefit-Cost Ratio                                 0.73
Economic Rate of Return (ERR)                    10.17%
Assumptions:
1. Yearwise phasing of the project excludes interest during construction
and duties, etc. All cost and benefits are expressed in 1994 prices.
2. The benefits attributable to the project have been calculated on the
basis of saving of 26 mgd of water as a result of the lining of the
canal and the benefits resulting from its capacity enhancement to
accomodate additional flows of 100 mgd in the year 1999, another
100 mgd in 2004 and a requirement for an additional 150 mgd by 2009.
3. 0 & M Costs have been assumed to be 1 % of the capital costs upto the
year 2003 and 2% for the year 2004 and beyond.
Source:  Karachi Water & Sewerage Board and mission estimates.



B. Economic Rate of Return
KSDP - TRAFFIC ENGINEERING COMPONENT
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
Year  ------------ PROJECT COST------        BENEFITS          Net
Capital      O&M        Total         ATTRIBUTABLE    Benefits
Cost         Cost       Cost          TO PROJECT
1986         6.52      0.00       6.52             0.00            (6.52)
1987        14.41      0.00      14.41             0.00           (14.41)
1988        16.68      0.00      16.68             0.00           (16.68)
1989        10.83      0.00      10.83             0.00           (10.83)
1990        41.77      0.00      41.77             0.00           (41.77)
1991        21.75      0.00      21.75             0.00           (21.75)
1992        43.09      0.00 *   43.09              0.00           (43.09)
1993        60.66      0.00      60.66             0.00           (60.66)
1994        69.46      0.00      69.46             0.00           (69.46)
1995        43.53      4.93      48.46            75.05            26.59
1996         0.00      4.93       4.93            75.05            70.12
1997         0.00      4.93       4.93            75.05            70.12
1998         0.00      4.93       4.93            75.05            70.12
1999         0.00      4.93       4.93            75.05            70.12
2000         0.00      4.93       4.93            75.05            70.12
2001         0.00      4.93       4.93            75.05            70.12
2002         0.00      4.93       4.93            75.05            70.12
2003         0.00      4.93       4.93            75.05            70.12
2004         0.00      4.93       4.93            75.05            70.12
2005         0.00      4.93       4.93            75.05            70.12
2006         0.00      4.93       4.93            75.05            70.12
2007         0.00      4.93       4.93            75.05            70.12
2008         0.00      4.93       4.93            75.05            70.12
2009         0.00      4.93       4.93            75.05            70.12
2010         0.00   .  4.93       4.93            75.05            70.12
2011         0.00      4.93       4.93            75.05            70.12
2012         0.00      4.93       4.93            75.05            70.12
2013         0.00      4.93       4.93            75.05            70.12
2014         0.00      4.93       4.93            75.05            70.12
Total         328.70               427.31          1,501.05         1,073.73
Net Present Value @ 13%            156.99           175.50            18.52
Benefit-Cost Ratio                                1.12
Economic Rate of Return (ERR)                   14.45%
Assumptions:
1. Yearwise phasing of the project excludes interest during construction
and duties, etc. All cost and benefits are expressed in 1994 prices.
2. The benefits attributable to the project include time savings through
reduction in stoppages and imrpoved speed of traffic.
Source:   Traffic Engineering Bureau, KDA, National Transport Plan, 1995
and mission estimates.



B. Economic Rate of Retum
KSDP - REGIONAL ROAD NETWORK COMPONENT
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
Year   - -   ------- PROJECT COST------       BENEFITS          Net
Capital      O&M        Total         ATTRIBUTABLE    Benefits
Cost         Cost       Cost          TO PROJECT
1987         1.02      0.00       1.02             0.00            (1.02)
1988         8.86      0.00       8.86             0.00            (8.86)
1989        64.95      0.00      64.95             0.00            (64.95)
1990        81.31      0.00      81.31             0.00           (81.31)
1991       100.82      0.00     100.82             0.00           (100.82)
1992        95.36      0.00      95.36             0.00           (95.36)
1993        34.09      0.00      34.09             0.00           (34.09)
1994        13.80      0.00      13.80             0.00            (13.80)
1995         0.00      1.14       1.14           372.59           371.45
1996         0.00       1.14      1.14           398.59           397.46
1997         0.00       1.14      1.14           426.55           425.41
1998         0.00       1.14      1.14           456.60           455.47
1999         0.00     23.86      23.86           488.92           465.06
2000         0.00       1.14      1.14           523.68            522.54
2001         0.00       1.14      1.14           561.05            559.92
2002         0.00       1.14      1.14           590.73            589.59
2003         0.00       1.14      1.14           622.70            621.57
2004         0.00      23.86     23.86           657.16            633.30
2005         0.00       1.14      1.14           694.29           693.16
2006         0.00       1.14      1.14           734.32            733.18
2007         0.00       1.14      1.14           777.47           776.33
2008         0.00       1.14      1.14           823.98            822.84
2009         0.00      23.86     23.86           874.13            850.27
2010         0.00       1.14      1.14           928.21           927.07
2011         0.00       1.14      1.14           986.53            985.39
2012         0.00       1.14      1.14          1,049.42         1,048.29
2013         0.00       1.14      1.14          1,049.42         1,048.29
2014       (21.31)    23.86       2.56          1,049.42         1,046.87
Total         378.90               492.54         14,065.77        13,573.23
Net Present Value @ 13%            234.50          1,489.19         1,254.69
Benefit-Cost Ratio .                              6.35
Economic Rate of Return (ERR)                   37.69%
Assumptions:
1. Yearwise phasing of the project excludes interest during construction
and duties, etc. All cost and benefits are expressed in 1994 prices.
2. The benefits attributable to the project include savings in time
and vehicle idling costs that were incurred at the railway crossing
and vehicle operating cost savings as a result of the improvement
in the road surface and in speed of vehicles.
3. The embankment is assumed to have a salvage value at the end of
the life of the project.
Source:   KDA, National Transport Plan, 1995 and mission estimates.



B. Economic Rate of Retum
KSDP KSDP - MALIR FLOOD PROTECTION COMPONENT
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
Year   -- --   PROJECT COST---               BENEFITS           Net
Capital      O&M         Total        ATTRIBUTABLE   Benefits
Cost          Cost       Cost         TO PROJECT
1986       25.49       0.00       25.49             0.00          (25.49)
1987       69.90       0.00       89.90             0.00          (69.90)
1988       92.25       0.00       92.25             0.00          (92.25)
1989       10.56       0.00       10.56             0.00          (10.56)
1990       21.35       0.00       21.35             0.00          (21.35)
1991       36.68       0.00       36.68             0.00          (36.68)
1992       25.07       0.00       25.07             0.00          (25.07)
1993       29.27       0.00       29.27             0.00          (29.27)
1994       35.28       0.00       35.28             0.00          (35.28)
1995        7.27       5.30       12.57           330.21          317.64
1996        0.00       5.30        5.30           330.21          324.91
1997        0.00       5.30        5.30           330.21          324.91
1998        0.00       5.30        5.30           330.21          324.91
1999        0.00       5.30        5.30           330.21          324.91
2000        0.00        5.30       5.30           330.21          324.91
2001        0.00        5.30       5.3d           330.21          324.91
2002        0.00        5.30       5.30           330.21          324.91
2003        0.00        5.30       5.30           330.21          324.91
2004        0.00        5.30       5.30           330.21          324.91
2005        0.00        5.30       5.30           330.21          324.91
2006        0.00        5.30       5.30           330.21          324.91
2007        0.00        5.30       5.30           330.21          324.91
2008        0.00        5.30       5.30           330.21          324.91
2009        0.00        5.30       5.30           330.21          324.91
2010        0.00        5.30       5.30           330.21          324.91
2011        0.00        5.30       5.30           330.21          324.91
2012        0.00        5.30       5.30           330.21          324.91
2013        0.00        5.30       5.30           330.21          324.91
2014        0.00        5.30       5.30           330.21          324.91
2015        0.00        5.30       5.30           396.15          390.85
2016        0.00        5.30       5.30           396.15          390.85
2017        0.00        5.30       5.30           396.15          390.85
2018        0.00        5.30       5.30           396.15          390.85
2019        0.00        5.30       5.30           396.15          390.85
2020        0.00        5.30       5.30           396.15          390.85
2021        0.00        5.30       5.30           396.15          390.85
2022        0.00        5.30       5.30           396.15          390.85
2023        0.00        5.30       5.30           396.15          390.85
2024        0.00        5.30       5.30           396.15          390.85
2025        0.00        5.30       5.30           396.15          390.85
2026        0.00        5.30       5.30           396.15          390.85
2027        0.00        5.30       5.30           396.15          390.85
2028        0.00        5.30       5.30           396.15          390.85
2029        0.00        5.30       5.30           396.15          390.85
Total        353.11     185.38     538.50         12,546.43       12,007.94
Net Present Value 13%             225.84            846.13          620.29
Benefit-Cost Ratio                                3.75
Economic Rate of Return (ERR)                    26.89%
Assumptions:
1. Yearwise phasing of the project excludes interest during construction
and duties, etc. All cost and benefits are expressed in 1994 prices.
2 The return perod of a low flood has been assumed as 20 years and
that of a high flood 35 years, the retum design period of the Bund.
3. The benefits attributable to the project have been estimated on
the basis of flood damage prevented by the project.
4. The number of housing units and the number of vehicles are assumed to
increase by 25%. 20 years after completion of project This is a
conservative estimate in view of the 4.5% annual growth in Karachi's
population and the actual rapid colonization of residential areas
adjoining the project site.
5. The 0 & M Costs have been assumed at 1.5% of the capital cost of
the project.
Source:  KDA and mission estmates.



B. Economic Rate of Retum
KSDP - KATCHI ABADI UPGRADING COMPONENT
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
Year    ------   PROJECT COST----             BENEFITS           Net
Capital       O&M        Total         ATTRIBUTABLE    Benefits
Cost          Cost        Cost         TO PROJECT
1988        0.51        0.00        0.51             0.00           (0.51)
1989        9.17        0.00        9.17             0.00           (9.17)
1990       16.32        0.00       16.32             0.00          (16.32)
1991       32.58        0.00       32.58             0.00          (32.58)
1992       89.20        0.00       89.20             0.00          (89.20)
1993        38.30       0.00       38.30             0.00          (38.30)
1994        6.69        2.89        9.58           154.65          145.07
1995        0.00        2.89        2.89           154.65          151.76
1996        0.00        2.89        2.89           154.65          151.76
1997        0.00        2.89        2.89           154.65          151.76
1998        0.00        2.89        2.89           154.65          151.76
1999        0.00        2.89        2.89           154.65          151.76
2000         0.00       2.89        2.89           154.65           151.76
2001         0.00       2.89        2.89           154.65           151.76
2002         0.00       2.89        2.89           154.65           151.76
2003         0.00       2.89        2.89           154.65           151.76
2004         0.00       2.89        2.89           154.65           151.76
2005         0.00       2.89        2.89           154.65           151.76
2006         0.00       2.89        2.89           154.65           151.76
2007         0.00       2.89        2.89           154.65          151.76
2008         0.00       2.89        2.89           154.65           151.76
2009         0.00       2.89        2.89           154.65          151.76
2010         0.00       2.89        2.89           154.65          151.76
2011         0.00       2.89        2.89           154.65           151.76
2012         0.00       2.89        2.89           154.65           151.76
2013         0.00       2.89        2.89           154.65          151.76
Total        192.77       57.83     250.60          3,092.99        2,842.39
Net Present Value e 13%             118.34            521.81          403.47
Benefit-Cost Ratio                                 4.41
Economic Rate of Return (ERR)                    45.24%
Assumptions:
1. Yearwise phasing of the project excludes interest during construction
and duties, etc. All cost and benefits are expressed in 1994 prices.
2. The benefits attributable to the project have been estimated on the
assumption that 75% of the increase in the value of properties in the
upgraded abadis was due to the project, the balance being the result
of investments made by the households themselves.
3. The 0 & M Costs have been assumed at 1.5% of the capital costs
of the project.
Source:  Katchi Abadi Directorate, KMC and mission estimates.



B. Economic Rate of Retum
KSDP - SHAHEED-E-MILLAT OVERBRIDGE COMPONENT
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
Year              PROJECT COST-               BENEFITS          Net
Capital      O&M        Total         ATTRIBUTABLE    Benefits
Cost         Cost       Cost          TO PROJECT
1992        32.33      0.00      32.33             0.00            (32.33)
1993        78.94      0.00      78.94             0.00            (78.94)
1994        70.42      0.00      70.42             0.00            (70.42)
1995        34.15      0.00      34.15             0.00            (34.15)
1996         0.00      0.57       0.57            32.58             32.02
1997         0.00      0.57       0.57            34.38             33.81
1998         0.00      0.57       0.57            36.30             35.73
1999         0.00      0.57       0.57            38.37             37.81
2000         0.00       0.57      0.57            40.61             40.04
2001         0.00       0.57      0.57            43.01             42.44
2002         0.00       0.57      0.57            45.59             45.03
2003         0.00      0.57       0.57            48.38             47.81
2004         0.00       0.57      0.57            48.38             47.81
2005         0.00       0.57      0.57            48.38             47.81
2006         0.00       0.57      0.57            48.38             47.81
2007         0.00       0.57      0.57            48.38             47.81
2008         0.00       0.57      0.57            48.38             47.81
2009         0.00       0.57      0.57            48.38             47.81
2010         0.00       0.57      0.57            48.38             47.81
2011         0.00       0.57      0.57            48.38             47.81
2012         0.00       0.57      0.57            48.38             47.81
2013         0.00       0.57      0.57            48.38             47.81
2014         0.00       0.57      0.57            48.38             47.81
2015         0.00       0.57      0.57            48.38             47.81
Total         215.83               227.17            899.73           672.56
Net Present Value @ 13%            162.62            179.34            16.72
Benefit-Cost Ratio                                 1.10
Economic Rate of Return (ERR)                    14.26%
Assumptions:
1. Yearwise phasing of the project excludes interest during construction
and duties, etc. All cost and benefits are expressed in 1994 prices.
2. The benefits attributable to the project include savings in time
and vehicle idling costs that were incurred at the railway crossing
and vehicle operating cost savings as a result of the improvement
in the road surface and in speed of vehicles.
Source:   KDA, National Transport Plan, 1995 and mission estimates.



Table-10
Status of Legal Covenants
Type of              Original   Revised
Section   Covenant  Status    Date         Date        Description of Covenant            Comments
CREDIT (Conditions of Effectiveness)
5.01a       10       C        06/24/86      -         ECNEC approve PC-1
5.01b       10       CD       06/24/86      06/86    Conditions of effective-         Deleted June 1986
ness for ADB loan fulfilled.
5.01c       10       C        06/24/86      -         Subsidiary loan agreements      Signed 06/19/86.
signed.
PROJECT:
2.01a      5         CD       Continuous   -          Implementing Agencies to        Generally complied with.
carry out project in            However most agencies
accordance with Implementa-    faced delays due to poor
tion Program.                   preparation and weak
contract management.
2.01b      5         CD      Continuous   -           Implementing Agencies to        Host of the original
carry out project in            components were closed
accordance with Operational    on Dec.30, 1993. Extension
Action Plan acceptable to       granted for selected
IDA.                            (mostly "new") components
up to Sep.30, 1994.
2.01c      3         C       Undefined    -           KMC/KWSB & KDA shall open
Special Accounts.
4.01(b)    1         C       03/30/94      -          Implementing Agencies to
furnish IDA with certified
copies of financial state-
ments and audit reports
within 9 months at end of
fiscal year.



Type of              Original   Revised
Section   Covenant  Status    Date         Date        Description of Covenant             Comments
4.01(c)      1       C       03/30/94    -            Implementing Agencies to
maintain separate accounts
for items disbursed on
basis of SOEs and provide
separate auditors opinion
as part of annual audit.
4.02(a)     2        CP     03/31186      -           KWSB to produce sufficient         Replaced with new
revenue from water supply          covenant consistent with
operation to cover operat-         Cr.1987 Project.
ing expenses and debt
service requirements.
4.02(a)ii   2        CP      06/30/87    -            KWSB to reduce sufficient          Replaced with new covenant
revenue from water supply          consistent with
operation to cover 10% of          Cr.1987.
capital expenditure requi-
rements in FY86/87.
4.02(a)ii   2        CP       06130/88    -           KWSB to produce sufficient         Replaced with new covenant
revenue from water supply          consistent with
operation to cover 20% of          Cr.1987.
capital expenditure requi-
rements in FY87/88.
4.02(a)ii   2        CP       06/30/89    -           KWSB to produce sufficient         Replaced with new covenant
revenue from water supply          consistent with
operation to cover 30% of          Cr.1987.
capital expenditure requi-
rements in FY87/88.
4.02(b)     2        CP       Continuous  -           KMC shall not incur any           Replaced with new covenant
debt on behalf of KWSB            consistent with
unless net annual revenue         Cr.1987.
is at least 1.5 times
total debt.



Type of              Original   Revised
Section   Covenent  Status    Date         Date       Description of Covenant             Comments
4.03(a)i    2        CP       06/30/90    -          KWSB sewerage revenues to         Replaced with new covenant
cover operating expenses         consistent with
by FY89/90.                      Cr.1987.
4.03(a)ii   2        CP       Undefined   -          KWSB sewerage revenues to         Replaced with new covenant
provide sufficient internal      consistent with
funds to cover "reasonable       Cr.1987.
portion of annual capital
expenditure requirements.
4.04       5        CP       03/31/85    -          KMC to staff & equip              KAD inadequately staffed
(see OAP)              its Katchi Abadis and Solid      for most of project
Waste Mgmt. Dept satisfac-       period.
tory to IDA.
4.05(a)i   10       NC       09/30/90    -          For continuous 12 mo. period    KTC unable to meet
(see OAP)              KTC to achieve outshedding       targets. KTC depot
ratio not less than 80%.         upgrading component
dropped.
4.05(a)ii  10       NC       09/30/90    -           For continuous 12 mo. period    KTC unable to meet
KTC to achieve manning ratio    targets. KTC depot
not more than 8.8 staff/bus.    upgrading component
dropped.
4.05(a)iii  10       NC       09/30/90    -           For continuous 12 mo. period    -
KTC to achieve not less than
170 daily km per bus.
4.05(a)iv   10       NC       09/30/90    -           For continuous 12 mo. period    -
KTC to achieve not more than
4 breakdowns per 10,000 bus km.
4.05(a)v    2        CP       Continuous  -           KMC to recover full cost of       Only 16,352 (36Z) leases
Katchi Abadi upgrading through  issued and 252 of costs
sale of 99 yr. lease.            recovered by Feb. 95.



Type of              Original   Revised
Section   Covenent  Status    Date         Date        Description of Covenant             Comments
4.06(b)i    2        C        Continuous  -           Katchi Abadi beneficiaries        Lease rates were
to pay KMC full lease price      raised to ensure full
or 252 down with balance         cost recovery.
over at least 4 years with
at least 12% interest/yr.
4.06(b)ii   3        C         Continuous  -          KMC to deposit proceeds of        Up to Feb. 95 KMC had
lease sales in revolving         collected Rs 73.7 m
fund.                             in lease charges which
were credited to the
revolving fund.
4.07(a)    2         NC        Continuous  -          KMC to recover full cost          The scheme was dropped
of pilot land development         from the project
from sale of plots.               as the estimated
development costs
substantially exceeded
the expected recoveries
from lease revenue.
4.07(b)i   2         NC        Continuous  -          KMC to sell at least 1/2         The scheme was dropped.
of plots for no more than
Rs. 1,500 (1985 prices).
4.07(b)ii  2         NC       Continuous  -           KMC to receive full payment       The scheme was dropped
or at least 25% down with
balance payable over at
least 4 yrs. with at least
12% interest/yr.
SIDE LETTER
11        C          -                    GOP to report new loan
commitments and transactions
under loans.



Key
Covenant type:
I =  Accounts/Audit                                                 8 =  Indigenous people
2 =  Financial perforfnance/generate revenue from beneficiaries     9 =  Monitoring, review and reporting
3 =  Flow and utilization of Project funds                           10 =  Implementation
4 =  Counterpart funding                                             II =  Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
5 =  Management aspects of the Project or of its executing agency    12 =  Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatoryrinstitutional action
6 =  Environmental covenants                                         13 =  Other
7 =  Involuntary resettlement
Status:
C  =  Covenant complied with             CD   =  Complied with after delay
NC =  Not complied with                  SOON =  Compliance expected in reasonably short time
CP    Complied with partially            NYD  =  Not yet due
ICR\PROICOMP



Table II
Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and Title              Describe and comment on lack of
compliance
1. N.A.
2.
3.



Table 12
Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned     Revised      Actual
Stage of Project Cycle
Weeks US$ Weeks US$ Weeks US$
Through appraisal                                      84.4 178.5
Appraisal - Board                                      78.5 162.4
Board - effectiveness
Supervision                 109.6  64.0 172.2 215.0 262.7 597.1
Completion                    11.5  14.9  11.5  14.9   3.3   2.7
Total:                                                428.9 940.7



Table 13
Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Retina
Stage of Project           Month/Year           Number of        Days in       Specialized staff        Implementation            Development                 Types of
Cycle                                           Persons          Field         skills represented       status                    Objectives                  Problems
Identification      2/20-3/7, 1984                   6         16
Preparation          7/5-7/18, 1984                  5          14
Preparation          9/7-12, 1984                    2         4
AppraisaL            11/8-29, 1984                   11         21
Appraisal            03/7-13, 1985                   3          6
Supervision          09/1985                         4
Supervision          5/7-12, 1986                    5          5
Supervision          9/18-22, 1986                   6          5
Supervision          1/31-2/26, 1987                 6          7
Supervision          8/19-25, 1987                   1          6
Supervision          12/11-31, 1987                  1          19
Supervision          6/20-8/13, 1988                 7          53                                       2
Supervision          12/13-19, 1988                   1         6
Supervision          5/1-6/11, 1989                  8          40                                       2
Supervision          10/14-11/15,89                  1          29
Supervision          8/18-28, 1990                   3          10
Supervision          5/17-30, 1991                   4          13                                       3
Supervision          6/21-7/9, 1992                  4          17                                       3
Supervision          2/25-3/6, 1993                  4          9                                        3
Supervision          9/12-22, 1993                   4          10                                       3
Supervision          7/12-21, 1994                   2          9



ApDendix-A
Mission's Aide-Memoire (with Ogeration Plan)



Tne World Bank                                    l818 H Street, N.W.  (202) 477-1234
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT   Washington, D.C. 20433  Cable Address: INTUAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION             U.S.A.              Cable Address: INOEVAS
October 13, 1994
Mr. Mirza Qamar Beg
Additional Chief Secretary (Dev.)
Planning and Development Department
Government of Sindh
Tughlaq House, Civil Secretariat
Karachi - Pakistan
Dear Mr. Beg:
Re: Karachi Special Development Proiect - Cr.1652-PAK
Thank you for the courtesies extended by ypur colleagues to the IDA supervision
mission that visited Karachi between July 10 and 21, 1994. The mission's aide-memoire
(attached as Annex. A to this letter) is confirmed by IDA management. Please accept my
apologies for our late response.
This was IDA's final supervision on Cr.1652-PAK which closed on September 30,
1994, two years after the original closing date included in the Credit Agreement. I am pleased
that the project is expected to achieve its main physical objectives. In financial terms, 99.5%
of the streamlined project will be implemented by the closing date. Overall progress between
September 1993 and June 1994 was Rs.225 million. By end June 94, value of certified work
on the IDA assisted components had reached Rs.2,525 million, representing 90% of the
estimated completion cost. IDA disbursements had increased to SDR.58.2 million (89% of the
credit).
Timely release of balance counterpart funds to KDA following the September '93 IDA
mission, and focussed efforts by KDA staff and the contractors, enabled substantial
completion of balance works on the "old" KDA components by the December 30, 1993 cut-
off date. These included the Storm water Drainage out falls, the Regional Road Network and
the Traffic Engineering (non-UTC) component. In addition, there was considerable progress in
the transfer of development works completed by KDA and KMC to the departments/agencies
responsible for their operation and maintenance.
RCA 248423 * WUI 64145



Mr. Mirza Qamar Beg                   - 2 -                       October 13, 1994
Among the components included in the streamlined project extended to September 94,
the Malir 18-box drainage inlet contract (current progress 97%) is scheduled for completion
by September. On the Shaheed-e-Millat Bridge, works valued at Rs 161 million (88% of
contract price) have been certified by June 30, 1994. Contract completion has been delayed,
and is likely to extend to December 1994. The Urban Traffic Control (UTC) Scheme
providing signalized traffic facilities at 60 junctions in the city was substantially completed
and commissioned in May 94. The Mass Transit Study Phase II is generally progressing on
schedule and draft Environmental Impact Assessment and Involuntary Resettlement Plan
reports have been completed.
A substantial portion of the activities envisioned under KMC Accounting Assistance
Phase II has been completed by the closing date. However, only about 60% of the proposed
systems will be running live by this time. A gradual transfer of system operational
responsibility to KMC personnel is advised. We are pleased to note that KMC is providing
for continued technical support beyond the closing date (6 months), until sufficient
institutional confidence and capacitv is built up to operate these systems.
The KTC training program has progressed well. However, unless there is an early
decision on the divesture of KTC, the prevailing circumstances and sense of uncertainty
among employees, risk diluting the benefits anticipated from the training program.
We are pleased to note that additional government funding for completion of Shaheed-e-
Millat Bridge (approximately Rs.5.0 million) has been provided to KDA to complete the
balance of the works. Equally, we appreciate KMC's efforts to continue with the leasing and
cost recovery activities in the Katchi Abadis areas and that quarterly progress report will be
sent to the Bank.
The UTC component constitutes a high technology asset that requires careful operation
and maintenance. TEB staff having supervised implementation of this component, have gained
knowledge and familiarity with its use. It is therefore important that TEB continue to be
responsible for the operation of the UTC system and be provided an appropriate annual O&M
budget for this purpose. You will recall that following the recent SSDP supervision mission,
IDA recommended that the Bureau be transferred from KDA to KMC.
We look forward to GOS' final comments/ approval of the Urban Land Management
Study and Metropolitan Management & Budgeting Study undertaken in the project as well as
a time frame for the implementation of the study recommendations, expected by mid October
1994.
IDA has provided to government its requirements for the Implementation Completion
Report (ICR) that has to be prepared on project closure. As part of the ICR procedures, the
borrower is required to submit its own evaluation report on project implementation, the extent
to which the purposes of the loan were achieved and the lessons learned. The mission has
explained these requirements to GOS/agency officials and agreed on submission of the
borrower's evaluation report to IDA by November 15, 94.



Mr. Mirza Qamar Beg                    - 3 -                       October 13, 1994
I look forward to working with you towards ensuring a successful conclusion of on-
going projects and future undertakings.
Sincerely yours,
/4- \Ac--t
Pe   ung
Chief
Energy and Infrastructure Operations
Country Department III
South Asia Region
cc:  Mr. Aftab Ahmad Khan, Secretary, Economic Affairs & Statistics Division,
Government of Pakistan, Islamabad
Mr. Shamsul Haque, Joint Secretary, Environmental and Urban Affairs Division,
Government of Pakistan, Islamabad
Mr. Fahim-uz-Zarnan, Administrator, Karachi Metropolitan Corporation, Karachi
Mr. Badar ul Hassan, Acting Managing Director, Karachi Water & Sewerage Board,
Karachi
Mr. Sabahat Ali Khan, Director General, Karachi Development Authority, Karachi
Mr. Ibrahim Patel, Managing Director, Karachi Transport Corporation, Karachi
Mr. Noor Muhammad Memon, Project Director, Project Management Unit, Planning &
Development Department, Government of Sindh, Karachi
Mr. A. Seki, Resident Representative, Asian Development Bank, Islamabad



PARISTAN
KARACHI aPECIAL DEVELOPMICET PROJECT
(CREDIT 1652-PAX)
IDA REVIEW MISSION - JULY 1994
AIDE =MnOIRE
(Karachi, July 21, 1994)
A. INTRODUCTION
1.        This Aide-Memoirs eummarizes the findings and recommndations of
the IDA mission, which visited Karachi between July 10 and 21, 1994. The
mission consisted of Meesrs. Navaid Qureshi (mission leader), Anwar Ali Bhatti
(Disbureoment Officer, PMP) and Shahid KRrdar (consultant). Mr. Mukhtar Ahmad
Project Officer, ADB joined the mislsion for concluding discussions from July
19 to 21.
2.        The objectives of the mission were to:
(a) review overall financial/ physical progress on the project and
actions taken by the Borrower since the September 1993
supervision mission and update the statue of compliance with
legal covenants. Assess the extent of project completion by
September 30, 1994, the credit closing date, the balance value
of any unfinished works, and agree on a firm arrangement for
the completion of such works using the government's own
resources.
(b) Commence preparation of the Implementation completion report
(ICR) for the project. Provide advice and support to the
Borrower for preparing its contribution to the ICR. Review the
borrower. plan for the operational phase of the project
ilncluding performance indicatora for assessing the projects
development impact.
3.        The mission visited the sites for the Malir Flood Protection
Scheme, Shahced-e-Millat bridge, the Urban Traffic Control scheme and two KTC
depots. The mission appreciates the courtesies and cooperation extended to it
during the visit.
4.        The findings and recommendations of the mission were discussed in
the wrap-up meeting held in Karachi on July 21, 1993 chaired by the Chief
Economist, Planning & Development Department of the Government of Sindh. The
mission's findings and recommendations, as incorporated in this Aide-Memoire,
are subject to review and confirmation by IDA management.



2
B. STATUS OF ACTIONS AGREED KARLIZ
5.         ollowing the September 93 mission, IDA extended the Closing Date
for the entire credit up to December 30, 1993, to allow government time to
arrange for the up-front release of counterpart funds, and to enable IDA to
complete all actiono necessary to streamline the project. This opportunity was
effectively utilized by IDA to complete balance work on the "old" components
not included in the streamlined project. These included the Storuwater
Drainage outfalls, the Regional Road Netwovk and the Traffic Engineering (non-
UTC) cooponent.
6.        Since the September supervision mission, the projoct has been
visited by the Task Manager in December 1993, to follow-up agreement. with the
government and to assess project progress.
7.        GOS transferred Re. 80 million to IDA in end October 93, and Re 37
million in Feb 94 (refl-cting the entire local component of approved coots for
KDA vorks). Counterpart funds for PMU have not been required to date.
8.        All high priority works included in RDA's original components,
which were not part of the streamlined project, were substantially completed
by December 30, 1993.
9.        tMC failed to make significant progress on the covenanted cost
recovery targets for the Katchi Abadi program. For details oes para 39.
10.       There has been substantial progress in the transfer of development
works completed by RDA #nd KMC to the departmentslagencies responsible for
their operation and maintenance. Attachment III summarizes the present
statue.
11.       On Dec 27, 93:tho credit closing date for the streamlined project
vas extended up to September 30, 1994.
C.  CURRENT IMPLEMENTATION STATUS
12.       The mission was provided a copy of PHU'. progress report for May
1994. At the mission'o request, PIU and the implementing agencies compiled
actual component vies financial progreas up to June 30, as well as projected
expenditures incurred by the September 30, 94. This is summarized in Table I
(see Attachment I).
13.       Overall financial progress reported in the nine month period
between September 1993 and June 1994 ia Ro.225 million. Value of work
certified by end June 94 is Ro.2,525 million (90Z of completion cost).
Estimated value of balatice work to complete the project is Rs.274 million.
Disbursement of IDA funds has increased aince September 1993 from SDR.51.3
million (782) to SDR.58.2 million (891 of the credit) as of May 31, 94.
14.       The following describes the Implementation status of the individual
components included in the streamlined project, and extended up to September
30, 94s



3
Karachi Develogment Authorlity (RDA)
15.       Halir 18-box Drainage Inlet.  About 972 of the work has been
completed.  This includes the entire 18-box drainage inlet structure
(including gZtes). The agency reports that completion has been delayed beyond
March 94, on account of inadequate contractor performance, restrictions placed
by the district administration on use of borrow areas by the contractor, and
early onset of the mons6on season. The mission v-a provided a report of the
actual activity vise progrese achieved by the contractor since September 93
and the quantities of balance work, Based on recent performance it should take
the contractor another month to complete the unfinilhed work. However KDA
anticipates completion by September 94 on account of uncertain working
conditions during the current heavy monsoon season. During the field visit,
the mission advised KDA to arrange completion of the gap in the right bund
embankment on an urgent basis to avoid potential damage caused by monsoon
floods.
16.       Shah&ed-e-Killat Bridge.  The mission was provided a copy of the
consultant's progrems report No. 28 for May 94. This component was scheduled
for completion by June 1994. However execution of the vork has been delayed by
a number of factors, including the need to shift existing underground
services, removal of entroachments and cash flow problems faced by the
contractor (partly caused by an initial underestimation of reinforcing steel
quantities at the time of bid). To expedite project progress, and to help the
contractor tide over his financial difficulties and achieve substantial
completion of the works, by the credit closing date, KDA has provided
substantial support and-iaeeistance in the form of direct payments to suppliers
for cement and steel. The mission commends KDA for taking on this bold and
proactive role in ensuring progress of works under tha difficult circumstances
created by the contractor's veak finances.
17.       Works valued at Re 161 million (882 of the expected final contract
price) have been certified as of June 30, 1994. The quality of works completed
to date is good. However, the contractor and the agency need to pay greater
attention to maintaining proper traffic diversions, ensuring public safety and
minimizing disruption and inconvenience to public in the areas adjoining the
project site, during the remaining construction period.
18.       The updated epmpletion plan provided to the mission is attached ae
Attach IV. Of the remaining works, the contractor hopes to complete work
comprising of the main bridge, the ramp structures, Shaheed-e-Millat side road
works and about 50 of the Baloch colony roadwork by the September 30, 94
closing date. Balance works valued at about Ra.10 to 12 million consisting of
Asphalt carpeting of r aps, completion of the remaining Baloch colony road
works and other miscellaneous works are likely to extend beyond the closing
date to December 94. Based on LCB procurement, specialist contractors for
traffic signs and lane markings were selected by KDA by end March 94. However,
nominated contracts under the main contract have not been awarded to date,
becauae of reluctance of the main contractor to accept this arrangement. KDA
intends to award direct contract. for these works in the near future, and has
reportedly received assurances that these works will be completed before the
credit closing date.
19.       The mission recomuends that the supervisory consultants services be
extended to end December 1994, to ensure that construction quality is not
compromised in the finishing stages of the project. Local currency financing
for such services beyond the closing date eatimated to coat about Rn 0.6



4
million will have to be provided entirely by COP. The mission is willing to
support a formal request by government to IDA for financing of the foreign
exchange costs of construction *upervision during this three month period
(eastimted at approximately US$ 50,000) from an alternate source (to be
identified).
20.       Urban Traffic Control (UTC).  This component was substantially
completed and comissioned in May 1994, in accordance vith the updated
completion plan provided to the last mission. A completion report dated May
15, 94, prepared by the, contractor, has been provided to IDA. The contract has
now entered the maint-npnce period. A total of 60 traffic intersections have
been signalized under this scheme. KDA/TEB successfully arranged several short
visits by its internati nal consultants following the September 93 mission, to
help resolve technical Lesues and implementation bottlenecks and, in lieu of
the resident contract maLnager proposed earlier, to assist IDA staff in during
the final inetallation and hand-over phase of the UTC component. Dual RESC
power supply connections have been provided at almost all the junctions to
improve operational reliability of the system. TEB staff propose to have the
UTC contractor provide certain additional services related to updating of
traffic survey data, ph"aing plans and provision of additional stock of
essential spares before: the closing date. The mission has agreed to this in
principle, subject to a review of details which will be forwarded to IDA
shortly. The mission has confirmed that UTC maintenance contract costs beyond
the closing date will have to be borne be the borrower. Training of traffic
police to operate the UTC system is in progress and is expected to be
completed by the closing date.
21.       Mass Transit Study Phase II (Zarly Implementation program).  The
work on this study has generally progressed according to schedule. Details are
contained in the consultant's Progress Report No. 11 for May 94. The
conaultant's work was r oiewed in detail by the recent SSDP supervision
mission that visited KaTachi in April/Hay 94. Amendment No.1 for the Design
and Environmental Impact Assessment (EhA) study of the Priority No.1 corridor
ce-menced on July 1, 93!and was scheduled for completion by January 31, 1994.
Most of the tasks included in this study have been completed. A draft ZIA
report has been provided to government and the Bank in mid-May for their
review and conments.
22.       Work on V.O. No.1 - Involuntary Resettlement Plan (IRP) commenced
on Teb 1, 94 and was scheduled for completion by May 31, 94# A draft IRP
report has been provided to government and the Bank in June; It will be
reviewed by the Steering comitte- at the end of July.
23.       At government's request, IDA gave its no objection to Amendment
No.2 to the conoultant's contract covering - Dual use concept study,
Preliminary Design (9 km) and DOT. Work commenced in February and was
scheduled to extend up to July 31, 94. A report on the dual use concept has
been prepared, and work on preliminary deeign and documentation for the BOT
process is continuing. In view of the delay in effectiveneos of SSDP, the
mission was informed that government will shortly forward a request for
extension of the consultant's services up to September 30, 94, to complete the
preliminary design workton the remaining 9 Km section. The misoion indicated
that IDA is willing to coneider financing such a request from uncommitted
credit funds.
24.       The mission was informed that the Federal Government has set up a
National Mass Transit Authority (NHlTA) on May 18, 94. Through recent press



advertisements the NUTA has invited expressions of intere.t for BOT off-rs
(based on an LRT system) for a numb-r of corridors in Karachi. The mission
requast. further information on these developments, and the federal
Government's plans regarding Haes Transit in Karachi.
Karachi Hetropolitan Cotporation (KMC)
25.       Acounting Assistance Phase I1.  This technical assistance
component is making reasonable progress, and although there have been mome
delay., a substantial proportion of the component is expected to be completed
by September 1994. Details are contained in the Consultant's nineteenth
progress report for June 94. The installation of the main computer and its
peripheral. at the KHC headquarters is in progrese. Bids (Technical Proposals)
for procurement of remaining hardware for remote locations have been opened
during the pact week, and an evaluation report vill be forvarded to IDA
shortly. 7MC in hopeful that this procurement will be completed before the
cloaing date.
26.       The development of the proposed computerized systems and the
completion of the fixed assets survey ha. been hampered by the poor
availability of critical information for database creation and the slow pace
of approval of the aystem deeigns, the contents of the data bases and the
outputs of the computerized systems. This aspect uan brought to the attention
of Adminlstrator KHC, who promised to instruct KMC Departments to provide the
consultants the require' information/feedback in a timely manner.
27.       Whereas this eub-project to upgrade KMC'a financial systems has
addressed many of the deficiencies in the financial accounting and management
reporting systeme, the stage of development that will be achieved by September
30, 1994 will only resolve the immediate concerns and problems related to
information avail*bility and data access.
28.       The Mission i1 concerned about KMC's capacity to take ont by
September 30, 1994, the role currently being performed by the consultants. In
the Mission's view the longer - term benefits of increased efficiency and
effectiveness associated vith the component will only be realized if there is
a gradual transfer of system operational responsibility to KMC personnel. In
the Mission's aseesement around 60% of the proposed syatems will be running
live by project closure, partially because the main hardware equipment vas
only delivered recently'. It will, therefore, be difficult to ensure, by
September 30th, the complete development and installation of all systems,
their error free operation, as vell as build adequate technical capability
within KMC to run theoe,computerized systems vithout assistance. The mission
understands that the coioultant is contractually bound to provide some of
these services, even beyond September, like installation of a fully
computerized octroi billing system at the 21 octroi posts, user manuals,
rectification of prograining errors, etc.
29.       DMC must identify the technical support of a "hand-holding" nature
that it would like to draw upon beyond the closing date, untll there is
institutional confidence to assume the responsibility of maintaining the
systems after the withdrawal of the consultant team. During this period of
transition KMC should continue to have access to the expertise of the
consultants to satiefy itself that all the computerized systems not only meet
the information needs of the user departments but have also been fully tested
and made fully functional. An institutional strengthening component for KMC



,          ~~~~6
has been included under:SSDP which could be explored for financing such
assistance.
Karachi Tr'nsort Cornoration (KTC)
30.       Training Program.  The mission was provided a copy of the
Consultant's progrese No.4 (June 94). The status of the program was discussed
with HD KTC and the consultant's coordination manager. The mission also
visited the Landhi and Mehran depots to review implementation of the
accounting training. Generally the training program appears to be progressing
vell. The oversoas training visit took place in March-April 94, and KTC has
prepared an overseas toi.r report recording the participants impressions. Local
external courses have already been attended by almost 300 staff, and some
further courses are planned in the remaining period before the closing date.
Under the District training program almost 1000 participants have attended
various courses develope'd under this technical assistance. The accounting
training program is providing on-the-job training to KTC otaff at the depots
to clear the accounting-backlog dating back to 1989. This work has been
completed at two Depots. and is in progress at other locations. The management
training program is underway at the various depots.
31.       The training program is programmed for completion by end September
1994. However, other factors external to this effort risk diluting the
benefits anticipated from the training program. The mission sensed a feeling
of uncertainty among KTC employees about the organization's future. Morale is
low particularly because three months staff salaries are outstanding. After
consideration of the numerous isues facing KTC, the recent SSDP Mission had
reco ended its early d1vestiture.
32.       In view of the prevailing environment at KTC, the lack of
institutional commitment and the week incentive and accountability structures,
the mission's is concerned that KTC may not be able to ensure the currency of
financial records after, the consultants have completed their assignment.
Government of sindh (GO*)
33.       SSDP Preparation and Bridge 'Funding.  Use of balance PHU funds had
been set aside to aupport SSDP related activities. Since September 93 these
funds have been used to provide short term administrative support to EXPACO.
The mission asked PMU to expedite administrative approval (PC-IIs), and
request formal IDA no objection for some remaining SSDP preparation studies,
and to submit replenishiuent requests at the very earliest. PMU has also been
asked to coordinate preparation of the Borrcwer's contribution to the
implementation completion report on the project.
ADB Co-financed comoonents
34.       PKU reports overall utilization of 28% up to June 30, 94. The April
94 ADB review mission has recommended an extension of the closing date for
their project to December 31, 1995. Major outstanding iasues include i)
satisfactory resolution of the accounts receivable issue for KWSB and KESCI
ii) inadequate progress on leasing and cost recovery for the Katchi Abadi
component; and iii) implementation of the Resource Ceneration Study findings
and recommendations.



7
D.   MAJOR XSSUES AND RlCOWNDED ACTIONS
35.       Closing Dates Credit 1652-PAR vill clooe on September 30, 1994, two
years later than the original closing date *nvisioned in the Development
Credit Agreement. The mission estimates that in terms of project completion
costs, 99.52 of the streamlined project vill have been implemented by this
date. Following credit closure, IDA will continue to honor withdrawal
applications for expenditures incurred (payments made or paymenta due for
goods, worke and services which have been provided prior to the closing date)
which are received at the World Bank, not later than four months after this
date.
36.       Completion of Shah*ed-a-Millat BridgZs At the present rate of
progreos, it is estimated that vork. (and consultancy services) valued at Rs.
10 to 15 million vill remain unfinished on September 30, 94. With proper
planning, construction materials constituting about two-thirds of this figure
can be procured and stockpiled at the site prior to the closing date. The
residual coat of Rs 3.5 to 5 million, plus release of balance retention
payment (currently estimated at Rs. 6 million) will have to be borne by
government/KDA entirely from its own resources. Thia reflects an increase of
about Re 4 to 5 million in the goverrment's share of project cost on account
of delayed completion of this contract.
37.       Since this work constitutes a high priority investment for the
city's tranaport network, the mission requested GOS to allocate necessary
funds from its own resources to ensure uninterrupted completion of these works
by the end of 1994. At Fhe vrap-up meeting GOS confirmed that the required
additional allocation to complete the balance works would be provided to KDA
by September 30, 1994.
38.       Adequate 0&M Funding for components operated by TEBi The UTC
component constitutes a high technology asset that require. careful operation
and maintenance. TED staff have supervised implementation of this component
and have gained knowledge and familiarity with its uee. Therefore in the
misaion's view it is important that TEB should continue to be responsible for
the operation of this major asset and should be provided a satisfactory annual
O&M budget for this purpose. This role is consistent with the functions
assigned to TEB under the Traffic Engineering Act (1985). The future of TEB
within RDA has already been discussed by the recent SSDP mission, which has
recommended that the Bureau be transferred to KMC.
39.      KUC Leasing Activity and Cost Recovery i Progress on leasing and
cost recovery remains disappointing. Compared vith the earlier target of 1900
leases and Ra.13 million/month in lease sales, KMC reported that 3,839 new
leases were issued (81 of total) and Rs.3.02 million in additional revenue
collected (1% of potential revenue) in the 7 month period from September 93 to
March 94. The total number of plots leased has thus increased to 14,141 (312)
while the lease revenue:has gone up only marginally to Ro.29.3 million (142 of
full cost recovery). The apparent inconsistency between these two figures
needs to be resolved. KMC Director Lands has coamaitted to review available
data and provide a reconciliation statement to IDA by the first week of
August. The missi6n wase.not provided any information on leasing or revenue
collection for the period beyond March 94, although KMC staff acknowledged
that leasing activity had slowed down further in recent months.
40.       KHC'S continued failure to implement the covenanted cost recovery
targets aimed at financial suatainability of the Katchi Abadi upgrading



S
program can be attributed to a number of factors including a) lack of
political comitment, b) weak institutional capacity, c) poor accountability
within th. land d-partment and d) frequent turnover of key decision makers
including the Administrator and aenior Director Lands. The mission requests
COS'e assurance that efforts vill continue to be made beyond credit closure to
achieve the leasing and:cost recovery objectives of the Katchl Abadi
component.
41.       GOS Approval of Studies: Final COS comente/ approval of the Urban
Land Management Study and Metropolitan Management & Budgeting Study undertaken
in the project era etill avaited. The mission ham requested PHU to convey the
final GOS position regarding the findings contained in the studies and a time
frame for the implementation of the study recomendations to IDA by August 30,
1994.
E. IMPLEMENTATION COH?LETION REPORTING
42.       Transfer of Cimpleted works and Preparation of Operation and
Maintenance Planes All the assets and facilities procured/constructed under
the project need to be iransferred to the agencies ultimately charged with
their operation and maintenance (OW.) Attachment III provides a summary of
the prosent otatus of such transfers. As part of Implementation Completion
Report (ICR) preparation (see para 44), IDA requires that each agency with
such O&M responslkility develop and present an acceptable action plan for the
operational phaseothat ensures continued operations of the assets in
accordance with their operational specifications and sound engineering
practice. The action plan should set out:
A)        The required institutional arrangements and staffing needs. Also
vhether these have already been met, or the target dates by which
these will be in place;
b)        Estimates of the additional O&M costs resulting from the operation
of ouch works/aosets, the agency's proposed strategy on the manner
in which funding will be phased into the maintenance schedule, and
the source of: such funding; and
c)        Wherever appllcable, the key physical, operational and financial
indicators foi monitoring the performance of thees assets and
assessing their development impact.
43.       The agencies have agreed to provide the draft plans for IDA's
review by the end!of July, 1994. The mission requests the PHU to coordinate
this effort and ensure that these plans are forwarded to IDA by this date. A
copy of these operation plans will be attached to the final nission aide-
memoirs issued following management confirmation.
44.       lwplem.ntation Completion Report: In early July 94, IDA sent to
government its requirements for the Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
that has to be prepared on project closure. As part of the ICR procedures,
the borrower is required to submit its own evaluation report on project
execution and operation, the ensuing costs and benefits, the performance of
CO and the Bank on their respective obligations under the loan agreement, the
extent to which the purposes of the loan were achieved and the lessons
learned. The misoion has explained these requirements to the borrower/agencies
for preparing its contribution to the ICR process.



1
9
45.       To enable IDA staff to complete and diatribute the ICR to its Board
within 6 months of the closin8 date, as required under the present procedures,
tho mission ha. propocnd the following schedule for ICR preparation s
a)        IDA's Draft ICR to borrower and
co-financierts for conmentt                    Nov 15, 94
b)        Borrower compLetee its evaluation
of project implementation and transmits
it to IDA, vith a sumrarys                     Nov 15, 94
c)        Borrower' Js/co financiers cotmento
on IDA's drafI                                 Dec 7, 94
d)        TH revises tekt to reflect comsents
and prepares $rey cover ICR :                  Jan 1, 95
At wrap-up, this schedule was confirm-d by GOS.
F. RELASES  DISBURSEMENT AND SPECIAL ACCOUNTS
46.       COS Relea--se  PHU informed the mission that vith the second tranche
up-front release in February 1994, G0S has released its full share of
counterpart funds to the reopective agencies, and the agencies have confirmed
that these releases provide sufficient counterpart funds to complete the
project (except for thel additional allocations indicated in paras 36 and 37
for Shah--d-e-Millat Bridge).
47.       Review of th, Statcment of Expenditure.s The mission reviewed the
documentation under withdrawal applications submitted by KDA, M1C, PHU and
KW&SB on the basij of Statement of Expenditures (SObEs) during the period July
1, 1993 through June 30' 1994, and found the current practicea and procedures
satisfactory.
48.       Recoveries of the initial deposits from the Special Accountas
IDA has initiatad recoveries of initial deposit balances in the agency special
accounts in anticipation of the Credit closing date. Our records indicate that
the following amounts remain to be adjusted to fully recover the Special
Account initial deposit4t
Name of the Aaencv   Amount to be Recovered
KDA                    US$ 803,662.73
KW&SB                 US$ 617,918.81
KMC          ^         US$  82,236.36
PHU                    US$ 358,179.96
49.       There are no balance fundo currently available in the KWSB Special
Account. The sum of US$ 617,918.81 that remains to be recovered has appeared
due to an exchsngh los s,suffered on account of converaion of the US Dollar.
into Rupsee before the actual payments took place.  In accordance vith the
agreement reached between the Coverriment and the Bank, such exchange looses
were required to be transferred to the respective Special Accounts by the
State Bank of Pakistan (SBP), Karachi. However, according to the details
provided by the SBP, only US$ 22,065.34 have been transferred to National Bank
of New York. KW&SB should refund this amount of US$ 22,065.34 to IDA as soon
it receives intimation from National Bank of Pakistan that the funds have been



10
credited into the KWSB Special Account. Since the KW&SB component sac closed
on December 30, 93 and the agency has no pending claims, the balance exchange
lose of US$ 595,853.47 (US$ 617,918.81-22065.34)  will hay, to be born by the
KW&SB or by the Covernmont. This amount needs to be refunded to IDA
imediately.
50.       In came of the PFM  Special Account, the mission's records suggest
that the current balance in the special account is more than US$75,000 in
excess of total future oxpenditures, vhereas PHU contends that this figure is
around US$ 32,000. This matter needs to be urgently resolved and the amount
finally agreed need. to:be refunded to IDA iumediately.
51.       IDA's Resident Mission in Islamabad will shortly advie
KWSB/PMU/GOS details of the account to vhich theoe amounts should be refunded.
52.       KDA has confirmed to the misaian that the recoveries from its
special account vill not disrupt implementation of its components, and that it
is in a position to pro-finance the coat of remaining worka and subsequently
seek IDA reimbursements.
G. AUDIT STATUS
53.       All agency audit reports required in the project legal agreements
and currently due have now been received by IDA. KDA provided the miasion vith
the only remaining audits related to the operation of its Special Account and
Statement of Exponditures.
H., SU!ARY OF AGREEMENTS AND ACTIONS
54.       A e =lary of the agreed actions appears belovt
GOS
1)        Trancfer additional funds (approx Rs.5 m) to KDA to complete
balance vorks on S.M.Bridge beyond the closing date.
.   by  Sep 30, 94.
ii)       Provide IDA information on the government's current plans re.
development of mass transit in Karachi, and the status of
initiatives recently launched by the NMTA.        ... by  Aug 15, 94.
iii)      Decide on the future location of TEB and ensura adequate level of
O&M funding.                                          by  Sep 30, 94.
iv)       Convey to IDA the final COS commenta on the Urban Land Management
Study and Met'ropolitan Management and Budgeting Study.
I                                   ... by  Aug 30, 94.
v)        Ensure transfer of all works and assets created under the project
to appropriate agencies responsible for their O&M.
by  Sep 30, 94.
vi)       Provide IDA the borrower's evaluation of the project.
by  Nov 15, 94.
vii)      Provide coments on IDA's draft ICR.                ... by  Dec 7, 94.



11
1)        Obtain neceseary administrative approvals (PC-11 etc.) and ensure
payments to consultants for KSDP and SSDP preparation studies.
... by  Sep 30, 94.
ii)       Forward for IDA's review, draft plane prepared by the agencies for
the operations phse. of the project.             ... by  Jul 31, 94.
11)      Resolve amount refundable to IDA from the Special Account initial
deposit and arrange payment                        . by  Aug 31, 94.
KHtC
1)        Continue leasing and coat recovery activities in the Katchi abadi
itreas upgraded under KSDP. Provide GO and IDA a brief quarterly
progress report of the number of plota leased and revenue
recovered.                                              ... Ongoins.
ii)       Firm up arrangements for continued technical support from the
Accounting assistance consultants for a six month period beyond the
closing date.                                    ... by  Sep 30, 94.
1)        Complete balance work on contract for Malir River 18-box drainage
inlet contract.                                  ... by  Sep 30, 94.
11)       S.M.Bridges  :
- Complete balance work on Shaheed-e-Hillat Bridge according to the
revised completion plan in Attach IV.
- Award contracte for traffic signs and traffic signals directly to
specialist contractors.                        ... by  Jul 24, 94.
- Extend supervisory consultanto contract up to December 1994.
by Aug 15, 94.
i)        Refund unadjusted amount of Special Account initial deposit to IDA
Immediate.
i)        Draft ICR to borrover and co-financiers for comment.
by  Nov 15, 94.



Attachment Ii
LIST OZ PfRSONS MIT
Mr. Aziz uddin                 Chief Economist
Mr. Salem Memon                Chief Foreign Aid
Mr. Noor Mohemmd Memon         Project Diroctor, PHU
Xarachi DeveloRment Authority
Mr. Sabahat Ali Khan           Director General
Mr. Yuauf Siddiqi              Member Special Development Project. (SDP)
Syed Marghoob              Director Finance
Mr. M. Zaheerul Islam          Director Traffic Engineering Bureau
Mr. Tahir Soomro               Director Karachi HMas  Tranuit Study
Mr. Hassen Muhammad            Chief Engineer SDP
Mr. Manzar Zahoor              Executive Engineer, Shaheed-e-Millat Bridge
Karachi Ater and Sewerase Board
Mr. Badar ul Hasean            Acting Managing Director
Hr. Aftab Ahmed                Director (FAP) Development Wing
Hr. Pareed Soomro               Project Manager, Water
Mr. Chandio                    Acting Chief Engineer, Sanitation
arschi Hunicial Corporation
Mr. Pahim uz Zaman             Administrator
Me. Rokheana Saleem            Financial Advisor
Hr. Ghazanfar Abbas            Senior Director Land    Etate
Mr. Suleman Memon               Project Director Ratchi Abadi
Mr. Jafri                      Deputy Director Accounts
Karachi Tranaport Corporation
Mr. Ibrahim Patel              Managing Director
Mr. Safdar Ks2mi               Project Coordinator
Consultants
Mr. Omar Morehed               Sidat Hyder Morshed Associates
Mr. Abdul Nabi Pathan          A.A. Associates
Mr. Zafar Nomani               Dia. Consultanta
Mr. Briggs                     Acer Freeman Fox
Mr. Patrick Malone             Mass Transit Joint Venture Consultant



Attachment - III
Page 1 of 3
OPERATIONS AND KAINTENCE OF ASSETS CONSTRUCTED UNDER THE PROJECT
Assets                  Developing         Agency  that      R       m  a  r k  o
Created                 Aoner              will maintain
the Assets
1. K0 Canal             KWSB               KWSB-O&M
Projecta          ving
Dept.
2. Standby              SWSB               KWSB-O&M
syphon.              Projects           wing
Dept.
3. Flood protection    KDA                 RDA              Although the CM had
Bund.                                                        directed that the Malir
floor protection works
should be transferred toL the
Irrigation Department for
future O&M the department
has expresasd its inability
to maintain theoe assets.
The Mission understands that
IDA'. mandate has been
extended to include the O&f
of these bunde_end that the
requisite funds will be made
available by G0O for these
functions.
4.  Drainage Inlets      RDA                 KDA            As these inleta are part of
the Malir protection bunds,
they vill be maintained by
IDA.
5.  2 bridges on the    IDA                  IDA              As these inlets are part
outfall of                                                the Malir protection
Chakora and Fir                                           bund they vill be
Bukhari Nallo                                            maintained by KDA



Attachment - Ill
Page 2 of 3
OPERATXONS AND HUIIAZUTKCE 01 ASSETS CONSTRUCTED UNDER THE PROJECT
Acsets                  Developing         Agency that       R  e  m  a  r  k a
Created                                    will maintain
*the Assets
6.  Chakora Nalla        EDA                 ZHC (East)*    Yet to be handed over to ZMC
(Esct), *lthough the
decision in this regartd has
already been taken by GOS.
7.  Duplication          IDA                 *               As the bridge has been
bridge across                                            constructed in the area
Chakora Nalla                                            maintained by the PAF Faisal
Base, the asset will
eventually be handed over to
them for O&M.
S.  Outfall Drain*       IDA                 KHC
A,   and D
9.  Outfall Drain f      RDA                 ZKC (West)
10. Regional Road        RDA                 R5C
Network, except
lorangi Road.
11. Improvement of       RDA                 C&W Dept.
Korangi Road
12. Traffic Signals      TEB                 TEB             The Mission understands that
if the functions of the TEB
is re-located within RMC,
then the signals will be
maintained by it.
13. Pedestrian over-    TEB                  KMC
head bridges.
14. Tidal flow           TEB                 TEB             See remarks under (12)
syotem                                                    above.
15. Other traffic        TEB                 KMC/ZMC         As assets upgraded were
improvement                                               already maintained by
schemes                                                  RMC/ZMC they will continue
to manage them.



Attachment - Ut
Page 3 of 3
OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE OF ASSETS CONSTRUCTED UNDER THE PROJECT
Assets                  Developing         Agency that               e f a  a  r k
Crestd                  Agenc: will maintain
the Assets
16. Traffic Police       TEB                Home Dept.       Although no separate
allocation has been made in
the 1994-95 Budget for the
inetitute, preaently, it is
being managed by the Police
department from the
allocation for the DIG
Traffic (Highways).
17. Traffic Sign and    TEB                 TEB               If the functions of the TEB
Pavement Harking                                          are re-located wlthin KMC,
Workohop                                                 then the vorkshop will also
be managed by it.
18. Computerized         RMC                RMC
financial and
management
ey'etem.
19. Asseta constructed
under the Katchi
Abadi upgrading
component:
- Roads/streetes      MC                KHC
-water distri-
bution systema    RMC through KWSB  KWSB
- Sewerage
systems    '        MC and            KWSB*
(tertiary          through KWSB
network)
20. Shaheed-i-Millat    KDA                 KMC*             On completion it will be
Bridge                                                   be transferred to KHC for
maintenance.
* * Marko assets not yet handed over to the agency that will be reeponeible for
their O&M.
O\lU9JJlDOCUVA1VLlUDP.AM



Appendix-B
Borrower's Evaluation



EX7Pk1. UA1' IO~N   S tMIMIAFY
K'AFACH I  SPEBC IAL.  DE:vEILO?1E Nr  1? JE:CT- I
( PcSDP-I )
IDA. CREDIT 1652-FAI()
PREPARED BY : ABDUL SAEED MEMON
DIRECTOR, PMU
LAL BUX LAGHARI
DY. DIRECTOR, PMU
GHULAM HYDER QURESHI
PROGRESS OFFICER, KSDP-I
CHECKED BY      NOOR MOHAMMAD MEMON
PROJECT DIRECTOR, PMU
APPROVED BY : MIRZA QAMAR BEG
ACS (D), P&D, GOS
CCOPOSED AND PRINTED AT COMPUTER CENTRE OF PMU



PROJECT MONITORING UNIT
KARACHI SPECIAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME PHASE-I
EVALUATION SUMMARY UNDER IDA CR:1652-PAK
T A BT I,    QF   C O N  T EN T'rS
S.NO:           SUBJECT                                       PAGE NO:
I.   INTRODUCTION:
BACKGROUND .............................................   01
II. PROJECT OBJECTIVES:
a)   ORIGINAL PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND COMPONENTS        . .        02
b)   SPECIAL LOAN COVENANTS AS PER IDA CR4652-PAK AGREEMENT.   05
III. IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS:
a)   ACTUAL ACHIEVEMENTS/IMPLEMENTATION BY THE TIME OF
SEPTEMBER/DECEMBER, 1993 ................................ 06
b)   LATEST POSITION IN PHYSICAL AND FINANCIAL TERMS ......... 07
C)   IMPLEMENTATION TIME TABLE AS COMPARED TO ESTIMATES ...... 08
d)   ACTUAL COST AND FINANCING ARRANGEMENTS AS COMPARED
TO ESTIMATES ............................................ 08
e)   BOTTLENECKS/KEY FACTORS THAT AFFECTED TIMELY
IMPLEMENTATION .......................................... 09
f)   SUSTAINABILITY (OPERATION & MAINTENANCE) OF PROJECTS
IMPLEMENTED UNDER KSDP-I ................................ 11
g)   PROJECT OUTCOME/ACHIEVEMENT OF MAJOR OBJECTIVES ......... 13
h)   PERFORMANCE ..................                               16
i)   BANK'S PERFORMANCE ................................. 16
ii)  BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE ............................. 17
IV. SUMMARY OF FUNDINGS, FUTURE OPERATIONS AND KEY LESSONS
LEARNED (AND SUGGESTION) ....................................  17
V.   TABLES:
TABLE-I IMPLEMENTATION TIME TABLE ....................... 19
TABLE-II COST, RELEASES AND UTILIZATION POSITION ........ 20
TABLE-III SUSTAINABILITY OF IDA SUB-PROJECTS OF KSDP-I.. 21



EMLVA I.IJUA T I O N   SUMM2M X;tW
KARACHI SPECIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT-I (KSDP-I)
(IDA CREDIT 1652-PAK)
I. INTRODUCTION
Background
Karachi is a booming metropolis. It is Pakistan's main
Commercial, Banking and Industrial Centre, has the nation's only
Sea port, and Offers opportunities for employment like no other
City does in the Country. Significantly, more than 80% of immi-
gration into the city comes from provinces other than Sindh. The
growth of Karachi during the last 47 years has been phenomenal in
as much as the city has grown nineteen times from a population of
about 0.5 million at independence in 1947.
The problems of Karachi emanate from its expansion. In the
past, needs of this city were neglected and special attention
required for the expanding city was not provided. Consequently,
gaps accumulated in terms of basic Services and Civic amenities.
Pressures on Urban facilities multiplied and it became necessary
to launch a significantly big effort to deal with the existing
problems.
An exercise was, therefore, undertaken during 1983 to formu-
late a Special Development Programme for Karachi to clear up the
existing back-log and to meet the future requirements. The pro-
gramme, termed as KSDP-I, envisaged special allocation of funds
beyond the provisions made in the Sixth 5 year plan to result in
substantial improvement of Services and Civic amenities and to
promote sustained growth.   The Federal Government agreed to
provide financial assistance to Provincial Government in order to
deal with the Urban crises more effectively. The World Bank also
agreed to extend its financial and technical assistance for the
implementation of the Programme. The Bank had been also instru-
mental in mobilizing other sources of external funding, for
instances, by helping to arrange parallel financing with ADB, for
whom KSDP-I was the first Urban lending operation in Karachi.
Development Credit agreements were, therefore,, signed with the
World Bank and Asian Development Bank in February and December,
1986 respectively.
The Projects covered under KSDP-I are series of sector
related inputs in the areas including.
Water Supply and sewerage
Flood Control
Transportation
Katchi Abadis Up-grading
Solid Waste Management
Urban Management/Finance



-2-
The World Bank provided SDR 65.4 million (70 million US $)
aLnd ADB contributed SDR 45.633 million (55.2million US $). The
Aid giving Agencies picked up 78% of the total cost of the
project, while remaining 22% was contributed by the Government
through Special Development Programme (SDP) which is now termed
as Tameer-e-Sindh Programme (TSP).
II. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
(a) Original Project Objectives and Components
The main project objectives under KSDP-I also provided
for. he specific institutional and financial measures side
by7Tth the physical improvements as follows:
i)   strengthening the institutional capacity of the
local agencies to deliver Urban Services and
manage the   metropolitan area;
ii) improve resource mobilization and cost recovery;
iii) demonstrate:the feasibility of new approaches to
providing services to the Urban; and
iv) directly improve the basic urban services, with
particular orientation to the needs of the low
income population.
The main agencies responsible for the implementation of
the project are:
Government of Sindh (GOS)
Karachi Development Authority (KDA)
Karachi Metropolitan Corporation (KMC)
Karachi Water & Sewerage Board (KWSB)
Karachi Transport Corporation (KTC).
The details of the sub-project components (as per WB's
SAR Nov. 27, 1985) implemented under KSDP-I by various
agencies are summarized as under:-



SUB-PROJECT COMPONENTS         EXECUTING AGENCY            PHYSICAL  IMPROVE-
MENTS/OBJECTIVES
I.   Water Supply and
Sewerage
1.   Kinjhar Gujjo      Karachi  Water  &            Rehabilitation.  To
Canal                   Sewerage Board               assure safe and un
interrupted W/S to
Karachi.
2.   Standby Syphons            -do-                 New Trunk Lines. To
ensure      regular
supply of water in
case of breakdown or
burst of existing
s.yphoms .
3.   Sewerage Treat             -do-                 Rehabilitation  and
ment Plants                                           expansion. To pro-
vide    additional
Sewage treatment
facility from 40 MGD
to 97.5 MGD.
4.   Sewerage Study             -do-                 Sewerage Master Plan
preparation.
II. Flood Control and
Drainage
5.   Malir Flood        Karachi Development          Bund  Construction.
Protection Works        Authority.                   To   protect   the
Industrial, Defense
installations and
residential colonies
from flood in-Malir
River.
6.   Storm Water                -do-                 Out-fall    drains
Drainage      -                                      construction.   To
improve the drainage
system in old city
area of Karachi by
constructing Drains
of 9362 ft length
and outfall chan-
nels.
III. Transportation
7.   KTC Efficiency   Karachi Transport              Departmental   up-
Improvement.            Corporation.                 grading. To enhance
productivity of Govt
owned corporation.



-4-
SUB-PROJECT COMPONENTS      EXECUTING AGENCY            PHYSICAL IMPROVE-
MENTS /OBJECTIVES-
III. Transportation
8.   Traffic Engi-    Karachi Development          Traffic Schemes. To
neering.               Authority.                  support  low  cost
traffic  management
engineering solution
to traffic conges-
tion.
9.   Road Network              -do-                Roads and Bridges.
Improvements.                                      To reduce congest ion
on    city    roads
through provision of
all weather crossing
over Malir River as
w,ell as Railway
Overhead bridge at
Qaidabad.
10.  Mass Transit              -do-                Study of High capac-
Study.                                             ity commuter sys-
tems.
8IV. OTHERS
11.  Katchi Abadis                                 Up-grading & regu-
up-grading                                         lar zation for
i)orangi, Baldia.   Karachi Metropolitan         2300 acres, 3,50,000
Corporation.                residents
ii)Inner areas.              -do-                1100 acres, 2,30,000
residents.
12.  Solid Waste               -do-                Vehicles, equipment,
Management (SWM).                                  workshops, landfill
sites:   To enhance
tIe   SW  disposal
capacity to 60%.
13.  Metro Manage-    Government of Sindh          Inter  and   Intra
ment Study.                                        agency management
study.
14.  Metro Resource            -do-                Study   to   raise
Generation Study.                                  Government revenues.
15.  KMC Financial    Karachi Metropolitan         Up-date  Accounts,
Management.            Corporation.                improve methods.etc.
16.  Project Moni-    Government of Sindh.         New GOS agency (to
toring Unit.                                       monitor KSDP)



- 5-
The project assisted by IDA originally consisted of 9 Sub-
Projects/Components. Subsequently, because of savings due to
appreciation in the value of SDR, one more crucial project viz,-
Construction of Shaheed-e-Millat Road Bridge and two additional-
studies were also taken up in 1991.   "Accounting Assistance to
KMC - Phase-II Study" was aimed at continuance of the up-grading
of its accounting methods whereas the "Karachi Mass Transit Study
Programme (KMTSP)" was (ultimately) to cover EIA, IRP, Prelimi-
nary design, BOT etc for priority-I transitway from Sohrab Goth
to Tower under I6A Credit 1652-Pak.
(b) SPECIAL LOAN COVENANTS/AGREEMENTS
(UNDER IDA CR.1652-PAK)
As per terms of loan agreement, the IDA enjoined following
covenants in order to achieve the project objectives:
A)   INSTITUTIONAL COVENANTS          POSITION OF ACTIONS/
COMPLIANCE
I)  KATCHI METROPOLIATN
CORPORATION
1.   KMC Council to approve           Council  approved  the
creation  of Katchi  Abadis           creation  of  DKA  and
Department and corresponding          corresponding positions.
positions.
2.   Complete   report   to           Report / study on Ac-
strengthen  KMC's  Finance            counting Assistance to
department.                           KMC was completed.
3.   Start implementing Metro-        MMB study was completed
Management Plan.                      in February 1991. KDA's
Corporate Development
Plan and Institutional
Strengthening of KMC are
being implemented on the
basis of this study.
B)   FINANCIAL COVENANTS
1.   KMC council to approve           The council approved the
new lease rates.                      new  lease  rates  vide
Resolution No. 273 dt.
31-1-89.
2.   KMC shall recover the
full  costs  of  up-grading           DKA,  KMC  has  so  far
Katchi Abadis through the Sale        recovered the lease money
of 99-year leases in accord-          upto Rs. 35.000 million.
ance with lease prices and
procedures satisfactory to the
Assc(iation.



-6-
POSITION OF ACTIONS/
FINANCIAL COVENANT                     COMPLIANCE
The covenant in question
Sindh Government, KMC,            has been transferred to
and Water Board shall continue         another World Bank Credit
to take such measures, includ-         1987 (KSDP-II) as mutual-
ing water tariff adjustments,          ly agreed with the donor
as shall be required on their          agency.
part to enable KWSB to produce
from its water supply opera-
tion:
i)   gross revenues sufficient
to cover operating ex-
penses and debt service
requirements; and
ii)  internal funds sufficient
to cover 10% of capital
expenditures in Fy.
86/87, 20% of capital
expenditures in Fy. 87/88
and 30% of annual capital
expenditures thereafter.
III. IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
(a) Actual Achievments/implementation by the time of Sept/Dec,
1993.
As per original plan, the IDA part of KSDP-I Credit
(Cr:1652-Pak) was to close in September, 1992. However, because
of the delay due to late effectiveness of ADB's loan, lengthy
procedures for issue of NOCs/Approvals by Donors and host of
other institutional and technical factors, majority of sub-
projects got delayed and could not be completed on schedule as
given in the original Operational Action Plan (Table-I). By
September 1992, only 4 studies were finalized and total utiliza-
tion by that time stood at Rs. 1652 million - 59% of the comple-
tion cost (Table-II, Col.30). The World Bank, therefore, revised
the original Operational Action Plan in July, 1992 and extended
the loan closing date initially to September, 1993 & finally upto
December, 1993. Subsequent to the extension of the loan closing
date, the work was geared up and the sub-projects marched towards
completion stages speedily as mentioned in following paras:
(i) KTC's Efficiency Improvement Study was completed in Dec. 92
(ii) Works on two major projects of KWSB viz, lining of K.G Canal
and Standby Syphons were completed by the end of Sept, 1993.
(iii)KMC's Katchi Abadis Upgrading Programme was also completed
by September, 1993.



7-
(iv) Storm Water Drainage Study of KDA was completed as arly as
August, 1986 while the physical part itself (Storm Water
Drainage Outfalls) was completed by end of December, 1993.
The main Bund under Malir Flood Protection Project was
completed in March, 1989, however most of the works on
bridges and Drainage Inlets continued beyond September,
1993. KDA's major project for improvement of Regional road
network was completed in December, 1993. Most of Traffic
Engineering works, other than Urban Traffic Control (UTC),
carried out through TEB/KDA were completed by Sept, 1993.
The World Bank Supervision Mission in Sept, 93 reviewed the
position and agreed to provide loan extension to newly added
sub-projects/studies viz: Shaheed-e-Millat Overhead Bridge,
Accounting Assistance to KMC (Ph-II), KMTSP and KTC Training
Programme plus some of the delayed components of old sub-
projects like UTC of Traffic Engineering and 18-Box Inlet of
Malir Bund upto Sept, 94 (under streamlined projects).
(b)   LATEST POSITION IN PHYSICAL AND FINANCIAL TERMS
The progress has further picked up following the review of
World Bank's supervision mission of Sept. 1993 as revealed by the
following facts and figures:
In financial terms, 93% of the over-all completion cost of
the project stands utilized by the clos!ng date. Overall progress
between Sept, 1993 and September, 1994 was Rs.951.598 million.
Timely release of balance counterpart funds to KDA following
the September, 93 IDA mission and focussed efforts by KDA staff
and contractors, enabled substantial completion of balance works.
All these new sub-projects/old components except Shaheed-e-
Millat Overhead Bridge and Accounting Assistance to KMC (Ph-II)
were completed by September, 1994.
A substantial portion of the activities envisioned under KMC
Accounting Assistance Phase-II has been completed by the closing
date. However, only about 60% of the proposed system will be
running live by this time. KMC is making all possible efforts to
manage/utilize the system with the help of consultants.
The project for Shaheed-e-Millat road Overhead bridge was
scheduled for completion by June, 1994. However, execution of
works had been delayed by a number of factors, including the need
to shift the existing underground services, removal of encroach-
ments and cash flow problems faced by the contractor.
KDA had provided direct payment to suppliers for cement and
steel in order to help the contractor tide over his financial
difficulties and to achieve the substantial completion of works
consisting of Asphalt carpeting of ramps, completion of the
remaining Balouch Colony road works and other miscellaneous works
are likely to extend beyond the closing date to December, 1994.



-8 -
Progress on KMC's leasing Activity and cost recovery for IDA
assisted Katchi Abadis up-gradation works has remained disap-
pointing. Compared with the total target of 40,000 leases and Rs.
279 million lease recovery KMC has so far been able to issue
15,734 leases (34% of the total) and recovered Rs.35.000 million
(12% of total). KMC's continued failure to implement the cove-
nanted cost recovery targets aimed at financial sustainability of
the Katchi Abadis up-grading programme can be attributed to a
number of factors including   (a) lack of political commitment,
(b) weak institutional capacity, (c) poor accountability within
the land Department (d) frequent turnover of Key decision makers
including the Administrator and senior Director, etc.
(c) MPLEMENTATION TIME TABLE AS COMPARED TO ESTIMATES
A look at Table-I on Implementation Schedule / Time Table
reveals that as per original Operational Action Plan, the sub-
projects of the KSDP-I were to start, by and large, during 1985-
86 and were to be physically completed by 1989 i.e. in 3-4 years.
By all standards, this was an overly optimistic estimate. In
July, 1992 the Bank revised the original Operational Action Plan
and as per the new schedule, the completion time for the old sub-
projects was during 1992-93. This also proved unachievable and
in 1993 re-revised Operational Action Plan was put together by
the World Bank Mission which indicated the completion date of
December, 1993 for old sub-projects and September, 1994 for the
newly added sub-projects.
In actual terms, most of the old sub-projects were completed
by September / December 1993 and new ones by September 1994.
That too when the World Bank became tough and threatened to cut
off the disbursement for the old sub-projects by September, 1993
- extended as a grace to December, 1993.
With all the pressure / assistance from the World Bank and
efforts of GOS/GOP, the reality is that the disbursement for
Shaheed-e-Millat Road Overhead Bridge was discontinued by the
ultimate loan closing date of Sept, 94 for new sub-projects and
GOP had to pick-up the Bank's balance FPA share to the tune of
Rs. 5 Million.
In the ultimate analysis, the total time taken by KSDP-I old
sub projects from loan effectiveness date of June, 1986 to re-
vised loan closing date of December, 1993 was 7  1/2 years. All
in all, therefore, there was a delay of 4 years in so fag as old
sub projects are concerned.. In other words, the time taken is
almost twice the original estimate given in first Operational
Action Plan. According to the Bank sources, the time for similar
projects in other countries is usually 6 years.
(d) ACTUAL COST AND FINANCING ARRANGEMENTS AS COMPARED
TO ESTIMATE
The original approved cost estimates prepared during 1984-85
for all the sub-projects of KSDP-I add-up to Rs. 1460 Million as
indicated in Col.6 of Table-II.



Owing to numerous reasons - inflation, change in scope,
delays, change in design, lack of competition in bidding resulting
in higher rates, depreciation in value of rupee etc - the actual
/ completion cost has gone up to Rs. 2797 million - an increase
of 91%.
In the process, most of the schemes had. to revised twice /
thrice which speaks volumes about the capability of the relevant
agencies with regard to PROJECT preparation, Implementation,
Management / Monitoring etc. Various factors that affected the
timely implementation of major projects resulting in cost over-
runs are detailed in secceding paras.
As on 30th September, 1994, a total amount of Rs. 2604
million (GOP 661; FPA 1943) has been utilized which makes 93% of
the total cost of KSDP-I (old and new sub-projects).
The details/statement showing the release and utilization of
funds upto September, 1994 for KSDP-I may be seen in Table-II.
(e)  Bottlenecks/Key factors that affected the timely-
implementation of major works.
Karachi Development Authority's Projects
The works on the Main Bund under Malir Flood Protection
Works (Phase-IV) was completed as early as 1989. Some de-
lays, however, occurred in completion of other components
such as Drainage Inlets and bridges/causeways on Chakora
Nallah and Pir Bukhari Nallah. The main reasons for the
delay were difficult Site conditions, high tide action of
the sea, and monsoon rains/ floods.
KDA had later on also taken up construction of two
additional bridges over Chakora Nallah and Pir Bukhari
Nallah (which was earlier planned to be constructed under
Ph-V of the Project) and changed the design of one major 18-
box Drainage Inlet resulting in the delay of overall works
and cost-overrun.
The works on Storm Water Drainage outfalls were delayed
at the start due to faulty designs which had to be changed.
The contract-or's pace of progress was also slow after the
award the works (January 16, 90) resulting in cost overruns.
The other main reasons of delay were difficulty in obtaining
proper sized stones for the out-fall structures etc.
The scheme for road improvement network also faced
difficulties during the execution of the works. Problems
such as heavy traffic flow, stay orders by the court of law,
shifting of surface and sub-surface utility services, en-
croachments, etc. caused delay in its completion resulting
increases in project cost.
Construction of Shahrea-e-Faisal road overhead bridge
also faced delays.  At initial stage, designs of this
project had to be changed / revised three time and the works
could not start in the right earnest before January, 1992.



- 10 -
Execution of the works on this project has been delayed by a
number of factors, including the need to shift existing
underground services, removal of encroachments and cash flow
problems faced by the contractor (partly caused by an ini-
tial underestimation of reinforcing steel quantities at the
time of bid).
Traffic Engineering sub-project also suffered hurdles
for various reasons such as shifting of utilities/ services
in the alignment of traffic engineering works, lengthy
procedures adopted at every stage by donor, delay in obtain-
ing of NOC from various departments/agencies, lengthy proc-
ess of tendering and re-tendering (particularly in case of
UTC) and late supply of materials. Work at scattered loca-
tions through-out Karachi, and the conditions of curfew/
disturbances in the city during the year 1989-90 and 1991
also contributed to this delay.
Karachi Water and Sewerage Board's Projects
Improvement of K.G. Canal was delayed due to change in
the scope of project at initial stage, delay in the approval
of revised/re-revised PC-I of project, lengthy procedural
formalities of the donors at every stage, non-availability
of material in time. The project was also hampered because
of encountering the adverse site conditions.
The gestation period of the project earlier planned
over 4 years had been cut short by 2 year by adopting the
machine lining instead of manual lining (by October, 1991).
However, additions made in scope of works including increa-
sed Earth work in embankments, overflow arrangements etc,
during 92 required some more time to complete the project.
The physical implementation of standby syphons project
was affected due to litigation in land acquisition matters
and consequent re-invitation of tenders entailing fresh
preparation of tender documents & pre-qualification. Unau-
thorized constructions at work site, Non-availability of
requisite material in time, Crossing oL Railway tracks,
problems-of hard Rocks encountered in excavation and contin-
uous water leakages from the existing syphons, Law & Order
situation also contributed to the delay in implementation
and subsequent cost over run.
Karachi Metropolitan Corporation's Projects
KMC's work for up-gradation of Katchi Abadis was de-
layed at early stage due to problems in hiring the consult-
ancy services in view of the non-availability of Foreign
Exchange for payment to foreign consultants, difficulty
encountered by the newly created Directorate of Katchi
Abadis in award of works to the contractor. Furthermore,
lack of coordination between KMC & KWSB in implementation of
sewerage & water supply works, inadequate financial powers
for award of works by the Director, K.A. and late recruit-
ment of staff for newly created Directorate of K.A. also
contributed to the late implementation.



- 11 -
(f) SUSTAINABILITY ( OPERATION & MAINTENANCE) OF
PROJECTS IMPLEMENTED UNDER KSDP-I
Karachi Development Authority's Projects
(i)  Regional Road Network Improvements
The facilities constructed under the improvement of
Regional Road Network are in successful operation. The
assets stand transferred/handed over to Karachi Metro-
politan Corporation and Communications and Works De-
ptts. Govt. of Sindh for further operation and mainte-
nance. These agencies have also prepared their action
plans for operation and maintenance of these assets.
(ii) Storm Water Drainage Out-falls
The drains constructed under Storm Water Drainage
Scheme are in operation. The assets stand handed over
to KMC for further operation and maintenance.
(iii)Malir Flood Protection Works (Ph-IV)
Malir Flood Protection works are presently being
maintained by KDA inspite of the financial constraints.
The requisite:institutional arrangement already exists
in KDA. One full fledged Division headed by an Execu-
tive Engineer and Supported by adequate technical staff
is responsible for execution and maintenance of Malir
flood Protection works. For this purpose KDA requires
about Rs. 5.9 million annually which comes to 1.5% of
the capital cost incurred. As per maintenance Plan
earlier initiated by the Government, Chief Minister,
Sindh had approved the proposal to transfer the works
to Irrigation and power Department.   The matter is
already underway. In case the works under the project
are not handled by Irrigation and power Department, the
Govt. may consider their operation and maintenance
through KMC or KDA.
(iv) Shaheed-e-Millat Road overhead bridge on Shahra-e-
Faisal and main Railway track at Baluch Colony.
The Project for Shaheed-e-Millat road overhead
bridge, which is scheduled to completed by the end of
December, 1994, will be handed over to Karachi Metro-
politan Corporation for its operation and maintenance.
(v) Traffic Engineering works (MAJOR COMPONENTS)
In Saddar Area and intersections at other places
traffic engineering works are already being maintained
by KMC. The             Pedestrian Over passes  (Steel
Overhead bridges) stand already transferred to KMC
while Tidal flow system on I.I Chundrigar Road is also
being handed over to KMC for subsequent maintenance.



- 12 -
The maintenance and operation of traffic sign
workshop is being done by TEB, KDA. The traffic Police
Training Institute was handed over to the police De-
partment in April, 1992. As per approved Institutional
Development Plan, this institute is now being main-
tained/managed by a Board of Directors and an Executive
committee.
The charged parking scheme was introduced for the
first time in Karachi on April 22, 1993. On the recom-
mendation of TEB, Government had appointed a Citizens
Police Liaison Committee (CPLC) for various parking
arrangement under this scheme. Traffic Police and
Karachi Metropolitan Corporation also extended the
necessary assistance. A committee consisting of DIG
(Traffic & Highways), Sindh, Director (TEB), KDA, Chief
CPLC, and Administrator, KMC has been formed to look
after the project. To regulate and control the whole
scheme, about 200 Parking Attendants, Supervisors and
Co-ordinators have been appointed by CPLC.
The operation and maintenance of Traffic Signal
Equipment of Urban Traffic Control System (UTC) com-
prising of 61 Junctions is presently being done through
M/s Siemens by Traffic Engineering Division in TEB/KDA.
The issue of the agency and funding for future mainte-
nance of UTC is under active consideration of GOS.
Karachi Water and Sewerage Board's Projects
Improvement of KG Canal & Standby Syphon 19&20
These sub-projects are being maintained and oper-
ated   by Karachi Water and Sewerage Board itself.
Institutional arrangements for operation and mainte-
nance already exist in KWSB and the Canal maintenance
Division under Chief Engineer (Bulk Transmission) is
satisfactorily operating this canal. Requisite funds
are also provided in the KWSB budget.
Karachi Metropolitan Corporation's Projects
Katchi Abadis Up-gradation works (IDA assisted
component)
Water Supply* and Sewerage works were executed
through Karachi Water and Sewerage Board (KWSB) which
is maintaining these works. The road maintenance will
be the responsibility of Karachi Metropolitan Corpora-
tion as the maintenance of internal streets is mainly
their responsibility.
Details regarding sustainability of sub-projects com-
pleted under KSDP-I have been also covered in tabular
form in Table-3.



- 13 -
(g) PROJECT OUTCOME/ACHIEVEMENT OF MAJOR OBJECTIVES.
Karachi Development Authority's Works
i)   Regional Road Network Improvement
The works completed under Regional Road network
improvement Programme of KDA comprised the following
facilities:
1).  Qaidabad Railway Overhead Bridge including service
road and improvement of Road Intersections.
2).  Improvement of Khuwaja Shamsuddin road.
3).  Widening and improvement of Korangi road link
including Bridge over Mehmoodabad Nallah.
4.   Road along Right Flood Protection Bund of Malir
River.
5.   Improvement of Shaheed-e-Millat road extension.
6.   Bridge across Malir River at Road 8000 of Korangi.
The project has, in overall terms, relieved inter-city
roads of heavy Port oriented cargo vehicles and also
resulted in reduction of traffic congestion on main
city roads due to diversion of most of the heavy traf-
fic to southern by-pass (linking Karachi Port to up-
country via Pak Steel Mill & Port Qasim).
The roads/bridges constructed under the project have
provided all weather crossing Over Malir River between
the city and Korangi/ Landhi areas which in the past
remained cut-off during the rainy seasons.
The components at S.No. 1,2,3 & 6 are also parts of
southern by-pass while remaining two components at
S.No. 4 & 5 make link between Shaheed-e-Millat/ Shahra-
e-Faisal Flyover and Road 8000 Korangi.
ii) Shaheed-e-Millat Road Overhead Bridge.
The benefits associated with the scheme in question
are:-
i)   Elimination of Railway level crossing.
ii)  Elimination of Traffic signal from Shahra-e-Faisal
iii) Increased Capacity of Shahra-e-Faisal due to
removal of turning traffic.
iv)  Diversion of Traffic away from the Kalapul.
The said Overhead Bridge will provide uninterrupted
passage to the traffic destined for Korangi, Karachi
Administrative Society and other areas, and vice versa.
It will also help to reduce the level of traffic inten-
sity at Kalapul.



- 14 -
iii) Malir Flood Protection Works (Ph-IV).
After the construction of Malir Flood Protection
Bunds several high floods occurred during 1989, 1992
and 1994. However, due to adequate arrangements by
KDA, entire bunds withstood the onslaught of flood
waters and saved Korangi's Residential and Industrial
Areas and Defence bases from any mishap.
The bridges constructed across Chakora and Pir
Bukhari Nallahs have provided all weather access to the
residents of the areas (existing on both banks of the
Nallahs) and also facilitated direct approach for
maintenance of bunds.
iv)  Storm Water Drainage Outfalls.
The major benefits of Storm Water Drainage Out-
falls (in the old city area) include minimization of
damages to the roads and other structures due to rain
water, mitigation of unhygienic living conditions and
protection of public properties.
v)   Traffic Engineering Works.
The implementation of traffic management schemes
and low cost engineering measures at various intersec-
tions has resulted in improved traffic conditions,
reductions in delays and excessive fuel consumption and
savings in vehicle operating costs.  Introduction of
passenger and Pedestrian facilities have improved road
safety resulting in reduction of accidents.
Tidal flow system at I. I. Chundrigar Road has
helped facilitate/streamline the proper traffic flow
over 1.5 Km road section. The efficiency of this system
is further being increased through various improvement
measures.
The effectiveness of Urban traffic control system
(UTC) is being evaluated by monitoring its performance
in terms of reduction in Journey time, saving in vehi-
cle operating costs and accidents at 61 locations
(where the new signals are installed)
Implementation of the UTC system (Ph-I) will prove
more beneficial when it will be further up-graded under
PH-II envisaging setting up of computerized control
centre in KDA, Civic Centre linking the signal sites
via T&T dedicated lines.
The establishment of Traffic sign and lane Marking
Workshop has facilitated Traffic signs/ lane Markie was
discontinued by the ultimate loan closing date of
Sept'94 for new sub-projects aensure lane discipline /
regular flow of traffic.



- 15 -
The setting up of Traffic Police Training Insti-
tute equipped with modern teaching aids will help
improve the knowledge and skills of the traffic police
in the techniques of Traffic Management, law enforce-
ment, Accident Investigation, Driving skills, etc.
Introduction of charged parking in Karachi has
been the first experience in the country. According to
information provided through Citizen Police Liaison
committee (CPLC) an amount of Rs.84,744 has so far been
earned through charged parking since the 30th Septem-
ber, 1993. The scheme, when implemented fully, will
result in substantial reduction of traffic congestion,
improvement of traffic flow, increase in turn-over of
parking, creation of job opportunities and generation
of revenue for traffic improvement scheme,
Karachi Water and Sewerage Board's WORKS.
i)   The improvement/lining  of Kinjhar-Gujjo  Canal  has
assured safe and uninterrupted supply of water (round
the year) to city of Karachi by providing of 645 MGD
(1200 Cusecs) of water from River Indus.  The rein-
forced concrete lining of canal has also reduced water
losses through seepage,soil erosion, water logging and
salinity (in the vicinity of the canal).  This also
resulted in annual maintenance and repair works.
ii)  Standby Syphons 19 & 20.
The newly constructed/installed   syphons 19 & 20
have provided alternate/standby facilitate to Karachi
for meeting the emergency  caused by the burst of any
of  the  existing  syphons.    It  has  ensured  the
normal/regular water supply to the city.
Karachi Metropolitan Corporation's Projects.
54 Katchi Abadis selected in the city area were
regularized and provided essential infrastructures vi2,
water supply sewerage and roads. Construction of these
works has improved the environmental conditions in the
Katchi Abadis and has ensured the supply of water to
the residents.
The cost of the development work including the
cost of land was to be recovered from the inhabitants
of Katchi Abadis (in the form of lease money) and kept
in a separate Revolving fund Account for their subse-
quent use in regularization work in other Katchi Aba-
dis. The regularization and leasing process went side
by side. The leasing operation was carried-out through
the land Department of KMC whereas basic infra-struc-
ture was provided through Directorate of Katchi Abadis.
This operation proved cumbersome and the idea/theme of
this programme could not materialize, as a result lease
issuance and cost recovery remained slow.   As such
other Katchi Abadis could not benefit from this program



- 16 -
The project would have been very much successful
if Director, Katchi Abadis, KMC could have been fully
empowered to deal with the regularization work and
issuance of leases. Accordingly, the Directorate of
Katchi Abadis is now being assigned both the tasks and
various punitive measures are also being adopted for
recovery of the lease amount from these Katchi Abadis
in order to achieve the main objective of this program.
(h) PERFORMANCE
(1)  BANK'S PERFORMANCE
The performance of the Agencies involved can be
judged against the criteria of cost control, timely
completion, quality control, co-ordination, technology
transfer, achievement of objectives, etc.
The fact that the project cost went up from Rs.
1.46 billion to Rs. 2.8 billion and the project took 8
years as-against the originally planned period of 3
years, indicates that the performance of the agencies
was hardly satisfactory.
As admitted by the Bank itself, KSDP-I was the
first major project of the World Bank in Metropolitan
Development, as such, it was a learning process for the
Bank. This is amply borne out by the fact that the
original operational Action Plan showed a over-optimis-
tic completion period of 3 years for an Urban Develop-
ment Project to be executed in a large, busy and con-
gested Metropolis like Karachi.
The Bank also under estimated the implementation
capacities of the executing agencies as evidenced by
the fact that SSDP's major object is institutional
strengthening of KDA, KMC, Local Govt. and GOS. So
also, the Karachi Water and Sewerage Board is subjected
to a major institutional overhaul under World Bank
assisted projects (other than SSDP).
It. appears that the project was appraised by the
Bank on the basis of very Preliminary designs and rough
cost estimates with the result that the designs for a
number of projects like Storm Water Out-fall Drains,
K.G Canal, Drainage Inlets of Malir Bund, Standby
Syphons etc. had to be drastically changed resulting in
heavy cost overruns.
In general, the average frequency of supervision
missions of the World Bank was two per year. On the
whole, the performance of these Mission teams was
reasonably satisfactory, except that a number of NOCs
were given for additional items rather liberally lead-
ing to higher cost. This is particularly true of the
Regional Road Network, Malir Flood Protection Works and
Storm Water Drainage.



- 17 -
In terms of institutional Development, the Bank's
role has not been very helpful. Their emphasis in terms
of trainings/visits has been on attending conference
and (Study) tours of high ups rather than on appropri-
ate training courses for project personnel in project
management and technical aspects. Foreign real training
/ tour and Local Training for KTC at the cost of Rs. 15
million appears a total waste in the face SSDP's condi-
tion of privatization of KTC.
(ii) BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
Most of the executing agencies were used to exe-
cuting small projects financed by GOS and GOP and were
new to the donor assisted projects of this magnitude.
They were also not previously exposed to.the elaborate
financial/procurement procedures of the donors. As such
lot of time was lost in picking up these procedures.
Many of the agencies lacked special institutional
arrangements to be dedicated solely to the execution of
KSDP      sub-projects. Additionally, they were techni-
cally deficient to even control the consultants/con-
tractors properly. This state of affairs has also
contributed to delays and cost-overrun.
Overall position regarding release of GOP/GOS
funds has been: satisfactory, except during 1991-92 when
some delays occurred because of liquidity problems of
Provincial Government.
Despite the fact that adequate resources were not
employed by the GOS and the World Bank for Monitoring
of KSDP-I, reasonably monitoring activity was sustained
and timely information on the financial/physical
progress was furnished to the donors and GOP/GOS on
regular basis by PMU.
IV. SUMMARY OF FINDINGS, FUTURE OPERATIONS AND KEY LESSONS
LEARNED (AND SUGGESTIONS)
a)   It has been observed that Executing Agencies are weak in
in Project preparation which should be remedied as follows:
i)   To Engage the well-versed consultants for design.
ii) To get the second opinion on design of the project
iii) To get the design verified by contractor also; provi-
sion may be made for check/review of design by the
contractor.
b)   Due  to  lack  of  experience/knowledge  in  scientific
management, agency should appoint the management consultants
for supervision/monitoring. Ample chances of training in
project management be provided to the agency personnel.
c)   Lack of inter-agency coordination poses a big problem and
results in un-necessary delays. There should be high powered
coordination committee/co-ordination board to achieve smooth
coordination.



- 18 -
d)   Effective  financial/physical monitoring is necessary for
speedy completion of project. As such monitoring units be
set-up in each executive agency and extensive training
facilities be provided for this purpose.
e)   Financial resource constraint and Ban on recruitment should
not be applicable to development projects, particularly
Aided Projects.
f)   Timely release of GOP/GOS counterpart funds and FPA dis-
bursement from Bank is essential.
g)   World Bank Procedures regarding recruitment of consultants,
disbursements and procurement are very difficult. These may
be simplified, explained in frequent seminars.
h)   Task Manager/Project Advisor should take decisions objec-
tively; some subjective decisions have been observed.
i)   For the control on cost over-run, agency should complete the
project on time through adoption of time saving devices.
j)   NOCs involving financial implication for GOS should be
issued by the Donors to the agencies in consultation with
GOS.
k)   Building Industry in Pakistan is under developed. Because of
this there is not much competition in Bidding. Steps should
be taken to develop this industry through incentives. The
contracting firms should be given training opportunities to
familiarize them with the latest technical/management tools.
1)   In order to facilitate transfer of technology the local
consultants/contractors should be given major role even in
international bidding.
m)   Absence of under ground utility maps causes delays in com-
pletion of Foundation of Structures. All utility organiza-
tions should be required to maintain upto date utility maps.
GHQ C:WBER94






IMAGING
Report No:       15591
Type: ICR



