Docment of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4200-PAK
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 65.4 MILLION
TO THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR A
KARACHI SPECIAL DEVELOPMEN'T PROJECT
December 20, 1985
This docmment bhs a resicted distribution nd may be usd by recpients only in tbe performance of
dtir ofec  duties. Its cotents my not oherwise be diosed without. World Bank authorirzion-



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   = Pakistan Rupee (Rs)
US$1.00         = Rs.16.0
Rs 1.00         = US$0.0625
FISCAL YEAR
July 1   -  June 30
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ADB             -   Asian Development Bank
DRA             -   Department of Katchi Abadis
(katchi abadi = squatter settlement)
GOSIND          -   Government of Sind
KMC             -   Karachi MIetropolitan Corporation
KDA             -   Karachi Development Authority
KTC             -   Karachi Transport Corporation
KWSB            -   Karachi Water & Sewerage Board
PMU             -   Project Monitoring Unit



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
KARACHI SPECIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit and Proiect Summarv
Borrower:               Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Beneficiaries:          Karachi Development Authority (KDA)
Karachi Metropolitan Corporation (KMC)
Karachi Transport Corporation (KTC)
Karachi Water and Severage Board CKWSB)
Government of Sind (GOSIND)
Amount:                  SDR 65.4 million (US$70 million equivalent)
Terms:                   Standard
Onlending Terms:        From the Government of Pakistan to GOSIND
an standard IDA terms. From GOSIND to
DMC for katchi abadi (squatter settlement)
upgrading and regularization at an
interest rate of 7% per annum and a repayment
period of 25 years including 6 years' grace.
From GOSIND to KTC for bus depot upgrading at an
interest rate of IIZ per annum and a repayment
period of 25 years including 6 years' grace. From
GOSIND to KWSB for water supply improvements at
an interest rate of 11 per sannum and a repayment
period of 25 years including 6 years grace.
Project Description:    The objectives of the proposed project are to:
(a) strengthen the institutional and
financial capacity of local agencies to
deliver urban services; (b) improve
resource mobilization and cost recovery;
(c) demonstrate the feasibility of new approaches
to providing services to the urban poor; and
(d) directly improve basic urban services. These
objectives would be achieved through a series of
subsectoral interventions, with physical improve-
ments combined with specific _astitutional and
financial measures in the areas of water and
sewerage, flood control and drainage, transporta-
tion, katchi abadi upgrading, solid waste
management, resource generation, and metropolitan
management. The main risk to the proposed project
would be the ability of some of the implementing
agencies to attract and retain capable staff.
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of I
their oficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Costs: 1               Local            Foreign        Total
US$ million
Land                              0.8               -             0.8
Civil Works                     61.7               8.4           70.1
Materials & Equipment             8.5             19.0            27.5
Training & Technical
Assistance                     2.4              5.6            8.0
Incremental Staff Salaries        0.3                             0.3
Base Cost                73.7              33.0          106.7
Physical Contingencies            4.9              1.7            6.6
Price Contingencies              27.4              7.9           35.3
Total Project Cost       106.0              42.6           148.6
Financing Plan:
Local            Forei2n        Total
US$ million
Government of Pakistan           34.2               -             34.2
IDA                              57.4             12.6            70.0
Asian Development Bank           14.4             30.0            44.4
106.0             42.6           148.6
Estimated Disbursements:
FY87   FY88  FY89   FY90  FY91   FY92  FY93
Annual                       9.5    14.2   16.3   12.5    9.2    7.3    1.0
Cumulative                  9.5    23.7   40.0   52.5  61.7   69.0  70.0
Appraisal Report: No. 5772-PAZ, dated November 27, 1985
Rate of Return:   44Z
1, Includes US$8.1 million equivalent in taxes and duties.



-1-
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOWMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR A KARACHI SPECIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the Islamic Republic of Pakistan for SDR 65.4 million (US$70.0
million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance a Karachi
Special Development Project. The proceeds of the credit would be passed
on by the Government of Pakistan to the Government of Sind on standard IDA
terms. The Asian Development Bank (ADB) is expected to participate in the
financing of the project in an amount of US$44.4 million equivalent. An
additional condition of credit effectiveness would be the meeting of all
conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Funding Agreement of the
ADB.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.      The most recent economic report, "Pakistan:  Recent Economic
Developments and Structural Adjustment" (No. 5347-PAK, dated March 20,
1985), was distributed to the Executive Directors on April 4, 1985.
3.      The steadily improving performance of recent years was interrupted
in FY84 owing to an unexpected downturn in agriculture and migrant remit-
tances and to the carryover of inflationary pressures from FY83. GDP
growth slowed to 3.5% as a result of a 6.2Z fall in agriculture value
added caused by adverse weather and pest attacks. Manufacturing grew by
8.3% and services by 6.2Z. Fixed investment rose by 6.5Z, while private
investment increased by 11.5%. National savings fell to 12.1Z of GNP as a
result of a drop in private savings. At the same time, public savings
remained low because of reduced federal and provincial budget surpluses.
Excess liquidity from FY83 (generated largely by foreign exchange
inflows), increases in world prices, and reduced agricultural output
contributed to inflation, which reached upwards of 9Z, as against 5.2% in
FY83. Budgetary policies continued to be prudent. Current revenues
increased by 20%, largely through improved tax administration, but current
expenditures also increased because of higher allocations for economic and
social services. Considering the economic importance of agriculture, the
creditable growth achieved in FY84 suggests that Pakistan's underlying
economic structure is quite resilient, partly as a result of recent
Government efforts to begin removing structural imbalances in the economy.
4.      The balance of payments deteriorated in FY84 relative to the
marked improvement in FY83. The current account deficit stood at US$1
billion, which was almost doubLe that in FY83. Stagnant exports and lower
remittances were the main contributing factors. With cotton and yarn
exports greatly reduced owing to the poor cotton crop, exports rose by
only 1.6%, while imports increased by 6.9%. Furthermore, remittances
declined for the first time in FY84, falling by 5.1%. According to recent



-2-
projections, net migration is expected to decline and thus remittances
will be Lower over the medium term. As a result of the higher current
deficit and low net capital flows, the reserve drawdown reached US$113
million. Gross official gold and foreign exchange reserves were US$2.4
billion at the end of FY84, which was equivalent to 3.8 months of imports
of goods and services.
5.      Since 1980, the Government has moved gradually to eliminate inter-
est rates from the economy and has announced that the process will be
completed by July 1985. All transactions will be based on new financing
modes consistent with Islamic principles. Existing interest-based commit-
ments will be honored and transactions with foreign governments and finan-
cial institutions will not be affected. At this stage, it is difficult to
determine with any certainty the potential costs of Islamization.
Undoubtedly, there will be some costs in converting the system, but
whether long-run efficiency will be affected will depend on how the system
is applied. To date, the Government has proceeded cautiously and,
although fully committed to the elimination of interest rates, it has
stressed that new financing modes will be applied flexibly and develop-
ments monitored closely.
6.      The slowdown in economic growth in FY84 marked a departure from
the improved performance achieved during the Fifth Plan period (FY79-83).
Crowth in national output (6.5%), agriculture (4.2%), manufacturing
(10.41), exports (11%), and private investment (6.7Z), though below Plan
targets, was well above the rates achieved during FY70-78 and very
respectable compared with the growth rates of other developing countries.
Crowth during this period-coupled with increased remittances-benefited
large segments of the population. Performance improved despite a number
of adverse factors: (a) a world recession; (b) a 30Z decline in the exter-
nal terms of trade after 1979; and (c) the Afghanistan crisis with its
attendant expenditures for increased defense and refugee assistance.
7.      Fiscal performance and the balance of payments improved sig-
nificantly during the Fifth Plan. The overall budget deficit and
Government bank borrowing, which in FY79 stood at 8.8Z and 4.3% of GDP
respectively, fell to 6.4% and 1.7% by FY83. As the levels of Government
borrowing from banks dropped and overall credit expansion was restrained,
the growth of the money supply slowed down and inflationary pressures
lessened; inflation dropped from 8% to 5% by the end of the Plan period.
The improved fiscal performance was largely the result of expenditure
restraint rather than better revenue performance. Real expansion in
current expenditures on economic and social services barely kept pace with
population growth, and development expenditures declined relative to GDP.
Covernment revenues remained constant at 16% of GDP, and public savings,
having risen in the first half of the Plan period from 1% to 3.8% of GNP,
dropped to 1.6% by FY83. Assisted by remittances, but also strong export
growth, the current account deficit felL from 5% of GNP to 2Z by the end



-3-
of the Plan Period. Gross reserves increased from 3.5 to 4.5 months of
imports of goods and services.
8.      In addition to improving economic management through fiscal and
monetary policies, the Government took measures to improve performance in
the commodity-producing sectors. In agriculture, all major crops reached
record output levels, with wheat and sugar achieving self-sufficiency.
Subsidies on pesticides were virtually eliminated, while fertilizer prices
were raised to reduce the subsidy burden. Crop procurement prices were
adjusted to bring them closer to world prices. Provincial allocations for
operations and maintenance in irrigation were increased, along with water
charges. Encouraged by improved policies and incentives, private manufac-
turing investment grew by 10.9% per annum. Areas open to the private
sector were widened, most agricultural processing units were
denationalized, and sanctioning limits increased. A flexible exchange
rate policy adopted in 1982 was instrumental in stimulating manufactured
exports, while import liberalization increased the availability of raw
materials and capital goods. In energy, measures were taken to accelerate
the development of domestic resources, rationalize prices, and improve
policy formulation and energy planning capabilities.
9.      The developments in Pakistan's economy since FY78 represent wel-
come steps toward the solution of problems that are essentially structural
and long-term in nature. Nevertheless, further wide-ranging measures must
be introduced to address structural issues. Pakistan's long-term growth
prospects depend on two such issues: (a) the need to increase the level
and efficiency of public investment; and (b) the need to encourage export
expansion and efficient import substitution. If Pakistan is to sustain
high economic growth, it must make major infrastructure invesuments,
upgrade existing facilities, and strengthen its neglected social base.
The last has fared badly as a result of resource constraints, as is
reflected in Pakistan's social indicators, which lag seriously behind
those of other developing countries at comparable Levels of development.
It will not be possible to increase public investment and recurrent
allocations without a major domestic resource mobilization effort.
Although Pakistan should give priority to reforming indirect taxation
through a broad-based sales tax, it should also rely more on user charges,
should curtail subsidies, and increase self-financing by public
enterprises. Given the more constrained outlook for official assistance
and the likelihood of lower remittance flows, sustained improvements in
both export expansion and efficient import substitution will be necessary
to support high growth with sustainable external capital requirements. If
trade performance is to be improved, structural adjustment must be con-
tinued and strengthened in the key sectors of agriculture, industry, and
energy. Both agriculture and industry have considerable potential for
increased exports and some degree of efficient import substitution. In
energy, the accelerated development of Pakistan's under-exploited resour-
ces can contribute considerably to the reduction of energy imports.



-4-
10.     In agriculture, high growth has been largely the result of
increased acreage; yet average yields remain low by world standards and by
those of progressive farmers within Pakistan. Before agricultural produc-
tivity and diversification can be increased, institutional support must be
strengthened, appropriate pricing policies must be put in pLace, and the
core investment program identified and implemented. More effective
institutional support should be sought through improvements in the quality
and quantity of services to farmers. In particular, strengthening the
seed program requires more efficient seed multiplication and
dissemination, increased efficiency in public sector plants, and a greater
role for the private sector. The delivery of agricultural credit also
needs to be improved to ensure that it actually reaches small farmers and
tenants, whose credit needs are greatest. Furthermore, marketing costs
need to be reduced and research and extension services strengthened.
Agricultural pricing policies should create appropriate incentives to
farmers, while minimizing subsidies. Multicrop approaches to pricing
should complement the single-crop, cost-of-production approach currently
used. Finally, a core investment program in agriculture and water is
needed to reduce the possibility of distortions in investment priorities.
Low cost programs that yield quick returns should be emphasized along with
critical infrastructure investments that raise 'arm productivity. Greater
emphasis on the complementarity of investment programs, especially between
agriculture and water, would ensure that priority is accorded to programs
that increase agricultural productivity rather than merely augment the
supply of physical infrastructure.
11.     If Pakistan is to increase and diversify its manufactured export
base and encourage efficient import substitution, industrial incentives
must be rationalized to reduce both the level and dispersion of effective
protection rates. The objective here is to increase the efficiency of the
industrial sector by exposing protected producers to greater foreign
competition and to reduce the anti-export bias inherent in the present
Lncentives. In addition, the Government should reform the regulations
affecting investment sanctioning and cost-plus pricing. It should limit
sanctioning to a few cases of strategic importance, leaving most invest-
ment decisions to the private sector, which is better able to assess
investment opportunities. Cost-plus pricing arrangements, which provide
insufficient incentives to minimize costs or allocate capital efficiency,
should be replaced by market-oriented approaches, which better reflect
supply/demand conditions and provide adequate incentives for reinvestment
and operational efficiency.
12.     Issues that need to be addressed in the energy sector pertain to
three broad areas: (a) investment and development; (b) pricing; (c)
institutional strengthening. To date, the Government's power generation
program, as well as other investments in the sector, have not been based
on a long-term least-cost development plan. Given the likelihood of
domestic resource constraints and persistent power shortages, the
Government should ensure that future investments conform to such a plan



-5-
and that a core investment program is insulated from uncertainties
inherent in the budgeting process. The present gas producer pricing
formula for new discoveries should be adjusted to provide adequate incen-
tives to attract private sector exploration. Because consumer gas prices
were kept artificially low to encourage the substitution of gas for
imported oil, relative prices have become distorted and the use of gas
uneconomic. The Government's policy is to increase gas prices until they
reach two-thirds of fuel oil parity by FY88; thus since 1982, price
increases have averaged 15% per annum in dollar terms. The Government
needs to meet its FY88 objective and move to full parity as soon there-
after as possible. Electricity tariffs, which are currentLy below the
long-run marginal cost, should be adjusted to reflect this cost, not only
to ensure the efficient use of electricity and encourage energy
conservation, but also to mobilize the substantial additional funds
required by the power investment program. Finally, the Government should
consider increasing the autonomy of public enterprises in the energy
sector to improve their efficiency and should continue to strengthen
energy planning and policy coordination.
13.     The Sixth Five-Year Plan (FY83-88) articulates a pragmatic
strategy for Pakistan's continued rapid development that includes an
expanded role for the private sector, increased public development
expenditures, and increased allocations for energy, agriculture,
irrigation, and the social sectors. Although the size and composition of
the Plan are appropriate, development expenditures during the first two
years of the Plan have been 9% lower than the amounts projected because of
insufficient domestic resources. Although this would not appear overly
large, the way in which sectoral shortfalls have been distributed con-
tradicts Plan priorities. Education, energy, health, and agriculture have
received considerably lower allocations than called for in the Plan.
Furthermore, without a predefined core investment program, there is a
tendency to distribute shortfalls evenly over a large number of projects
within a sector; thus too many projects have been initiated, and projects
that should receive priority are underfunded. To address this issue, the
Government has re-introduced a Three-Year Priority Investment Program
(FY86-88). The Government has emphasized that the adoption of a rolling
medium-term program does not mean that plan strategies and priorities are
being revised, or that shortfalls are considered inevitable. The program
will merely identify sectoral core investment programs to be given
priority in annual plans. If priority investments, especially in key
areas, could be protected, the public inves.iment program would become more
effective and its priorities would be sharpened.
14.     Despite a temporary setback in FY84, the improved performance and
policy framework of the Fifth Plan, which the Government intends to con-
tinue during the Sixth Plan, have improved Pakistan's creditworthiness
for a blend of Bank and IDA borrowing and commercial borrowing. At the
end of 1983, Pakistan's external public debt (excluding the undisbursed
pipeline) stood at US$9.8 billion, of which US$4.7 billion was owed to



-6-
bilateral members of the Pakistan consortium, US$1.3 billion to OPEC, US$2
billion to multilateral agencies, and the balance to other bilateral and
private lenders. At the same time, the Bank Group's share in Pakistan's
external public indebtedness was i5.3X, and in external debt service it
was 7.0%. According to Bank projections, if recent policy improvements
are sustained and structural issues addressed, Pakistan's debt service
will remain below 15% during the remainder of the 1980s, even with some-
what higher levels of commercial borrowing.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
15.     As of September 30, 1985, the cumulative total of Bank/IDA commit-
ments to Pakistan (exclusive of Loans and Credits or portions thereof that
were disbursed in the former East Pakistan) amounted to approximately
US$3.7 billion, and IFC's investments totalled $193.5 million. (Annex II
contains a summary Statement of Bank loans, IDA credits, and IFC
investments.)
16.     During its long association with Pakistan, the Bank Group has been
involved in most sectors of the economy. For example, it has participated
with other donors, over a 20-year period, in a major program of works to
develop the water resources of the Indus Basin. Approximately 30% of
total Bank/IDA commitments to Pakistan have been for agriculture and
irrigation; 28% for industry, including import program credits; 18X for
transport, telecommunications, and public utility services; 14X for
energy, including power, gas pipelines, and petroleum; 5% for social
programs in education, population, and urban development; axd 5Z for
structural adjustment lending and technical assistance.
17.     Currently, the Bank's assistance strategy is to support the
Government of Pakistan's efforts to formulate and implement policy reforms
in three sectors--energy, industry, and agriculture--which shape the
structural adjustment of the economy. To ensure that the gains from
adjustment are sustained in the long term and shared more broadly, the
strategy also includes investments in physical infrastructure and the
social sectors (education, population, etc.) that have been neglected in
Pakistan's development efforts. If this strategy is to succeed, the full
range of traditional instruments of Bank support must be flexibly
deployed--from sector work and active policy dialogue, to policy- and
project-based lending, technical assistance and aid coordination. The
Bank Group's lending program comprises two components, the larger of wnich
supports specific high-priority investments in productive sectors and
physical and social infrastructure. The smaller but nonetheless strategic
component focuses on policy reforms in the key sectors of agriculture,
industry, and energy and relies heavily on high-quality economic and
sector work. The program includes a serieq of technical assistance
credits to finance studies and formulate action programs for policy
reform. The experience with the first of these has been extremely
positive. In addition, through its annual Country Economic Memorandum,



-7-
the Bank Group tries to foster greater understanding on the part of
Consortium members of the Government's structural adjustment program and
aid requirements. This effort, coupled with increased cofinancing, should
enhance the policy relevance and eff ctiveness of other official aid and
help attract additional resources to Pakistan from nonconcessional
sources.
18.     Historically, the Bank Group has placed special emphasis on lend-
ing for agriculture, which is the mainstay of Pakistan's economy. The
Bank and the Government have agreed that the main objeccive of the
agricultural strategy and, consequently, lending to the sector should be
to increase agricultural productivity through improvements in the
efficiency of the irrigation system and supporting agricultural services.
Among the issues being addressed are: the balance between short-gestation
projects and projects with a longer-term focus, rationalization of input
and output prices, marketing, improvements in operation and maintenance,
cost recovery, and a wider role for the private sector. Projects in the
sector have ranged from irrigation/drainage to agricultural inputs,
research, and extension and have included institution-building components.
Overall, progress in agriculture has been satisfactory.
19.     In industry, the strategy has two complementary aspects: to
strengthen and broaden the structural adjustment in Pakistan's industrial
sector and to support the Government's efforts to revitalize the private
sector through industrial financing. The industrial reform program has
been designed to improve the competitiveness of the sector with a view to
promoting export expansion and import substitution. Issues being
addressed include trade and industrial incentives, deregulation,
efficiency of public enterprises, pricing decontrol, and improvements in
the credit delivery system. Lines of credit extended to development
finance institutions and other financial intermediaries have been mainly
for the private sector. Direct lending for industry has also included
assistance to three large fertilizer plants and a refinery engineering
loan. IFC's investments in 16 Pakistan enterprises were by way of loans
(US$182 million) and equity participation (US$11.3 million); these are
shown in Annex II. Although individual operations have generally achieved
their objectives, the agenda for overall industrial reform remains
fo-midable.
20.     As a result of the progress under the Structural Adjustment Loan
(SAL) in 1981/82 and the Energy Sector Loan in 1985, our lending program
in energy is expanding rapidly. The overall objective here is to expand
the domestic supply from all energy subsectors and simultaneously increase
the efficiency of energy use through appropriate pricing, conservation,
and other methods of managing demand. No less central have been the
efforts to strengthen key institutions in the sector. In power, the Bank
has helped both the Karachi Electric Supply Corporation and the Water and
Power Development Authority to finance their power generation and trans-
mission programs. The construction of the Mangla and Tarbela dams under



-8-
the Indus Basin Development Program, in which the Bank played a leadership
role, has also assisted in achieving the objectives of the sector
strategy. In oil and gas, the Bank has financed a sound exploration and
development program and has assisted in developing the extensive gas
transmission system. Smaller efforts, involving mainly engineering
studies and technical assistance, have been undertaken to support coal
exploration, energy audits, and oil refining. Despite much progress,
however, the Bank will need to continue participating in institutio.
building and help the Government mobilize adequate funds for energy
investments through tariffs, co-financing, and greater private sector
participation.
21.     Bank Group lending for transport and communications has focused
both on new capital investments and on improving the efficiency of exist-
ing assets. Efforts have also been made to strengthen the institutions
responsible for these services, especially the Karachi Port Trust,
Pakistan Railways, the Telephone and Telegraph Department and federal and
provincial highway agencies. However, inadequate transport infrastructure
is now considered to be critical constraint to overall growth, in large
measure because infrastructure stock has run down. Thus, the balance
between new investments and the efficient operation and maintenance of
existing investments needs greater attention.
22.     With an overall literacy rate of only 24Z, a population growth
rate of about 3.1X, and rapid urbanization, Pakistan faces an equally
formidable development agenda in the social sectors. The Bank has sup-
ported the Government's programs in education through five credits
designed to upgrade primary, post-secondary, and higher technical and
agricultural education as well as middle-level training of primary
teachers and agricultural extension agents. The focus has been and will
continue to be on the lower end of the education spectrum (primary,
technical, and nonformal education). A first population project designed
to expand the demand for population control services was approved in FY83.
Furthermore, the Bank has financed four projects in the urban and water
supply sector. Besides providing urban services, these operations are
designed to improve local resource mobilization and cost recovery; plan-
ning and efficiency of resource utilization; and urban management, espe-
cially at the provincial and municipal levels.
23.     In addition to the 2bove, policy-based lending was pursued through
the SAL and an Energy Sector Loar mentioned in para. 20. The SAL program
introduced a number of significant reforms in government development
planning and in policies and programs in the agriculture, energy, and
industrial sectors; by the time the loan was fully disbursed at the end of
FY83, significant progress had been achieved in the above areas. The ESL
supports the Government reform program for the energy sector and assists
in the implementation of a core investment program for the sector.
Continuing support for the structural adjustment process is envisioned
under other sector loans in the next few years.



-9-
24.     In general, disbursements have been satisfactory.  Some projects
have experienced initial delays owing to protracted government procedures
for project approval (but these problems are now being addressed), and the
procurement of goods and services. Rapid turnover of managerial and
technical staff, partly due to migration to the Middle East and partly to
budgetary constraints, has also been a problem in some projects.
25.     A number of operations are currently being prepared or appraised.
These include projects for power transmission, generation, and
conservation; oil and gas exploration and development; coal development;
lines of credit for industrial financing for the private sector, and for
industrial subsector restructuring, balancing, and modernization;
irrigation/drainage, and agricultural inputs and services; highway con-
struction and maintenance; primary and informal education; urban develop-
ment and water supply. Sector loans that would support further structural
adjustment in industry and agriculture are being discussed with the
Government. Where successful, such loans would provide a policy umbrella
for projects in those sectors. To help the Government finance agricul-
tural and other high-priority projects having low foreign exchange
component, the Bank Group is financing some local expenditures on a case-
by-case basis.
26.     Economic and sector work provides the basis for the continuing
dialogue between the Bank Group and the Government of Pakistan on develop-
ment strategy, the sector and project Lending strategy and operations, and
the coordination of external assistance within the Pakistan Consortium.
The work program emphasizes resource mobilization, structural adjustment
in the three key sectors, and the development of the physical and social
infrastructure.
PART III - THE URBAN SECTOR
Introduction
27.     Nearly 30% of Pakistan's population of 92 million (mid-1984
estimate) live in towns of more than 5,000 inhabitants. Urban population
growth is rapid, averaging 4.1% per year between 1972 and 1981, compared
to an annual growth rate of 2.1% in rural areas. Urban growth is expected
to continue unabated in the last two decades of the century, yielding an
urban population of 58 million--40Z of the national population-in the
year 2000. Although difficult to quantify precisely, the growth of the
country's urban economy is impressive. Over the past decade, national
non-agricultural GDP grew at an average annual real rate about twice the
rate of the agricultural sector.
28.     Investment in infrastructure and shelter, however, has lagged
behind urban economic growth. Piped water systems exist only in large
cities. Sewage treatment is practically nonexistent, and disposal is a



-10-
problem in most areas; moreover, there is an increasing pollution problem
caused by industrial wastes. The annual production of formal sector
housing and serviced plots is equal to only half the annual increase in
urban households. The result is an increasing recourse to squatter set-
tlement- (katchi abadis), lacking tenure security and most basic services.
Nationali., the proportion of the urban population living in katchi abadis
is estimated at 25%. The proportion is significantly higher in the most
rapidly growing cities: 35% in Karachi; 60% in Faisalabad.
29.     The contrast between economic growth and lagging infrastructure
investment in part reflects the poverty of many of the entrants to
Pakistan's cities. Migration from poorer rural areas accounts for nearly
40% of urban population growth, and poverty remains widespread despite the
vitality of the urban economy. An overriding characteristic of the urban
scene is the inability of the Covernment to translate economic growth into
improved urban efficiency and living conditions. This has three main
causes, detailed below.
30.     First, the level of resource mobilization and cost recovery is
low. Local governments derive only a small proportion of their revenues
from direct taxes and user charges, and therefore have to rely primarily
on the receipts from octroi, a form of local import duty. While the
octroi has proven a buoyant revenue source, total local revenues have
scarcely kept up with inflation and population growth over the past five
years. Cost recovery in the water supply sector is generally poor, finan-
cial planning weak, and efforts to raise tariff levels often frustrated by
the argument that such increases are only possible when service improves.
While public agencies are relatively successful in recovering the direct
costs of area development projects, cost recovery in slum upgrading
projects is negligible. The situation in housing finance is similar. The
effective interest rate charged by the House Building Finance Corporation
(the principal source of housing finance) is lower than the rate required
to mobilize savings in the domestic economy. As a result, investment in
both urban infrastructure and housing heavily depends on allocations from
the Federal budget. Federal allocations for urban water supply, sewerage
and housing (excluding government employees housing) totalled Rs 3.4
billion during the Fifth Plan period (1978-83). The Government plans to
reduce this amount during the Sixth Plan, projecting a much increased
contribution of local bodies to this sector.
31.     A second constraint is institutional. Efficient service delivery
is undermined by the fragmentation of responsibility for urban service
delivery among provincial agencies, development authorities and local
governments. The public sector at most levels has difficulty attracting
and retaining qualified staff. Agencies tend to be poorly organized, with
functions often dispersed across several departments, and their financial
planning and management is inadequate.



-11-
32.     Standards and procedures are a third constraint.  Current stand-
ards for land use, infrastructure, and building characteristics have the
effect of excluding a large proportion of the urban population from formal
sector development projects. Site layouts have not made optimal use of
available land, especially in terms of minimizing plot sizes and maximiz-
ing marketable areas. Infrastructure standards have generally been geared
toward upper and middle income groups rather than what would be affordable
to the poor. Building regulations have followed the belief that every
family should have a 'pucca' (permanent) house, without regard to
affordability. Finance for plot purchases is typically short term (up to
three years) and requires a heavy down payment. As a result, conventional
housing in public development projects cannot be afforded by an estimated
552 of all urban households. Land acquisition and allocation policies
also limit access by low income households to serviced sites. In 'nost
cities, the problem is primarily one of production. WhiLe Pakist:.ni law
permits a form of land readjustment,1/ cumbersome procedures limi. the use
of this mechanism. In Karachi, --he problem is primarily one of
allocation. The public sector has successfully implemented massive plot
development schemes on the desert land surrounding Karachi. Due to market
forces and the present allocation system, most of these plots are pur-
chased by investors, and few by low income households.
33.     Several of these constraints have been recognized by the
,overnment and are addressed in the Sixth Five Year Plan (1983-88). A
tripling of the contribution of local bodies to urban investment (compared
to Fifth Plan levels) is proposed. The Plan calls for tariff levels in
the water supply sector sufficient to cover cash operating costs and debt
service, full recovery of investment costs in sites and services projects,
and recovery of 50Z of costs from beneficiaries in upgrading projects.
Standards for development in sites and services projects would be lowered,
with smaller plot sizes and a waiver of building regulations for low
income owner-builders. These proposals would represent a major step
forward. However, implementation depends chiefly on financial and
institutional improvements at the local and provincial levels. Progress
in these difficult areas is slow.
The Province of Sind
34.     Sind has a total population of about 22 million, of which about 10
million live in urban areas. Six million live in Karachi. Outside Karachi,
only Hyderabad (800,000) and Sukkur (200,000) have developed as sizeable
commercial centers, but these are growing slowly. Most of the other towns
in Sind are located near the national highway or railway lines and are
1/ Privately owned land is assembled and developed by public agencies.
Land owners are compensated through the return to them of a portion
of the developed land.



-12-
primarily agricultural marketing and service centers. The contrast between
Karachi and the rest of Sind is great: on the one hand is the rapidly
expanding and prosperous metropolis serving many national functions, while
on the other is a large, poor, and backward area. Relatively little
linkage exists between the two economies.
35.     The Provincial Government considers this a major problem and has
been trying to channel some of Karachi's prosperity to the rest of Sind.
In this, it aims not only at reducing the disparity between Karachi and
the smaller towns but also at relieving pressure on Karachi's urban
services. Dramatic changes in the regional imbalance cannot be expected
in the foreseeable future, however, as strong economic forces continue to
spur the growth of Karachi. Attempts to reduce thit imbalance focus on
reforms in the agricultural sector to lessen disparities in income dis-
tribution and encourage investment. At the same time, efforts are now
being made to improve urban service delivery in Karachi, which has
increasingly lagged behind the needs of the growing population. To
achieve this, pricing policies are being introduced which would mobilize
from beneficiaries the resources required for the operation and expansion
of the services; this in itself would reduce the need for Provincial
subsidies to Karachi and thus free funds for the remainder of Sind. It
could also affect the locational decisions made by entrepreneurs and help
direct some growth to other parts of Sind.
The City of Karachi
36.     Karachi developed from a small fishing village endowed with a fine
natural harbor into an important commercial center which in 1947 still
had only about 500,000 inhabitants. As the new nation's capital, it
received an enormous influx of refugees after Independence and grew to 1.7
million population by 1959 when the seat of national government was trans-
ferred to Islamabad. Despite this shift of Government, immigration con-
tinued unabated, and the population doubled in the following decade.
Although the rate of growth has slowed-from 5.72 per year during the
1960's to 4.3Z during the 1970's-Karachi is expected to have well over 11
million inhabitants by the end of this century.
37.     The city's attractiveness to migrants is due to its economic
vitality. In 1972, Karachi accounted for 15% of Pakistan's gross domestic
product (with only 5% of its population); 42% of value added in large-
scale manufacturing; 50% of bank deposits; and 25% of federal revenues.
While it is the capital of Sind Province, its primary functions are
clearly of national scope: it is Pakistan's commercial, banking, and
industrial center, has the nation's only port, and offers opportunities
for employment like no other city in the country. Significantly, more
than 80% of immigration into the city comes from Provinces other than
Sind.



-13-
Institutions
38.     Three departments of the Provincial Government play a major role
in urban development. The Planning and Development Department (PDD)
evaluates major public investment proposals and controls the allocation of
Annual Development Program funds. The Department of Town Planning,
Housing, Local Government and Rural Development oversees Karachi's
development authority and local government. The Transport Department
controls Karachi's Government-owned bus company (KTC) and the Regional
Transuort Authority which regulates private buses and paratransit services
in Karachi. Karachi Metropolitan Corporation (KMC) is the local govern-
ment serving most of the built-up area of metropolitan Karachi. KMC is an
elected body, governed by a Mayor and Council. Its primary respon-
sibilities consist of solid waste management, street maintenance, katchi
abadi upgrading, public primary education and medical services. Karachi
Water and Sewerage Board (KWSB), a subsidiary of KMC, was formed in 1983
through the merger of KHC's water distribution and sewerage functions, and
the bulk water production operations of the Karachi Development Authority.
KWSB now performs these functions throughout the metropolitan area.
Karachi Development Authority (KDA) is the city's primary buiLder of
infrastructure. KDA's principal activity is the development of residen-
tial plots on publicly owned land on the city's periphery. Since its
creation in 1957, KDA has developed and sold approximately 600,000 plots.
KDA also builds apartments, roads and flood control works, and continues
the construction of some water supply projects, as executing agent for
KWSB. Once sold or completed, KDA's projects are usually turned over to
KHC or KWSB, which are responsible for their maintenance. The city's
master planning, building control and traffic engineering functions are
also performed by KDA.
Role of the Bank Group in the Urban Sector
39.     Bank Group involvement in Pakistan's urban development has taken
the form of support for projects in Karachi and Lahore, sector work, and a
dialogue with officials at the national, provincial and local levels. The
immediate objective of Bank involvement in the sector is to help in
strengthening local agencies, increase local resource mobilization, and
foster the adoption of more efficient means of urban land, infrastructure
and service delivery. To date, city-specific projects have been the
primary means of pursuing this objective.
40.     The first two IDA credits in the sector financed two phases of
water supply and sewerage improvements in Lahore. The first, a US$1.75
million credit, (Cr. 106-PAK) became effective in 1967; the Second Lahore
Water Supply, Sewerage and Drainage Project, a US$ 26.6 million credit
(Cr.630-PAK) became effective in 1976. The principal objective of both of
these projects was to foster the development of a financially sound water
and sewerage utility agency for metropolitan Lahore, significantly improve
the level of service, and help prepare an urban project. The Water and



-14-
Sanitation Agency (WASA), established in 1977, successfully completed the
second project, and although its initial financial performance was
disappointing, this later improved through an operational action plan
prepared in 1982, incorporating specific steps and targets for operational
and finrancial measures.  The agreed performance targets have since been
achieved, as reflected in the recently prepared Project Completion Report.
41.     In 1984, a US$25 miLlion credit (Cr. 1374-PAK) for improvement of
Karachi's buLk water supply system became effective. As in Lahore, the
project supports the strengthening of an autonomous water and sewerage
agency for the metropolitan area. During project preparation, the Karachi
Water and Sewerage Board (KWSB) was established and an operational action
plan was devised for the new agency; this plan is currently being
implemented.
42.     The Bank Group's first multi-sector urban project in Pakistan, the
Lahore Urban Development Project (Cr. 1348-PAK), also became effective in
1984. The US$16 million credit finances upgrading in Lahore's Walled
City, sites and services development, and improvements to solid waste
management.  The main project objectives are to demonstrate low cost
shelter policies, to arrest the decay in urban living conditions, and to
strengthen the two project implementing agencies: Lahore Municipal
Corporation and Lahore Development Authority. The project also includes
the House Building Finance Corporation (HBFC) as an intermediary, provid-
ing finance to low-income beneficiaries for house construction as well as
for incremental construction and house repair in the Walled City, and in
the funding of an area development scheme.
43.     While Bank-supported urban and water supply projects have
generally been successful in achieving their institution-building objec-
tives and physical targets, financial improvements have often been delayed
by a failure to identity and agree on specific measures and targets. To
overcome these problems, the more recent projects address major issues in
two ways. First, action plans, identifying specific steps to be taken by
each agency, have been agreed upon during project preparation. These
plans, regulariy updated, are used to monitor progress during processing
and supervision. Second, the extent of sector work preceding project
preparation has been increased. The proposed project incorporates the
findings of a study of Sind Government and Karachi City finances, and the
"Sind Urban Sector Memorandum" (Report No. 4503-PAK dated May 7, 1984).
These identified, inter alia, the need to improve the organization and
coordination of functions and responsibilities among agencies in the urban
sector, the potential for increased use of property taxes and user
charges, and need for improvement in the pricing and use of public lands.
These conclusions provide the basis for specific actions incorporated in
the proposed project, and for studies to be financed by the proposed
credit.



-15-
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Introduction
44.     While Karachi faces a number of institutional and financial
issues, it must also be recognized that the city and its agencies have the
potential to address these issues more effectively than most other cities
in developing countries. Although limited in numbers, competent leader-
ship and skilled staff exist in Karachi's key agencies but effective
mechanisms for providing the broad planning, programming and financial
support required to ensure concerted action and to induce substantial
policy change have been lacking. Recognizing the growing problems of
Karachi, the increasing risk of unrest, and the tremendous importance of
Karachi in Pakistan's economy, the Government of Pakistan and the Sind
Government in 1983 set up a joint working party under the leadership of
the Federal Ministry of Planning to prepare a Special Programl/ for
achieving long-term improvements in the functioning of the city. This
Program was presented to the Special Consortium meeting in Paris in
December 1983 to obtain technical and financial support from the interna-
tional community. Subsequently, the Bank was asked to take the lead in
assessing the proposed Program and in coordinating donor support.
45.     The Program as initially presented included investments totaling
about Rs. 5,350 million (US$335 million), but with only limited emphasis
on critical institutional and financial issues. During 1984 further work
was done to prioritize investments and to develop further the policy
elements of the proposed Program. The cost of the Program was eventually
reduced to about Rs. 2,325 million (US$145 million), principally by shift-
ing major investments in bus transport and pipe manufacturing to the
private sector, by modifying design standards, and by sequencing invest-
ments more carefully with some premature investments postponed until a
future as yet undefined second phase of the Program. The resulting first
phase of the Program constitutes the proposed Karachi Special Development
Project. The Asian Development Bank has been involved in the preparation
of the proposed project; the French Government provided technical assis-
tance in the preparation of transport elements; and the British ODA helped
finance consultants for project appraisal.
1/ Special development programs and projects exist for each Province in
Pakistan. They are jointly defined by the Federal Government and the
respective Provincial Government to include high priority investments.
Funds for such special programs and projects are provided by the
Federal Government over and above regular annual allocations to the
Provinces.



-16-
Objectives
46.     The project was prepared under the direction of the Government of
Sind (GOSINDj and appraised in November 1984. Negotiations were held in
Washington from November 11-15, 1985; the Pakistan delegation was led by
Mr. J. S. Japanwala, Finance Minister, Government of Sind. A Staff
Appraisal Report entitled "Pakistan: Karachi Special Development Project"
(Report No. 5772-PAK dated November 27, 1985) is being circulated
separately to the Executive Directors. A supplementary project data sheet
is attached as Annex III. Approval by the Executive Committee of the
National Economic Council (ECNEC) of the PC-1 document for the projectl/
would be an additional condition of credit effectiveness.
47.     The proposed project would consist of investments and policy
actions in five subsectors: water and sewerage, flood control,
transportation, katchi abadi (squatter settlement) upgrading, and solid
waste management. The major objectives of the project would be to:
(a) strengthen the institutional capacity of local agencies to
deliver urban services and to manage the metropolitan area;
(b) improve resource mobilization and cost recovery;
(c) demonstrate the feasibility of new approaches to providing
services to the urban poor; and
(d) directly improve basic urban services, with particular orien-
tation to the needs of the low income population.
These objactives would be achieved principally through a series of subsec-
toral interventions. In each subsector, physical improvements would be
combined with specific institutional and financial measures consistent
with overall project objectives. Global issues of metropolitan management
and resource mobilization, which cannot be addressed at the subsectoral
level, would be dealt with in separate studies desigred to produce action
plans for implementation beginning mid-way through the project period (see
paragraph 62).
Rationale for Bank Support
48.     The Bank's Urban sector work in Pakistan, and Sind in particular,
has yielded a constructive policy dialogue with Government. Following the
start of the Karachi Water Supply Project (Cr. 1374-PAK} Government is now
1/ A PC-1 (Planning Commission Proforma No.1) is an internal government
project appraisal document necessary for the Government of Pakistan
approval procedares.



-17-
prepared to address major problems in other subsectors in Karachi. The
proposed project provides the opportunity for the Bank to act as a
catalyst in promoting immediate action on severaL of these problems and to
support studies on issues which would take more time to resoLve. In
addition to introducing sector-specific policy measures, the project's
multi-sectoral scope would help promote a more comprehensive approach to
metropolitan development in Karachi than has been possible in the past.
The Bank has also been instrumental in mobilizing other sources of exter-
nal funding by helping to arrange parallel financing with the Asian
Development Bank (ADB) for which this would be ADB's first urban lending
operation in Pakistan.
Project Components
Water and Sewerage
49.     Rehabilitation of the K-C Canal.  The K-C canal is a vital part of
the system linking Karachi with its principal source of water, the Indus
River. The original design specified concrete lining for the entire 17
mile length of the canal, but funding constraints dictated that only a
short section couLd be lined. The banks of the unlined part are suffering
from excessive seepage and are collapsing in places. These collapses
threaten the viability of the canal which needs urgent repair. The
project would finance canal rehabilitation, including earthworks and
concrete lining.
50.     Standby Syphons.  Prestressed concrete pipe syphons are vital
components of the system through which water is pumped from the Indus
River to Karachi. They have, however, suffered serious major bursts
frequently disrupting water supplies to the city. To ensure that supplies
would be maintained in case of further bursts and allow for major main-
tenance work to be carried out on the existing syphons, two standby
syphons would be built in parallel to the two existing units.
51.     Sewage Treatment Plant Upgrading.  This component would include
the rehabilitation and expansion of Karachi's two sewage treatment plants.
dorn-out equipment would be replaced or repaired. The combined capacity
of the two plants would be increased from the present throughput of 35
million gallons per day (MCD) to about 127 MGD. In addition, disused
power generation units would be renovated and activated to produce up to
25 million kWh/year of electricity from methane gas produced by the
digestion of sewage sludge.
52.     Sewerage and Wastewater Disposal Study.  Due to Karachi's rapid
growth and recent developments in cost-effective treatment technology, the
existing 1974 Master Plan for sewerage in Karachi needs to be updated.
The study to be financed under the project would revise demand forecasts,
investigate alternative disposal systems and technologies, examine the
problem of industrial wastes, and propose a phased program- of investments



-18-
through the year 2000. The study wouLd also propose improvements in
organization, management, maintenance and cost recovery in sewerage
operations.
Flood Control and Drainage
53.     Malir River Flood Protection Scheme.  Flooding of the Malir River
during the short monsoon period often causes extensive damage to heavily
developed areas along the river banks. Following a 1977 flood, a five-
phase program of flood control works was developed. Two of the phases
have been implemented, and works on the third phase are in progress. The
final phases of the wark would be financed under the project, with one of
the flood control bunds having been designed so that a new road can follow
its alignment.
54.     Storuwater Drainage Scheme.  The Old City is heavily populated and
is one of the principal business centers of Greater Karachi. Storm
drainage from this area discharges into the adjacent tidal areas through
four outfall channels, which are at present unlined and have no protection
from the constant ingress and egress of tidal waters. These problems are
aggravated by inadequate carrying capacity and chokage due to uncollected
garbage and silting, and as a consequence many streets flood during the
rainy season. Thus, as a first step of a longer term phased program of
improvements to the storm drainage system, cleaning, minor modifications,
construction of channels and provision of tidal gates to the four main
outfalls of the Old City would be carried out. This would be complemented
by a comprehensive study to update and expand the 22 year olc drainage
master plan.
Transportation
55.     KTC Efficiency Improvements.  KTC, which provides about 10% of all
mass transit in metropolitan Karachi, is a public enterprise wholly owned
by GOSIND. It has historically suffered from weak management, poor finan-
cial controls and overstaffing, which have resulted in persistent finan-
cial problems. The proposed subproject would emphasize institutional and
operational improvements to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of
KTC and its existing bus fleet, and to eliminate public subsidies to KTC
by the end of the project period. The project would finance technical
assistance, training, and depot upgrading, including some machinery and
improvements to hardstands, buildings and utilities. There would be no
fleet expansion, and the projected growth in travel demand would be met
largely by privately operated buses and minibuses, which already carry
more than 90% of all passengers in Karachi. A number of key dates and
targets have been agreed on for the KTC improvement program and are incor-
porated in the Operational Action Plan (see paragraph 67). In addition,
not later than September 30, 1990, KTC would be required to achieve over a
continuous 12 month period the following performance targets: (a) an
outshedding ratio of not less than 80% of its serviceable bus fleet; (b) a



-19-
manning ratio of not more than 8.8 staff per bus; (c) not less than 170
commercial kilometers per bus per day; (d) not more than 4 breakdowns per
10,000 bus kilometers; and (e) an operating ratio (operating expenditures
over operating revenues) of not more than 1.54. The achievement of these
performance targets would be a condition of disbursement of expenditures
for civil works and materials/equipment for the depot upgrading.
56.     Traffic Engineering Program.  Aimed at supporting low cost solu-
tions to traffic congestion and means of improving traffic safety, the
subproject would finance channelization of intersections, lane markings,
sign posting, parking control, pedestrian overpasses, and coordinated
traffic signals. Training facilities for traffic police, and a road
safety education program would also be financed by the project. These
investments would be linked to an expansion and strengthening of the
functions of the Traffic Engineering Bureau. A high level Traffic
Operations Committee has already been established.
57.     Road Network Improvements.  Improvements at three key bottlenecks
in Karachi's road network would be financed under the project: (i) a new
bridge over the Malir River would be consttucted to link central Karachi
with the expanding industrial and residential Korangi area; this bridge
would replace an existing causeway which is subject to flooding and
requires annual repairs; (ii) a new road along the Malir flood control
bund (see paragraph 53) would be built to link the Malir bridge to one of
the city's circumferential highways, thus permitting traffic to bypass the
congested city center; and (iii) a road overpass would be built over the
railway at Qaidabad.
58.     Mass Transit Study. To complement traffic engineering and road
investments, a major study would be undertaken to take a longer-range view
of the city's public transport needs and options. It would evaluate
alternative high-performance bus and light rail systems in the light of
projected demand, evaluate their economic and operational feasibility, and
recommend an investment program for 1988-1995. Broad guidelines for
longer term mass transit development and for private sector involvement
would be included.
Katchi Abadi Upgrading and Regularization
59.    This subproject would upgrade about 3400 acres of land in 18 katchi
abedis, benefitting nearly 600,000 people. All l;md to be upgraded is
ifi pubLic ownership. The project would improve basic urban infrastructure
and services, and provide occupants with sec-irity of tenure in the form of
99-year leases. A pilot project of guided land development on about 100
acres of land would also be included and would create about 2500 plots
with the most basic services in an area of incipient katchi abadi
development. Some of the plots would be made available to households
relocated from the upgrading projects. The primary objective of the pilot
project would be to test the feasibility of a lower-standard approach than



-20-
used in the past for the provision of serviced plots to low income
households. If successful, it could provide the basis for a departure
from the present plot development practices of KDA (see paragraph 32).
60.    Investment would be linked to major institutional and financial
reforms, including the creation of a Department of Katchi Abadis (DKA)
within KMC and the introduction of user charges sufficient to cover all
upgrading costs. Agreement has been reached that the DKA, which has
already been established, will be staffed and equipped in a time frame
and manner satisfactory to the Association. A simplified leasing proce-
dure would be introduced, reducing the number of steps from eleven to
five. Funds recovered through user charges would be deposited in a
revolving fund, which would be used to finance further upgrading schemes.
This package of investments and immediate institutional and policy reforms
would be accompanied by a study of Longer term issues in the subsector.
The study would investigate the present operation of the land market in
Karachi and the policies of agencies involved in the development and sale
of land. It would recommend measures to improve access for low income
households to land, and measures to better exploit the potential of public
land as a Government asset.
Solid Waste Management
61. This subproject would finance a major expansion of KMC's solid waste
management operations, thereby increasing the colLection and disposal of
solid waste from 30% of all households at present to 60% coverage by the
end of the project implementation period. Three quarters of the proposed
investment would be for vehicles-essentially large-capacity refuse vans.
In addition, six zonal workshops, for vehicle parking, fuelling and first
line amintenance would be upgraded, and two new sanitary landfill disposal
sites would be developed. These investments would be made in parallel
with a reorganization and strengthening of KMC's solid waste management
operations. An assurance has been obtained that the recently established
Solid Waste Department would be staffed and equipped in a manner and time
frame satisfactory to the Association.
Metropolitan Studies and Financial Management
62.     Two metropolitan studies would be financed under the project:  (a)
a Metropolitan Management and Budgeting Study to examine problems of
inter-agency coordination, focussing on gaps in service provision and
problems of investment/maintenance coordination that result from the
present distribution of responsibilities. Internal management problems of
key metropolitan agencies would also be examined; and (b) a Metropolitan
Resource Generation Study to examine the constraints on resource gener-
ation and recommend measures to increase revenues available to local
agencies. Both studies are expected to yield action plans suitable for
implementation during the project period. Agreement has been reached that
appropriate recommendations arising out of these studies would, after



-21-
review and discussion with the Association, be implemented during the
project period.
63.     KHC Financial Management.  The project would finance a team of
consultants to: (a) assist KMC in updating its accounts by implementing
short-term procedural improvements in its present system; (b) identify
more fundamental changes in procedures, legislation and personnel
practice, and design an action plan for their implementation; and (c)
provide on-the-job training.
Training
64.     Training of local government personnel is an important function of
the project and is in line with the overall project objective to
strengthen the institutional capacity of local agencies. Accordingly,
training components are included in virtually all subprojects described
above. Personnel training would be achieved through on-the-job training,
in-house technical advisors, and through training programs. On-the-job
training would be part of the responsibilities of the consultants working
with KDA's Traffic Engineering Bureau, KTC, KHC's Finance and Katchi Abadi
Departments and KWSB's sewerage operations. A full time consultant wouLd
also work in the Solid Waste Management Department of KMC, along with the
local staff, on the design and implementation of the new organization and
staff training program.
Project Implementation
65.     Overall project monitoring and coordination would be performed by
a Project Monitoring Unit (PMU), which has been set up as a discrete unit
within the GOSIND Planning and Development Department. The Director of
the PMU has been appointed. The PMU would monitor the implementation of
physical components, the execution of studies to be conducted under the
proposed project and the achievement of cost recovery targets and other
policy measures. The PMU would also periodically update, with each
agency, its work schedule, coordinate operations among the agencies,
ensure the timely availability of resources, maintain records of disburse-
ment applications and payments, and prepare and submit quarterly progress
reports to the Association. During the second half of the project period,
the PMLT would coordinate the preparation of possible future projects in
Sind.
66.     The project would be implemented by COSIND, KDA, KWSB, KMC and
KTC. GOSIND would have responsibility for the Metropolitan Studies; the
water and sewerage components would be carried out by KWSB; flood control
and drainage would be the responsibility of KDA, who would also undertake
all the transportation subprojects except the KTC efficiency improvement
program which would be the responsibility of that agency; and KMC would be
responsible for the solid waste management component and for the katchi
abadi upgrading and regularization program.



-22-
67.     The implementation of physical improvements and policy measures
would follow a number of benchmark dates by which specific policy actions
should be taken and physical improvements completed. These actions and
dates have been grouped into an agreed Operational Action Plan. An
assurance has been obtained that this Plan will be reviewed annually and,
as necessary, amended or updated in consultation with the Association.
Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
68.     Total project costs, including contingencies, are estimated at
US$148.6 million, with a foreign exchange component of US$42.6 million.
Taxes and duties amount to about US$8.1 million. Base cost estimates,
which are also the basis for the PC-1 documents (see paragraph 46 above),
are in December 1984 and June 1985 prices for the IDA-assisted and
ADB-assisted components, respectively. In order to maintain consistency
with Government practice, base costs have not been updated to current
prices; however, increases since the respective base dates have been
included in the price contingencies. Physical contingencies range from
5-10%, averaging 7% or base costs, with price contingencies on foreign
costs of 1.1% in FY85, 6.25% in FY86, 7.75% in FY87 and 8% for the years
thereafter, and on local costs at 12% in FY85, 10 in FY86 and 9%
thereafter.
69.     The project would be financed by the Government of Pakistan, the
Association, and the Asian Development Bank (ADB). Tne proposed IDA
credit of US$70 million would finance about 50% of total project costs net
of taxes and duties, including US$57.4 million of local costs.  Of the
remaining costs, the ADB would provide US$30.0 million of foreign and
$14.4 million of local costs, and the Government would finance the remain-
ing local costs (including taxes and duties) of US$34.2 million. The
proposed external assistance (IDA and ADB) of US$114.4 million would
finance about 81% of net project costs and would cover 100% of estimated
foreign exchange costs and 68% of local costs. Retroactive financing of
up to US$1.4 million would be provided to cover expenditures incurred
after November 30, 1985.
Onlending Terms
70.     The proposed IDA credit of US$70 million, together with the ADB
contribution of US$44.4 million, would be made available by the Government
to GOSIND on the terms and conditions on which they were respectively
received. The Government would contribute the remaining US$34.2 million
from its own resources, to be passed on to GOSIND on a grant basis.
GOSIND would retain US$3.4 million for the execution of the metropoLitan
management and the resource generation studies and for project management,
and would pass on the remaining US$145.2 million as follows: US$39.3
million to KDA for the execution of the flood control, drainage and tran-
sportation subprojects for which KDA has responsibility; US$4.4 milLion



-23-
to KTC for the efficiency improvement subproject; US$101.5 million to KMC
for the execution of the katchi abadi upgrading, the solid waste
management, and the accounting assistance subprojects. KMC would, in
turn, pass on US$56.3 million to KWSB for implementation of the water
supply and sewerage subprojects. The proceeds of the Credit to be util-
ized for katchi abadi upgrading will be onlent to KMC by GOSIND at an
interest rate of 7Z per annum and a repayment period of 25 years including
6 years' grace. For the water supply subprojects and the bus depot
upgrading, the Credit funds would be onlent by GOSIND to KWSB (through
KMC) and KTC, respectively, at an interest rate of 11% per annum and a
repayment period of 25 years including 6 years' grace. The Credit funds
to be used by KDA for the flood control/drainage and the transportation
subprojects, and by each of the implementing agencies for studies and
training, would be made available by GOSIND on a grant basis. The signing
of Subsidiary Loan Agreements between GOSIND and the relevant implementing
agencies would be a condition of effectiveness.
Cost Recovery
71.     About 62% of project costs would be recovered directly from
beneficiaries. Costs of water and sewerage investments would be fully
recovered through water charges and a sewerage charge implicit in the
revised conservancy tax (see paragraph 72 below). Costs of upgrading and
sites and services would be fully recovered through sale of long-term
leases and utility connection fees. The remaining 38Z of project costs
would not be recovered directly. They include costs of solid waste
management, road, traffic and flood control investnents, studies, and
technical assistance. Investment costs in water production will be
recovered through bulk and retail water tariffs, which were recently
increased in accordance with the financial performance targets of the
ongoing Karachi Water Supply Project (Cr.1374-PAK).
72.     At present, no mechanism exists for directly charging for sewerage
services; gross operating costs and capital expenditures are funded
through ad hoc transfers from KMC. While KWSB administers a conservancy
(sanitation) and fire tax on behalf of KMC, with yields net of collection
costs being turned over to KMC, billing lists are incomplete and assess-
ments out of date. Under the proposed project, the system for assessing
and collecting the conservancy/fire tax will be combined with that for
water charges. This will be broaden the base of the tax to include all
properties on the KWSB water customer registry and eliminate duplication
in revenue administration. A share of revenue will still be turned over
to K[C, but this share will be fixed and KWSB would be assured of a reli-
able designated revenue source for its sewerage operations. An assurance
has been obtained that the necessary measures will be taken, including the
introduction of conservancy charges, to enable KWSB to produce from its
sewerage operation gross revenues sufficient to cover operating expenses
and debt service requirements by FY89/90, and internal funds sufficient to
cover a reasonable proportion of annual capital expenditures. The



-24-
measures to be taken, and the timeframe to be observed, form part of the
Operational Action Plan (see paragraph 67). Under the Plan, it has been
agreed that the conservancy surcharge will be set at 75% of the retail
water tariff, with 50% of the proceeds to be retained by KWSB and the
remainder to be transferred to KMC. Implementation is expected to begin
in the 1985/86 billing year.
73.     Costs of upgrading katchi abadis would be recovered through the
sale of 99-year leases. Lease rates have been set to permit full cost
recovery for on-site infrastructure, related off-site infrastructure and
community facilities. Land has been priced at Rs 5 per square yard.
Though this is lower than the market rate, it is intended to introduce the
principle of charging for publicly owned land, and represents a sig-
nificant departure from present practice (see paragraph 32). Prices on
individual plots would vary by location and plot size, ranging from Rs 35
to Rs 300 per square yard. Higher prices for commercial property reflect
their greater market value. Higher prices for large residential proper-
ties are based on equity considerations, but also reflect bEth higher
costs of extending services and higher market value. A down payment of at
least 25Z would be required from individual beneficiaries, with the
balance of the lase rate recovered over 4 years at a 12% per annum inter-
est rate. This interest rate is substantially above the average effective
rate on housing loans charged by the House Building Finance Corporation,
which is about 7.5%. With inflation expected to average 9Z over the
repayment period, the interest rate is positive in real terms. In accord-
ance with the Operational Action Plan, the new lease rates and procedures
are to be approved by the Council by March 31, 1986. Assurances have been
received that: (a) the new rates and procedures will be applied; (b)
interest rates of not less than 12% will be charged to beneficiaries in
the katchi abadi upgrading schemes; and (c) lease payments will be
deposited in a revolving fund to finance similar projects in the future.
74.     Land and infrastructure costs of the *mall guided land development
scheme would be recovered through the sale of plots, with beneficiaries
required to make a down payment of 25% of the plot price and the balance
to be paid over a four-year period at a 12% per annum interest rate.
Standards and layouts would be determined so that: (a) at least half the
plots would be sold for Rs 1,500 or less (1985 prices) each and thus be
affordable to households below the poverty threshold (equivalent to the
income level of households living on small katchi abadi plots); and (b)
all land and development costs would be fully recovered at not less than a
12% per annum interest rate. Assurances have been received that the
design and pricing of the guided land development scheme will follow these
criteria.



-25-
Procurementl/
75.     Major contracts for civil works involving rehabilitation of the KG
canal, syphons, drainage and road works (US$49.9 million), and for equip-
ment and materials (US$2.7 million), would be awarded on the basis of
international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank
guidelines. Local contractors or manufacturers would receive a margin of
preference in bid evaluation of 7.5% on civil works and 15% on equipment
and materials. Contracts for small items such as office machinery and
road safety equipment would be let on the basis of competitive bidding
advertised locally. The remaining civil works contracts, covering flood
control, initial traffic engineering and katchi abadi upgrading would be
awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding (LCB) or, in the case of
certain of the small katchi abadi subprojects, built by force account.
Work carried out by force account would not exceed a total value of US$3.0
million equivalent.
Procurement Method a/
(US$ million)
Component               ICB      LCB      Other b/    N.A.       Total Cost
Land                              -        -          0.8            0.8
Civil Works             49.9     22.0    29.5          -           101.4
(39.8)   (17.5)                             (57.3)
Equipment & Materials   2.7       2.2    22.9          -            27.8
(2.7)    (1.1)                              (3.8)
Technical Assistance    -         -        1.1        8.9           10.0
(8.9)          (8.9)
Incr. Staff Salaries    -         -        -          0.5            0.5
Duties & Taxes           -        -        5.9        2.2            8.1
TOTAL          52.6      24.2    59.4        12.4          148.6
(42.5)   (18.6)               (8.9)         (70.0)
Disbursements
76.     Disbursements from the proposed credit would be made against:  (a)
100% of foreign expenditure, or 100Z of local expenditure (ex-factory) for
goods and equipment procured through ICB; (b) 78% of expenditure for civil
works; tc) 100% of expenditures for consultants' services, technical
1/ All figures include contingencies.
a/ Figures in parenthesis are amounts to be financed out of the credit.
b/ Subprojects to be assisted by ADB.



-26-
assistance and training; and (d) 50% of expenditure for goods and equip-
ment procured through LCB.
77.     Disbursements for civil works contracts for one or more progress
payment not exceeding US$75,000, for civil works carried out through force
account, and for locally procured items of equipment costing US$50,000 or
less would be made on the basis of certified statements of expenditures.
Other disbursements would be fully documented. The proposed credit would
be disbursed over a period of six and one-half years, which is equal to
the Region-wide average profile for urban projects.
Special Accounts
78.     To ensure that project activities are carried out promptly,
KMCIKWSB and KDA would, for those parts of the project for which they are
respectively responsible, open and maintain in Dollars Special Accounts at
the National Bank of Pakistan, in accordance with procedures and on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Accounts and Auditing
79.     Each implementing agency would prepare and maintain project
accounts which would be audited annually according to current practice.
Audit reports would include a statement verifying that credit funds dis-
bursed in advance for the Special Accounts and those reimbursed against
statements of expenditure had been used for the project. The P1U would be
responsible for coordinating the submission of these reports to the
Association no later than nine months after the end of each fiscal year.
Monitoring and Evaluation
80.     Overall project monitoring and coordination would be performed by
the Project Monitoring Unit (PMU) (see paragraph 65).  Each of the execut-
ing agencies would prepare brief monthly progress reports, which would be
submitted to the P1U.  The PMU would make recommendations on any correc-
tive actions considered necessary to ensure that project objectives,
implementation schedules and cost estimates are achieved. Based on the
monthly reports and its own supervision and controls, the PMU would
prepare quarterly reports on the progress of the project highlighting any
major problems and suggestions for overcoming them. The quarterly
reports, which would set out physical and financial data regarding each
component, would be submitted to the Association within one month follow-
ing the end of each reporting quarter.  The PMU would establish reporting
formats and monitoring indicators, and develop evaluation techniques to
measure progress in meeting physical, financial, institutional and
programmatic goals and to ultimately measure project achievements. The
monitoring procedures and format would be periodically reviewed with the
Association and updated as necessary.



-27-
Project Benefits and Risks
81.     Economic rates of return were calculated for those subprojects
with readily quantifiabLe benefits: KG Canal Upgrading (29Z), traffic
engineering (25X), road network improvements (51%), flood protection
(31Z), and katchi abadi upgrading (60X). These subprojects account for
about 69% of total project cost and have an average economic rate of
return of 4&%. Studies and subprojects with primarily environmental and
heal-th benefits (sewerage and solid waste) were not subject to quantita-
tive economic analysis.
82.     The katchi abadi upgrading, flood control and part of thc solid
waste management components, which account for about 36Z of project cost,
would directly benefit people below the poverty level. About 40% of the
project beneficiaries (over one million persons) are poor. The katchi
abadi upgrading subproject is designed to demonstrate affordable methods
of improving service delivery to the two million inhabitants of katchi
abadis in Karachi. In the upgrading program to be financed, 55% of
beneficiaries belong to households with incomes below the poverty
threshold. Plot charges have been set so that 78Z of plots would be
affordable to persons in the poverty group.
83.     The more broadly targeted project components also confer a sub-
stantial proportion of their benefits on the poor. Eighty percent of the
200,000 beneficiaries of flood control works are classified as low-income.
Improvements in solid waste collection would particularly benefit the
poor, who reside in areas where service is presently the worst.
Transportation improvements are expected to help stabilize the cost of
mass transit, on which low-income households rely.
84.     Risks.  The major project risk concerns the ability of agencies
which would be expanded under the project to attract and keep capable
staff.  Three agencies-the Traffic Engineering Bureau and the new Katchi
Abadi and Solid Waste Management Departments of KMC--would take on sub-
stantially expanded roles under the project. A fourth, the Project
Monitoring Unit, has been created. Low salaries prevailing in the public
sector, and a lengthy procedure for creating new staff positions, are
obstacles to the timely provision of adequate staff. Progress on staffing
will be monitored closely during project implementation through the
Operational Action Plan.



-28-
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
85.     I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association, and I recommend that the
Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
December 20, 1985
Washington, D.C.



-29-                                             ANNEX I
T A B L    A                                            aP&A    I of  6
PAXISTAM               - SOCIAL I NOICATOMS DATA SCEET
PAKISTAN                             RKFrrENRE GRouPS (HESWXE  LVgRACGIS) /a
eONT                     (twIT  SKiN? TWT  /b
i,soLt  an' TLqT           LOW INanE            MIDDL  INCLME
19M4b 197UIb ZSL;i;T-b     AIA 4 PACIMI           ASIA 6 PACIVLIL
A     ciucusm  q. Im)
TOTAL                              WU3.9      BU3.9       1103.9
ACtICULTURAL                       227.5       243.3      253.0
CW        CMR e4   (US)                 ..          ..       390.0              27U.3                    1UII.I
ay xmmwlo. a carna
CtLWGRAS Of OIL ECUIVALENT)         98.0       133.0      179.0              285.7                    546.8
nununcio m PITa. sIATIST
POPULATION.NID-YUR (ThOUSANDS)  41531.0    60449.0    89729.0
URN POILATION (I tUl TOTAL)         22.1        Z4.9       29.1               22.3                     35.9
POPULATtON PW CTIONS
POULATION IN YUE  2000 (MILL)                            133.1
STATIOYN  PULATION (MILL)                               330.0
POPULATION mreNTUr                                         19
POPULATION DtNSImT
R  SQ. I.                         57.0        75.2       111.6             173.8                    336.1
PER  SO. lO. ACE!. LAND          201.5       248.4      344.4              353.3                    1591.2
POPUATION AGE SMTCTUBE (Z)
0-14 Y1S                         43.3        4*.J       43.7               31.3                      PU.2
15-4 T7S                          51.6        50.5       53.2               59.4                     57.7
65 AND AOVE                        4.3         3.1         2.9               4.3                       3.5
POPULATION CROWTH LATE (R
TOTOL                              Z.3         2.8        3.0                2.U                      t.3
UR33                               4.6         4.0        4.4                4.1                      4.1
CRUDE SlTR RATE (PE  TmoUS)         48.6        46.6       42.0               27.5                     3(1.3
CRUDE DEATh RATE (PE  ThOUS)        23.5        19.4       14.9               10.2                      9.a
COS  EODUCTION RATE                  3.4         3.4        2.8                1.7                      1.9
FAMILY PLANNIN
ACEKPITS  ANNUAL (TNOUS)           ..       1906.1      1244.U 7c
USERS (2 oF MARIED WOlW)           ..          6.0 Id    14.3               49.4                     5b.5
INDEX OF Moo PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                       g9.0       102.0      107.0              116.6                    124.4
PERt CAPITA SUPPtL OF
CaLORIES (2 OF REQUIREMENTS)      77.0        95.0      104.0              106.3                     115.7
PROTEDIS (CRAIMS PR DAY)          53.0        58.0       61.0               60.1                     60.3
Of W1ICM ANDIAL AND PULSE        Z3.0        22.0       20.0 I.            14.4                     14.1
CNID (AGES 1-4) IEATh RATE         24.9        21.1       16.0                7.3                      7.2
maLTE
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)       43.1       '6.0        50.2               b0.5                     6U.6
IMFANT "OM. RATE (PER TIOUS)       161.5      143.0       119.0               b9.2                     64.9
ACESS MD SAFE WATER (IIOP)
TOTAL                              ..         21.0       34.&               44.2                     '6.4
URBAN                              ..         77.0       72.0               77.2                     57.b
RURAL                              *-          4.0       20.0               34.6                     37.1
ACCESS TO EXCRm  DrSPOSAL
(2 OF POPULATIOIO)
TOrAL                              ..          3.0        13.1               7.8                     50.1
URBAN                              ..         12.0       42.0               26.8                     52.9
RURAL                              ..          ..         2.0                5.5                     44.7
OULATIONI PER PHTSICIAN           5400.0     4300.0 If  3480.0 4            3318.0                   7751.7
POP. PElt 1URSIC PERSON          38110.0    10580.0 7F  5320.0 j           4490.7                    24n4.8
POP. PER HOSPITAL  ED
TOTAL                           1790.0      1860.0      1560.0 ic         1039.2                   1112.1
URRAM                            510.0       650.0       710.0 7;          299.1                     651.4
RURAL                          22850.0    12450.0      160bU.O 7.         602d.2                   2596.9
AD!IISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED         ..         ..          ..                52.3                     41.1
MOOIN
AVEACE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                             -T.4         5.3        .,.1 tc
URBAN                              5.6         5.5        b.4 Ic
RURAL                              5.4         5.2         .U Ic
AVERAGE NO. Of PERS4JIS/IROM
TOTAL                              J.1         2.8 In
U;RAN                              3.1         2.7 7      .
RURAL                              3.1         .. Th-
PCRCENTAGE OF OSELLINGS WITH ELECT.
TUTAL                              ..         17.9 lh
URBAN                              ..         54.4 lh     ..
RURAL                              .49 7d*7*



-30-                                                     ANNEX I
PAN  III               - SOCIAL TNDICAWRS DTS
POwlTSIA                             nrflUNc gROUP:Is (CVIGITD AVUAGZII to
MOST                     (MODST RCENT SSTIMAT) 
9601  i~~1k RCEN                 WV INOM               MEDDLE CONE0
196ab      197aMb lZa=TIMAT          ASIA 6 PFACEtC        ASIA 6 PACIFIC
ADJUITD ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMAITI  TOTAL                   30.0        60.0       44.0               92.1                     100.7
IALE                   *6.0        57.0        37.0              103.5                    10.6.
MALE                   13.0        22.0        31.0              79.3                      97.2
2COIIDAUY: TOTAL                  11.0        13.0       14.0               31.3                      67.8
KALE                   16.0        20.0        20.0              40.1                      50.6
nMALE                   3.0         5.0         g.0              21.1                      44.4
VOCATIONAL (t OF SECONDAIY)          1.0         1.75 1.                       3.2                      16.4
PUPIL-TEACRZR RATIO
PSimI                             39          41.0       36.0               36.0                      30.4
SOONDAI                           24.0        20.0       18.0               17.4                      22.2
PASENU CAIS/TNOUSAND PM              1.5         2.6        3.4  j             0.9                      10.1
mana RECzIVz/SIMOUSAND POP           6.0        17.1       74.6              129.1                     172.9
TV 1zC2tVEz/VTOUSIND POP             ..          1.6       11.5               19.8                      58.3
NEVSPADER ("DAILY GENERLI
INTtEUS?) CIRCULATION
PER TROUSUID POPULATION            13.2         ..        19.4               23.7                      65.3
ClNZIVA ANUAL ATTIUDEANCVCAPITA      1.7         3.0 tf     2.2 /c             6.0                       3.4
LAME YuRC
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOS)         14448.0    17364.0    25325.0
FILt (PERCENT)                     J.6         9.3        10.6              33.2                      33.6
AGRICULTU  (PtRCENT)              61.0        59.0       57.0               69.6                      52.2
ImDUSTIL? (PERCuT)                18.0        19.0       20.0               15.8                      17.9
PALTICIPATION RATE (PERCEfT)
TOTAL                             31.5        21.7       28.2               41.9                      38.9
KALE                             35.2         50.4       48.3               33.6                      50.8
FIDALE                             3.7         5.5        6.3               29.1                      26.6
ECONo3C DEPzDIDC? RtATIO             1.3         1.7         1.7               1.0                       1.1
loom DISTEIIOW=
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOIQ
RECEIVED By
IHEST 5X Or HUSEMOLoS             20.3 /k    17.8
MICUEST 20 O1 HOUSEHOLDS          45.3 7      41.8        ..                 ..                       48.0
LOWEST 20S OF IIOUSEMOLDS          6.4 7       8.0        ..                 ..                        6.4
LOWEST 40* Or HWSEHOLDS           17.5 71     20.2        ..                 ..                       1.5
.399    TAM    GCO
ESTIATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOM
LTVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URN                                .          68.0 /1   176.0 /c           133.9
RUUAL                              ..         47.0 7    122.0              111.6                     131.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERT IMCOME
LML (U# PER COPITA)
URBAN                              ..         34.0 /I    68.0 /c             ..                      177.9
RuL                                ..         Z2.0 7i    58.0 o7            61.7                     164.7
ESTIMATED POP. SEno  ABSOLUTE
POVETY INCOME LEVEL (S)
UR1N                               ..         42.0 /1    32.0 Ic            43.8                      23.5
RDuL                               ..         43.0 7!    29.0 7W            51.7                      37.8
CT? AVAILABLE
NoT APPLICABLE
N O T C S
/a  The group averages for esch indlcator are populatlon-vlghted aritbetlc  _w. coerage of countries
among tho indicaorr depends on avallabilLty of data ad IS not uniform.
/b   Unless othervise noted, "Daca for 1960" refer to any year betwen 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970J  between
1969 and 1971; and data for 'Most Recent btimate" between 1981 and 1983.
IC  1979;  /d 1968; /o 1977;  /f If registered, not all practiing in the country; SL 1980; &% 1973;
/i 1972; L3. 1964.
JUNE. 1965



-31-                                              ANNM    I
page 3  of 6
DVIfO#nr OUSOCLAL IMDUCATOUS
NoUL'Alboaq lbdala      -ur fro  psumblyjlWd ma mt ahoeild  reliaa  itshouloaIm be        t  y mynot be intharion
mparab b_ of dtb IKt of iaadardbad daimad c-pa umd by ding coatr ion scilbing the dau. The daon am. no_el_ uweul to
dumibe  I oruaida. ad_a Uaek ad i b         adm an" n modismaom  -   coft.
Tbl  er_s paa(I)w m  C  tyllpor .. the atbj coontry and (2) a mOuMYOp witbombhat gh wag income than the counus
puu o      :au (t_comiy ( fof "HighlanomOilEwE  "upw 'Mpoidd        m NorthArrica aWMiddkE Wicham enbca oe rooger
sodi.cdtwa &Am1b). En lb do   We" daa Ub avam  am poplao  u_e&*W a_ibadic asans for eah irncr and shown only wr  majonity
oa  e euuaL woa   bdaisrr tbt i-cas. Sim dbw     wnofcmatzimam_tdw indioradepndan tbavwilbty orda and ia not u.ron
cao^nub bewid aehin     a ara. afone ndicorto aoothor. Thavuaaeanly uwdul mcompan      valede indicatrat  ime amg
tle coug5ry ad !aswm VWJLW
ARUEA (thousd sq.km.)                                         Cruk hvh lat   (pr *_smJd)-Number of lve births in the year
TaLL-Total surfe ar  compriing hund area and inland waten;    per thousn of mid-year populatio  1960.1970. and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 datL                                      CeAir DMh Rot (pr .')ssiumaud-Number of deaths In the year
Ap**w i-timate of agricltural area used temporarily or        per thousand of mid-year population 1960.1970. and 1933 data.
permanently for crops. patures, market and kitcben gardens or to  G&*  Rprodwim latr-Average number of daugbters a woman
lie fallow. 1960. 1970 and 1982 deta.                         will bear in her normal reproductive period if she experiences
prent age-specific fertility rates. usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates at current      in 1960.1970. and 1933.
market pe    calculated by 3ame conversion method s World            I_ Pfiq-Acp,ds  Aaarul (themmaadr)-Annual num-
Bank Allar (196143 basis); 1983 data.ber of acwptors of biuthcontrol devices under auspices of national
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                 family planning progran.
conumption of    mercal prnimy  engy (coal ad lgnite.         Fa4v Pfam,-Usm (p*meaw efxwuisl             )-The percen-
petroleum, natunl Sa and bydro-. nudear and gothermal elec-   ta  of married women of child-bearing age who are practicing or
tricity in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita; 1960. 1970, and  whos husbands are practicing any form orcontraception. Women
8"2 data                                                      of child-bearing ag are generaly women aged 15-49. although for
some counried contraceptive usage is naed for other age
POPULATION AND VMAL SrATISIICS                                BrOlPL
Tal P.palatia . MiYew (sadsu)-As of July 1: 1960. 1970.       FOOD AND NUtRmTION
end 1963 data.
LW&vP&pW*n (wwwof sod-atioof rbanto ttal      Indrzef 4 baPdftm PerCapit (1969-71 - IWX)-Inudex of per
ulan   diff (emat de fiitor      -Ratio of urbman to totarl   capr- annual production of al food commoditis. Prtoducion
populationf diaerent defnitions of 1rban arm  a m              cludes animal feed and seed for agriculture. Food commodities
ability of data among COuntries; 1960. 1970. and  1983 dlata.  ind primary commodities (ced:  sugarcne instead of sugr)
pafade.-o    pseiw                                            which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffee and tea are
PopuLtaou  in year 2000-The projection of population for 2000.  excludd); they comprise cereals, root crops. pulses. oil seeds.
made for each ecoomny eparately. Starting with ihwmantion on  vegetabls, fruits. nuts, suguarmr  and sugar bee  livestock, and
total population by age and sex, fert   rates, mortality ra, and  livestock produt Agregate production of each country is based
inteationa migration in tDe bas year 1980. thes pameters      on national average producer price weights: 196145. 1970. and
were prected at fie-yer intervals on the basis of generlzed   1982 data.
aumptions until the populatn becam sttioay rr Ca.ita S   bwpp of Calorie, (pctf eqF_Jewes)-Comput-
S,ioeary popuqlasis one in which age- and sex-specific mor-   ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies availabie in country
tality rates bave not changed omer a long period, wbil age-specffic  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have smultaneously remained at replacement levd  tion. imports ess exports and changes in stack. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate- 1). In such a poptdation. the birth rte is  xcdude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculturc, quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate. the age structure is also  food processing. and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant. and the growth rate is zero. The stationary papulation  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteritics or  and bealth considering environmental temperature, body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution of population. and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replcment lvel.                                       wae at household lervel 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
FPpulation UmA trnn-s the tendency for population growth to    P*r C.pc Supply of Pibum (samper day)--Protein content of
continue beyond the time that .-placement-levei fertility has beeo  percapita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved; that is, even after the net production rate has reacbed  as above. Requirements for all countries established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year t is mcasred as  provide for miriimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grans of animal and pulse protcin, of which 10 grams
the ye r . given the assumption that fertility remins at replce-  should be animal protein. These standards.are lower than those Of
ment lcvd from year t onward. 1985 data.                      75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
PO ie         y                                               aveage for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sq.kn.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-  Supply, 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
taes) of total ara; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                Pr Capia PA wein Supplty Awe A.iaval and PArs-Protein supply
Per sqgkm. agrieukral iWd--Computed as above for agricultural  of food derived from animals and pulses in grams per day; 1961-65.
land only. 1960,1970. and 1982 data.                          1970 and 1977 data.
PopA_auia  Age Sims.'e (jiment)-Children (0-14 years). work-  Cbl (qe 1-4) Deatk Roe (pfr t_housad)-Number of deaths of
in# age(lS-64 yers). and rtired (65 years and over) as pcentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 dua              group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
Pop_atio Gowh Rate (pCert)- total-Annual growth rates of      from lifc tables. 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-60, 1960-70. and 1970-33.  HEALH
A     qaro.    J Gu    Rate (J A     nnual growth rates       Lie Expectawy a RIt (ywm)-Number of years a newbom
of urban population for 195060. 1960-70. and 1970-83 dataL    infant would live if prevailing pattens of mortality for all people



-32-                                               ANNEJ    I
page 41 of 6
at the time of of its birth were to stay the same throughout its life;  Pupd-reacdr Ratio - pFWry. and scodarr-Total students en-
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                     rolled in primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of
1nant MavI   Atwe (per tkousaid)-Number of infnts who die    teane in the conreWonding knLe
beform reaching one year of age per thousand live births in a given
year. 1960.1970 and 1983 data.                                CONSUMPTnON
Acces to Sfe Water (picew of                   arias, )-d  P,  _       Curs (per drohmd popwli)-Phuenger cars corn-
nwra-Number of people (total, urban, and rural) with rasonable  prise motor can seating lek than eight persons; excludes mbul-
access to afe water supply (includes tnrated surface wame  or  aoces, hearses and military vhidce.
untrated but unconaminated wte such  a t    from piolettd     R&   Reeuiw  (pt     I  isp. ppuldh.d)-All ty    of receive
boreholes, springs and sanitary wells) as pentags of their npec-  for radio broadcasts to genea public per thousand of population;
tive populatioLs In an urban area a public fountain or naldpost  exdudes un-licensed receivers in countris and in years when
located not more than 200 meters from a house may be considered  gistion of radio set was in cffect data for recent yean may
as being within reaonable a   of th t house In  ral areas     not be comparable since most countries abolihed liing
reasonabk access would imply that the housewfc or members of thR
houselhold do not have to spend a disproportionate prrt of the day  to genera publ pe t a   precluves forbroudcTV
in fetching the family's water needs                          to Fner  public per        po   am c3dude unlieoT   d TV
Access to Ezcrwa Dispomi (pe    o                             i       in countrpes and in y<ears wheno t tion  of TV n c  was
and rw&a-Number of people (total, urban. and rural) served by
excreta disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  AM_wspqe Ch'ahtl. (per thounindpapdahal)-Shows the aver-
Excreta disposal may indude the collction and dispoal with or  age ciruation of 'daily general interest newspaper, defined as a
without treatment, of human exa and waste-water by water-     perical publication devoted pniarily to rcording genea  news
borne systems or the use of pit privies and sinilar installations.  It is considered to be -daily if it appers at klt four timu  a weck.
Populaioa per Physkiaa- itpulation divided by numnber of prac-  Coinem  A _ssa Arrendse per Cia per Yr-Based on the
tising physicians qualified from a medical school at university leveL  number of tickets sold during the year. including adnisions to
PepuLuoa per N4msg Persim-Population divided by nwuber of     drive-in cmemas and mobile units.
practcing male and female graduate nurses, assistant nurses.  LAOR FORCE
practical nurses and nursing auxibaries.                         LR   Plt        oi
(otal, ura  and rural divie  bythei  respectivenumberof       cluding armed forces and unemployed but escluding housewives.
(tota, urbn.  in pubal) iie and pcriae generalv andmbro  students, etc.. coveaing population of all ages. Definition  in
hospital beds available invarious ounties ar not comparab  1960.1970 and 1983 data.
hospitals and rehabilitation centes Hospitals are establishments  aie (percerenal aor force         ant  of t
permanendy staffed by at last one physician. Estabishmts prov- e       (   r-Fe  labroce as pectw or tow labo
iding pdincipally custodial care are not induded. Rural hospital,  force.
however. include health and me&dl centes not permanently staffed  Avica_e (pamm)-Labor force in fannig forstry, hunting
by a physician (but by a mndical assisant. nure midwife. etc.)  and fishing as percentage of total labor forge 1900. 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patient accommodation and provide a limited range  data.
of medical facilities.                                        l6dsry (pece)-Labor force in mining, constrution.    u-
Admisions per Hospital Bd-Total number of admissions to or    facturing and electricity, water and gas as percentage oftotal labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of bed&       force; 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
Pwrd*10do. Awe (PercmrI--rra, male, Mfk-&riipation
HOUSING                                                       or activity rates are oomputed as totaL male, and female labor force
A-e  Size of Hawedt (prs  per ko.seWd)-cmd. wie_,             as pentages of totaL male and female population of al ages
asndr -A household consists of a groupof individuals whoshare  respectively. 1960. 1970. and 1983 data. Thes are based on ILO's
living quarts and their mnain meals. A boarder or lodger may or  pardcipationrates lectingage-xstructureofthepopulation and
may not be included in dte houschold for staistcal purposes   long time tr     A erw estimates are from national sources
Avere Nmtber of Persons per Room-foad arha an rwal-           Ecaoadk Depedewy Rato-Ratio of population under IS. and
Average number of persons per room in all urban, and rural    65 and over, to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings, respectively. Dwelings exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts                 INCOME DlSTRIBUTION
Percentage of Diweliags wtit Eletrwct-toealwn, ad rnrnl-      Percmen   of Tota Dfipoable lxcow (boe -      and k_d)-
Conventional dwellings with eklxicity in living quarters as percen-  Acancing to prcentile groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of total urban, and rural dwellings respectively,        hold income.
EDUCATION                                                     POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
AustIed fEwollmwnt Ranos                                      The following estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
Pranary school - total, male and female-Gross total, male and  levels, and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
female enrollment of all ages at the prinary level as prcentages of  Esmue Abolt hmry Aucere Levl (USU p eri)-warur
respective pnmary school-age populations While many counties  ond ral-Absolute poverty income level is that income levd
consider primary school age to be 6-11 years, others do noL The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
diffcrences in country practices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratios given. For some countries with universal  Esiaed Relaiwe Poverty Incoue Leved ( US  per coe)-mer
education, gross enrollment may exceed 100 percent since some  asd roral-Rural relative poverty income lvel is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard primary-school  average per capita pesonal income of the country. Urban level is
age.                                                          derived fromn the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Secodary school - total. mal and femae-Computed as above     living in urban areas.
secondary education requires at least four years of approved pri-  Este  PopAlat. dow Absoue Poerty luce.  Levd (pew-
mary instruction: provides generaL vocationaL or teacher training  cenr)-urhar ad nual- Prcent of population (urban and rural
instructions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspond-  who are -absolute poor."
ence courses are generally exduded.
Vocarional Enoimeni (peent of secondary)-Vocational institu-            Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tions include technicl, industriaL or other programis which opemte    Economic Analysis and Projections Department
indpendently or as depatiznents of secondary institutions.                            June 1985



-33-
page 5 of 6
JCoNeC DcUWLVOHDT aiTA
CUP M  CAPrTA 13 1982: US$30 L/a
Gca56 RATIONAL flDCT 13 1983384.&                                           LTh OF CRUM  (I. cmtaant price.)
mB          illion              ifr9170-197417  197517z-1960Ar    198LI2  MSS   1983124
Gw at mrket prices             33.68         100.0                 3.5              7.1           4.3      7.4      4.2
Creea domestic investment       5.23          15.5                -5.5              4.1          10.;     9.6      3.4
Crem nationel maying            4.20          12.5                -2.1              6.7           6.9    24.9    -6.5
Curret accost balance          -1.00          -3.0
Ewrts of goeda. mg              3.4           lQ.2                -3.5              7.3         -5.6     27.5    -3.2
lworta of geods. WS             7.0b         21.0                 -7.1              5.5          0.7      1.1    22.0
OTU.  UAO  FOCE AND
PrUOUCTIWlmT IN 1913/84
*alue Added                Lbor Force /c               V. A. Per Worker
lins   -L                   milion    L                    mg       _t
Agriculture                    6,652     24              14.1      51                    472    47
ledustry L                     8.096     29               5.2      19                  1.557    155
Sevice,                       12f931    47               o.32     -                    155e   1
Total/Averae                27.679    100              27.6    100                   1.003    100
Central Government                              ederl Government
(Rs billion)          Z of CDF               (R   billion)       Z of CDP
h983184 LL   J983j84  1978179-198314         1983134 fL 1J83184 1978/79-1983/84
Curret receipts                      73.2         17.4        16.6               58.2        13.9        12.4
Current expen itursa                 K3a        11         "3.5                6A         iLl          13.2
Currnt aurplus                       -7.2        -1.7         -6.3               -4.6       -1.1         -0.4
Capital expenditures LL              34.2         8.1          9.4               34.2         7.0         8.0
xternal amsistance (net)              6.0         1.4          2.1                6.0         1.4         2.1
HONEY aMII MD IIcS
1927175  1975176  1976177   1977178  fl7.n   1979210   19810/111   1981/82  1982183  1983184 IL
(Rs billion)
Mony and quasi _moy Li                  33.1     41.6      51.7      63.7      76.5      90.7    103.5    113.6   146.0   162.5
Sank credit to public sector            21.2     28.1      36.6      43.5      54.9      61.8     70.9      79.7    95.5   105.6
Dank credit to private aector           16.0     17.8      23.0      26.5      30.9      36.9     41.9      51.3    62.8    77.8
(percentagee or index wnbera)
Home and quai  _my am 2 of CDP          29.5     31.5      34.6      36.7      39.0      38.3     37.0      35.1      40.1      38.7
Comsumer price index (1969/70-100)     211.3    229.4    256.7    277.0    295.6    331.9    375.4    403.9    418.1    462.0
Annal perceutage change. in:
Ceemer price index                      23.6      8.6      11.9       7.9       6.7      12.3     13.1       7.6       3.5      10.5
Sank credit to public sector              ..     32.5      30.2      18.8      26.2      12.6     14.7      12.4      19.8      10.6
Sank credit to private _ctor              ..     11.2      29.2      15.2      16.6      19.4     13.5      22.4      22.4      23.9
Ba ed -n Vorld lak Atla metbodology and calculated at - average of 19W-82 prices and exchange rates. All other
cenvermions to dollars in thim table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
b  Priional.
 Projection for 1IM3/84. Doe not include uneployed labor force.
LI  Inclue. manufacturing, minig. conatructiom and electricity and gas.
LI Comaolidated revenuem ad expenditures of Fderal and Provincial Governments (ozcluding Federal-Provincial Government
transfers).
If  Rewised budget data.
Ig  Excluding principal repaymntm of foreign loans. Capital expenditurem en defined in government budget include
certain current expendituree also.
Lk Provisim nl.
Li Monetary atatietica of Pakistan have been fully adjusted for demonetized notes. devaluation and revaluation of the
rupee. etc. as from June 30. 1975. Data for 1974/75 from State Dank eources are not strictly comparable with XII
*etimtes for earlier year.
Not epplicable.
lot available.
March 1985



-34-
Page 6 of 6
BANCE OP PAYENTS                                                                        C        uDS  ms   An         1979/I-1963114)
1979/80  19U/181   N1"1S2  1982183   1993184                                   U5N millian        I
CUSS sillion)
Pzportu Of goode. R                2.955    3.461    3.052    3,416      3.439          aw cotton                    315.3        11.9
Imports of goods. on             5J7J9    6 U6"  64679  .  -S            7 058         Cotton yarn                   214.7         *.1
Resource gap (deficit - -)       -2,75    -3.005   -3,627  -3,172    -3,619            Cotton cloth                  231.1        10.6
Rice                         417.9         15.6
Interect paymnts                   -285      -357      453      421       477          All otbhr comoditioe 1as    [24            536
Vorkers' remittances               1,748    2.097    2,224    2,687      2.737           Total                     2.651.4        100.0
Other factor payment. (net)          151      274      321      195        359
Nut transfers                          . 
Balance -n current account       -I 140      -991  -1,535 .    11    -1,000                      OUTERU.L DMRT. JIII  1964
Direct foreign investment
Net NLT borrowiug                                                                                                            CB5  dlliL
Disburuements                    1.134      956    1,102    1,301      1.248
Amortizstion                      -310      *_                -3j          -5S9 ?blic debt. including guaranteed             9,890.4
Sub-total                         824       440      610      915       679            onu-guranteed private debt LI
Transctions with 1DU /n               78      315      358       413       -1            Total outstanding ed  disbur.ed       9,690.4
Other items  . e. i. k              600       546      313      235        142
Increase in reserves (-)           -362      -310      249   -1,102        160            DET n    cZ AT10 PS 198JI84 IL
Cross reserves (end year) LI         748    1.058      009    1,911      1,731                                                      z
Petrolem  imports LI               1,079    1.535   1710    1,610       1,423         Public debt, including guaranteed          15.6
Petrolem  sports ft                  178      126      196       77        40           on-grateed privte debt
Total                                  15.6
RATE OP ENClIANOg                                                                         !RRDfD  L5DI3G (December 1963) (038 million)
Throubh Kev 11. 1972                Froam   v 12  1972-heb. 15 1q73                                                      IU1         a
USSI - Re 4.7619                           USSI - Us 11.00                          Outstanding sod disbursed            350.7   1,14.7
as I - USS.21                             Re I - 0350.09                            ondiehbrsed                         197Z 0    617.2
Outstanding including undisbursed   547.7   L.761.9
rrom Feb. 16. 1973-Jsn. 7. 1982    From July 1981-Juoe 1982 Ia        Frm July 1982-June 1983 L        Prom July 1983-June 198  LL
aS I - to 9.90                        US$1 - Rs 10.551               l$l - Re 12.75                     S$SI - Es 13.50
a  I - USSO.10                        Rs I - UWs0.095                 e 1- - 3 .078                    Ib    - UWSO.074
ft locluding Trust FPnd.
Lk  Including net short-tam borrowing  nd errors and omission.
fc Excluding gold reserves of about 1.8 million troy ounce.
I- Crude and derivatives.
Ie  tn-guaranteed private debt service  is osaligibe.
if  Ratio of actual debt service to sports of goods. fsctor mad non-factor services; d.. e  ervics includes DF charges.
Is  Effective January 6. 1982* the rupee is to be msngad with reference to a weighted bushet of currneies.  Tta average
exchange rate shown i vis-a-vis e5$ for the period shown.
Not  ailable.
Nurcb 1985



-35-
Page I of 2
STATUS Of UK CNitUP OPEATIONS IN PAKISTAN
A.  STApMlYT oFrMM LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of Sentember 31. 1985) L&
(US million)
Loaun                                                   (Amunt net of concellations)
Credit    Fiscal                                                                 Undis-
lumber     Year    Purnp                                 nk   tV        IDA      buried
Ninuty-eight loans and credits fully disbursed Lk    781.4  32.0  1,001.6fl
648       1976   irrigation A Drainage (Ihairpur)       -               14.0      2.7
1366T     1977   Punjab Livestock Developmnt            -     10.0     -          2.8
754       1978   Salinity Control & Reclamtion          -               70.0     66.6
813       1978   Punjab Ext. A Agric. Dev.              -               12.5      3.7
877       1979   Salinity Control & Recl. (ardan)    -                  60.0     49.4
892       1979   Primry Education                       -               10.0      3.5
922       1979   Sind Agricultural Extension            -                9.0      4.2
968       1980   Third VAYDA Power                      -               45.0      3.5
974       1980   Third Highway                          -               50.0     11.9
1019      1980   PICIC Industrial Developmnt            -              40.0       3.3
1109Lk    1981   Vocational Training                    -               25.0      7.8
1113Ls    1981   Smll Industries                        -               30.0      0.3
1157/e   1981   Grain Storage                           -               32.0     15.8
1158k    1981   Agricultural Research                   -               24.0     15.0
1163La    1981   On-Fan Vater Managemnt                 -               41.0     12.2
1186k    1982   Industrial Development (IDSP II)        -               30.0      3.0
2122      1982   Fourtb Telecomeunication               40.0            -        11.9
2172      1982   Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation   38.5              -        20.3
2276      1983   Reservoir Maintenance Facilities       10.2            -        10.0
o305      1983   Agricultural Dev. (AD3P V)             10.0            -         5.4
2324      1983   Fifth Sui Northern Gas Pipelines       43.0            -        39.9
1239kL   1982   Irristion Systems Rehabilitation    -                  40.0      23.7
12431e    1982  BDluchistan Minor Irrig. & Agr.         -               14.0     10.9
1256e    1982   Technical Assirtance                    -               7.0       2.9
12781e    1982   Eleventh Railway Project               -               50.0     36.0
1368kL   1983   Lahore Urban Development                -               16.0     14.9
1350/e   1983   Population                              -               18.0     14.3
1355k&   1983   Coal Engineering                        -                7.0      6.2
1374Lk    1983   Karachi later Supply                   -               25.0     20.4
1375k-   1983   Fourth Drainage                         -              65.0      62.0
I3SOLt    1983   Agricultural Developmnt (ADSP V)   -                  47.8      14.2
2218      1983   Refinery Engineering Project           12.0           -          8.8
2351      1984   Petroleum Exploration                  51.5           -         41.4
2374      1984   Secnd Toot Oil and Cas Delopmet  30.0                 -         22.8
2380      1984   Induatrial Investment Credit           50.0           -         44.7
1439ke   1984   Industrial Investment Credit            -              50.0      44.5
1461/e   1984   Integrated Bill Farming Developmet -                   21.0      21.3
1480ke   1984   Second Teschnical Assistance            -               7.0       6.8
1487      1984   Coand later Managemnt                  -              46.5      46.0
1499      1984   Second Sell Industries                 -              50.0      41.1
1532      1985   Left Bank Outfall Drain - Stage 1   -                150.0    156.4
1533      1985   Baluchistan Agricultural Extension   -                 8.3       8.7
2499      1985   Fourth WAPDA Power                    100.0           -        100.0
1602/c   1985   Second Primary Education               -               52.5      52.5
1603/e   1985   Second On-Farm later Management         -              34.5      34.5
2552      1985   Energy Sector Loan                    178.0           -        178.0
2553      1985   Petroleum Resources Joint Venture    55.0             -         55.0
2556a     1985   Fifth VAPDA Power                     100.0           -        100.0
Total                                                1,499.6  42.0  2,202.9  1,461.2
of wbich has been repaid                             501.1   4.A    44.3
Total now outstanding                                  998.5  37.4  2,158.6
Amount sold                  29.9
of which has been repaid    2,                       -=
Total now held by Bank and IDA-d                       998.5  37.4  2.158.6
Total undiabursed                                      63L.2   .7L   820314 1M46L2
/a  The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report
on all Bank/IDA financial projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly
and circulated to the Executive Directors On April 30 and October 31.
Lk  Excludes the disbursed portion of loans and credits wbolly or partly for projects
in the former Et Pakistan wbich have now been taken over by Banladesh.
/c  Not yet effective.
/d  Prior to exchange adjustmnt.
k IDA Credits under the 6th Repleniabsent dnonminated in SDRs. The principal
is shown in DSS equivalent at the time of negotiation. Disbursed amounts are
computed at the zchange rate applicable on the transaction dates. Undisbursed
wounts are valued at the exchange rate applicable on the date of this
statement.
Lf  By using the mrket rete on dates of disbursements, the current principal
for Credit 1066-Phi and Credit 1255-PAZ (both ful1y disbursed) is
$42.5 and 577.5, respectively.



-36-
ANNEX 1I
Page 2 Ot 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of September 30. 1985)
Fiscal                                              Amount  In US$   Million
Year    Obligor               Type of Business      Loan   Equity    Total
1958     Steel Corp of         Rolled Steel
Pakistan Ltd.         Products              0.63      -        0.63
1959     Adamjee Industries
Ltd.                  Textiles              0.75     -         0.75
1962-    Gharibwal Cement
1965     Industries Ltd.       Cement                5.25    0.42       5.67
1963-    PICIC                 Development
1969-                          Financing              -       0.52      0.52
1975
1965     Crescent Jute
Products              Textiles              1.84    0.11       1.95
1965-
1980-    Packages Ltd.         Paper Products       19.25    0.84      20.09
1982
1967-    Pakistan Paper
1976     Corp Ltd.             Paper                 5.38    2.02       7.40
1969     Davood Hercules
Chemicals Ltd.        Fertilizers           1.00    2.92       3.92
1979     Milkpak Ltd.          Food and Food
Processing            2.40    0.36       2.76
1979     Pakistan Oilfields
Ltd. and Attock       Chemicals and
Refinery Ltd.         Petrochemicals       29.00    2.04      31.04
1980     Fauji Foundation      Woven Polypropy-
lene bags             1.78     -         1.78
1980     Premier Board
Mills Ltd.            Particle Board        2.70      -        2.70
1981     Habib Arkady          Food and Food
Processing            3.15    0.16       3.31
1982     Asbestos              Cement                4.02      -        4.02
1983     Pakistan Petroleum   Chemical and
Ltd.                  Petrochemicals      100.89    1.i6    102.45
1985     National Dev.         Money and
Leasing Corp.         Capital Market.       4.13    0.;7       4.50
Total Gross Coumitments                   182.17   11.32    193.49
Less: Cancellations, Terminations,
Repayments and Sales              133.05    0.38    133.43
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC          49.12   10.94      60.06
Undisbursed (including participants)       38.28    0.51      38.79



-37-
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
PAKISTAN
KARACHI SPECIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:          Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the project:
One year
(b) Agency which prepared the project:
Various, under the direction of the Government of Sind
(c) Date of first mission to consider the project:
March 1984
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission:
November 1984
(e) Date of completion of negotiations:
November 15, 1985
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
May 1986
Section II:    Special IDA Implementation Actions
None
Section III:   Special Conditions
(a) Operational Action Plan to be reviewed annually and
updated as necessary (para. 67);
(b) Lease payments from katchi abadi upgrading
subprojects to be deposited in revolving
fund (para. 73); and



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(c) Design and pricing of guided land development
scheme to follow agreed criteria (para. 74).
The following would be additional conditions of effectiveness
(i)  meeting of all conditions precedent to the
effectiveness of the Funding Agreement of the
Asian Development Bank (para. 1);
(ii)  approval by ECNEC of the PC-1 document for the
project (para. 46); and
(iii)  signing of Subsidiary Loan Agreements (para. 70).
The achievement of specific performance targets would be a
condition of disbursement against the KTC depot upgrading
component (para. 55).



