Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14222
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
EXPORT SECTOR LOAN
(LOAN 3309-ME)
APRIL 3, 1995
Public Sector Modernization and Private Sector Development Division
Country Department II
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit (until 12/31/92) = Mexican Pesos (Mex$) = 100 cents
Currency Unit (beginning 1/1/93) = Mexican New Pesos (MexN$) = 1,000 old Pesos
Average Exchange Rates
1984                US$1 =                 167.8
1985                US$1 =                 257.0
1986                US$1 =                 611.8
1987                US$1 =                1,378.2
1988                US$1 =                2,273.1
1989                US$1 =                2,261.7
1990                US$1 =                2,821.0
1991                US$1 =                3,020.5
1992                US$1 =                3,094.7
1993                US$1 =            MexN$ 3.1
1994 (October)      US$1 =            MexN$ 3.4
Abbreviations and Acronyms Used
AGSAL               Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan
BANCOMEXT           Banco Nacional de Comercio Exterior
COI                 Comite de Operaciones Internacionales (International Operations Committee)
DDSR                Debt and Debt Service Reduction
EDP                 Export Development Project
FIFE                Programa de Financiamiento de Inversiones Fijas para Exportaciones
(Program of Financing Fixed Investment for Exports)
ICB                 International Competitive Bidding
IDB                 Inter-American Development Bank
ISPL                Industrial Sector Policy Loan (3087-ME)
FSAL                Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (3385-ME)
MOP                 Memorandum of the President
NAFTA               North American Free Trade Agreement
OECD                Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
PCR                 Project Completion Report
PECE                Pacto de Estabilisaci6n y Crecimiento Econ6mico (Economic Stabilization and
Growth Pact)
PERL                Public Enterprise Reform Loan (3086-ME)
PROFIDE             Programa de Financiamiento de Exportaciones en Divisas (Foreign Exchange
Export Financing Program)
SECOFI              Secretarta de Comercio y Fomento Industrial (Ministry of Commerce and
Industrial Development)
SHCP                Secretarfa de Hacienda y Credito Publico (Ministry of Finance and Public
Credit)
TPL                 Trade Policy Loan



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
April 3, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Mexico -
E.port Sector Loan (ESL - Loan 3309-ME)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Mexico - Export Sector Loan (ESL - Loan
3309-ME). Parts I and III were prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office with
Part II contributed by the Borrower.
Two hundred and seventy-five million dollars of the $300 million loan was targeted to the Banco
Nacional de Comercio Exterior (BANCOMEXT), for export financing via "insurance" or rediscounting
procedures with commercial banks. Twenty-five million dollars was for balance of payments support,
with co-financing by IDB in the amount of $250 million. The ESL achieved its main objective of
channeling credit to export expansion in ways consistent with the reforms of Mexico's macroeconomy
and financial sector. A "hands-on" but short-lived involvement by Bank personnel in the management
of BANCOMEXT helped that institution to adopt a commercial approach to financing export promotion.
The ESL is part of a series of Bank operations in support of Mexico's economic reforms. These
included, inter alia, introduction of a new, more market-oriented macro planning approach, a debt and
debt service reduction (DDSR) operation and, most relevant to this operation, liberalization of the
capital account, the financial sector and trade in line with the North America Free Trade Agreement
(NAFTA). The Region broke new ground with this ESL in several areas, including export promotion.
Based on the PCR, the project outcome is rated as satisfactory and sustainability as likely. Since the
focus was not on capacity building, the institutional development impact is rated as modest.
The PCR, including an insightful and useful Part II, is of very high quality. An audit is
planned.
Attachment
Tlis document as a restricted distribution and may be used by redpents only in the performance of ther offieial duties. Its
contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
EXPORT SECTOR LOAN
(Loan 3309-ME)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PRFACE  .......1................................................   i
EVALUATION SUMMARY   .                 .........................................   iii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE   ....                         ..........   I
1.    Project Identity .      .............................................    1
2.    Background  ................................................   1
3.    Project Objectives  ...... .     ....................................   3
4.  Project Design and Organization.                                                             3
5. Project ImplementatiQon .5
Current performance of BANCOMEXT and medium term perspectives.                            7
6.    Project  Results  ..............................................                          11
7. Project Sustainability .12
8. Bank Performance .12
9. Borrower Performance .12
10.    Project Relationship ......... ................................  13
11. Consulting Services .13
12. Project Documentation and Data .13
PART Il: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE GOVERNMENT'S PERSPECTIVE .14
PART III:  STATISTICAL INFORMATION   ..............................  17
1.  Related Bank Group Operations .17
2. Project Timetable .18
3. Loan Disbursements .19
4. Project Implementation .19
5.  Project Financing by Source .20
6.     Status of Covenants ...........................................  21
7.     Use of Bank Resources .........................................  22
Annex I .....                                                                                   25
Annex I ..... 35
Annex MI ..... 39
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






i
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
EXPORT SECTOR LOAN
(Loan 3309-ME)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Mexico Export Sector Loan (3309-ME)
in the amount of US$300 million which was approved by the Bank on March 26, 1991. The Loan
was closed on December 31, 1993 as scheduled. The loan was fully disbursed on March 1, 1993,
more than nine months ahead of schedule.
The PCR was prepared by the Public Sector Modernization and Private Sector Development
Division of the Latin America & the Caribbean Country Department II (Preface, Evaluation
Summary, Parts I and Part III). The Government prepared Part 11 of the Report, "Project Review
from the Government's Perspective." During the Completion Mission conducted in October 1993,
extensive comments were received from Government representatives and have been incorporated into
Part I of this report. The cofinancier, the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), provided
comments which have been incorporated into the report.
Preparation of the PCR was initiated during the project completion mission to Mexico in
October 1993, and is based, inter alia, on the President's Report; the Loan, Project and Guarantee
Agreements; amendment letters; supervision reports; the Bank project files; and information prepared
by BANCOMEXT.






iii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
EXPORT SECTOR LOAN
(Loan 3309-ME)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
ProJect Objectives
i.    The Export Sector Loan (Loan 3309-ME, for $300 million, approved by the Board on
March 26, 1991) was a continuation of the Bank's efforts to assist the Mexican Government in
achieving its objectives of promoting efficient private sector development and increasing the
effectiveness of public sector institutions so as to enable the resumption of economic growth. The
loan supported: a) the implementation of trade and customs reforms aimed at encouraging efficiency
and expanding the tradeables sector; and b) the transition of the Banco Nacional de Comercio Exterior
(BANCOMEXT), a public sector development bank devoted to export financing, in conformity with
the general objectives of financial sector reform, to permit it to perform a more efficient role in trade
financing in a more competitive financial system. Policy changes would be supported through a fast-
disbursing policy based component ($25 million) and trade-related financing would be provided by a
component ($275 million) allocated to BANCOMEXT. The latter was also expected to be fast
disbursing given its size in relation to the volume of BANCOMEXT's short term trade financing.
The loan contained three portions, each of $100 million (paras. 3.1 and 4.1).
ii.    The medium term strategy developed by the Government and BANCOMEXT for customs and
trade reform was set out in a policy statement (see Annex 1). It included the following basic
principles: a) to operate predominantly as a second tier lending institution; b) to offer trade financing
at market-based interest rates; c) to focus on providing guarantees and increasingly to rely on other
financial intermediaries to carry out both lending and export promotional activities; d) to receive no
fiscal transfers; e) to provide export promotional support increasingly on a cost recovery basis; f) to
decentralize activities; and g) to operate profitably including maintaining equity in real terms (para.
3.2).
Implementation Experience
iii.   Implementation of the Loan proceeded in line with appraisal estimates, with the Government
pursuing substantial trade reform and the reorientation of BANCOMEXT operations. Customs
reform was also implemented, but with a lesser degree of success. Loan disbursements proceeded
ahead of schedule. The first portion of the Loan, comprising the entire policy component of $25
million and $75 million of the credit component, was released following effectiveness (May 6, 1991).
The second and third portions, comprising the balance of the credit component, were released on
May 1, 1992, and November 12, 1992, respectively. These releases followed review by the Bank of
the progress of BANCOMEXT in implementing its medium term policy statement. Disbursement of
the funds was efficiently undertaken by BANCOMEXT and the proceeds were fully disbursed earlier
than originally estimated (para. 5.1).



iv
Results
iv.    The Mexican Government has continued to implement the trade and financial reforms
supported by the loan. Critical to its macro strategy, the Government has negotiated the North
American Free Trade Agreement which, in addition to further opening of the tradeable goods sector,
provides for liberalization of the financial sector. Linked to the policy component of the loan, the
authorities have made the expected progress in the reform and modernization of the customs
administration, although at a somewhat slower pace than anticipated.
v.     BANCOMEXT has made considerable progress in accommodating itself to the open financial
system resulting from implementation of the Government's financial sector reforms. It has increased
the share of second tier operations in its portfolio. It has also increased resource mobilization through
borrowing in international capital markets at attractive interest rates and its domestic lending has been
accomplished at market-determined interest rates. As a consequence, it has improved its profitability
and strengthened its balance sheet. Improvements in internal procedures and administration, as well
as in its regional offices, have made possible a substantial diversification of loan operations and
increased attention to the needs of smaller exporters. The institution has, moreover, adopted a
flexible policy for cost recovery for its export promotion efforts and has taken important steps to
rationalize these activities and to focus on priority issues. On the other hand, progress in expanding
its credit insurance-guarantee program has been slower than anticipated (para. 6.2 - 6.3).
vi.    As expected, in 1992 there was a decline in BANCOMEXT's financing of trade-related
transactions with the elimination of the COI system involving subsidies. However, in 1993 the
institution experienced an expansion in demand for its funds although its relative share in export
financing remains well below the levels achieved in earlier years. The recent increase in
BANCOMEXT's export financing activities reflects in part the impact of restrictions imposed by the
Bank of Mexico in 1992 on the volume of external liabilities the private banks could incur, thus
limiting their capacity to mobilize external resources used in trade financing. This also reflects the
current situation of the private banking system whose transition from nationalized status has been
difficult and time consuming and whose first efforts in the private mode, concentrating on "retail'
banking, have proven unprofitable as well as increasing the weight of non-performing loans in its
portfolios. At the same time, however, the achievement by BANCOMEXT of a market-orientation,
the basic objective of this operation, has enabled it to meet these emerging needs in an efficient
manner. While it is likely that the special factors currently increasing demand for BANCOMEXT's
funds will over time diminish in importance, the institution has developed lending programs,
particularly for small and medium exporters, which will continue to be attractive to first-tier banks in
the medium term (para. 6.2).
Sustainability
vii.   The principal risks derive from the ability of the Mexican Government to consolidate its gains
from the reform process to restore a growth path for the Mexican economy. The Government
remains firmly committed to maintaining and expanding the policy reforms initiated under the project,
including the area of customs reform. On the external side, the implementation of NAFTA also
serves as an anchor for an increasingly open economy in the future. In addition to the coverage of
tradeable goods, the treaty deals with liberalization of the markets for services, including finance.
U.S. and Canadian banks will be permitted to establish fully-owned subsidiaries under certain
quantitative limits over a period of seven years, after which those limits would be removed (para.
7.2).
viii.   With a strong balance sheet position, with experienced and competent staff and adequate
internal organization, and with broad acceptance as a responsible borrower in international capital



v
markets, BANCOMEXT appears to be in a favorable position to sustain its successful transition for
the medium term and to respond to changes in the availability of export financing (para. 7.1).
Findings and Lessons Learned
ix.    The experience under the Loan yields several important lessons in the areas of sequencing of
financial sector liberalization, inter-institutional coordination, and the design of implementation
arrangements, as follows:
When implemented by strong institutions and supported by a close working relationship
between the Bank and Government, hybrid operations with a fast disbursing policy component
and line of credit may provide support for policy reforms while channeling resources to
productive activities.
*      With carefully designed incentives for participating institutions, directed credit to the export
sector may have a positive economic impact during the transition from close state control of
financial markets to a liberalized policy environment.
*      Under credit line operations, credit institutions with a strong history of good performance
under Bank operations should be governed by clearly defined operating procedures and need
not be subject to excessive Bank supervision focussed on institution-building and direct
oversight.
* Close monitoring of phased liberalization should be maintained to ensure that regulatory
arbitrage does not result from partial reforms, and that the exit strategy for the Government's
transitional role during liberalization is well defined.
-      Through effective communication and the pooling of resources, the Bank and the IDB may
provide complementary and reinforcing assistance in the design and implementation of
complex sectoral projects.
*      _Consistent and strong Government support at the ministerial and working levels is central to
the successful implementation and long-term sustainability of policy and institutional reforms.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
EXPORT SECTOR LOAN
(Loan 3309-ME)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW F1ROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Project Identitv
Name:        Export Sector Loan
Loan No.:    3309-ME
RVP Unit:    LAC Region
Country:     Mexico
Sector:      Export
Type Loan:   Sector Adjustment - Credit Line
2.    Background
2.1    When the Salinas Government assumed office in December 1988, Mexico had experienced a
decade of macro-economic turmoil. The unprecedented expansion at the end of the 1970s, based on
newly developed hydrocarbon deposits benefitting from the oil price boom and on massive external
borrowing, was followed in 1982 by one of the most severe economic and financial crises in the
country's history as falling oil prices, rising international interest rates and capital flight led to
explosive inflationary and balance of payments difficulties. External creditors refused to roll over
Mexico's short term debt and the Government was forced to suspend interest payments on its external
obligations.
2.2    The period 1982 through 1988 was characterized by spurts of major stabilization efforts. The
Mexican authorities embarked early on strong fiscal and monetary adjustments but the adverse
external environment, the further weakening of oil prices in 1986, presented new difficulties. The
accelerated inflation resulting from the consequent deterioration in the real terms of trade was
followed by a renewed cycle of wage and price adjustments. At the end of 1987, the Government
responded with an "Economic Solidarity Pact" (the Pacto), an agreement between business, labor and
the Government calling for structural reform, further tightening of fiscal and monetary policy, a
freeze of minimum wages and of basic public and private sector prices and a freeze of the nominal
exchange rate against the US dollar. The Pacto was extended through the end of 1988.
2.3    During this period, however, the authorities had embarked on a major reform effort for trade
liberalization. Beginning in 1985, a phased program was introduced to reduce the percentage of
domestic production of tradeables subject to import quotas. From 92.2% in June 1985, coverage
declined to 19.9% in June 1990. Similarly, maximum tariff rates of 100% in June 1985 were
reduced to 20% in June 1990, while the average rate was reduced from 23.5% to 12.5% over the
same period. Bank assistance to the trade liberalization program was provided through two Trade
Policy Loans (TPL), TPL I (Loan 2745-ME) in July 1986 and TPL 11 (Loan 2882-ME) in November
1987.
2.4    Early in its term of office, the Salinas Government announced the extension of the Pacto
(renamed PECE) and an ambitious macro-economic reform effort to consolidate and broaden the
achievements of the stabilization and the trade liberalization programs, with the intent to restore the



2
economy to a growth path. The reforms covered a broad range of economic activities including, inter
alia, modernization of the industrial sector through the removal of distortions in goods, services and
factor markets to open the economy to both domestic and external competition, public sector
enterprise reform to achieve more efficient operations which could involve a substantial component of
privatization, and financial sector reform which would eventually embrace privatization of the
nationalized banking system. A further element in improving the environment for private capital
inflows would be an external debt restructuring exercise to reduce the burden of debt servicing.
2.5   The Mexican Government sought the active participation of the Bank in this process, not only
support through financial assistance but also technical assistance in several areas where the Bank had
developed special expertise. Financial assistance was provided through a package of three sectoral
adjustment loans, each for $500 million, presented to the Board in June 1989: Industrial Sector Policy
(ISPL), Financial Sector Adjustment (FSAL) and Public Enterprise Restructuring (PERL) Loans. In
addition, recognizing the importance of debt restructuring in determining the ability of the Mexican
authorities to mobilize the necessary external finance for economic growth, the Board approved an
Interest Support Loan of $1.26 billion in September 1989, linked to debt and debt service reduction
(DDSR) agreements reached under the "Brady Plan" arrangements.Y'
2.6   Following the approval of the sectoral reform package, Bank staff began working on follow
up operations which would maintain the momentum of the on-going reforms as well as to permit
further resource transfers to Mexico to enhance resource mobilization. It was recognized that trade
liberalization was considerably advanced and that the main concern had to be the consolidation of the
measures taken. Implementation of policy reforms would depend greatly on putting in place an
appropriate institutional and administrative infrastructure. There were many indications, both from
government officials and private sector groups, that the customs system was one area where major
improvements were required to achieve the desired trade opening. The measures which were
considered necessary included actions such as modernization and computerization of customs
documents, simplification of payments procedures, and decentralization of decision-making and
introduction of more efficient and effective procedures.
2.7    Concurrently, the Bank had been discussing with the Mexican authorities an earlier request
for a third credit line to the Banco Nacional de Comercio Exterior (BANCOMEXT), a public sector
development bank devoted to financing Mexico's foreign trade and to promoting exports. A first
Export Development Project (EDP I) for $350 million had been approved to BANCOMEXT in June
1983 with two principal components: (i) a revolving fund (PROFIDE, $275 million) for working
capital sub-loans to finance imported inputs for exports; and (ii) a program (FIFE, $71 million) for
medium and long-term subloans for financing fixed investment by enterprises to maintain or expand
export capacity. EDP II for $250 million had been approved in October 1986 to support the
objectives of TPL 1, $175 million for PROFIDE and $74.5 million for FIFE. In disbursing these
funds, BANCOMEXT operated as both a first-tier and second-tier institution, rediscounting sub-loans
from other domestic financial institutions. The two loans had been fully disbursed and
1'The set of Bank loans and the corresponding set asides to finance the DDSR plan were: the Steel
Sector Adjustment Loan (2916-ME), $50 million of set asides; the Agricultural Sector Loan (2918-
ME), $175 million of set asides; the Fertilizer Sector Loan (2919-ME), $150 million of set asides; the
Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (3085-ME), $125 million of set asides; the Public Enterprise
Reform Loan (3086-ME), $125 million of set asides; and the Industrial Sector Policy Loan (3087-
ME), $125 million of set asides. In addition, the Bank financed the following structural adjustment
loans: the Trade Policy I and II loans (2745-ME and 2882-ME); the Road Transport and
Telecommunications Loan (3159-ME); and the Second Agricultural Sector Loan (3357-ME).



3
BANCOMEXT had been seeking external resources to expand its financial base. However, Mexico
continued to confront difficulties in borrowing in international capital markets.
2.8    Emerging from the implementation of the FSAL, the Mexican Government began the
articulation of policies for the modernization of the public development banks, redefining their roles,
providing for consolidation where there was duplication of functions, and eliminating the possibilities
of fiscal subsidies. In the future, development banks would concentrate on second-tier operations and
would adjust their lending rates in line with the Government's cost of funds. These reforms were
linked to restructuring of the commercial banking system which would be privatized in the near
future. For BANCOMEXT to operate efficiently in the new environment, a transitional period would
be required in which Bank support could play a critical role.
3.    Proiect Objectives
3.1   The project was a continuation of the Bank's efforts to assist the Government in achieving its
objectives of promoting efficient private sector development and increasing the effectiveness of public
sector institutions so as to enable the resumption of economic growth. The loan would support: (i)
the implementation of trade and customs reforms aimed at encouraging efficiency and expanding the
tradeables sector; and (ii) the transition of BANCOMEXT to permit it to perform a more efficient
role in trade financing in a more competitive financial system. Policy changes would be supported
through a fast-disbursing component of $25 million and trade related financing would be provided by
a component of $275 million allocated to BANCOMEXT.
3.2    The major elements of the transition, consistent with the Government's overall policy for the
financial sector, and the timing of implementation were spelled out by BANCOMEXT in a policy
statement which was appended to the President's Report as Annex IIB.1 (reproduced as Annex I in
this PCR). The medium term strategy would be guided by the following basic principles: a) operate
predominantly as a second tier financial institution; b) offer trade-financing at market-based interest
rates; c) focus on providing guarantees and increasingly rely on other financial intermediaries to carry
out both lending and export promotional activities; d) receive no fiscal transfers; e) provide export
promotional support increasingly on a cost recovery basis; f) decentralize activities; and g) operate
profitably including maintaining equity in real terms.
4.    Proiect Design and Organization
4.1    The loan contained three portions, each of $100 million. The first portion, including all of
the policy component and $75 million from the credit line, would become available for disbursement
at the time of loan effectiveness. The second portion was expected to be made available after January
31, 1992, and the third portion was expected to be made available six months later, consequent on
satisfactory reviews of actions taken by BANCOMEXT to implement its policy statement.
4.2    Developed as a consequence of extensive discussions between the Bank, Government and
BANCOMEXT on trade and financial sector issues (paras. 2.6-2.8), the conceptual foundations for
the project were clear and appropriate. The project objectives as reflected in the design were shared
by all parties relevant to the project. Designed as part of the overall Government economic
restructuring strategy then under implementation, the project was timely. Disbursement of the credit
component ($275 million) was expected to be relatively fast, given the large annual volume of
BANCOMEXT's short term pre-shipment export financing activities (of the order of $6 billion) in
comparison with the size of that part of the loan. The limited size of the policy component ($25
million) reflected the uncertainty over Mexico's payments gap in early 1991 due to the impact of the
Persian Gulf crisis on international oil prices and the subsequent instability in those prices. Early
discussions of the proposed project had contained a notional distribution of funds providing one-third



4
of total loan size for this component. Inclusion of the component was essential to ensure cofinancing
by IDB in the amount of $250 million as a fast disbursing sector adjustment type operation.
4.3    Project preparation and appraisal missions which included IDB staff discussed extensively the
essential elements of the customs reform and reached agreement on broad measures for simplification
and computerization of customs procedures. Preliminary steps were taken to decentralize custom
clearances and payments and it was expected that, during the period of the loan, the new system
would be implemented at all customs sites.
4.4    While the Bank has been moving away from extending directed credit lines in view of the
distortions which can arise from such segmentation of financial markets, it has recognized the
potential usefulness of these measures as a means to assist in the transition of development finance
institutions protected from market forces to financial agencies operating efficiently in an open-market
environment. Application of this criteria to provide a credit line to BANCOMEXT was considered
fully appropriate.
4.5    A unique feature of the loan was the minimal intervention of the Bank in subloan processing.
In contrast to most other credit lines of the Bank, the focus of this operation was not on institution
building but rather to provide resources for the transition. In implementing EDP 1 and II,
BANCOMEXT had fully demonstrated its competence in loan appraisal and processing. As a
consequence, the Bank did not define the range of eligible sublenders nor concern itself with ex ante
review and approval of subloans under $10 million. No ex ante allocation of funds was made among
the designated eligible lending (pre-shipment) programs of BANCOMEXT. Procurement
documentation for goods and works valued at more than $5 million, which would be subject to
international competitive bidding (ICB), would, however, be subject to prior review by the Bank.
4.6    The policy statement and accompanying matrix resulted from detailed discussions between
BANCOMEXT, Bank staff, and representatives of SHCP (Ministry of Finance) and SECOFI
(Ministry of Commerce) on customs and tariff issues. The initial presentations of BANCOMEXT,
prior to the articulation of the financial sector reform policies, had focussed on building up its
capacity to meet the need for long-term fixed capital requirements for export expansion. However,
given the experience that staff had accumulated in short-term export financing, in working with
commercial banks to design packages to assist export enterprises, and in dealing in international
capital markets, it quickly recognized the opportunities for elaborating economically viable financial
programs to assist exporters within the framework of the new government's approach to public
development banks.
4.7   It was recognized that a program to increase loan guarantees, shifting the emphasis in
BANCOMEXT's operations from rediscounting, would require time for implementation. Similarly, it
would be necessary to adopt a phased plan for the institution of cost-recovery techniques for export
promotion activities. In these circumstances, it was agreed that the Bank would review progress in
these two areas in connection with the release of the second and third Loan portions of US$100
million each. Similar arrangements were made for the releases of the portions of the IDB loan.
4.8    The issue of providing trade financing at market-based interest rates was more complex. At
the time of loan appraisal, BANCOMEXT determined interest rates to final borrowers for all of its
credit lines. Some 60% of BANCOMEXT's export financing operations were provided through the
Comite de Operaciones Internacionales (COI) system; BANCOMEXT paid a commission to
commercial banks which used their dollar resources to finance short term export related operations at
BANCOMEXT's terms and conditions. Final borrowers were charged 10.5% for short-term export
transactions, 13.5% for lunger term financing of over one year. Rediscount margins for commercial
banks ranged from 1.5% to 3% to cover the costs of intermediation. At the same time, dollar-



5
denominated Government short term paper was earning some 14 to 15% and the commercial banks
could earn 15 to 17% on their dollar funds through lending outside the COI scheme. Their
participation in COI in essence reflected the fact that they were government-owned and their lending
policies, established by their boards, reflected official priorities.
4.9    The Bank stressed that the rates charged for these loans should reflect domestic market
conditions. The Mexican authorities insisted that the rates for export lending were competitive with
what other exporting countries were charging and were consistent with the OECD consensus
agreement as well as with their bilateral agreement with the United States. The differential between
dollar lending rates in the Mexican market and in international markets reflected a "country-risk"
premium which would disappear, or be substantially reduced, as Mexico achieved stability and a
liberalized financial system.
4.10  In the course of 1990, as the Government implemented its policy for financial liberalization,
which was to include the reprivatization of the commercial banks, BANCOMEXT announced the
gradual phasing out of the COI scheme which was to be completed by the end of 1991, clearing the
way for completing the negotiations for the Bank loan. The achievement of this goal would be
reviewed by the Bank in early 1992 in connection with the release of the second portion.
BANCOMEXT's interest rate policy after the elimination of COI would reflect an average market rate
of interest for export credits for exporting firms operating in Mexico. In order to ensure that the
rates charged would reflect market conditions, the Loan Agreement specified the formula for
determining the rate, based on (a) international rates of interest obtained by subsidiaries of
multinational firms and (b) rates obtained by prime Mexican firms from Mexican commercial banks.
It was agreed that the Bank would review this rate at the time of release of the third portion.
However, during 1992, BANCOMEXT eliminated the COI system entirely, and allowed free
determination of intermediation margins for first tier institutions (para. 5.8).
5.    Project Implementation
5.1    The first portion of the Loan, comprising the entire policy component of $25 million and $75
million of the credit component, was released following effectiveness (August 2, 1991). The second
and third portions, comprising the balance of the credit component, were released on May 1, 1992,
and November 12, 1992, respectively. These releases followed review by the Bank of the progress of
BANCOMEXT in implementing its medium term policy statement. Disbursement of the funds was
efficiently undertaken by BANCOMEXT and the proceeds were fully disbursed earlier than originally
estimated.
5.2    During the period of project implementation, the Mexican Government continued to
implement the trade and financial reforms supported by the Loan. Reductions in import restrictions
and tariff levels introduced since loan approval have been concentrated among agricultural products,
actions associated with the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan II (AGSAL II). As a consequence,
the proportion of tradeable goods subject to import quotas was further reduced to 17% by June 1992.
On the macro level, the Government pursued the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA).
This agreement represents a critical element in the attempts by the Salinas Government to open up
and modernize the Mexican economy. In addition to the coverage of tradeable goods, the treaty deals
with liberalization of the markets for services, including finance. Mexico has also undertaken free
trade discussions with a number of other Latin American countries, signing an agreement with Chile
and Costa Rica. It has recently signed a trilateral arrangement with Colombia and Venezuela. The
Government is currently pursuing tariff reduction with the European Union.
5.3    Linked to the policy component of the loan, considerable progress has been made in reform of
the customs administration, although at a somewhat slower pace than anticipated. Computerization



6
has been extended beyond the five major import points, a total of nine as of October 31, 1993,
covering some 65% of imports. The goal of extending the system to all 47 entry points by the end of
1993 was not met due to the unexpected complexity of the problems which have been encountered in
training personnel and adapting the system to the needs and characteristics of each locality. There has
been a reorganization of the entire customs service, including the customs police, with a clearer
definition of the authority and jurisdiction of the latter. Further reductions in staff, following upon
the 60% reductions introduced in 1989 and 1990, have been achieved. A system of frequent rotation
has been adopted for customs personnel to reduce the possibility of establishing personal relationships
in particular areas. Beginning in January 1994, a system of second reviews, managed by private
firms, has been introduced for the customs investigations which are undertaken on a random selection
basis at each entry point. The second reviews will also be undertaken on a random selection basis.
Finally, within the NAFTA agreement, there are a number of special programs providing for
cooperation and harmonization of systems among customs officials of the three governments.
5.4    A key element in improving customs administration has been the reform of the system of
customs brokers or agents. In addition to the steps taken in 1988 and 1989, noted in the MOP, to
ensure market-determined fees and to increase transparency of transactions, this function is now being
professionalized and passing a written examination is required before receiving a license. At the
present time, about 700 brokers have qualified to receive licenses, as compared to about 500 prior to
the reform. Discussions with the private sector during the preparation of this report indicate that the
customs reforms sponsored under this loan have been among the most important policy changes to
have been implemented as part of the structural reform program. Enterprise managers reported
significant reductions in waiting time to clear customs and lower levels of corruption and theft.
5.5    BANCOMEXT's transition to the new financial environment has generally followed the lines
laid out in its policy statement. During 1991, it began to strengthen its program of and administrative
capability for export insurance and guarantees to provide international standard products and prices.
The administrative arrangements have been based on the export-import banks of the Netherlands and
the United States. In the course of 1992, BANCOMEXT prepared a new schedule of premiums
which, after some delay, had been expected to enter into force on January 1, 1993. The level of
guarantees provided under the program, however, has fallen below that expected in BANCOMEXT's
presentation for the loan, $1.3 billion in 1991 compared to $1.4 anticipated, dropping to $1.1 billion
in 1992 as compared to the projection of $1.8 billion. Although there has been some recovery in
1993, the preliminary estimate of $1.2 billion in guarantees extended during the year falls well short
of the level of $2.8 billion projected earlier. The wide divergence between projected and actual
figures resulted from lower than expected demand for these services (see para. 6.3).
5.6    Considerable progress has been made in developing cost recovery programs for promotional
activities. For international events (e.g. trade fairs and trade missions) where beneficiaries can be
readily identified, a cost sharing scheme has been developed permitting at the present time the
recovery of about 50% of expenses, as compared to 10% in 1991. Similar measures are being
introduced for cost recovery in other activities (e.g. trade information preparation and training) where
the beneficiaries are easily identifiable. In establishing programs and fee schedules for reimbursable
activities, the basic objective is to rationalize demand for these services. The purpose of fixing fees
based on costs of service provision is to ensure that the potential or actual exporter requiring the
services will put values on what he receives and thus will limit his demand to that which he expects to
use efficiently.
5.7    BANCOMEXT has also undertaken an extensive review of all of its promotion programs to
provide better focus and to establish appropriate priorities. One of the results of this review was the
decision to eliminate 12 of the 40 existing overseas commercial offices. Savings achieved through the



7
closing of these offices were one of the major factors in the reduction of gross expenditure on
promotional activities from some $30 million in 1990 to $24 million in 1993.
5.8    The progress in achieving market-based interest rates for BANCOMEXT's export financing
has exceeded expectations under the loan. In the first place, as programmed, the COI scheme was
eliminated on December 31, 1991. It was envisaged in the context of the loan that, even after the
disappearance of the COI scheme, BANCOMEXT would continue to set administratively interest rates
for final beneficiaries of its rediscounting operations but that these would reflect average market rates.
However, in the course of 1992, BANCOMEXT moved away from administratively determined
interest rates by freeing intermediation margins for first tier commercial banks using BANCOMEXT's
rediscounting facilities, initially (on January 1, 1992) for medium and large exporting firms and
subsequently (on May 4, 1992) for small exporters. By freeing up the margins, BANCOMEXT in
effect allowed the first tier commercial banks to charge market-determined retail rates in using these
funds. It should be noted that for on-lending some of its bilateral credits BANCOMEXT continues to
fix interest rates to its final borrowers, generally in conformity with the contractual conditions of
those credits. In addition, long term export credits (sales financing) are offered at rates in compliance
with the OECD consensus.
5.9    Release of the second portion of the Loan was expected to follow upon a performance review
scheduled to take place prior to January 31, 1992 but this was delayed by agreement among the
parties until March 1992. In accordance with the Loan Agreement, the review covered progress
under the project in general and specifically on the phase-out of the COI scheme as well as on the
implementation of policies and programs for expanding the guarantee program and for cost-recovery
for export promotion programs. Note was taken of the ability of BANCOMEXT to increase its
resource mobilization in foreign capital markets and the consequent ability to expand its 1992 lending
program. The review determined that sufficient progress had been made in the guarantee and
promotion programs. As a consequence, the second portion was released on May 1, 1992.
5.10   The review prior to release of the third portion, originally scheduled to take place prior to
July 31, 1992, was also delayed by agreement until August 1992. The action taken by
BANCOMEXT to free intermediation margins for first-tier commercial banks exceeded the original
provision that BANCOMEXT would set interest rates for final beneficiaries of the rediscounting
operations to reflect average market rates. With respect to the guarantee program, it had been agreed
during the previous review that progress in implementing this program would be further examined in
connection with third tranche release. The mission undertaking this review requested further details
on the elaboration of the premium schedule and a timetable for implementation. This information was
sent to the Bank on November 10, 1992 and the third portion was released on November 12, 1992.
5.11   Loan proceeds were efficiently disbursed. Within the first portion, the adjustment component
of $25 million was disbursed in July 1991 and the trade related component of $75 million was
disbursed in five applications, in May and December 1991 and January 1992. The second portion
was disbursed in one application in May 1992 and most of the third portion in two applications in
November 1992. A small balance was disbursed in March 1993. A total of 1,019 subloans (average
size approximately $270,000) were financed under the credit line component, all against discounted
working capital loans and all less than US$2 million, well below the free limit of US$10 million and
the US$5 million limit for ICB of goods and works (para. 4.5).
Current perfonnance of BANCOMEXT and medium term perspectives
5.12   With the elimination of the COI scheme at the beginning of 1992, the export financing
activities of BANCOMEXT declined from the peak levels of $11 billion recorded in 1990 and 1991.
This decline was foreseen in the MOP. In 1992 the volume of lending reached slightly less than $6



8
billion as compared to the forecast of $5.6 billion. Exports of manufactures continued to expand,
however, and it appears that exporters' financing needs were being met in part by the commercial
banks from the foreign exchange resources which they had been able to capture-' and in part by
direct external borrowing particularly by large companies with a history of export activity. With the
overall improvement of Mexico's external position, these companies and the commercial banks whose
privatization had been initiated during that year were able to enter once more into international capital
markets to meet their increasing needs for trade finance. As noted in para. 5.8, in 1992,
BANCOMEXT freed the ceiling on intermediation margins for the commercial banks using its funds
so that the various components of trade finance were all being offered by the commercial banks to
exporters at market-determined rates.
5.13   In the course of 1992, however, the basic conditions affecting the availability of short-term
dollar funds experienced an important change. In April 1992, the Bank of Mexico issued a regulation
imposing a limit on liabilities in foreign currencies which could not exceed 10% of the total liabilities
of any commercial bank. This limitation, however, did not apply to BANCOMEXT. The monetary
authorities at the time were concerned about the growing external indebtedness of the Mexican
banking system resulting from arbitrage operations to take advantage of interest rate differentials.
Many banks were obtaining dollar funds from abroad at relatively low interest rates, converting to
pesos and then lending some portion of those resources in the domestic market or buying government
paper with higher yields in pesos.
5.14  It appears that, at the time, most of the banks were at this ceiling, many in fact above it.
Banks exceeding the ceiling were permitted to maintain their existing levels, with the expectation that,
as they increased their mobilization of domestic resources, there would be a corresponding reduction
to the required ratios. In effect, the commercial banks could not expand export financing in dollars
without cutting back on other lending.
5.15   With the continued rise in exports of manufactures, exporters put pressure on the Bank of
Mexico to modify the regulation and, in November 1992, the ceiling was raised by 4% provided that
the additional liabilities were directly related to export financing and/or for sales of domestic capital
goods. In addition, a second tranche was established which increased the ceiling by an additional 6%
of the liabilities incurred in the three months immediately preceding October 1992 which could be
used for export financing or for investment under restrictions in selected instruments.2'
5.16   By the end of 1992, BANCOMEXT was faced with increasing demand for its discount
facilities. From the point of view of the commercial banks, their lending operations which were
rediscounted with BANCOMEXT were not included in their foreign currency liabilities. While
BANCOMEXT was not subject to this restriction, it was subject to a ceiling on its net external
borrowing within the ceiling imposed by the government on net official external indebtedness.
5.17   BANCOMEXT increased its mobilization of external resources in 1992 to permit it to offset
in part the elimination of the COI program. During that year, it initiated sales of medium- and long-
term bonds in European markets and expanded the issuance of commercial paper in most of the major
international financial centers at relatively favorable rates (see para. 6.4). Given the wide acceptance
it found in those markets, in 1993 it engaged in more aggressive borrowing programs with large bond
v Under the COI scheme, the state-owned commercial banks were required to lend their foreign
exchange resources at rates determined by Bancomext, generally below the yields which the banks
could earn lending these funds in the existing market.
2' This provision is subject to certain time limits.



9
and medium term note flotations in European and the Japanese markets. It also was able to establish
lines of credits with additional numbers of foreign commercial banks, from five in 1990, to 43 in
1991, 100 in 1992, and 120 in 1993. To accommodate these borrowings, the authorities authorized a
small increase in BANCOMEXT's ceiling within the component for development banks.
5.18   In these circumstances, with the Mexican private banking system subject to limits on its
mobilization of foreign currencies which could be used for trade financing and with BANCOMEXT
able to capture additional resources, BANCOMEXT experienced in 1993 a renewed growth in its
export lending program. This was expected to reach about $9.5 billion for 1993, compared to the
static level of $5.7 billion projected in the MOP. Moreover, the level of these operations is now
expected to reach $11.9 billion in 1994, more than twice the level of $5.2 billion projected in the
MOP and above the peak years of 1990 and 1991. Given the nature of the COI fee mechanism used
in those years, which averaged some 50% of trade financing, BANCOMEXT is actually managing a
substantially larger portfolio than it had in the past due to its ability to mobilize external financial
resources at favorable rates.4'
5.19   The current situation and performance of BANCOMEXT raise important issues concerning
not only the future of that institution but certain aspects of prevailing macro-economic policies. The
restriction imposed by the Bank of Mexico has forced the private banks to reevaluate the uses to
which they put their borrowed dollar funds. Rediscounting export-related short-term paper with
BANCOMEXT appears to have only marginal negative impact on their profitability, even for the
larger banks which are able to borrow abroad at rates only slightly above that paid by
BANCOMEXT. Most banks remain content with use of BANCOMEXT resources under prevailing
conditions. For reasons examined further below, many see considerable advantage in making use of
specific programs.5'
5.20   The increased use of BANCOMEXT resources, derived from its external borrowing, in
essence transfers the burden of additional external debt from the private sector to the public sector.
While it remains true that BANCOMEXT has largely kept within its indebtedness ceiling, that limit is
a ceiling and not a floor.
5.21   The scenario envisioned in the Memorandum of the President (MOP) was that BANCOMEXT
would have a declining relative importance in the supply of export finance in the medium term,
largely reflecting the elimination of COI. While performance in 1992 was in line with that
expectation, the institution is now increasing its role in providing financing for export-related
transactions, particularly for small exporters. In the three year period 1989 through 1991, when COI-
financed operations accounted for as much as 60% of BANCOMEXT's export financing, total export
financing was equivalent to 70% to 85% of Mexico's exports of manufactures.Y In 1992, this figure
4' BANCOMEXT's funding program (Annex III, Table 7) falls within the ceiling on net borrowing.
Moreover, a large the credits received, particularly from commercial banks, as well some part raised
in capital markets, are short term, mostly for three months, which can be rolled over as many as four
times in a year. BANCOMEXT's balance sheet for the end of 1993 lists external liabilities equivalent
to $13.8 billion.
5' Until recently, there was, in fact, some incentive to use BANCOMEXT funds since these operations
were not subject to a withholding tax imposed on interest payments for foreign credit transactions.
This tax was reduced from 15% to 4.9% as of October 1, 1993, sharply decreasing the attractiveness
of the BANCOMEXT alternative.
9' Exports of manufactures represent some 80% of the products financed by Bancomext.



10
dropped to about 35%. However, with an expected rise of 58% in export financing operations in
1993 compared to an expected rise of 15% to 20% in the value of exports of manufactures, the figure
will increase. A comparison using only data for pre-shipment financing yields similar results.
Disbursements for pre-shipment financing in the period 1989 through 1991 were the equivalent of
about 38% of the value of manufactured exports and declined to 23% in 1992. These disbursements
are expected to rise in 1993 by about 45% as compared to the increase of 15% to 20% in
manufactured exports. The present forecast for export financing in 1994 indicates a 25% increase
over 1993, also likely to be slightly in excess of the expansion in the value of exports of
manufactures.
5.22   This change in performance reflects a combination of many factors at this time: the particular
set of circumstances and policies affecting the availability of financial resources; the restructuring of
the newly privatized banking system and the management of its portfolio in these early stages; and the
successful achievement by BANCOMEXT of its restructuring and adaptation to a more liberalized
financial system.
5.23   For the purposes of this PCR, it is not possible to make an extensive analysis of the present
situation of the commercial banking system and its capability to increase its trade financing activities.
Some features are readily noticeable in what is now the first full year after privatization. Moving
from the nationalized model to a private sector one has been a difficult and time-consuming task often
involving frequent reorganizations and the identification of redundant personnel and of branches not
capable of operating in the competitive environment. Several banks indicated that these organizational
adjustments could be expected to continue for some time and would continue to affect their
performance. There is also some evidence that, in the first blush of market-oriented behavior, a
number of banks opted to invest considerable resources in "retail" banking - providing consumer
credit (in particular, auto loans) and credit cards. Several of them have recently experienced
substantial losses in these operations and are now restructuring their balance sheets and adjusting their
operational strategies. As a consequence, they have curtailed lending, in part by putting up
bureaucratic barriers to the loan approval process. Some private industrialists have complained that,
at this time, it is more difficult to get a loan from the private banks than when they were nationalized.
The availability of BANCOMEXT funds has tended to isolate the financing of export activity from the
difficulties experienced by the banking sector overall.
5.24   Government officials stress that the long-term objective of financial sector reform remains a
reduction in the role of development banks such as BANCOMEXT. They see no contradiction in the
recent growth in importance of BANCOMEXT in the present situation, particularly in view of the
market-oriented performance of that institution, and they expect that the special factors which are now
influencing its behavior are likely to change in the near future.2'
5.25   Restrictions on its foreign liabilities will be modified with the entry of foreign banks under the
NAFTA provisions. However, even if there are no changes in the immediate future in these
provisions, as the Mexican banks increase their domestic resource mobilization, they will have leeway
"' An additional factor which is now subject to negotiations between the commercial banks and
Bancomext is related to the sale of Bancomext's portfolio of discounted loans, i.e. its operations as a
second-tier. As can be seen in the table on sources of funds (Annex 111, Table 7), Bancomext
recently renewed its efforts to sell such paper in external capital markets as a means of ensuring
adequate cash flow to meet credit demand. The Bank of Mexico has issued a clarification to its
regulation on the proportion of liabilities in foreign exchange which would require that such
rediscounted paper appear in the balance sheet of the originating banks unless Bancomext has accepted
recourse. An agreement between the banks and Bancomext is expected shortly.



I1
to increase their borrowing in dollars which will provide them with an opportunity to expand export
financing. For some banks, these developments could reduce their call on BANCOMEXT
rediscounting. On the other hand, many officials in these banks believe some of the institution's
programs provide sufficient advantages that they will continue to make use of them.
5.26   For example, one extremely popular program has been "Tarjeta Exporta", which focusses on
small and medium exporters. Eligible firms in essence are pre-qualified by BANCOMEXT for short-
term credit which is then arranged through their first-tier banks. From the point of view of the latter,
administrative costs for the processing of loan applications and even for the transfer of funds, which
is done electronically, are considerably reduced. BANCOMEXT, with its mandate to promote
exports, has taken on the additional administrative costs associated with lending to small industry.
Given the current problems of the commercial banks to get their houses in order after the
privatization, the advantages to them of using this facility should not be underestimated. At the same
time, however, it is likely that, as the larger banks complete their transition and develop their loan
processing capabilities, they may find it more profitable in the near future to increase the use of their
own funds. For small and medium size banks, on the other hand, BANCOMEXT is likely to remain
an important instrument for their export financing operations for a longer period of time.
6.    Project Results
6.1    Although it may be premature to draw conclusions on project results, there is no doubt that
BANCOMEXT has already made considerable progress in accommodating itself to the open financial
system resulting from the Government's liberalization policies. The objectives of the Bank loan, to
facilitate the transition as part of the Bank's overall lending strategy to consolidate the results of the
reform process and to bring about institutional changes so that it can more efficiently operate in a
liberalized financial sector, have been achieved.
6.2    While the decline experienced in 1992 in its relative importance in export financing has
recently been partially reversed for the reasons explored above in para. 5.22, BANCOMEXT has
made impressive progress in improving its operations so that it could efficiently respond to newly
emerging needs. It has increased the share of second-tier (rediscounting) operations in its portfolio,
allowing first-tier operations to virtually disappear. BANCOMEXT has also increased resource
mobilization through borrowing in international capital markets at attractive interest rates which has
permitted it to meet export financing requirements, and its domestic lending has been accomplished at
market-determined interest rates. The resulting improved profitability has strengthened
BANCOMEXT's balance sheet significantly. Improvements in internal organization and procedures,
as well as in the operations of its regional and international offices, have made possible a substantial
diversification of loan operations and increased attention to the needs of smaller exporters. It has also
developed innovative programs to capture funds from non-banking financial institutions such as credit
unions. BANCOMEXT has, moreover, adopted a flexible policy for cost recovery for its export
promotion efforts and has taken important steps to rationalize these activities and to focus on priority
issues.
6.3    On the other hand, progress in expanding its credit insurance-guarantee program has been
slower than expected. The Board of BANCOMEXT recently took the decision to create a trust fund
which would take over all of the responsibilities for this activity, including establishing separate
accounting and a separate reserve fund. Most of the guarantees which have been provided are
required under the "Tarjeta Exporta" program for smaller exporters, covering pre-shipment
expenditures on inputs and related items for which a small fee is charged. Post-shipment guarantees,
related to sales financing, remain a relatively minor component of these operations. While some
criticisms of the functioning of the program have been voiced by exporters which may explain in part



12
their unwillingness to enter into guarantee arrangements, some commercial banks indicate that most of
their clients do not at this time feel the need for this service.
6.4   In evaluating these changes at the level of individual institutions such as BANCOMEXT, one
has to take into account the achievements at the macro-economic level which represent the necessary
conditions for success. At the end of 1990 and the beginning of 1991, there were marked
improvements in both the domestic and external financial environment facing Mexico. The sustained
implementation of macro-economic reforms, particularly for the financial sector, and the debt
restructuring exercise (see para. 2.5), which were supported by the Bank's loans in June and
September 1989, as well as the negotiations for NAFTA, had major impact in helping Mexico (and
BANCOMEXT) to gain access to international capital markets at relatively favorable rates, reducing
the "country risk" premium in those markets as well as in the domestic market for dollar-denominated
paper.
6.5    Domestic interest rates for dollar-denominated paper began falling in the course of 1991,
reflecting largely the decline of rates in international markets. However, there was also a narrowing
of the differential between those rates. In these circumstances, the measures taken by BANCOMEXT
to free intermediation margins for first tier banks using its rediscounting facilities, in essence
permitting those banks to charge market-determined rates for export transactions, did not adversely
affect the competitive position of Mexico's exporters.
7.    Project Sustainability
7.1    The principal risks derive from the ability of the Mexican Government to consolidate its gains
from the reform process to restore a growth path for the Mexican economy. The Government
remains firmly committed to maintaining and expanding the policy reforms initiated under the project,
including the area of customs reform. On the external side, the implementation of NAFTA also
serves as an anchor for an increasingly open economy in the future. In addition to the coverage of
tradeable goods, the treaty deals with liberalization of the markets for services, including finance.
U.S. and Canadian banks will be permitted to establish fully-owned subsidiaries under certain
quantitative limits over a period of seven years, after which those limits would be removed.
7.2    With a strong balance sheet position, with experienced and competent staff and adequate
internal organization, and with broad acceptance as a responsible borrower in international capital
markets, BANCOMEXT appears to be in a favorable position to sustain its successful transition for
the medium term and to respond to changes in the availability of export financing.
8.    Bank Performance
8.1    Bank performance during project identification, preparation, appraisal and supervision was
thorough and effective. The concept and design of the project derived from the initiative of Bank
staff in 1989 to seek ways to continue the momentum of the reform process and to ensure a flow of
resources from the Bank at a critical juncture in Mexico's efforts to achieve stability and growth.
The basic elements of the loan were spelled out by the Bank early in 1990 but disagreements over the
interest rate issue delayed processing until the end of the year. The decision to go forward with a
hybrid operation - part policy adjustment and part credit line - has been fully justified by the results.
The objective of providing a quick disbursing loan notwithstanding the credit component was achieved
through appropriate design of that component.



13
9.    Borrower Performance
9.1   In general, performance of BANCOMEXT in all phases of the project cycle was excellent.
BANCOMEXT has been an executing and/or financial agent for a number of Bank operations in
Mexico (credit lines as well as adjustment loans) and is familiar with Bank requirements for
processing data and legal compliance. While loan processing was delayed due to the differences over
interest rate policy at the time, there was no fundamental difference in general policy approach to
interest rates. Thus, when the external conditions permitted, BANCOMEXT exceeded its
commitment for release of the third portion. In this connection, it should be noted that there have
been an impressive number of instances in the implementation of Mexican adjustment loans when
conditionality has been exceeded. In these instances, with basic agreement between the Bank and the
Mexican authorities on policy orientation, cautious approaches by the latter to make commitments in
situations marked by uncertainty have led to agreements for minimal conditionality. Once the
uncertainty has been lifted, the measures taken have often gone beyond the original commitment.
10.   Project Relationship
10.1   As noted above, the Bank has had close formal relationships with BANCOMEXT for a
number of years and strong ties have developed between the two institutions, transcending the
personnel changes which both have experienced. The main element is mutual respect for the
competence and professionalism of each participant. Thus BANCOMEXT has on numerous occasions
requested technical advice while the Bank, as in this instance, provided considerable independence for
BANCOMEXT's subloan procedures.
11.   Consulting Services
11 . 1   No consulting services were included under the project.
12.   Proiect Documentation and Data
12.1   The legal documents of the project were adequate for achieving the project objectives. The
President's Report, the supervision reports and the documentation in the Project File provided
adequate background for the review of project implementation. Extensive interviews were conducted
with Government and BANCOMEXT representatives during the Completion Mission, and
BANCOMEXT provided extensive background materials. The Government provided Part II of this
report, the Proiect Review from the Government's Perspective, which follows.



14
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE GOVERNMENT'S PERSPECTIVE
I.    Background.
In the post-war period through 1982, Mexico achieved high real growth rates with low or
moderate inflation. However by 1982, high fiscal deficits, high external debt, over-reliance on oil
exports, high tariffs, obstacles to direct foreign investment, other barriers to external competition and
other structural imbalances, made the economy vulnerable to external shocks. In 1982, high real
interest rates and falling oil prices in international markets brought Mexico to an economic and
financial crisis.
In response to this crisis, the Mexican Government developed a long-term strategy, which
would encourage growth and give the country a competitive position within the world economy.
In order to support the Mexican Government adjustment program, the World Bank granted
the following loans:
*     Two Export Development Loans, EDP (Loan 2331-ME for US$ 350 million) and EDP H
(Loan 2777-ME for US$ 250 million) to strengthen and diversify the export base.
*     Two Trade Policy Loans, TPL I (Loan 2745-ME for US$ 500 million) and TPL II (Loan
2882-ME for US$ 500 million), oriented to reduce import protection, a key barriers to
sustained export promotion.
*     A package of three sectorial adjustment loans each for US$ 500 million: The Industrial
Sector Policy Loan (ISPL), Public Enterprise Restructuring Loan (PERL) and the Financial
Sector Adjustment Loan (FSAL).
*     The Interest Support Loan for US$ 1,260 million, which was the first operation of its kind in
the World Bank, and to support debt and debt service reduction.
Due to the implementation of fiscal and economic reforms, Mexico has done the following:
1.    Eliminated the financial deficit of the public sector, which was 16.9% of nominal gross
domestic product (GDP) in 1982, achieving surpluses of 1.6% (excluding financial
intermediation) and 0.5% (including financial intermediation) of nominal GDP for 1992 and
of 0.7% (excluding financial intermediation) for 1993, with a balanced budget projected for
1994;
2.    Decreased the total public sector debt as a percentage of nominal GDP from a high of 121.5%
of GDP at the end of 1987 to 31.3% of GDP at the end of 1992 and to 29.6% of GDP at
September 30, 1993, with external public sector debt declining from 94.1% to 23.2% of GDP
over the 1987-1992 period, and to 21.8% of GDP at September 30, 1993;
3.    Opened the economy through liberalization of trade and investment, with current account
deficits being more than balanced by substantial foreign financial inflows, leading to an
accumulation of external reserves of US$ 24,537 billion at December 31, 1993;
4.    Redefined the role of the Government in the economy through deregulation and privatization;



15
5.    Produced real GDP growth averaging approximately 2.7% over the 1989-1993 period,
although real GDP growth slowed to 2.8% in 1992 and 0.4% in 1993; and
6.    Slowed inflation (as measured by the national consumer price index) from a high of 159.2%
in 1987 to 8.0% in 1993.
As a part of the overall financial sector liberalization program (which was supported by the
Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (FSAL), the Government began to modernize the development
banking system.
In this context, the Export Sector Loan (ESL) supported the transition of Bancomext towards
becoming a more market-oriented development bank.
II.    Project Description and Implementation.
The ESL was provided by the World Bank for an amount equivalent to US$ 300 million to
support Bancomext's export-import programs.
The IDB cofinanced the project for the amount of US$ 250 million as a sectorial adjustment
program.
Bancomext's medium term strategy was guided by the following basic principles:
a)    Operate predominantly as a second tier financial institution;
b)    Offer trade financing at market-based interest rates;
c)    Focus on providing credit guarantees and increasingly rely on other financial intermediaries to
carry out both lending and export promotional activities;
d)    Receive no fiscal transfers;
e)    Provide export promotional support increasingly on a cost recovery basis;
f)    Decentralize activities, and
g)    Operate profitably including maintaining equity in real terms.
The loan components were:
Million US Dollars
Category 1: Imported goods                             25.0
Category 2: Subloans                                  275.0
300.0
III.   Loan Disbursements.
The loan was disbursed in three portions, each for US$ 100 million.
The first 100 million were disbursed in four portions, from May 10, 1991, four days after the
loan effectiveness, to December 30, 1991. This first tranche included US$ 25 million of the policy
component.
The second tranche was disbursed on May 11, 1992, and the third on November 18, 1992.
The loan was totally disbursed on March 18, 1993, nine months before it was initially expected.



16
IV.   Lessons Learned.
The project was granted to complement the Government's trade liberalization and export
development policies by supporting Bancomext's transition, in order to perform a more efficient role
in a more competitive financial system.
In this extent Bancomext has achieved the following objectives:
*     In response to Bancomext's credit strategy, which is based on the utilization of the Mexican
commercial banking infrastructure, Bancomext has increased second tier operations in its
portfolio which represented 89% of the total loans granted in 1993.
Bancomext also grants credit to other non-banking financial intermediaries, such as leasing
companies, factoring companies and credit unions which increased from US$ 548 million in
1992 to US$ 1,342 million in 1993.
*     Starting in January 1992, the interest rates were liberalized for consolidated and intermediate
enterprises. On April 1992, Bancomext concluded the liberalization process of interest rates
applicable by the commercial banking system to the so called small enterprises by eliminating
from its Financial Programs, the maximum intermediary fees.
In this way commercial banks set final interest rates to their costumers under credit market
conditions in Mexico.
*     Starting 1992 Bancomext paid closer attention to the recovery of promotional expenses. In
1993 Bancomext had recovered 85% of the total promotional expenses.
*     In the last few years Bancomext has been emphasizing on diversifying the sources of its
financing and expects to continue such diversification. A feature of this diversification has
been the issuing of loans guaranteed by the Export-Import Bank of the United States and of
securities in the international capital markets.
*     In 1993, of the total guarantees granted, 89% were short-term operations. During this period,
98% of the pre-export financing loans which Bancomext guaranteed, were loans to promote
exports by start-up and developing companies.
Post-shipment guarantees, represented 11 % of the total and have been established in
connection with Latin American trade.
*     Bancomext guarantee program has not grown as expected, mainly due to a slow demand for
these services. However, Bancomext expects that its guarantee program will increase in
1994.
The Export Sector Loan made a positive contribution to the achievement of Bancomext's
objectives.
The specific steps taken by Bancomext will assure the future role of the Institution which will
enable it to respond to the need of the markets.
The project was well designed and it was consistent with Mexican Government macro-
economic policies. Therefore, the subsequent improvement of Bancomext operations will
depend heavily in the Government's capability to consolidate these reforms.



17
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.      Related Bank Group Operations
Loan                     Loan in           Project Name          Year of                 Status
Million US$                              Approval
1. I Bank Operations in the Export Sector
Loan 2331-ME                 350.0    Export Development        1983        Completed, PAR issued 6/90
Loan
Loan 2745-ME                 500.0    First Trade Policy Loan   1986        Completed, PAR issued 2/92
Loan 2777-ME                 250.0    Second Export             1987         Completed, PAR issued 6/90
Development Loan
Loan 2882-ME                 500.0    Second Trade Policy       1988         Completed, PAR issued 2/92
Loan
1.2 Proiects in Related Sectors
Loan 2918-ME                 300.0    Agriculture Sector        1988        Completed, PCR issued 2/94
Adjustment Loan
Loan 3085-ME                 500.0    Financial Sector          1989        Closing date: PAR issued 6/93
Adjustment Loan
Loan 3086-ME                 500.0    Public Enterprise Reform    1989      Completed, PAR issued 6/92
Loan
Loan 3087-ME                 500.0   Industrial Sector Policy   1989        Completed, PCR issued 8/93
Loan 3159-ME               1,260.0   Interest Support Loan      1990        Completed, PAR issued 6/93
Loan 3357-ME                400.0    Second Agricultual         1991        Second Tranche released in
Sector Adjustment Loan                December 1993, PCR under
preparation



18
2.    Project Timetable
Item                    Date                 Date                 Date
Planned              Revised              Actual
- Identification (Initial EPS)                                           January 12, 1990
- Pre-appraisal Mission          February 1990                          February 19, 1990
- Appraisal Mission                March 1990                             March 26, 1990
- Loan Negotiations                 April 1990         January 1991       January 9, 1991
- Board Approval                     May 1990           March 1991        March 26, 1991
- Loan Signature                     June 1990            May 1991           May 2, 1991
- Loan Effectiveness                 June 1990            April 1991       August 2, 1991
- Loan Closing               December 31, 1994   December 31, 1993   December 31, 1993
- Loan Completion            December 31, 1994   December 31, 1993        March 11, 1993
Comment: Preparation of loan was undertaken as part of ongoing dialogue on trade and export
issues.



19
3.    Loan Disbursements
Cumulative Loan Disbursements
(Millions of
US$ Equivalent)
Fiscal    Quarter             Appraisal    Actual      Actual as %
Year      Ending              Estimate                of Appraisal
Estimate
1991   June 30                    50          49.9           99.9
1992   September 30               75          74.9           99.9
December 31              100           98.7           98.7
March 31                 150          99.9            66.6
June 30                  175          199.9          114.2
1993   September 30              200         199.9           100.0
December 31              225          299.9          133.3
March 31                 250         300.0           120.0
June 30                  275          300.0          109.1
1994   September 30              290         300.0           103.4
December 31              300          300.0          100.0
4.    Project Implementation
Indicator                   Appraisal            Actual
Estimates
Effectiveness                            April 1991   August 2, 1991
Release of Second Portion              January 1992     May 1, 1992
Release of Third Portion                  July 1992    November 12,
1992



20
5.    Project Financine by Source
(Millions of US$ Equivalent)
Source                             Appraisal      Actual
Estimates
IBRD
Expenditure Categories
Policy Component          25.0         25.0
Trade Credit             275.0        275.0
Inter-American Development Bank
Sector Adjustment Loan         250.0         250.0
Total                                 450.0        450.0



6. Status of Covenants
Agreement and Section          Description                        Date in Covenant         Revised Date              Status
Loan Agreement
3.04(b)                        Credit allocation, cost recovery and   January 31, 1992     May 1, 1992               OK
guarantee policies
3.04(d)                        Interest rate policies             July 31, 1992            November 12, 1992         OK
4.01(a)                        Accounting and reporting standards                                                    OK
for project and subprojects
4.01(b)(ii)                    Audit report submission within six                                                    OK
months of fiscal year end                                                            ____
4.01(c)                        Accounting and reporting standards                                                    OK
for statements of expenditure



22
7.    Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle            Staff    Comments
Weeks
Preparation                        160.4   Preparation began in FY88
Appraisal                           23.3
- subtotal                       183.7
Negotiations                        12.8
- Subtotal including appraisal  196.5
Supervision                         30.4
PCR Preparation                      8.0
- Total                         234.9



23
B. Missions
Stage of         Month/Year    Number    Days in    Specialization of   Performance
Project Cycle                  of Persons     Field     mission members   Rating Status
a/               b/
Identification!'
Preparation         12/89          2            5          Econ, Ops
Pre-Appraisal       2/90            6          10        Econ, Ops, FA
Appraisal           3/90            3          10          Econ, Ops
- Follow-up        8/90           2           8             Econ
Supervision
1            3/92           2           5           Econ, Ops
2            8/92           2            5          Econ, Ops
Completion          10/93           1          10             Econ
Comments
a/ Key to Specialization:
Econ: Economist
Ops: Operations Officer
FA : Financial Analyst
b/ Key to Status:
1: Problem-free or Minor Problems
2: Moderate Problems
3: Major Problems
1Project was identified during preparation of the Second Export Development Project (EDP III),
which was modified into the Export Sector Loan during 1989.






25
ANNEX I






27
Bancomext's Policy Letter
(English Translation of Spanish Original Letter)
Dear Mr. Conable:
1.          The purpose of this document is to set forth the major
guidelines that are to govern the operations of the National Foreign Trade
Bank (Banco Nacional de Coniercio Exterior--BANCOI'JEXT) during the next five
years.
2.          BANCOMEXT is the development bank responsible for financing and
promoting Mexico's foreign trade of non-oil goods and services.  Bancomext
has the credit resources, facilities and infrastructure previously
allocated to three institutions: BANCOMEXT itself, the Manufacturing
Exports Development Fund (Fondo para el Fomento de las Exportaciones de
Productos Hanufactureros--FOHEX), and the Mexican Foreign Trade Institute
(Instituto Mexicano de Comercio Exterior).
3.           BANCOMEXT's basic objectives are to:
maximize foreign exchange earnings from the marketing of non-
oil goods and services;
promote the rational utilization of external sources to finance
Mexico's priority import needs;
sfacilitate and promote the participation of the various
economic agents in Mexico's foreign trade.
4.          The frame of reference for BANCOMEXT's operations is contained
in the 1989-94 National Development Plan (Plan National de Desarrollo--
PND), the National Industrial and Foreign Trade Modernization Program
(Program& Nacional de Modernizacidn Industrial y del Comercio Exterior--
PMfICE) and the National Development Financing Program (Programa Nacional
de Finananciamento al Desarrollo--PRONAFIDE). Some of the most relevant
aspects are:
The openness of the economy will be maintained and
consolidated, and the external sector will be promoted as
Mexico's main engine of growth.
Non-oil exports will grow faster than GDP, within the range of
10-12 percent a year.
Public and private investment will grow in real terms by 8-10
percent a year.



28
Foreign investment and medium- and long-term resource
mobilization will behave in line with the success of the
economic measures, many of which are already in effect.
A financial system will be needed that is able to compete
adequately with international banks and to meet the growing
needs posed by higher economic activity.
The Government will strengthen the role and operation of the
development banking system as an effective economic policy
instruments.
5.           In the context of the economic policy guidelines established by
the present Administration, BANCOMEXT has a fundamental role to play.  It
will therefore be important to count on the financial and technical support
of the multilateral financing agencies to help accomplish the transition to
a more efficient development bank in an increasingly market-oriented
setting.
6.          BANCOMEXT's development over the next five years will be guided
by the following basic principles:
(a)   BANCOMEXT will maintain a profitable and financial self-
sufficiency without detriment to its activities of promoting
Mexico's foreign trade. It will aim to operate without fiscal
transfers and maintain its net capital in dollar terms.
(b)   It will encourage and expand the use of credit insurance as an
operational instrument.
(c)   The necessary conditions will be created to give BANCOMEXT
greater access to market financing in order to reduce the
importance of the international financial agencies as financing
sources.
(d)   Cost centers will be established in the Bank's promotional
activities in order to evaluate their effectiveness and self-
sufficiency.
(e)   BANCOMEXT's operations will be geared basically to
rediscounting. Its relationship with the financial
intermediaries will call for joint actions to develop and
strengthen the capacities of the commercial banks to operate
according to international conditions.
(f)   BANCOMEXT will retain the possibility of acting as first-tier
bank in cases where its intervention is necessary, such as
(a) to demonstrate the viability of credit programs, (1)) in the
case of large projects, in which it will seek to de-elop
cofinancing with other financial institutions, and (c) in the
case of projects which, although they have been shown to be



29
viable and to have a favorable impact on foreign trade, are
not catered for by the commercial banks.
(g)   The resource mobilization effort will allow BANCOMEXT to grant
financial assistance on competitive terms according to the
market.
(h)   It will seek to use the financial intermediaries'
infrastructure for lending operations and for supporting the
promotion of non-oil foreign trade through training, marketing,
informational, technical assistance, legal assistance and other
activities.
(i)   Recognizing that one of its basic goals is to increase export
value as well as volume, BANCOMEXT will develop schemes for
expanding the export of products with higher value added, more
closely linked with the needs of the final purchasers of
Mexican goods and services.
(j)   Schemes will be developed for fostering decentralization of
operations in order to enhance the efficiency of both lending
and promotional activities.
7.           Recently the need for BANCOMEXT to support primary-sector
activities such as fishing, farming and stockraising and mining, as well as
tertiary activities such as tourism, gradually raising the value added of
those activities has been recognized. To that end BANCOMEXT will expand
its lending in those sectors, without neglecting the manufacturing sector,
which will continue to receive major support.
8.           In view of the type of financial needs to which BANCOMEXT's
support is geared, it is proposed to reduce working capital financing and
increase fixed investment lending to export enterprises.  Similarly, it
will increase its support for imports and the financing of medium- and
long-term projects abroad. BANCOMEXT's share of activities in support of
import substitutiun will be gradually transferred to other institutions.
9.           BANCOMEXT does not aim to offer financial support for all non-
oil foreign trade transactions.  In its financial strategy, therefore, it
will seek to develop greater complementation with the commercial banks,
encouraging the creation and development of area and sectoral programs and
focusing its activity on the following enterprises and operations:
(a)   Exports
-     large multinational enterprises
-     Mexican enterprises with recurrent export activity
-     small and medium-sized exporters
-     foreign trade consortia



30
suppliers to exporters
-     large export projects
(b)   Imports
-     capital goods and services
-     bulk volumes of raw materials
-     widely-used raw materials
-     basic products
(c)   Financial agency activities
-     federal Government
-     large infrastructure projects or industrial projects with
foreign participation
10.          In implementing its programs BANCOMEXT will pay due regard to
the differences that exist between the operations and the participants
indicated in paragraph 9.
11.          BANCOMEXT's first-tier credit activity has changed from a
maximum of 50 percent of the total program in 1984 to 11.3 percent in 1989,
and its goal will be to reduce its first-tier operations to 10 percent in
1994; the latter include an increase in participation in syndicated loans.
12.          BANCOMEXT's interest rate policy is guided by the following
basic principles: maintaining a sound financial institution, and
furnishing financial support on competitive terms according to the
international market conditions.
13.          BANCOMEXT's interest rate for end-users of short-term export
credit programs (pre-export and sales) will be in line with the prevailing
market terms for dollar financing of operations of this kind. As of July
1992 BANCOMEXT will review its interest rate to keep it as an average
market rate. The rate will be around a weighted average reflecting the
cost of external financing for export operations of multinational
enterprises, and the interest rates at which Mexican commercial banks lend
dollar resources to finance export operations.
14.          In meditim- and long-term lending to finance export sales,
BANCOMIEXT's policy is to adjust to the conditions established by the 'OECD
Consensus.
15.          The interest rates on investment loans will pay due regard to
international medium-term financing conditions and also the degree of
credit risk involved in long-term lending.



31
16.         The interest rates charged on import financing will be kept in
line with the conditions set by the sources of funds with respect both to
capital goods and services imports (at medium and long term) and to basic
products.  The interest rates for these programs will therefore be
preferential so far as funding conditions permit.
17.         BANCOMEXT will maintain its capacity to carry out its financial
operations profitably. The average yield of its loan and investment
portfolios will exceed the average cost of its resources.
18.         Experience with credit insurance has been limited.  BANCOMEXT
is therefore conducting an Export Credit and Guarantee Insurance study with
the aim of setting up by December 1991 an action program allowing it to
develop export credit and guarantee insurance as an important support
instrument. Its credit insurance programs would distinguish risk by
country and term of operation. Premiums would be based on actuarial
calculations and international practices that fully reflect the possible
risks borne by BANCOMEXT.
19.         During the next five years BANCOMEXT will tend to raise the
share of its credit insurance and funding programs more than that of direct
credit so that the domestic financial system directly finances the
production and export of Mexican products. In that way these activities
would receive the automatic and willing support of the domestic and
international money and capital markets. This will depend in large measure
on the favorable evolution of the economic policy measures undertaken by
the Government.
2o.         BANCOMEXT's main sources of funds will be portfolio recovery
and rotation, foreign loans (mostly commercial), money markets and
international capital. Domestic markets will be used only to cover
temporary cash-flow needs.
21.         BANCOMEXT will seek at all times to obtain resources at longer
maturities than that of its lending operations; however, current prospects
appear to point to the development of term, currency and interest rate
packages and mixes.  As a result, financial administration in implementing
coverage mechanisms for financial intermediaries and enterprises becomes a
relevant activity.
22.         On the basis of its foreign trade operations BANCOMEXT has
developed a technical capacity to structure non-conventional funding
mechanisms. That source of funds will receive special attention within the
overall resource mobilization effort.
23.         BANCOMEXT is obtaining guaranteed and commercial lines to be
used by Mexican conmercial banks, particularly those that lack the
necessary infrastructure to for direct access to international markets.
24.         The legal merger of FOMEX with BANCOMEXT substantially enhances
BANCOMEXT's ability to raise funds and meet the challenge posed by its
transition process. The merger provides the basis for a more solid



32
financial structure that will help obtain funds from commercial and
international capital market lines.
25.          BANCOMEXT will adhere to its present policy of not receiving
fiscal transfers from the Government or resorting to subsidized central
bank rediscounting for the performance of its financing operations.
26.          BANCOMEXT's development, particularly in Mexico's non-oil
external sector, will depend on the adequacy, timeliness and
competitiveness of the resources available to it to support the expansion
of export capacity and trade activity.
27.          In the context of its transition toward a more efficient
development bank and of its efforts to boost the resources available to
exporters, BANCOMEXT intends to set up a program to phase out the COI
scheme.  In particular, it proposes to eliminate the COI over a maximum
period of 18 months after July 1990, in accordance with the following
timetable:
Max. COI volume
Year        Period           (millions of US$)
1991        Jan-Jun                3,396
Jul-Dec               2,236
1992        Jan-Dec                 -0-
1993        Jan-Dec                 -0-
1994        Jan-Dec                 -0-
28.          BANCOMEXT will continue to assign great importance to the
flexibility and ease of operation that its relatively small size allows.
To that end it has set a target of 10 percent staff growth during the
period 1990-94, chiefly in the regional offices of the interior and in the
Bank's technical and financial areas.  Decentralization will be the chief
engine of growth of staff.  The basic emphasis will be on human resource
quality.
29.          Similarly, BANCOMEXT will follow an appropriate policy of
strengthening its organizational and management structure to enable it to
meet the challenge posed by the transition process.
30.          BANCOMEXT's present policy in promotional activities reflects
its strategy of gradual recovery of the maximum possible portion of the
cost of support activities of this kind.  A promotional cost recovery
strategy will be in place by the end of 1991.
31.          BANCOMEXT has commercial advisory offices in various parts of
the world which perform a series of pcomotional activities.  Tn order to
strengthen their importance and meet the challenge of enhancing the Bank's
efficiency, a review of their functions was initiated in 1990 with the



33
object of adjusting the work they do in three types of services:
secretarial, intelligence, and marketing.
32.          Once the advisory offices have been suitably structured,
BANCOMEXT will proceed to identify and implement a cost recovery system in
those services where such a policy is possible and desirable.
33.          BANCOMEXT's financial and promotional support services for the
development of foreign trade are offered for the most part through its
offices in the Federal District; however, most foreign trade activity is
conducted by enterprises located in the interior of Mexico.  To resolve
this problem BANCOMEXT will seek to strengthen its presence in the interior
by decentralizing and deconcentrating some of its functions as well as its
human and physical resources.
34.          Decentralization is being carried out in two stages:
(i) strengthening of the seven regional directorates and the existing seven
promotion offices (1989-90), and (ii) creation of eleven promotion offices
(1990-91).
35.          BANCOMEXT's functions and activities in a more competitive
economic environment require that it be able to respond promptly and
flexibly to calls on its administrative capacity. Bancomext is a federal
public administration entity, subject to the norms and general rules of the
Federal Government.  However, under the new "Law of Credit Institutions
(July 1990) the Board of Directors is strengthened with 'non-delegable"
powers and attributions such as the approval of the operative and financial
programs, general expense and investment budgets, the approval of
acquisition annual programs, leasing and transfer of real estate,
implementation of works and services, the basic organic structure, levels
of employment and basis for the elaboration of salary tables and the
establishment, relocation and closing of branches--and offices.
36.          Crpative thinking, timely decision-taking and capacity to
evaluate domestic and international economic phenomena are the fundamental
basis through which BANCOMEXT will undertake dynamic adjustment of its
orgarnization and operation in order to achieve its objectives of providing
comprehensive support for Mexico's non-oil foreign trade.
Yours sincerely,
Dr. Humberto Soto Rodriguez
Director General
Banco Nacional cle Comercio Exterior, SNC






I~~~~~~~~
ILA
II






ANNEX 1. 6                                        MEXICO:  EXPORT SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
POLICY AREAS                       ACTIONS TAKEN RECENTLY                            ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN                    TIMING
I.   Export Environment - Trade
and Customs Policy
Reduction in anti-export bias         Revitalization of Tariff Comission and
through ongoing unilateral trade    establishment of Export Commission.
liberalization process. Since        Continued progress in removal of
mid-1985 Mexico has undertaken a    remaining QRs on imports and exports
fast and far-reaching trade           and simplifying tariffs.  Improvements
reform, taking It from a largely    of measures directly supporting
closed economy to one of the most   exports, (temporary admission, duty
open in the region,                   drawback, VAT rebate, etc.),
simplifying procedures and reducing
delays. Fully satisfactory
imple"mntation of agreed action plans
for deregulating Industrial sectoral
programs, prepared in context of the
ISPL. Now regiamento issued for
maqulladora sector, deregulating and
simplifying operational procedures.
Bilateral trade negotiation.          Announcement of intention to seek a
Free Trade Agreement with the USA and
Canada.
Facilitate trade through the          Revision of custom low and                    Implement new system at all customs
simplification and                    administrative practicq, integration of    sites.
decentralization of customs           customs with general tax collection.
process.                              Specification of a simplified process
and definition of control procedures,
based on selective examinations and
comprehensive follow-up. Gradual
introduction of new customs systeom at
all customs sites.
II. Bancomext and Export
Financing
Competitive financial sector.         Bancom.xt's financial operations
concentrated in 2nd tier transactions.
Government subsidies and transfers
elieinaLed. 1istory of profitability
and financial viability.
Pres-nitotion of satifactory signed           Satisfactory implemntation of the action    First
statement covering:                           plan, including phase out of the COI            Review
scheme; and plan of detailed future



POLICY AREAS                         ACTIONS TAKEN RECENTLY                             ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN                    TIUING
a)  Bancomext's role within                    guarantee and promotion policies and
Government's overall development bank          programs.
and financial sector strategy;
b)  Interest rate policy, including            Movement to average market reference rate    Second
phaseout of the COI scheme commissions;        of interest for Bancomext rediscounting          Review
operations.
c) Resource mobilization strategy;
d) Export promotion policies and
programs;
e) Credit guarantee policies and
programs.
f) Action plan and timetable for
transition policy actions.
III. Supportina Policies
Promote export adjustment through   Satisfactory mscroeconomic framework.            Satisfactory assessment of the                    Throughout
macroeconomic stability and                                                          consistency of the macroeconomic                  project
financial deregulation,                                                              framework.



39
ANNEX m






41
MEXICO ECONOMIC INDICATORS                                               ANNEX m
Table I
Page 1 of 3
Mid-1992 Pcpulation (miLs.)           85
1992 Per Capita GNP In USS:        3460
A. Shares of Gross Damestic Product                 B. Grcwth Rates(% per aunm)
(fran current price data)                        (fram ca-stant price data)
-- - -- - -- - - -- - -- - -- - - -- - -- ---  -------- ------  --   ---- - - - - - - - -
1965    1973    1980    1991    1992    1993           1965-73 1973-80 1980-93   1992   1993
----  ----  ----  ---   ----    ----          -------  -------      -------  ---  ---
Gross Dcmestic Produt m.p.        100.0   100.0   100.0  100.0   100.0   100.0                6.8      6.2     1.6     2.8    0.4
Net h-direct Taxes                4.3      5.0     7.7    10.0    10.1     9.1                .
Agriculture                       13.9    11.1     8.2     7.7     8.4      8.5             3.1      3.4     0.6   -1.4    1.8
Irdistry                         27.1    29.0    32.8   30.0    28.3    28.4                8.3      7.0     1.7     3.2   -0.2
(of which MarufacturirS)         19.7   221    22.1    22.3    20.4    20.4                 8.3      6.7     2.1     2.3   -1.5
Services                         59.1   59.9    59.0   62.2    63.2   63.2                  6.8      6.1     1.6    3.1      1.2
Resource Balance                    -1.9    -1.9    -2.3   -3.1    -5.6    -5.8                ..
Exports of GNFS                   7.7      6.9    10.7   13.9    12.6    12.8               6.2      8.5     5.7     0.8    3.5
Imports of GNFS                   9.6     8.8    13.0    17.0   18.1    18.7                6.9     9.7      6.2    21.2   -1.2
Total Expenditures                101.9   101.9   102.3  103.1   105.6   105.8                6.9      6.6     1.9    8.1   -0.6
Total CormuTption                80.2    79.9   75.1    80.7   82.3    84.1                 6.5      6.1     2.5     6.2    0.3
Private Corsuiption            73.8    71.6   65.1    71.7    72.2    74.8                6.3      6.0     2.6     6.7    0.0
General Goverrment              6.3      8.2    10.0     9.0    10.1     9.3              8.7      7.3     1.9     2.3    3.0
Gross Dcmestic Irvestment        20.5    20.0    27.2   22.4    23.3    21.7                8.4      7.8     0.1    14.6   -3.3
Fixed lnvestnent               17.6    19.2    24.8    19.4   20.8    22.3                9.5      7.2     0.4    11.1   -1.4
Charees in Stocks               2.9      0.8     2.4     2.9     2.5    -0.5                 .      ..      ..
Gross Damstic SavirQ                18.5   18.1    24.9    19.3   17.7    15.9                8.4      8.9    -3.9    -9.6   -5.6
Net Factor Irrane                 -2.8    -1.4    -3.4   -2.4   -2.2    -2.0                 ..
Net Current Transfers              0.0     0.5     0.1     1.0     0.9      0.8              ..       . 
Gross National Savirg               15.7   17.2    21.6    17.9   16.4    14.7                9.9      7.7   -3.5  -14.8   -8.8
In billicns of LCUs                1965    1973    1980    1991    1992    1993
(at corstant 1987 prices)          ----    ----    ----    ----    ----    ----
Gross Dofestic Prodict              67     115     178     218     225      226             6.8      6.2     1.6     3.0    0.4
Capacity to Iaport                   8      14      35      49      50       49             6.7    12.3      1.9     2.3   -2.0
Ters of Trade Adjustmwnt             1       2      14       4       5       3                ..      ..      ..       .
Gross Dcmestic Incane               68     117     192     223     20       228             6.9      6.8     1.0    3.3   -0.7
Gross National Prockct              66     114     173     214     219      219             7.0      5.9     1.8     2.3    0.2
Gross Naticnal I-came               66     116     187     218     224      222             7.1      6.5     1.2     2.6   -0.9
---------------(1987 = 100)---------------          -----I--lnflaticn Rates(% p.a.)--------
C. Price Indices                    1980    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993           1965-73 1973-80 1980-93   1992   1993
Consuner Prices (IFS 64)             2.2   257.0  325.5  399.3  461.2   506.2                 4.6    20.3    60.3    15.5    9.8
Wholesale Prices (IFS 63)            2.1   241.2   297.5  358.6  406.6   442.8                4.0    22.3    59.0    13.4    8.9
lImplicit GDP Deflator              2.5  251.3  326.0  396.7  453.6  474.3                    5.9    21.2    57.9   14.4    4.6
laplicit Expenditures Deft.         2.3   249.2  316.2  382.1   426.6  451.7                  5.8    20.6   58.4    11.6    5.9
0. other Irdicatgrs:             1965-73 1973-80 1980-93
Grcwth Rates(% p.a.):
Population                        3.3      2.7     1.9
Labor Force                       3.4      4.4     3.2
Gross Natt. Income p.c.           3.7      3.7   -0.8
Private Coasurpticn p.c.          2.9      3.1     0.6
Inport Elasticity:
Imports (G+NFS) / GOP(np)         1.0      1.6     4.0
Marginal Savings Rates:
Gross National Saving             19.1    31.1   -23.1
Gross Dcaestic Saving             17.6   36.2   -35.1
ICCR (period averages):              ..      4.2    13.0
Share of Total                      1965    1973    1980    1990    1993
Labor Force in:                     ----    ----    ----
AgricuLture                       49.6    41.6    36.5
Irdustry                         21.9    25.8    29.0
Services                         28.5    32.6   34.5
Total                            100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0  100.0
..-- ---...-.-  ---  ...--- --....--- ---- -                          -   -.--                          . .  - - -  . .  -  - -.
IEC 06/



42
ANNEX mI
Mexico - EOONCMIC INDICATORS                                 Tablo 
............................Tal 
Page 2 of 3
Votunm Index (1987:100)                   Value at Current Praices (mi Lior6 USS)
E. Merchardise Exports             1980    1989    1990   1991    1992    1993    1980    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993
X. FUEL                            63.8    94.7    99.4  103.1   99.7         ..  10441    7876   10104    8166    8307   7418
Marufactures                       33.5   118.3  131.1  146.6  157.2                5549   24936   27828   31602   3542i   41685
Residial                           45.8   127.0   152.3  175.4  183.1         ..    2041    2359    2779    2920    2469    2783
Total Exports FCS                  51.9   106.7   116.9  1Z7.1  129.6          .   181   35171   40711   42688   46196  51886
F. Merchandise lirports
Food                              394.7   420.2   596.8  600.8  809.1         ..    2448    3499    5099    5640    7744    7842
Fuel erd energy                                           ..      ..       ..       .      ..      ..           ..
oth. couumner goods                   ..      ..      ..      ..      ..      ..       ..      ..
Other intermed goods              145.4   173.5   193.8  245.1  294.3         .   13022   26499   29705   35857  42830   46468
Capital goods                     261.9   167.5   229.9  277.9  370.6         ..    5174    4769    6790    8471   11556   11156
Total lIrports CIF                186.7   188.5   226.9  276.5  346.2         ..  20644   34767   41594   49968  62130  65467
G. Merchandise Terms of Trade      1980    1989    1990   1991    1992   1993
Merch. Exports Prfce Irdex        125.9   119.4   126.2  121.7  129.2
Merch. Inports Price Irdex         62.4   104.0   103.4  101.9  101.2
Merch. Terns of Trade             201.8   114.8   122.0  119.4  127.6
USS millions (at currmnt prices):
-----_---.------.---.--.----.----.--.-....-.--.
H. Balarce of Pa.ments             1980    1989    1990   1991    1992   1993
....--------------   ...-                   _  ... .....   .....   ..........  ....  ----.    ----  ..... . .    ..__...
Exports of Goods & NFS            20844   42307   48673   51402   553E8   61239
Merchandise (FOS)               15512   35171   40711   42688  46196   51886
Non-Factor Services              5332    7136    7962    8714    9192    9353
Irrports of Goods & NFS           25189   42426   51535   60508  73617  76395
Merchandise (FOS)               18897   34766   41593   49967  62129  65366
Non-Factor Services              6292    7660    9942   10541   11488   11028
Resource Balance                  -4345   6-1192862   -9106  -18229  -15156
Net Factor Inccme                 -6669   -8042   -8708  -8679  -9595  -10924
(interest per ORS)               6068    9309    7442    8362    7622    6885
Net Current Transfers               275    2075    3465    2745    3020    2687
(workers remittances)             139    1821    1980    1855   2068
Curr A/C Bat Before Off. Grants -10739   -6C86   -8105  -15039  -24804  -23393
Net Official Transfers             39      156       0     186       0       0
Curr A/C Bal After Off. Grants  -10700   -5930   -8105  -14853  -24804  -23393
Lcrag-Term Capital Inflow         10535    4112    5315   21596   19065   27310
Direct Irrvestzwit               2186    3176    2633    4762   4393    4900
Net LT Loars                     6821    2Z32    7328    4650  -3615   3967
Other LT Inflow (net)            1528   -1296   -4646   12185   18287   18942
Total Other Items (net)            -573    Z369    6025    1581    6913    1624
Net Short Term Capital           1043    -936    2849   3344    7477   3072
Capital Flows N.E.I.                0        0       0       0       0       0
Errors ard Cmissions            -1616    3305    3176  -1763   -565   -1449
Charges in Net Reserves             738    -551   -3235   -8324   -1174  -6041
Net Credit fran the IMF          -136     389    -360      215   -861  -1162
Other Reserves Charges            874    -940   -2875   -8539   -313  -4879
As Share of GDP:
Resource Balarce                 -2.2    -0.1    -1.2   -3.2   -5.5   -4.2
Interest Payrwents                3.1     4.5      3.0     2.9    2.3      1.9
Current AccoLnt Balarce          -5.5    -3.0    -3.3   -5.2   -7.5   -6.5
Memorardum Items:
Reserves excl. Gold tmil. UISS)    2960    6329    9863   17726   18942  25110
Reserves incl. Gold (mil. US3)    4175    6740   10217   18052   19171        ..
Official X-Rate (LZJs/USS)         O.C2    2.46    2.81    3.02    3.09    3.12
itex Real Eff. X-R 3ase 1980   100.00   73.75   75.36   83.61   89.84  96.53
GOP (milliors of current UkS)   194775  206225  244046  286628  329322 359913
IEC 06/



43
ANNEX m[[
Mexico - ECONMIC INDICATORS                                     Table 1
-------------~-~--~~--------                                   Page 3 of 3
Share of GDP (M)                                        Growth Rates
Goverrnmet Finance                  1980    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993            1980-90   1990    1991    1992   1993
Current Receipts                    26.8    29.4    29.6   26.6   26.9   27.1                 73.2    36.5    13.2    18.9    5.8
Current Experditures                23.9    30.2    26.9    22.5   20.9   22.1                74.6    20.5      5.2     9.8   10.9
Current Budget Balance               2.9    -0.8     2.7      4.2     5.9     5.0               ..
Capital Receipts                      ..      ..       ..      ..      ..      ..               ..
Capital Experditures                 9.6     4.0     5.0      4.5     4.3     3.8             55.4    67.8    13.0    14.7    -8.4
OveraLL Deficit                       ..      ..       ..      ..      ..      ..               ..
Official Capital Grants               ..      ..       ..      ..      ..      ..               ..
External Borrowing (net)             2.7    -0.5      0.6    -0.9    0.1       ..               ..
Domestic Non-Bank Borrowing         -0.9     3.1    -1.0    -1.2      0.3      ..               ..
Domestic Bark Financing              4.7     2.3      2.6     2.4   -2.0        .             47.8    51.5    14.7
Net Disbursements (USS millicns)          Debt Outstanding & Disbursed (USS millicns)
J. External Capital Flows, Debt    ---------------------------------------------    --------------------......-----..-....
ard Debt Burden Ratios           1980    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1980    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993
....--------------                  ----. .....     ..    .   ....    .  .. ...  .    .  .   . ....  ----.    ....  ----.  ---  ----.    ----  ----  ....    . ....  ....
Public & Publicly Guar. LT          5121     488    6631    2099   -3376      992   33915   76093   77490   79048   72219   74260
Official Creditors                 795     937    4174    1402      614     184    4481   16796   22767   25144   25281   26099
Multilateral                     501     728    2610      903     490     112    3189   10753   14303   15475   15537   16199
of which IBRD                 333      620    2524      628    371      107    2063    7821   11030   11928   11966   1232
of which IDA                    0        0       0        0       0       0       0        0       0        0       0       0
Bilateral                       294      209    1564      499     123      72    1291    6043    8464    9669    9744    9900
Private Creditors                4326    -449    2457       697   -3989     808   29434   59297   54723   53904   46938  48161
Suppliers                        -52      33      62       26      -3       0     257     316      330      134     117    118
Financial Markets              4378    -482    2395      671   -3987    808   29177   58981   54393   53770   46821   48043
Private Ncn-guaranteed              1700   -1960    1864    1785    3055    2623    7300    3971    5835    7620   10675   13413
Total LT                           6321   -1472    8495    3884    -321    3615   41215   80064   83325   86668   82894   87673
IMF Credit                         -134      389     993      171    -568   -1175       0    5091    6551    6766    5950    4787
Net Short-Term Capital              1043    -936    2849    3409    6230    3031   16163    8662   16082   21857   24535   26388
Total inct. IMF & Net ST           7729   -2019   12337    7464    5342    5471   57378   93817  105958  115291  113378  118848
Bank ard IDA Ratios                 1980    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993
-- - - -- -- - -                   ---     ....  .   .  ... ......  ---  ----  .
Share of Total Long-Term DCD                                                              Notes:
1. IBRD as X of TotaL              5.01    9.77   13.24   13.76   14.44   14.05          -
2. IDA as X of Total               0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00           Data an Econrnic Indicators tables
3. IBRD+IDA as X of Total           5.01    9.77   13.24   13.76   14.44   14.05           should follow the definitions ard
the concepts of the Standard Tables and
Share of LT Debt Service                                                                   Standard Attachmnnts.  The irdicators
1. 18RD as X of Total              2.73    9.33   17.73   17.06   10.33   13.04           should include data through the most
2. IDA as X of Total               0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00            recently coapleted calerdar year (or
3. IBRD-IDA as X of Total           2.73    9.33   17.73   17.06   10.33   13.04           fiscal year in the case of fiscal year
countries). Staff estimates may be used
DCO-to-Exports Ratios                                                                      if final or preliminary actuals are not
............. ........ --------                                                           yet available. The use of estimates ard
1. Long-Term Debt/Exports        185.43  169.68  154.62  152.62  137.40  137.11           preliminary figures should be irdicated
2. IMF Credit/Exports               0.00   10.79   12.16   11.91    9.86    7.49          by:
3. Short-Tern Debt/Exports        72.72   18.36   29.84   38.49   40.67   41.27
4. LT+IMF+ST DCD/Exports         258.14  198.83  196.62  203.03  187.92  185.87            e = estimated data
p = preliminary data
DCD-to-GDP Ratios
1. Long-Tenr Debt/GDP             21.16   38.82   34.14   30.24   25.17   25.53
2. IMF Credit/GDP                  0.00    2.47    2.68    2.36    1.81    1.39
3. Short-Tern Debt/GDP              8.30    4.20    6.59    7.63    7.45    7.68
4. LT+IMF+ST DCD/GDP              29.46   45.49   43.42   40.22   34.43   34.60
Debt Service /Exports
1. Public & Guranteed LT          35.50   20.11   14.81   16.58   25.28   18.11
2. Private Non-gurenteed LT        6.52    8.18    1.44    2.15    4.79    4.62
3. Total Lons-Term Debt Service  42.02   28.29   16.25   18.73   30.07   22.73
4. IMF Repurchases+Serv. Chgs.    0.62    2.58    3.18    2.90    2.32    2.50
5. Interest cnLy on ST Debt         6.68    2.11    1.82    2.51    1.92    1.41
6. Total (LT+IMF+ST Int.)         49.32   32.98   21.25   24.13   34.31   26.65
IEC 06/



44
MEXCO BALANCE OF PAYM/fENTS
(millions of U.S. dollars)                                                 ANNEXM
Table 2
1980     1981     1982     1983     1984     1985      1996     1987     1988     1989     1990    1991      1992
Experuotf GM                     22,590   28,241   28,152   30,004   33.886   31,503   26,339   32,975   36,712   42.307   48,673   51,401   55,299
Non-Maquila Merch. xports       15,512   20,102   21,230   22,312   24,196   21.664   16,158   20,495   20.546   22,842   26,838   26,854   27,516
Oil Exporh                     10,411   14,573   16.477   16,017   16,601   14,767    6.307    8.630    6.711    7,876   10.104    8,166    8.307
Non-Oil Etpors                 5,071    5.529    4,753    6,295    7,595    6,897    9,7r4    11.865   13.835   14.966   16,735   18.688   19,209
Agriculnre                    1,528    1,482    1,233    1.189    1,461    1,409    2.098    1.543      1.670    1,754    2,162    2,373    2,112
Mining                          512      686      502      524      539      510       383      576      660       605      617      547      356
Msnufsturing                  3,030    3.360    3,018    4.5S3    5.595    4,978    7,242    9.746    11.504   12.607   13,955   15.769   16,740
Automobiles                    129      110      S       124      146      141       546    1,325     1,452    1,567    2.531    3,801    3,661
Non-Auomobiles               2,902    3.251    2,936    4,458    5.449    4,837    6,697    8.421    10,052   11,041   11,425   11,968   13,079
Maquila Exports                  2.519    3,205    2,826    3,641    4,904    5.094    5,646    7,105    10,146   12.329   13,873   15,833   18.680
Non-Fetor Services               4.559    4,933    4,097    4,051    4.785    4,746    4,535    5,376    6,020    7,136    7,962    8.714    9.104
ImsportsofGLNS                   27,430   35,401   22.841   16,216   21,028   23,741   21,805   23,894   34,146   42,426   51,535   60,508   73,617
Non-Maquila Merch. Imports      19.342   24,955   15.036    9,026   12.167   14.533   12.433   13,305   20.274   25.438   31.272   38.184   48.193
Consumer GooS                  2.449    2,S08    1,517      614       848    1,082      846      768    1,922    3.499    5.099    5,834    7,744
Irnermediate Goods             11,720   14,573    9.017    6,215    8,746   10,2S7    8.632    9,907    14.325   17.171   19,384   23.762   28,893
Capital Gooos                  5,174    7.574    4.503   2,197    2,573    3,165    2,954    2,631       4,027    4.769    6,790    S,588   11,556
Maquila Import                   1,747    2,229    1.975~  2,823    3,749    3,826    4.351    5,507    7.808    9,328   10.321   11,783   13.937
Non-FactorServics               6,341    8,217    5.830    4.368    5,112    5,382    5,021    5,082    6,064    7,660    9,942   10,541   11,488
TradeBalance                     (4.840)  (7,160)   5,312   13,788   12,858    7,762    4.533    9.081    2,566       (119)  (2,863)  (9.106)  (18,318)
Asa Percenuge of GDP              -2.5     .2.9      3.1      9.3      7.3      4.2       3.5      6.5      1.5      0.1      *1.2    -3.2      -5.6
Net Fctor Income                (6,583) (10,259) (12,462)  (9,378)  (10,270)  (9,157)  (7.671)  (6,940)  (7,373)  (8,042)  (7.716)  (6,869)  (6.876)
Net Current Transfers               704      856      S88    1.014    1,17S    1,799    1,368    1.679      1,885    2,075    3,465    2,186    2,385
Current Account Balance         (10,718) (16,563)  (6.263)   5,424    3.765      404   (1,771)   3,820   (2,922)  (6,085)  (7.114) (13,789) (22.09)
As a Percentage ofGDP             -5.5     -6.6    -3.6       3.6      2.1      0.2      -1.4      2.7     -1.7      -3.0     -2.9    -4.8      46.9
LoigTerm Capital lnlows          10,469   19,183   16.661    7,828    3,784      861      934    2,756      (128)   3,723    5,674   20,509   20,586
Direct Foreign Invesanent       2,090    3,076    1.900    2.192    1,541    1,984    2,401    2,635    2,880    3,176    2,633    4,762    5,366
Ponfolio invesnment                 0        0        0         0        0        0        0        0         0      493    1,994    9,870   13.553
Net MLT Borrowing 1/             6,820   12.498    7.970    2.356    1.623      (23)     550    3.779    (1,505)  (1,847)   5.902    3,526   (2.981)
Pub & Pub.Guar Net Borrow.     5,120    9.598    8.670    2,356    1,239       878      840    4,616     1,227      488    6,631    2,099   (3,376)
From Commercial Bankes        4.180    6,978    6,019    2.648    1.205      987      (490)   3,999      822      (230)   1,766      274      564
From Non-Commercial Banks       940    2,620    2.651     (292)      34      (109)   1.330      617      405      718    4,865    1,825   (3,940)
Priv. Non-Guar. Net Borrow.     1,700    2,900     (700)      0       384     (901)    (290)    (837)  (2.715)  (1,960)   1.S64    1,785    3,055
Other Long-Term Inflows          1,559    3,609    6.791    3.2B0      620   (1.099)  (2,017)  (3,657)  (1,504)   1,901   (4,856)   2,352    4,648
Net Short-Term Capital            1,043    7,415   (6.811    (8.528)  (3,578)  (1.7S8)     691   (5,048)    (677)    (936)   2,849    3,409    6,230
Errors and Olauloost                142   (3,98)  (7,033)  (2,645)  (1.718)  (2,512)    (342)   3,469   (2.648)   3.305    2.183   (2.208)  (1 .93)
Change In Net Reseres 21            937    1.136   (3,521)   2.079    2.253   (3,033)    (488)   4,997   (6,376)        7    3.593    7,922    2,034
Use of IMf Crdit I/                (136)       0      221    1,039    1,100      610    1.091    1,103      (358)     389      (360)    215      (861)
ChangeM In Gross Reserves 2/        801    1,136   (3.300)   3.118    3.353   (2,423)      603    6.100   (6.734)     396    3.233    8,137    1,173
11 Data from World 8ank. World Debt Tables'. Adjusted for: principal not paid, arrears. andi prepaymemts.                                       0115.9
21 Data from IMF. 'Inwerritional Financial Statistic'.
Soutte: Banco de Mexsco



45
ANNEX m
Table 3
Page 1 of 2
IMPORT CONTROLS AND TARIFS, FEBRUARY 1990 AND JUNE 1992
February. 1990            June. 1992
Contribution to   Coverage of  Average   Coverage of    Average
Activitv                  Total Coverage I1  Controls    Tariff     Controls      Tariff
1. Agriculture                  5.49         56.1         8.2          47.6        7.5
2. Livestock                    1.08          17.5        9.5          17.5        9.5
3. Forestry                     0.0           0.0         9.3           0.0        9.3
4. Fish and Seafood             0.44          56.3       19.8          56.3       19.8
5. Carbon Derivatives           0.0           0.0         8.1           0.0        8.1
6. Petroleum Extract            3.68         100.0        8.6         100.0        8.6
7. Iron Ore                     0.0           0.0        10.0           0.0       10.0
8. Nonmetallic Minerals         0.0           0.0        13.0           0.0       13.0
9. Quarrying                    0.0           0.0        10.4           0.0       10.4
10. Other Minerals               0.0           0.0         8.5          0.0         8.2
11. Meat & Milk                  1.59         22.8        10.8          22.4       11.0
12. Fruits & Vegetables          0.0           0.0        19.0          0.0        19.0
13. Milling Products             0.0           0.0        11.3          0.0        11.3
14. Mixtomal Products            0.0           0.0        10.5          0.0        10.5
15. Coffee Products              1.65         99.7        20.0         27.4        20.0
16. Refined Sugar                0.0           0.0        10.0          0.0        10.0
17. Vegetable Oils               0.63         49.1         5.7          0.0        13.7
18. Animal Foods                 0.0           0.0        10.0          0.0        10.0
19. Misc. Food                   0.17          7.5        16.5          5.5        17.2
20. Alcoholic Beverages          0.0           0.0        19.9           0.0       19.9
21. Malt Beverages               0.07          5.6        19.4          5.6        19.4
22. Nonalcoholic Beverages       0.0           0.0        19.8           0.0       19.8
23. Tobacco Products             0.81        100.0        20.0         100.0       20.0
24. Soft Fiber Products          0.03          1.5        14.2           0.2       14.2
25. Hard Fiber Products          0.0           0.0        11.7           0.0       11.7
26. Other Textiles               0.0           0.0        17.7           0.0       17.7
27. Apparel                      0.0           0.0        20.0           0.0       20.0
28. Leather & Shoes              0.0           0.0        16.2           0.0       16.2
29. Sawmill Products             0.0           0.0        15.4           0.0       15.4
30. Other Wood Products          0.0           0.0        17.9           0.0       17.9
31. Paper & Cardboard            0.01          0.6         9.3           0.0        9.4
32. Printing                     0.0           0.0         3.9           0.0        3.9
33. Petroleum                    1.82         86.4         4.4          86.4        4.4
34. Basic Petrochemicals         0.0           0.0         4.9           0.0        4.9
35. Basic Chemicals              0.0           0.3         9.8           0.0        9.8
36. Manure & Fertilizer          0.0           0.0        10.2           0.0       10.2
37. Synthetic Resins             0.0           0.0        12.1           0.0       12.1
38. Pharmaceuticals              0.05          4.6        15.7           4.6       15.7
39. Soaps, Detergents &          0.0           0.0        18.8           0.0       18.8
40. Other Chemicals              0.14          6.3        13.1           0.0       13.7
41. Rubber Products              0.0           0.0        16.1           0.0       16.1
42. Plastic Products             0.0           0.0        15.4           0.0       15.4
43. Glass & Glass Products       0.0           0.0        16.5           0.0       16.5
44. Cement                       0.0           0.0        10.0           0.0       10.0
45. Other Chemicals              0.0           0.0        16.5           0.0       16.5
46. Basic Ferrous Metals         0.0           0.0        19.1           0.0       10.1
47. Basic Nonferrous Metals      0.0           0.0        12.4           0.0       12.4



46                                    ANNEXM
ITabe3
Pap 2 of 2
IMPORT CONTROILS AND TARIFS, FEBRUARY 1990 AND JUNE 1992
Febmar. 1990               June. 1992
Contribution to   Caverge of  Average    Coverage of    Average
ALCt;v;S                  Total C:oveggI   ConsTragL 1   .a.i       Controls       Tan
48. Metal Furnitwn               0.0            0.0        16.8           0.0       16.8
49. Structural Shapes             0.0           0.0        16.1           0.1       16.1
50. Other Metal Products         0.03           1.4        14.0           1.4       14.0
51. Nonelectrical Machinery       0.05          3.1        15.6           3.1       15.6
52. Electrical Machinery          0.0           0.0       15.9            0.0       15.9
53. Home Electrical appliances    0.0           0.0        19.7           0.0       19.7
54. Electronic Equipment          0.0           0.0        17.6           0.0       17.6
55. Electrical Equipment          0.0           0.0        15.6           0.0       15.6
56. Automobiles                   2.15         70.6        18.5          70.6       18.5
57. Vehicles Parts                0.03          1.3        13.2           1.3       13.2
58. Transport Equipment          0.0            0.0        12.6           0.0       12.6
59. Other Manufcturing           0Q _0 00                                 0 0       1.8 
Average/Total                19.9          19.9       12.5           17.0       12.5
j/ Production weights as of 1986.
Source: Bank estimates and SECOFI data.



BANCOMEXT BALANCE SHEET, 1985-1993 a/ h/
(millions of U.S. dollars)
1985     1986      1987      1988      1989       1990       1991       1992       1993
Assews
A Cash and Securities                  189        43       123       307       230        251        652        228        811
B Poitfolio                           6,209    8,296     9,659    7,518      8,571      8,093      8,179      9,417    11,408
C VariousDebtorc(net)                   76       183       592       114       119         56         22         25        20
D Pixed Asses (net)                      7         6         8         9        IS         28         37         95        106
E Other Asets                          673       793       353       737       222        674        863      1,273      2,740
I TotalAssets(A+B+C+D+EI                     7.154    9.321    10.735    8.685       9.157      2A.12      9 753      11,038    15.086
liabilities
P Short Term liabilites                296       372       279       257       266        385        592        668      1,043
G BDk Loans                           S,496    7,494     9,343    6,447      7,218      6,741      7,101      7,702      7,693
H Odkw Labiite                         31S       373      -217       870       386        726        800      1,336      2,442
I Subordiated Debenbrea                600       546       666       699       110        200        200        200       200
Oututanding Bomb Abroad                0         0         0         0         0          0          0          0      2,442
2 Tta Liabiliies (F+G+II+11                   6 707    8.785    10.071    8.273      7.980      8.051      8.693      9.907    13,0
J Catl Stock                            71        32       141       176       906        782        749        738       741
K Capitol Reewrves                      10        48        50        91       103        128        223        276       321
L Revauaon Surphus                      18        i8        13        18        26         58         31         49       122
M  Net Profits                         348       438       460       127       142         83         56         68        82
3 TntaICsnital O+K+L+M)                        447       536       664       412     1.177      1,051      1.059      1.131      1.266
4 Total Liahilides and Cangial (2+3)          7 154    9.321    10:735    8.685      9.157      9102       9.53          38        86
pl Figures for 1985 to 1988 are from an estimated consolidation of Bancomext and FOMEX.
h/ Includes trnsactions as financial agent of the Government.



BANCOMEXT INCOME STATEMENT. 1985-1993
(millions of U.S. dollars)
1985      1986       1987       1988       1989        1990        1991        1992       1993
A  Interest Income                              589        755        830     1,018      1,181         856         732         775         918
B CommissionIncome                               11         10          7         10        15          20          43          37          48
C  PremiuInlicome                                 1          2          2         0          2           0            0           2          3
D  Other Income                                  13          2          1        34          0           0            0           0         58
I Sub-Total (A+B+C+D)                                    614       769         840     1,062      1,198         876         775         813       1,027
E Interest Expense                              446        668        652       688        849         558         593         591         694
F COI Commissions                                 7         13         59        57         78          60           0            0          0
G  Other Commissions                              4          3                    S                     2o         27          26          11
H  Other Expenses                                 0          0          0         0          0           0            0           0         29                X
2 Sub-Total (E+F+G+H)                                    457        684        717       753        938         646         620         617         734
I Net Income (1-2)                              157         85        123       309        260         230         155          196        293
J Operating, Promotional & Other Exp.            22         20         67        24         73         188          127         129        158
K Operating Profits (1-1)                       135         65         56       285        187          41          29          67         135
L Poreign Exchange Earnings                     267        437        270        32         84          47          32          31          38
M  Change in Capital Reserves                    35         53         24       180        125           0           0          26          91
NIncome Taxes                                    13          8          9         7          0           0           0           0           0
0  Employees Profits Share                        3          2          3         3          4           5           4           4           5
P lIti Profits (K+L-M-N-o)                      351       439         290       127        142          83          56          68         77
Xi



BANCOMEXT FINANCIAL PROGRAM. 1985-1994"
(millions of U.S. dollars)
1985      1986       1987     1988      1989     1990      1991     1992   1993/e   1994/p   199M/&   1996/p
1. Loan Disbursements
A. Expoits                   2,806     4,090      6,306    8,549    10,873   10,918    11,068    5,992    9,482   11,852   13,630   14,993
1. Pre-Shipment           (555)   (1,924)    (2,635)  (3,857)  (5,359)   5,198      5,548    3,833    5,564    6,954    7,997    8,797
2. Post-Shipment        (2,251)   (2,166)    (3,671)  (4,692)  (5,514)   5,720      5,520    2,159    3,918    4,898    5,633    6,196
B. Imports                     756       745        808    1,176    1,119    1,614      1,587    1,895    2,022    2,528    2,907    3,198
C. Import Substitution         689       259         64      691       795       60        19        0         0        0         0        0
D. Industrial Equipment        106       200        237      206       459      570       499    1,088     1,996    2,495    2,869    3,156
E. Strengthening                 0         0          0        0         0      316       154        0         0        0         0        0
Total Credit (A+B+C+D)       4.357     5,294      7415   10622   13.246   13,478    13.327    8.975   13.500   16875   19.40    2.347
11. Guarantees
e. Pre-Shipment                  0         0        597      909     1,272      746       912      826       595      925    1,110    1,276
F. Post-Shipment                90       142        122       27        93      102       156      110        89      168       201      246
G. Imports                       0         0          0        0        20      160       206      198       514      254       318      397
Total Guarantces(E+F+G)         90       142        719      936    1.385    1,008      1.274    1.134     1.198    1.347    1 629    1.919
Total(l+m    4.447                 54_36 8+134  11.58 1         4,631 14.486  14,601   1 19 14 98                            8    22  3 266
a/ Excludes opctions as GOM rmancial agent.
e/ Estimated                                                                                                                                        ;1 t
p/ Projected



BANCOMEXT FUNDING PROGRAM, 1985-1991 a/
(millions of U.S. dollars)
1985      1986      1987      1988      1989        1990       1991
1. External Sources                                 729       990      1,931     1,884     1,271       2,489     4,054
Commercial Banks                              146       259       493       626       695       1,015       912
Official Agencies                             349       620      1,229    1,178       415         879       597
Capital Markets                                 0         0         0         0        81          60       228
Multilateral Organizations                   234        III       209        80        80          12       213
'Trade Related' Financing                       -         =         -         -         0        522      2,104
11. Internal Sources                                3,312     3,533     3,292    4,266      5,478       4,344     2,773
E. Own Resources                            3,165     3,331     3,165    3,764       5,092      4,344     2,773
P. Conimerical Banks                          61         84        59       294       232           -          -
G. Capital Markets                             86       118        68       208       154           -          -
Ill. COT Scheine                                      316       771      2.192    4.472      6,499      6,646      6,500
Total (1+11+111)                                    4357      5294       7415    10.622    13,48       13.78      157
a/ Excludes operations as GOM's financial agent.
o u



BANCOMEXT FINANCIAL PROGRAM BY TIER. 1985-1996"
(millions of U.S. dollars)
1985     1986     1987     1988     1989      1990     1991     1992   1993/e   1994/p  1995/p   1996/p
1. Loan Distursements
A. Exports                  2,R06    4,(90    6,3)06    8,549   10,7    10918        )8    5,992    9,482    11853   13,f31    1
F11                     408      556      712      74(0      153      529      361      325      545       680      782      86V)
ST                    2,398    3,534    5.594    7,809   10.720   10,389   10,707    5.667    8.937    11,173   12,849   14.134
1. Pre-Sllipnrnetbh           555    1,924 4    6       387      5.359    5.198    5,548    3,X33    5.563     6,954    7.997   L877
irr                      55      235      254      275       104      257      258       III     160       200      230      253
ST                      500    1,689    2.381    3,582    5.255    4,941    5.290    3,722    5,403    6,754    7,767    8,544
2. Post-Shipment            2.251    2.166    3.671    4.692    5.514    5.720    5,520    2,159    3.919    4,899    5.634    6.197
Fr                      353      321      458      465        49      272       103     214      385       480      552      607
ST                    1.898    1.845    3.213    4,227    5,465    5,448    5,417    1.945    3,534    4,419    5,082    5,5')0
0. Imports                    756      745      808    1.176    1,119    1,614    1.587    1,895   2,023    2.523    2,907    3.198
Fr                      417      458      700    1,032       782    1,319    1,117      751      792       985    1,133     1,246
ST                      339      287       108      144      337      295      470    1,144    1,231      1,543    1.774    1,952
C. Import Substiuilon         689      259       64       691      795       60        19        0       a         0        0        0
PT    .                 230       55       39       300      176       47       14        0        0        '0        0        0
ST                      459      204       25       391      619       13        5        0        0         0        0        0
D. Industrial Equipment       106      200      237      206       459      570      499    1.088    1.995    2.494    2,868    315
Fr                       41      102      189        12      317      235       81      462      291       364      419      460
ST                 .     65       98       48       44       142      335      418      626    1,704    2,130    2,450    2.694
E. Strengthening                                                            316      154        0        0         0        0        0
vr                                                                      1        7        0        0         0        0        0
ST                                                                    315      147        0        00                          0
Total Credlit               4,357    52       7.415   10662              13,478   13,327    8,975             16875 1                7
Fl'                   1,096    1,171    1,640    2,234    1,428    2.131    1,580    1,538    1.628    2,029    2,333    2,567
ST                    3,261    4.123    5,775    8,388   11,818   11,347   11,747    7,437   11,872   14,846   17,073   18,780
11 Cuarantees
Total Guarantees               9n       142      719      936    1,385    1PxlX    1,27 4      14    1.198      1,347    Ih29    1.19
FT                        0        0        0        0         0       60      160        0        0         0       0         0
ST                       90      142      719      936    1,385       948    1,114    1,134    1,198     1,347    1,629    1,919
Total (1+11)                   4.447    5436    8 134 ,J631  144            1446   14601 1         0,19  14,6')8   222 21 ,5 23,26
Fr                    1,096    1,171    1,640    2,234    1,428    2,191    1,740    1,538    1,628    2,029   2,333    2,567
ST                    3,351    4,265    6,494    9,324   13,203   12,295   12,861    8,571   13,070   16,193   18,702   20,699 9q
Note: Fr. - first tier, ST. - second tier
a/ Excludes operations as GOM's financial agent.                                           e/ estiniatedl                                                              X
b/ ItcliiaIcs $360 million in 1990 anid $240 million in 1991 for a lemporary               C/ projeciedI
financial restrucruring pmgram. Also includes in years 1989 thni 1984
loans made lor export pronwtion expenditures.



BANCOMEXT FINANCIAL PROGRAM BY CURRENCY. 1985-1996 a/
(millions of U.S. dollars)
1985       1986       1987       1988        1989         1990        1991        1992       1993/k      1994/1)      1995/p     1996/2p
1. Loan Dishursements
A.Exports                       2,806      4.090       6.306      8,549     10873        10918        11068        5,992       9,481       11853       1485       18,519
LC             489       1,347       1,472     2,538       2,841         170          324         233         380          476         594        743
I:C          2,317      2,743       4,843      6,011       8,032       10,748      10,744       5,759        9,1(1      11,377      14,221      17,776
I Pre-Slmipment                  555      1,924       2,635      3 857       5 359       5,198        5,548       3,833       5,564        6,954       8,693     106
LC             489       1,347       1,472     2,538       2,841          81          183         116         169          211         264        330
FC              66        577        1,163     1,319       2,518       5,117        5,365       3,717        5,395       6,743       8,429      10,536
2 Post-Shipment                2251       2,166       3,671      4,692       5.514        5,720       5,520       2 159        3.918       4,898       6,122      7,653
LC               0          0           0          0          0           89          141         116         211          264         330        413
FC           2,251      2,166       3,671      4,692       5,514       5,631        5,379       2,043        3,707       4,634       5,792      7,240
B. Imports                        756        745         808      1.176       1.119       1,614        1,587       1,895       2022        2,528        3,160      3.950
LC             386        380         437        224          6          182          189         240         256          320         400        500
FC             370        365         371        952       1,113        1,432       1,398       1,655        1,766       2,208       2,760      3,450
C. Import.Substitution            689        259          64        691        795           50           19           0           0           0            0          0
LC             633        168          57        329         185          41           16           0           0           0            0          0       LtA
FC              56         91           7        362        610           19           3            0           0           0            0          0
D. Industrinl Equsipment          106        200         237       206         459          570         488        1,088        1,996      2,495        3.119      3,898
LC              38        114         135         17         42          132         264          336         145          145         145        145
FC              68         86         102        189        417          438          235         752        1,851       2,350       2,974      3,753
E. Stretmgtltcning                  0          0           0          0          0          316          154          0            0           0           0           0
LC               0          0           0          0          0           14            7           0           0           0            0          0
PC               0          0           0          0          0          302          147           0           0           0            0          0
Total Credit (A+B+C+D)          4,357      5294        7415      10622           6        13478       13327        8,975      13.500       16,875      21,09      2
LC            1,546     2,009       2,101      3,108       3,073         539          800         809         781         940        1,139       1,388
FC           2,811      3,285       5,314      7,514      10,173       12,939      12,527       8,166       12,719      15,935      19,955     24,979
II. Gusarantees
Total Guarantees (E+F+C)           90        142         719        936       1.385        1,008       1,274       1,134       !,198        1.347       1,629      1,919
LC               0          0           0        616        744           42          53           47          34          55           66         76
FC              90        142         719        320        641          966        1,221       1,087       1,164        1,292       1,563      1,843
Total (I + In)                           4.447       5,436      8.134      11,58      14,631       14,486      14,601      10,109       14,698      18'22       22723      28286
LC            1,546     2,009       2,101      3,724       3,818         581          853         856         815         995        1,205      1,464
FC           2,901      3,427       6,033      7,834      10,813       13,905      13,748       9,253      13,883       17,227      21,518     26,822 j ;l
note: LC - loc.l currency. FC - foreign cunrency
E/ Excludas opcmiuins u GO&I's fuuncial agent
e/ c.timatntd
p/ prok-ed



BANCOMEXT CREDIT DISTRIBUTION BY FINANCIAL INSTITUTION
(Percent)
Insli[iilion                                    1990           1991          1992         1993/e
01.    Banco Nacional de Mexico                                 11.19         28.50          20.60          18.86
02.    13anca Serfin                                             8.48         21.10          16.20          14.14
03.    Bancomer                                                 13.94         21.50          21.20          16.78
04.    Citibank                                                 25.02          7.00           7.10          4.71
05.    Banco Internacional                                       2.17          4.50           6.10          6.85
06.    Multibanco Comermex                                       1.48          3.00           2.90          4.33
07.    Banco del Allantico                                       3.91          2.60           5.20          3.01
08.    Banco Mexicano Somex                                      6.38           1.60          2.90          5.78
09.    FIRA/Banco de Mexico                                     11.16          2.60           3.10           1.97
10.    Banco Mercaniil del Norte                                 1.09          1.00           1.60          2.93
II.    Banca Cremi                                               1.81          1.00           1.60          1.00
12.    Banco BCH                                                0.46           1.20           1.70          2.35
13.    Mercantil Probursa                                       0.00           0.00           1.40          4.04
14.    Banca Promex                                              2.59          0.50          0.70           0.98
15.   B3anco Obrero                                              2.50          0.20           0.60          0.24
16.    Banco del Centro                                         0.02           0.40           0.60          1.21
17.    Banco del Oriente                                        0.86           0.40          0.40           0.55
18.    Banca Confia                                    1        0.31           0.40           1.20          1.35
19.    Banco de Credito Rural                                   0.00           0.20           1.10          1.19
20.    Banco de Credilo y Servicio                               1.00          0.40           0.80          3.08
21.    Banpais                                                   1.32          0.60           1.60          3.72
22.    Banoro                                                    0.00          0.20           0.80          0.43
23.    Banco dcl Pequeno Comercio                                0.08          0.40           0.10          0.50
24.    NAFIN                                                     2.08          0.00           0.00          0.00
25.    Mercantil de Mexico                                       1.90          0.60           0.00          0.00
26.    Banobras                                                  0.25          0.10           0.00          0.00
27.    Arrendadoras                                              0.00          0.00           0.50          0.00
Total               100.00        100.00         100.00        100.00
e/ estimated
Source: Bancomext



BANCOMEXT GUARANTEE PROGRAM, 1985-1996
(millions of U.S. dollars)
1985     1986       1987      1988        1989       1990       1991       1992       1993/e    1994/p       1995/p      1996/p
Giuarantees Granted              90.4    142.0       688.5    935.9    11,385.0      1008.0    1,274.0    1,134.7     1197.       1,346.7         11,628.1  1.919.4
1. Pre-Shipment          90.4    142.0      572.0    909.0    11,272.0       746.0      912.0      826.4       594.7      924.7    11,109.6      1,276.0
2. Post-Shipment          0.0       0.0      116.5     26.9        93.0       102.0      156.0      110.0        89.2      167.8       200.8       246.2
3. Inports                0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        20.0       160.0      206.0      198.3       514.0      254.2       317.7       397.2
e/ estimated
p/ projected
II



BANCOMEXT EXPENDITURES ON PROMOTIONAL ACTIVITIES
(mnillionis of U.S. (dollars)
1986      1987      1988      1989       1990        1991       1992      1993/k    1994/p
Fairs, Missions and International Events        0.9       1.6       1.4       1.1         1.3        4.3        3.0         5.0       5.5
Foreign Trade Incentives                        0.0       1.1       4.6       0.5       N.S.        N.S.         0.6        2.0        2.3
Assistance to Exporters                        N.S.       0.1       0.1       0.2       N.S.        N.S.        0.2         0.2       0.3
Training                                       N.S.      N.S.       0.1      N.S.         0.4        0.6         1.4        2.4        2.8
Information Systems                             0.1       0.3       0.5       0.7       N.S.        N.S.         1.0        2.6       3.0
Operating Expenses Trade Offices                6.6      10.4      11.4      16.0         6.3        6.8        16.4       10.0       11.0
(.A
Fixed Assets                                    0.7       0.3      N.S.       1.5       N.S.        N.S.         1.6        1.6        1.7
Publications/Advertising                                                                  --         0.7               --
Total Expendlithires                            8.3      13.8      18.1      20.0         8.0       12.4        24.2       23.8      26.6
Government Transfers                           11.1      0.0      18.1       0.0         0.0       0.00        0.0         0.0        0.0
e/ estimilated
p/ projected



BANCOMEXT AVERAGE COST OF FUNDS
(Perrcent Margini over LIBOR)
1991      1992    1993/e    1994/p    1995/e   1996/p
External Sources
A. Commercial Banks                  +0.75     +0.75     +0.70     +0.70      +0.70    + 0.70
B. Official Agencies                +0.50      +0.50     +0.50     +0.50      +0.50    +0.50
C. Capital Markets                   + 1.95    + 1.17    +1.44     +1.34      + 1.25    + l.14
D. 'Trade Related' Financing         +1.00     +1.17     +0.95     +0.85      + 0.85    +0.85
e/ estimated
p/ projected









