Docwnt of
The World Bank
FOR  OCIAL USE ONLY
Report No.8456
PR.OJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA
INDUSTRY IV (SOFOMECA FOUNDRY) PROJECT
(LOAN 2301-TUN)
MARCH 21, 1990
Country Department II
Industry and Energy Operations
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
lTis document has a restricted dtribution and may be used by reipients only In the perfomance of
tdeir official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed witbout World Bank authoradon.



ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
CMG            -             Complexe Mecanique de Tunisie
PMG            -             Project Management 6roup
SAR            -             Staff Appraisal Report
SOFOMECA       -             Societes des Fonderies et de Mecanique
STIA           -             Societe Tunisienne d'Industries Automobiles
tpy            -             tonne/tonnes per year
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
At Project Appraisal (1982):  1 Tunisian Dinar - 1.685 US dollars
November 19&9:                1 Tunisian Dinar - 1.058 US dollars



TI WO     oN  OmFIAL US ONLY
Washingn, O.C. a0433
USA.
O0 of OLWsctGwi
March 21, 1990
MEKORANDUN TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND TEE PRESIDENT
Subjects Project Completion Report on Tunisia
Industry IV (SOFOMECA Foundry) (Loan 230.-TUN)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
'Project Completion Report on Tunisia - Industry IV (SOFOMECA Foundry)
(Loan 2301-TUN)* prepared by the Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Regional Office, with Part II of the report contributed by the Borrower.
No audit of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation
Department at this time.
Yves Rovani
Attachment
I Thdocumet ha a muisted dbndUm gd omay be 1W by  ,'pI'  amlIns   dotm_
of tb  officil dudc is mtelts my not 1|0 wil be d ibdon  W    Wod Ban  _Lwnd



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA
INDUSTRY IV (SOFOMECA FOUNDRY)
(LOAN 2301-TUN)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface  .......................................                               ..........i
Evaluation  Sunmary   ...... .......                       .       .....    ....    ..      ...          iii
PART I: REPORT OF THE BANK
I.   Project  Identity  .....................................................                         1
II.   Background  ........................................................                             I
III.   Project Objectives  and Description                              .......................          2
IV.   Project  Design  and Organization                    ..........................                  2
V.   Project  Implementation  . .........................   ...........                               3
VI.   Project Results  ............. ...........................................                       5
VII.   Project  Sustainability  .............. #... 0                            . .  ....... .          7
VIII.   The World  Bank  Performance  .......   .. ..    ................. .                               8
UX.   Borrower's  Performance  . ............................ ......                                   8
X.   Consulting  Services                       ......................................                9
XI.   Project Documentation  and Data  ...........................                                     9
XII.   Possible  Future Role  for  the  Bank  ........................                                   9
PART II: REPORT OF THE BORROWER
T.    Introduction  .......................................................                         12
II.   Project  Overview  ...... ..........................   ..............                           13
II.   Implementation  and Management  of  the  Project                             .............      16
1.   Achievement  of Project Objectives  ....................                                 16
A.   Modernized  Iron  Foundry                        .......................           16
B.   Modernized  Steel  Foundry   .........................                             16
C.   New  Foundry          . **..*.. ........................                           17
D.   Sand Treatment  ........... ..   ..................................                17
E.   Cost  Objectives  .... ...........                 ..........        .....         17
2.   Scale  of  Project  .....................................                                18
3.   Project Management  and  Training  ......................                                20
4.   Consultants  .............           . * ............................                    24
5.   Planning  ....................................................                           25
6.   Project Cost  ..................................................                         28
A.   Underestimation  of Civil  Engineering  Item  ........                             29
B.   Increase  in Minimum Customs  Duties  ...............                              30
C.   Monetary Fluctuations  ...................    . ..........                 .       30
D.   Startup Delays  .............................................                      31
E. Financing ..                                                    .........    32
This document has a restricted distribution and may be usedby recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclsed without Wodd   authorition.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd.)
.,
Pase No.
PART III$ STATISTICAL ANlEX ...................    .................  35
Table 1 - Related Bank Loans and/pr Credits .....     ................    36
Table 2 - Project Timetable ..................... ...............     37
Table 3 - Loan Disbursements Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Disbursements (US$) ....                     ...... ....    38
Table 4 - Project Implementation ................................    39
Table 5 - Project Costs and Financing ..........................    40
Table 6 - Use of Bank Resources ...... ............    .  ........ .. .. .  42



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA
INDUSTRY IV (SOPYIECA FOUNDRY) PROJECT
(LOAN 2301-TUN)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) on the Industry IV
(SOPOHMECA Foundry) Project in Tunisia, for which the World Bank approved
Loan 2301-TUN in the amount of US$16.8 million on June 1983. The loan
closed on June 30, 1988 and the Bank made the last disbursement in January
1989. The final disbursement amounted to 962 of the original loan arount.
The remaining 4U was cancelled.
The Industry and hnergy Division of the World Bank's Country
Department II, Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
prepared the PCR.
Parts I and III of the PCR are based on (a) the Staff Appraisal
Report, (b) the President's Report, (c) Loan, Guarantee and Project
Agreements, (d) Bank supervision reports, and (e) other available documents
In Bank files related to the Project.   Part II is translated from a report
on the project, prepared in French by the present management of the
Company.
The report prepared by the Bank focuses principally On the market
and institutional issues raised by  this  project.   The report prepared by
the Company provides a detailed description of the management of the
project design, construction and start-up.    Nhile  the focus of these two
reports differs, the views which they present are consistent.



- iii -
PRGJECT COMKLETION REPORT
Tunisia: Industra IV (SOPOMECA Foundry
Loa= 2301-TU
=1AL&TIO SUMM
IntrodW tglon
L. Tunisia's development plans in the late 1970s and early 1980s had focused
on the industrial sector to stimulate economic growth and employment. When
the Bank appraised the Industry IV (SOFOMECA Foundry) Project in 1982,
Tunlsia's Sixth Development Plan was emphasizing the engineering subsector and
the foundry industry, calling for increased levels of investment in these
areas. The Bank and the Borrower designed the Project within this framework
of an expanded, improved foundry sub-sector.
Ob1e tive
ii. The Project's main objective was to assist the development of the Tunisian
foundry industry by meeting the growing demand for foundry products
efficiently, improving operational productivity, enhancing product quality and
establishing a sound basis for exports.   The Project's main components
consisted of (i) modernizing and extending SOFOMECA's existing iron and steel
foundry capacity from 5,200 tpy to 7,500 tpy; (ii) constructing a new foundry
with an initial production of 7,800 tpy; and (iii) installing a sand
preconditioning plant with a capacity of 20,000 tpy. The Project also
included a program to improve SOFOMECA's organization and management, the
transfer of technical know-how, and a technical assistance component to
improve efficiency.
Implementation gxperAelce
iii.    The Project modernized the foundry and extended capacity according to
the original schedule but there was a substantial delay in the acquisition of
equipment and start-up of the new unit. External factors such as low demand
for foundry products and falling international prices along with internal
factors such as shortfalls in product quality, cost overruns and management
weaknesses greatly hindered Project effectiveness (paras. 11-13). Moreover,
as highlighted in the report prepared by SOFOMECA,    relations between a key
consultant company and the SOFOMECA management deteriorated early on, which
further impeded project implementation. In the early phases of the Project,
Bank supervision missions recognized the adversities facing SOFOMECA and made
recommendations to preserve the viability of the enterprise (para. 14)
However, most of these recommendations, were not adopted.



- iv -
Projget Results
Iv.    The Project failed to meet most of its objectives (paras 17 -20).
Actual results varied significantly from the Bank's original estimates --
shortfalls were 41X for sales, 491 for production and net income and 811 for
the average gross margin. Because of the severe fall in domestic demand for
foundry products, Sofomeca will have a serious problem of excess capacity in
the medium term, particularly if and when the now plant begins operation.
Sustainabili
v.      SOPOMECA has major financial difficulties and will require an
injection of 14 million dinars (US$14.8 million) over the next several years
if it is to continue operation. The company is not expected to be profitable
before 1993. However, prospects could improve if there is significant growth
in the Tunisian engineering sector and if SOFOMECA makes substantial changes
in its operations such as improved labor productivity, better product quality,
more efficient management and a realistic, long-term marketing strategy (para.
22).
Findings and Lessons Learned
vi.     Although the scope and scale of the Project were appropriate under the
assumptions in the SAR, these assumptions proved highly inappropriate. The
preparation of the Project should have given more attention to the problems of
SOFOHECAI's major clients, Tunisia's economic slowdown and increasing
competition     in the international steel market.  Furthermore, although
Project appraisal clearly defined the roles and responsibilities for effective
Project management, inherent management weaknesses and failure to assume these
responsibilities seriously hindered the implementation and effectiveness of
the Project. If the responsiveness of Sofomeca's management and shareholders
improves, there could be a role for the Bank in a possible restructuring of
the company as outlined ln para. 35. A major lesson the Project illustrates
is that once the risk of failure has been clearly identified in the appraisal
process (as in the case of this Project) the Bank should design speclfic,
alternative operational scenarios. Then, if difficulties arise which threaten
failure, the Bank would require the Borrower to adopt a specified course of
action in one of the scenarios as a condition for further loan disbursement.



ROJEa  COMPLETION REPORT
Turisia:  Idu,strv IV (SOFONEA    undal
Loan 2301-UN
PART I: REPORT OF THE BANK
I. Project Identity
Project Name:           Industry IV (SOFOHECA Foundry)
Loan Number:            2301-TUN
RVP Unit:               EMENA
Country:                Tunisia
Sector:                 Industry
Subsector:              Engineering Industry
II, Background
1.    In the late 1970s - 1980s, the Tunisian industrial sector was
singled out as a major vehicle for economic development and employment.
In 1982, at the time of the SOFOMECA project appraisal, the sector
operated under a complex system of administrative controls, creating
distortions and negative secondary effects. Internally, the sector was
plagued with inefficient operational planning and management,
insufficient specialization of product mix, weak linkages among firms
and subaectors, excessive capacity, and shortage of skilled personnel.
2.    The engineering subsector, specifically, exhibited low levels of
labor productivity and faced biases in the incentive framework against
specialization, intra-sectoral integration and the production of capital
goods. The foundry industry was underdeveloped and had a lower-than-
average growth rate; its integration with other engineering industries
was weak. Two foundry enterprises (SOFONECA and Fonderies Reunies)
accounted for 901 of total production. They showed low levels of labor
productivity and low quality of final products. There were also
obstacles to the emergence of engineering enterprises -- as L&A2X_ali
light equipment for farmers could be imported with few restrictions --
which limited the development of the industry's natural clientele.
3.    The Tunisian Sixth Development Plan envisaged a greater role for
the engineering subsector and the foundry industry. It foresaw a
significant increase in the investment levels for the subsector. It also
identified specific measures to raise productivity in the foundry
industry, to improve the quality of its products, to expand its capacity



to meet the expected rise in domestic demand, to further integrate
locally produced castings, and to create a sound basis for exports.
III. Project Objectives and Descrintion
4.    The objective of the SOFOMECA project (the Project) was to
contribute to the development of the Tunisian foundry industry by: (a)
meeting efficiently the expected growing domestic demand for foundry
products; (i) improving the quality, productivity and competitiveness of
castings; and (c) creating a sound basis for exporting.
5.   These objectives were to be achieved through (i) the modernization
and extension of SOFOMECA's existing iron and steel foundry capacity
from
5,200 tpy to 7,500 tpy; (ii) the construction of a new foundry with an
initial production of 7800 tpy; and (iii) the installation of a sand
preconditioning plant of 20,000 tpy capanity. The project also included
a program to improve SOFOMECA's organization and management, the
transfer of techntcal know-how, and a technical assistance component to
improve efficiency. The original Project loan was for US$ 16.8 million
to meet
about one third of total Project costs (US$ 54 million) estimated at the
time of project appraisal.
IV. Project Design and Organization
6.      The Tunisian industrial sector, in general, and the engineering
and foundry industries, in particular, were facing ser'.ous constraints
at the time of the Project's appraisal. Through a series of studies and
strategy papers, the Bank assisted the Tunisian Government in
identifying these constraints and in developing a consistent strategy to
deal with them; elements of this strategy were prominent in the
Government's Sixth Development Plan. Efforts were made during -he
Project preparation to ensure that its components were consistent with
the overall sector and subsector strategies. The Tunisian Government,
then a major shareholder of SOFOMECA and other engineering enterprises,
approved the Project and SOFOMECA's overall development strategy.
7.      Considering the SAR's assumptions, the Project was appropriate
in scope and scale.  Expanding the enterprise's capacity was needed to
satisfy the expected increase in domestic demand and exports. The
appraisal report also reviewed the specific reasons for the
enterprises's low efficiency, productivity and product quality.
Modernizing the production facilities and providing financing for
technical and managerial assistance were meant to significantly improve
SOFOMECA's operations.
8.     A major finding of this Project Completion Report is that the
underlying assumptions of the SAR, while appearing reasonable at the
time, were seriously clawed in retrospect.  The SAR failed to foresee



the problems of SOFOMECA's major clients (Complexe Necanique de Tunisia
(CM?) and Societe Tunisienne d'Industries Automobiles (STIA)), Tunisia's
economic slowdown, and the increasing competitiveness of the
international steel market. Also, the SAR did not foresee the
enterprise managemeat's inability to adopt recommendations made by the
World Bank after external factors began to adversely affect the
enterprise.
9.      Although the responsibilities and roles of the parties coneerned
were clearly defined at the time of the Projsct appraisal,
implementation was adversely affec'ad by problems resulting from the
ineffective way in which these responsibilities were assumed. For
example, a Project. Management Group (PMG) was established as the entity
to control the implementation of the Project. In effect the Bank
missions soon found PMG "weak, understaffed,... and lacking the ability
to plan and follow up on its operations".
V. Proiect Implementation
le.     The modernization capacity extension components of the Project
were completed approximately according to the original schedule. The
acquisition of new equipment and the start-up of the new unit were
substantially delayed (see Part II). Also, the improvements expected in
SOFOIIECA's operational and managerial efficiency and in its financial
results were grossly over optimistic (par. 18). These delays and
overruns could be explained by the inefficient management of the
Project's implementation, difficulties with consultants, the Banks and
the Government.
11.     At the time of the Project appraisal, the Project's main risks
were clearly as well as accurately identified as evidenced by the fact
that the Project's eventual failure was due largely to ris%s mentioned
in the SAR, and partly to weaker than expected project and enterprise
managerial capacity. Following are the risks as identified by the SAR,
the method by which they were addressed, and the actual outcome:
i) The inability of the domestic market to absorb new capacity.
Such a risk was addressed by a flexibility in the Project design to
permit changes in the product mix in response to changes in the
anticipated clientele's operations. Unfortunately, SOFOMECA's major
customers collapsed: CMT have ceased its operations and STIA is
operating substantially below capacity. New significant domestic
customers did not emerge.
ii) Shortfalls in cash flows (needed for the expansion) and
lower-than-anticipated improvements in efficiency. The SAR estimated
that shortfalls in internal cash generation could be minimized through
agreements on product pricing and reductions in investments. Once
shortfalls materialized, raising sales prices was impossible due to
falling international prices and to the trade liberalization program
later adopted by the Government; on the other hand, the appropriateness



g
of SOFOMECA's choice of investment reductions was questioned by the bank
missions.
iii) Delays in the implementation period, overruns in operating
costs, and shortfalls in levels of product quality and productivity
achieved. To alleviate these risks, the SAR included a significant
allocation for cost overruns, and assumed that the modernized plants and
SOFOHECA's ability to attract high caliber technicians would keep
product quality and productivity high. The complex4ty of Implementing
the project, the inexperience of the Project Management Group (PMG) and
the poor relations with consultants contributed to implementation
delays. Furthermore, product quality and productivity problems
persisted; not because the modern plants were technologically inferior
(they met international standards), but because SOFOMECA's management
was unrealistic and slow to respond to adverse changes and because its
salary incentive system limited its ability to attract sufficient
numbers of highly qualified personnel.
12.     Two shortcomings of the SAR's risk analysis could be identified.
First, in analyzing the risk of reduced cash flow generation, the SAR
suggests possible changes in "product pricing'. To achieve these
changes, sustained protection of foundry products would have been
required, a recommendation which is not consistent with efficiency gains
or the liberalizing direction which the Bank was advocating for Tunisia.
Second, in analyzing the risk of falling domestic demand, increased
exports was not defined as a method by which such a risk would be
reduced. Even though the actual outcome was a heavy reliance on
exports, little discussion of SOFOMECA's export capabilities and
projections on export market demand was provided in the document.
Indeed, in the sales projections made by the SAR, less than 3% of total
sales were estimated to be for export markets.
13.     Though the risk of a falling domestic market for foundry
products was identified in the SAR, its magnitude could not have been
anticipated. SOFOMEGA's viability depended on the position the
automobile enterprises (STIA and CMT) were supposed to maintain. The
Tunisian Government's decision to liberalize car imports coupled with
the poor competitiveness of the Tunisian car industry led to the
latter's collapse and, consequently, to many of SOFONECA's difficulties.
14.     Bank supervision missions realized early on the adverse changes
facing SOFOMECA, and submitted to SOFOMECA related recommendations.
These, if followed, may have helped preserve the enterprise's viability.
These recommendations included:
(i) at the Project level: securing alternative financing of
expenditures originally expected to be financed from company cash flows,
and securing external technical assistance;
(ii) at the company level: hiring international marketing
experts to help identify and secure export markets, analyzing production
costs and designing a program to reduce them, recruiting new staff in



the areas of finance and marketing, and carrying out realistic financial
forecasts on the basis of which a remedial package would be designed;
and
(iii) at the Government level: in light of Tunisia's structural
adjustment program (especi*lly on the trade liberalization side) the
Bank missions suggested that the Government reformulate its strategies
concerning the automobile and foundry industries. Providing public
financial assistance to SOFOMECA was to be conditional on the latter's
managerial improvements.
15.    At a later stage, SOFOMECA was also encouraged to endeavor to
find an international partner that would provide assistance and support
in the relevant technical and marketing areas. The more radical option
of selling the whole company was also suggested.
16.     SOFOMECA's management did nc.. adopt most of these
recommendations. The Bank missions approached the Company's
shareholders'/ who, though appreciating the seriousness of th1 Company's
difficulties, did not pressure the management to either adopt the Bank
recommendations or pursue viable alternatives; neither did they provide
the necessary financing.
VI. Prolect Results
17.     To a large extent, the SOFOMECA project failed to achieve its
objectives. Because of the severe fall in the domestic demand for
foundry products , SOFOMECA will have a serious problem of excess
capacity in the medium term; especially if and when the new plant starts
its operations   In the modernized unit, the product quality level and
international competitiveness, the value added, and the labor
productivity are all below expectations as well as international
standards'/. The Project's third objective, that of establishing a
sound export base, was met "by default". As opposed to the SAR's
estimates of exports to sales ratio of 32 for the period 1983-88, the
actual ratio was 451 in 1988. This reflected more declining sales and
less export growth. Moreover, SOFOMECA's exports over the period 1983-
88 were circumstantial and of a preferential nature, and therefore,
their level is not expected to be sustainable.
18.     Actual results were at great variance with the Bank's original
estimates. In 1987, sales fell short of the SAR estimates by 411,
production by 491, net income by 491, and the average gross margin by
V At that stage, the majority of the Company's shares were held by
Tunisian DFIs. The Government held, directly, a minority position.
V As an indicator, the capacity utilization rate (due to poor
maintenance) is around 601, while the rate of defects is double the
international standards.



18.     Actual results were at great variance with the Bank's original
estimates. In 1987, sales fell short of the SAR estimates by 411,
production by 491, net income by 49X, and the average gross margin by
811. The major reasons for these marked variances were a domestic
demand for foundry products 551 lower than expected, marked delays in
the Project implementation (with ensuing larger financial charges) and
excessive delays in reorienting the Company towards exports. While the
latter approach might not have been successful, it is and was the only
possible waY to turn the Company around. The actual disbursement of the
Bank loe  iaounted to US$ 16.1 million or about 961 of the original loan
amount. The remaining 41 was cancelled. The estimated actual Project
costs were about US$ 58.4 million, slightly higher than the appraisal
estimate of US$ 54 million.
19.     The impact of the Project can be described as follows:
i) on sectoral growth: The foundry industry has benefited
little from the Project. Most of the capacity increase will, in the
foreseeable future, constitute an excess capacity. Moreover, the
integration achieved in SOFOMECA is a relative waste due to the collapse
of the Tunisian car industry;
ii) on the human resource development: SOFOMECA's labor force
grew at 281 annually between 1983-85, a rate much higher than
economically justified. In 1988, the company employed 659 workers; 117
more than estimated by the 'AR.  This growth in the labor force was not
matched by appropriate training programs, while the salaries incentive
system of the enterprise was not suitable for attracting highly
qualified personnel;
iii) on the technological environment: the modernized as well as
the new foundry are comparable to international standards with respect
to input utilization. Problems persist, however, in the productivity
and quality of products, as well as in the computerization of the
management system;
iv) on the national institutions: SOFONECA is one of the two
major operating foundries in Tunisia (para 2). To the extent that its
economic and financial viabilities could not be achieved, the foundry
industry is seriously affected. Such negative implications are likely
to be extended to the whole engineering subsector.
20.     Due to the major uncertainties surrounding SOFOMECA's future, a
calculation of the economic and financial rates of return for the
Project is irrelevant at this juncture. Projections of the company's
future sales (domestic and exports), the prices it can charge, its costs
and its financing needs under various possible scenarios will be
speculative at best. Furthermore, the current state of available data
(para 34) and the company's highly aggregated past data will make any
such ex-ante calculations highly inaccurate. It is clear, however, that



I
the economic and financial rates of return estimated by the SAR (18X and
161 respectively) are much higher than the actual rates.
VII. Project Sustainability
21.     SOFONECA is In major financial trouble.  For the enterprise to
continue its operations over the next six years, it w$il require an
injection of 14 million Dinars. Profitability is not expected to be
positive before 1993.
22.     Such an outcome could be reversed if I) the Tunisian engineering
subsector substantially grows; ii) SOFOMECA succeeds in rationalizing
its production, improving the quality of its products, increasing their
value added'/, and increasing its labor productivity; and iii) SOFOMECA
establishes a realistic long term marketing strategy ensuring that its
exports become a lasting and growing part of its sales. Even if
positive exogenous shocks materialize, the reversal of the outcome is
conditional on the ability of SOFOMECA's management to efficiently adapt
to them.
23.     The Tunisian heavy engineering subsector was initiated as part
oi the import-substitution policies of the Government. It is not
expected to revive unless it succeeds in the difficult transformation to
an internationally competitive sector. Currently, It still exhibits
structural problems paralleling those of SOFOMECA. CMT and STIA's (para
11) situations are indicative of these problems.
24.     Until very recently, SOFOMECA's management has been very slow in
responding i.o the Bank's operational, managerial and financial
recommendati.ns. The company's top management, often civil servants,
have had little prior technical and managerial experience and no
incentive to make hard choices. Central to SOFOMECA's future is
increasing the productivity of its labor force which can only be
achieved with top level Government support (to approve rationalization
as necessary).
25.     Concerning the export market option, the enterprise's prices are
not competitive internationally. This can be explained by the high
costs of production resulting from low maintenance, high level of
defects, and unsatisfactory product quality. In 1987, a marketing study
intended to enhance the export option was conducted by a local
consultant. Though the study was useful in recommending changes in the
company's marketing organization, further work was deemed required to
define the future market/product strategy of the company. Given
SOFOMECA's managerial, financial, and operational difficulties, an
export led growth strategy seems, at present, unrealistic.
26.     The present problematic situation of SOFOMECA remains
unresolved. In the short run, four options could be envisaged: I)
M Currently at the low level of 501.



8
continuing operations, though this entails, in the medium term, massive
injection of funds (par. 21) and further losses; il) seeking an
international partner; iii) dismantling the company, or iv) a
combination of options (i) and (ii) coupled with an organizational
rastructuring of the company. The Bank would be willing to play a role
within th, last option (para 35).
VIII. The World Bank Performance
27.     As indicated above, the Bank's appraisal report correctly
identified some risks associated with the Project and sought ways to
address them, albeit lnadequately. Beyond that, the Project
identification, its preparation and appraisal process were rigorous and
analyzed all relevant questions. Because the assumptions made in the
SAR were soon found erroneous, that document could not subsequently be
used as an effective and useful frame of reference.
28.     A more fundamental short-coming of the appraisal report was
ignoring managerial and institutional issues within SOFOHECA. A
case-in-point is the design of the Project Nanagement Group. The SAR
vaguely mentions that 'assurances with respect to the maintaining and
adequate staffing of the PMG have been obtained'. Clearly, these
assurances were insufficient as evidenced by the ineffectiveness of the
Group in managing project implementation. More generally, the SAR paid
little attention to issues of management and non-operational
institutional building, and shortcomings could be defined in its risk
analysis (para 12).
29.     The supervision missions were able to promptly identify the
problems facing the Project. Their findings were thoroughly discussed
with the relevant Tunisian parties and at Headquarters. Although these
missions were led by different task leaders, the recommendations of
various missions were consistent and complementary.
30.     A lesson to be derived from the Project is that, once the risk
of failure is clearly identified in the appraisal process, alternative
operational scenarios should be designed. The adoption of these (or of
acceptable alternatives) by the Borrower could then be a condition of
continued disbursement of Bank funds. The appraisal report should also
focus on issues of institutional development, managerial flexibility,
and project sustainability as prerequisites for the efficient solution
of unanticipated problems.
IX. Borrower's Performance
31.     SOFONECA's management either did not, or was very slow to adopt
the Bank recommendations. The result was that, by the time these
recommendations were effectively adopted, their relevance had been
considerably reduced by the worsening of the situation. There resulted
further weaknesses in SOFONECA's operations, marketing, product quality
and financial management, all leading to the enterprise's very difficult
current situation.



2
32.     The PMG did not perform efficiently.  The result was costly
delays. The utilization of external consultants was erratic, with their
recommendations often ignored. As an indicator, SOFOMECA's cost cutting
approach included discontinuing the services of a Bank-financed
consultant company (RVI) which was involved in the Project
implementation. Their responsibilities were assumed by the PMG, much to
the objection of Bank supervision missions.
X. Consulting Services
33.     Consultants were used at all levels of the Project preparation,
appraisal and implementation. Two Tunisian and British firms were
engaged during the identification and appraisal process; one of them
prepared the estimates for future domestic demand for foundry products.
The Project was designed by a German firm, while another provided
technical assistance in the design process. Subsequently, several
international firms were hired (financed in one case, by the World Bank)
to provide technical assistance on questions related to quality
improvement, inter-sectoral technological integration, marketing,
personnel training, and production. Performance of these consultants
was judged by the Bank missions as satisfactory. However, tensions in
consultant/client relations appear to have inhibited project
implementation.
XI. Project Documentation and Data
34.     During the Project's life, responsibility for its supervision
changed several times in the Bank. It was transferred to another
division after the 1987 Bank reorganization, and it involved a large
number of outside consultants. Consequently, the quality of the
documentation suffered. Major portions of relevant data and documents
are missing, as evidenced by some omissions in the tables annexed to
this report.
XII. Possible Future Role for the Bank
35. As already mentioned, the Bank has tried to play an active role in
providing technical assistance to SOFOMECA. However, tLis assistance
was generally not pursued by the company's management or shareholders in
the past. Repayments on the Bank Loan commenced in April 1987, and to
date these have been timely and paid directly by the Government as
guarantor. SOFOMECA's difficulties are clearly detrimental to the
Tunisian economy and to the Bank's reputation in that country. The
Bank, therefore, would be willing to make one final effort to provide
technical assistance, on a cost sharing basis with the shareholders, to
restructure the company (assuming full commitment of SOFOMECA management
to implement the technical and financial recommendations of this effort
is assured). Such a plan should focus on identifying: i) a new product
mix better suited to existing market needs; ii) new export markets; iii)
a market-responsive internal organizational structure; and iv) the
prospects for attracting foreign capital to the company. These



la
instLtutlonal and financial recommendations would require the
participation of specialized lndustry experts. The above assistance
would not, of course, address the existing fLnancLal disequillbrium of
SOFOMECA, whose debt repayment obligations far exceed lts cash flow.
But thls assistance could, at least, ensure that the greatest possible
return ls realized from the substantial sunk cost invested in SOFOMECA.



PROJECT COMPLEION RZPOR
tunisiA: Industry IV (SOFO4ECA Foundry}
Loan 2301-TU
PART II:  REPORT OF THE BORROWER
(Translation from the original document in French)



Project Completion Report on the
SQFOMECA Expansion and Modernization Project
I.       Introdction
The SOFOMECA foundry expansion and modernization project is a
component of the development plans for the Tunisian foundry industry
aimed at making it capable of performing its motor function for the
mechanical industries.
Up till 1982 the development of the foundry industry had been
held back by three major obstacles:
(i)     Low productivity;
(ii)    Mediocre quality of ihe end product;
(iii)   The low level of development of the mechanical
industries and of intrasectoral industry.
In 1982 the World Bank prepared a strategy document on
the foundry industry, focusing primarily on measures
to:
Mi)    Raise productivity;
(ii)    Improve product quality;
(iii)   Expand product ranges or introduce new ones when it
would be advantageous for Tunisia to substitute
domestically produced items for its growing imports;
(iv)    Compensate for the smallness of the domestic market by
greater integration of foundry products at the national
level;
(v)     Place exports on a sound footing.
The main thrusts of the conclusions of the Bank's strategy
document were incorporated into the Sixth Develop.,nt Plan by the
Tunisian authorities.
The authorities also decided to go ahead with two foundry
modernization and expansion projects, one for SOFOMECA (the project) and
the other for Fonderies R6unies, who will continue to be the two main
suppliers to the eomestic market.
The Fonderies R6unies project was designed to modernize and
expand the enterprise's existing facilities, raising their production
capacity from 3,500 to 5,000 t/a and focusing primarily on production of
traditional castings.
The two projects, intended to resolve the main problems
identified in the foundry sector, should help toward accomplishment of



the strategic aims set forth above for development of the foundry
sector.
To improve product quality, the SOFOMECA project envisaged
utilizing local sandpits and setting up a sand-treatment facility to
provide the SOFOMECA plant and the other foundries with good quality
casting sand. Modernization of the existing facilities and labor
training were also included.
II.      Project Overview
The SOFOXECA project was therefore identified in the context of
the government foundry sector strategy as outlined above.
The market study for castings in Tunisia made by Atkins
Planning (United Kingdom) showed that local production (7,800 t in 1982)
fell short of meeting demand (which was 21,000 t in 1982).
In addition, market projections for 1990 made by the same firm
showed local demand for castings (iron and steel) growing by an average
of 6.51 p.a., from 21,000 t in 1982 to 35,000 t in 1990.
This significant growth was expected to derive from the very
marked increase in demand anticipated from the construction and
mechanical industries sector as a result essentially of the evotry into
production of several industrial-vehicle assembly units in the country,
the two main ones being:
- STIA (Sociedt Tunisienne des Industries Automobiles)
- QOT (Complexe M6canlque de Tunisie)
These two units were expected to take 1200 t/a and 4,200 t/a
respectively of castings (diesel engines, brake drums, clutchcases,
etc.).
In light of the foregoing, the Government asked IBRD to assist
SOFOMECA in appraising its expansion and modernization project.
An advance (PPF) against the IBRD loan to be granted to
SOFOMECA enabled SOFOMECA to retain the GF (Georges Fischer) firm of
international engineering consultants specialized in the foundry field,
following an international call for bids Issued in accordance with the
relevant IBRD procedures. This firm was entrusted with the following
tasks:
- project feasibility study;
- planning and engineering of facilities and buildings;
- supervision and guidance of execution.
An initial technical meeting between SOFOMECA and GF was held
In September 1982 in order to establish the main thrusts of the project.
Next GF prepared a preliminary technical and financial assessment of the
project, on the basis of which an IBRD appraisal mission visited Tunisia



in November 1982 and spent about three weeks in the country. This
mission made it possible to finalize the different aspects of the
project by means of:
- The GF feasibility study;
- The contacts with the different banks invited to participate
in the financing;
- The contacts with the potential customers, CMT and STIA, and
the authorities and ministries involved.
An initial appraisal report on the project by IBRD served to
enable the different banks to prepare their participation in the
project.
The project as finally adopted comprised:
(a) Modernization of the old foundry by rationalization of
production, with expansion of the capacity of the iron foundry to 4,800
t/a in two-shift operation and of that of the steel foundry to 2,200 t/a
in three-shift operation.
This modernization consists of introduction of an automatic
casting line for cast iron and procurement of a medium-frequency
electric induction furnace, together with installation of new heat-
treating equipment for steel that will make it possible to increase
pellet production for the cement plants.
(b) Establishment of a new iron foundry of 7,000 t/a capacity
in single-shift working and 12,000 t/a in two-shift working, equipped
essentially witE a low-frequency electric induction furnace, two
automatic casting lines, automatic sand-preparation equipment, and an
automatic core-making shop using the Ashland process.
It is also planned to use this new foundry to produce 500 t/a
spheroidal graphite pig iron for export.
1V
The products of this new foundry will be intended for the
tractor and industrial-vehicle industry.
(c) Establishment of a sand-treatment plant with a capacity of
20,000 t/a in two-shift working in order to improve the quality of the
sand used for casting and core-making in the foundries and thereby the
quality of the products.



The cost of the project was estimated at TD 34.055 million,
broken down as follows:
(in TD 1000s)
Civil engineering and construction ..................   * 3261
Equipment + parts .15,590
Freight and installation .4,521
Duties and taxes .1,641
Engineering, tech. assistance and training ..        .   1,979
Project management ...    703
Physical contingencies ...   2,769
Interest during construction ...   1,624
Working capital ...   1.967
Total cost             34,055
The financing arrangements for the project weve to be bised on
this estimate, observing an own funds/total financing rvatio of at least
40X.
The other 601 was to be in the form of long-term foreign
exchange and dinar loans, including that from IBRD.
Securing the capital increase set at TD 11.1 million required
participation by two further Tunisian institutions in addition to those
identified at the time of appraisal, namely:
- BTQI (Banque Tuniso-Qatari d'Investissement)
- Best Bank (a private offshore bank).
These changes also increased the amount of loan funds granted.
In addition, a new form of financing was introduced, namely leasing,
which was imposed by BID and Best as a condition for their participation
in the capital increase.
The last financing agreement was signed on July 17, 1989; this
was the leasing agreement with Best Bank. Since this was a formula for
the financing of equipment in Tunisia, the BCT approval procedures took
much longer than expected.
The loan agreement with IBRD for US$16.8 million was negotiated
in April 1983.
The other loan and leasing agreements were signed as follows:
STUSID  TD  4,050,000  Aug. 31, 1983
BTKD                 2,700,000        Oct. 26, 1983
BTQI                 1,200,000        Nov. 29, 1983
BTEI                 1,500,000        Dec. 20, 1983
BID             US$ 2,170,000         Nov.  9, 1983
BEST            TD    700,000         Jul. 17, 1986



The capital was to be paid in by the various shareholders as
follows:
25X in 1983; 251 in 1984; 401 in 1985; 101 in 1986.
III.             Imolementation and Management of the Pxjoect
1.               Achievement of Project Oblectiveg
A.      Modernized Iron Foamdo
In general we can say that the timetable Initially set for the
modernized iron foundry was adhered to. The technical studies were
started on schedule and execution of the modernization was spread over
two years: 1983 (civil work inside the foundry) and 1984 (assembly of
equipment after the annual shutdown).
It should be noted that the assembly of the equipment caused a
longer stoppage of iron production than was planned. However, the
foundry was able to start up again in December 1984 with the new
equipment.
Nineteen eighty-five was a good production year since net
tonnage produced reached 5,560 tons. The new real capacity is 5,500 t/a
in two-shift operation.
B.      Modernized Steel Foundry
The modernization of the steel foundry comprised improvement of
the casting shops by means of better maintenance plus rationalization of
the layout with reduction of the number of molding box sizes.
The technical studies for modernization of the steel foundry
were made at the same time as those for modernization of the iron
foundry. However, the actual modernization work was deferred to
December 1985 and January 1986 in order not to have the two foundries
out of operation at the same time.
As regards the heat-treatment bid package, the timetable could
not be observed for the following reasons:
A technical deficiency found in the specifications
prepared by GF. This led us to draw up another set of
specifications.
-       The financing for this package was programmed on the
Best Bank leasing agreement, which did not enter into
effect until July 17, 1986. This delayed signature of
the supply contract and hence fabrication, delivery,
assembly and production.
The increase in the steel foundry's capacity was programmed on
the basis of procurement of a small medium-frequency electric induction



17
furnace as part of the New Foundry component. It was brought into
production on November 6, 1988.
C.      Nehr. Frnd
The schedule set for construction of the new foundry was not
kept. Significant slippages occurred compared with the programming
initially projected in the feasibility study.
The total delay is estimated at 32 months and was due to a
variety of reasons that can be summarized approximately as follows:
1. Late start of engineering studies for new foundry         10 months
2. Execution of piling work not included in the project       6 months
3. Inadequate performance of consultant (GF), import
formalities, project management                            7 months
4. Blocking of loan funds by the local banks                  9 months
32 months
The new foundry started operation as of October 26, 1988.
The contractual installed capacity is as forecast; however,
since this was the first year of operation the real full capacity has
yet to be reached. Up till November 30, 1989 and on the basis of the
orders to hand, the tonnage of good castings produced was 3.100 tons.
D.      Sand Treatment
The schedule set for the sand-treatment component was not kept.
The total slippage was 26 months, due to the follewing reasons:
=      Technical iaadequacy of the treatmnent arrangements
recommended by GF.
-      Development of another solution, final appraisal of
which did not take place until January 1986.
-      Delay in approval by the Tunisian authorities of the
BID leasing contract plus additional time required by
BID to approve the procurement contract and the first
release of funds.
-      Delay in customs clearance procedures (because the
equipment was totally exempt).
-      Delay in assembly for financial reasons.
The unit started operation in December 1987.
The capacity and quality objectives were achieved.
SOPOMECA is currently selling treated sand tu the main Tunisian
glassworks.
E.      Cost Objeztives



As regards implementation cost, a total overrun of TD 6.73
million excluding working capital was posted. The final cost of the
project was TD 38.81 million, i.e. 212 over estimate.
The base cost was 5.7X above estimate, at TD 32.18 million,
while Interest during construction was 3072 higher, amounting t.o TD 6.63
million.
The main reasons for this overrun can be quickly summariled as
follows:
-      Underestiwation of the civil engineering item and
addition of new bid packages;
*       Cost of bringing in electricity not included to begin
with;
-       Increase in the minimum duties payable on imported
equipment;
-       Fluctuations of the dinar and its deep devaluation with
respect to the currencies to be used for procurement;
-      The delay in startup of the new foundry, as a result of
which the interest during construction item was larger
than anticipated.
Details concerning these additional costs will be given
further on.
As is apparent from the foregoing, the schedule and cost
targets were not met because of a number of technical, administrative
and financial reasons that will be detailed further on. It should be
noted that the New Foundry and Sand-Treatment components were impacted
by the economic crisis suffered by the country through the 1986-88
period and the consequences of the recovery measures in the context of
the adjustment plan.
2.       Scale of Project
The SOFOMECA expansion and modernization project was
dimensioned to attain the following useful capacity goals:
-Modernization of iron foundry                 4,800 t/a two shifts
-dodernization of steel foundry                 2,200 tia three shifts
-Establishment of new foundry                   7,000 t/a one shift
-Establishment of sand treatment plant        12,000 t/a two shifts
20,000 t/a two shifts
The initial feasibility study made by OF indicated a project
comprising the following numbers of bid packages:
- Modernization component (iron + steel)     35 packages
- New Founexy component                      46 packages
- Sand-Treatment component                    2 packages
83 packages



31
The studies, technical assistance and training packages should
be added to the above 83.                   1
The basic technical studies which followed the feasibility
study led to some changes in the composition of the packages as a result
of some additions, eliminations and combinations. These changes are
summarized in the same table in the list of packages under the heading
"Final Package."
Some changes in the process adopted in certain shops were made
in the initial project prepared by GF, following the consultations with
Klockner Humboldt Deutz (KHD) under the technical assistance contract
concluded with KHD on December 1, 1983.
The main adjustments made in the scale of the project can be
summarized as follows:
a.      Modernization component
-      Addition of facility for preparation of the cold charge
to the furnace;
-       Cancellation of the pellet grinding machine;
-       Separation of the iron packages from the steel
packages.
b.      New Foundra conmonent
Many basic changes were made to the initial project.
No capacity changes were made. Other changes, or
rather additions and complementary items necessary in the civil
engineering packages, were made during project execution.
These changes can be summarized as follows:
-Ctonstruction:
=       addition of deep foundations on 30-m-deep
piles;
=       addition of a package for electricity supply by
underground cable;
-       increase in civil engineering package
quantities following preparation of the
detailed preliminary engineering in March 1984.
The initial estimate of the value of the civil
engineering packages was not based on a
preliminary design, with the result that there
were considerable increases in this package
during execution.
-      hULipment
-       dro.ping of the vertical-channel furnaces
recommended by GF in the initial project for
crucible furnaces for both smelting and
holding;



-       dropping of the knockout with sand-cooling by
swinging drum procedure and its replacement by
the simple vibrating plates system;
-       replacement of the use of an electric monorail
for molten metal transport between smelting and
casting by a lift-truck system;
-       switch from a decentralized system for
producing gas catalyst for Ashland coring to a
centralized system;
-       dropping of the vertical -ore-drylng stove
system in favor of the horizontal system;
-       increasing of the initially undersized green
sand preparation plant.
In general, the design of all the bid packages for the new
foundry was reworked with the assistance of KHD and of Renault Vehicules
Industriels (RVI).
c.      Sand-Treatment component
The technical solution proposed by GF for dry washing the sand
was not adopted; a visit made to a prototype facility using this process
did not confirm its effectiveness. The wet washing process was finally
adopted, which did of course entail a quite significant increase in the
scope of the civil engineering work required.
In general, the civil engineering, structural steelwork,
electricity, fluids and offices packages were not well defined in terms
of quantities at the time the initial project cost estimate was made, as
was the case with the equipment packages. This resulted in numerous
surprises during execution. Moreover, GF did not produce the first
detailed preliminary design until March 1984, and then only for the
buildings and not for the machine foundations and fluid requirements,
which were determined as the equipment and materials orders progressed.
3.       Proiect Managiement and Training
Instead of entrusting execution to a single contractor on a
turnkey basis, SOFOMECA opted to split it into a number of packages.
This meant that SOFOIECA had to set up a project management
group (PNG) for the purpose of implementation.
SOFOMECA hired Georges Fischer (GF), an industrial engineering
firm specialized in the foundry field, for this purpose, to assist the
PMG in managing the project. The engineering contract was signed in
September 1982.
The main tasks entrusted of GF were:
-       Feasibility study
-       Planning and engineering
-       Supervision and direction.



GF subcontracted the civil engineering work to a Swiss firm,
Suter and Partner, which in its turn subcontracted the detail designs to
STUDI in Tunisia.
The organization of the PMG as set up by SOFOMECA was as
follows:
LTTJ 
PMG0      Supply      Financial
Leader     Service      Service
V  ~r                        T               .1
Cost and         Studies         Civil Eng.        Assembly
Expense           and         Monitoring and    Monitoring
Monitoring       Planning          Control         and Control
Engineers
Technicians
The complete PMG structure was reached in 1986 with the start
of assembly of the new foundry.
The Modernization component assembly activities were carried
out by the maintenance and new works teams of the old plant and these
were not included in the PMG staff.
The PNG was broken down into four subgroups:
a.      Studies subgrouo
The function of this subgroup was to follow the progress of the
engineering work up to contract award, package by package and iu close
liaison with GF and STUDI. Each of the engineers involved was
responsible for a certain number of packages grouped by functional area
(smelting, casting, etc.).



b.      Financial Monitoring subgXoup
This subgroup was responsible for monitoring expenditures on a
package-by-package basis, and for updating the cost of the project every
three months. It consisted of a senior financial officer and a
bookkeeper.
c.      Civil Engineering Honitoriina MsubgLuD
This subgroup was responsible for monitoring progress on the
construction site (piles, structural steelwork, civil engineering). It
was made up of a civil engineer hired from STUDI for the duration of the
project, who set up site meetings, followed the planning and served as
liaison between the study engineers and STUDI.
d.      Assembly Monitoring subgroup
The tasks assigned to this subgroup were coordination and
direction of the assembly work with the different equipment suppliers.
It managed the material and human resources of SOFOMECA together with
its subcontractors. Each package was tracked by the engineer who had
monitored the studies for it. The subgroup leader had been given a six-
month training course at KHD and was .ubsequently to take care of
equipment maintenance in the new foundry.
In conjunction with these subgroups, SOFOMECA's supply services
were made responsible for the administrative side of the contracts, i.e.
approval formalities, and arrangements for importation, transit, customs
clearance, etc., and up to shipment of the equipment to the site. They
were also responsible for local procurement for site requirements.
In the same way, SOFOMECA's financial services haxndled the
organizing and management of the capital increase and the setting up of
the financing and leasing credit arrangements.
The number of staff assigned to the PMG grew with the progress
of the studies and as of 1986 with the start of the assembly work the
group was fully staffed. However, in 1987 the numbers were appreciably
cut back owing to the slowdown in the works due to the blocking of the
financing. In the course of the second half of 1988 the numbers were
again strengthened, especially at technician and labor level, prior to
startup, which took place in October 1988.
The average number of persons in the PNG (excluding laborers
for assembly work) was 16.
The PMG produced monthly reports on the physical progress of
the project, on a package-by-package basis, and quarterly financial
progress reports on expenditures and commitments, together with an
updated project cost figure.



We feel that the PMG's main weakness lay in its lack of
experience in this type of work, especially the planning and scheduling
side.
Moreover, this weakness became all the more evident as the
problems and frictions between GF and SOFOMECA grew.
The fact is that the first problems surfaced at the beginning
of January 1983 when GF requested an upward adjustment of its fees only
three months after the signing of the engineering contract and after
appraisal of the project, on the grounds that it had underestimated the
labor cost.
SOFOMECA and GF reached a compromise, with IBRD's agreement.
The GF project manager was replaced by another person, who did not
unfortunately prove any more effective in facilitating the work. A
climate of mistrust developed between the two teams.
At the same time SOFOMECA insisted that GF replace its local
subcontractor for civil engineering studies by a more experienced firm.
The new subcontractor selected was STUDI.
Then in March 1984, when the detailed preliminary civil
engineering was delivered, GF submitted a new estimate for the civil
engineering for the new foundry that far exceeded its initial estimate.
In the course of May 1984 and following receipt of the first
bids for the casting equipment, GF quite simply demonstrated its bad
faith. Since it had not been consulted for the supply of the equipment,
it threatened to halt its services if SOFOMECA did not once again
increase its fees, which it wanted to index on the cost of the project,
which estimated cost had been revised by GF, and especially for the
civil engineering packages.
From that point until August 1984 the engineering work remained
at a standstill.
SOFOMECA once again worked out a compromise which consisted in
eliminating the first part of GF's services relating to guidance and
assigning the relevant fees to the planning phase. The GF project
manager was replaced once more and handled all the rest of the planning
phase work with transfer of certain actions to the PMG.
The civil engineering services were entrusted to STUDI through
a direct contract between SOFOtECA and STUDI, which helped to enhance
coordination at the PMG level.
Ail these difficulties had a negative impact on the progress of
the project. In this context it was of course very hard to ensure real
motivation on the part of GF for satisfactory and on-schedule
performance of its work.



.2A
In June 1986, once the assembly work had started, SOFOMECA
requested the assistance of Renault Vehicules Industriels (PVI), who had
agreed to assign one individual full time to assist the PMG in the
direction of the assembly work with a project officer who was present
one veek per month for the monitoring and to review the planning of the
secondary packages not yet ordered at that time in order to reduce the
project cost.
As of the end of 1986 all the engineering work had been
completed for all the packages. However, the placing of orders for the
secondary packages was delayed by the blocking of the loan funds by the
local development banks (BTEI, BTKD, STUSID).  This delayed the packages
for at least nine months, since the funds were not released until early
November 1987.
The blocking of the funds also slowed the assembly work already
started and essentially that on the fluids and sand-treatment packages.
In light of the foregoing, it was hard for the PEG to make up
the delays in execution of the project and especially for it to maintain
consistent overall progress in all the packages.
A considerable amount of training work was carried out without
too many problems.
In December 1983 SOFOMECA had signed a technical assistance and
training contract with KHD, under which the following training actions
were carried out:
-       Six-month maintenance course for the Assembly
Monitoring subgroup leader;
-       Four-month course for the Foundry Methods chief;
-       Four-month course for the Pattern Making chief;
-       Four-month course for the Inspection chief;
A training contract was also signed with RVI in 1986
for the following:
-      Two-month induction smelting course for the Smelting
chief and the crew foreman
-      Two-month course in Ashland coring for the Coring
chief.
Finally, various other training courses were organized in the
training cycles for smelters in France.
4.               Consltants
SOFOMECA utilized several foreign and local consultants for the
implementation of this project:



FoEuds consulant:
GF              industrial engineering in smelting
IXD             technical assistance and training
RVI             direction of assembly and training
ECTI            specific assistance in startup of smelting
plant
Local consultants:
STUDI           civil engineering for project
SECURAS         technical supervision for the project
SIDES           SOFOMECA computerization study.
SOFOMECA's first experience with the consultants was with GF,
which unfortunately did not turn out too well for various reasons,
mainly of a financial nature. However, we also observed certain
technical weaknesses in the choices proposed by GF, and especially a
major weakness in the estimating of the labor cost necessary for the
project, on the one hand, and the value of the civil engineering
packages, on the other.
GF was originally selected primarily on account of its low bid
and its reputation.
Moreover, we also observed that the GF experts had difficulty
in integrating and assimilating the local constraints and difficulties.
Finally, human contacts between the two teams were not very easy.
On the other hand, the other tasks were performed with fewer
problems.
5.       Planmn_n
As noted in section 3, the Modernization component was carried
out on schedule, but the New Foundry component posted a very significant
slippage of 32 months compared with the initial projections.
This 32-month slippage can be broken down quite accurately as
follows:
a. Late start of engineering studies for new foundry 10 months
b. Execution of piling not included in project         6 months
c. Poor performance of GF engineer,
import formalities, PMG                             7 months
d. Blocking of loan funds by local banks                9 months



The main factors involved concerning these points are
set out below:
a.      Late start of engineering studies for new foundry
The feasibility study for the project was made by GF after the
IBRD appraisal mission conducted during three weeks in November 1982.
The intention was that the project engineering studies should
be started in Januay 1983, and this in fact is what happened for the
Modernization component.
However, as regards the new foundry, GF was not authorized by
SOFONECA to start the engineering studies until the technical choices
and procedures proposed by GF in the feasibility study had been
discussed with KHD, this requirement being specifically imposed by IBRD.
However, SOFOMECA was unable to conclude a technical assistance
contract with KHD until December 1983, and then with the assistance of
Nr. Sethi of IBRD. Nevertheless, technical meetings with KHD experts
went ahead, but the final designs for all the new foundry's shops were
not ready till October 1983.
It was only on the latter date that SOFOMECA authorized GF to
start the engineering studies (preparation of specifications, bidding
documents, etc.).
These delays put the planning of the new foundry 10 months
behind schedule.
b.      Execution of Rilina
The soil studies made in 1983 showed that deep (30 m) piles
would be needed to provide the base foundation for the new foundry"s
main building.
The detailed preliminary engineering for the metal and concrete
structures was not prepared by SPC, GF's Swiss subcontractor for civil
engineering, until March 1984.
On the basis of this preliminary engineering, the Tunisian firm
STUDI was to prepare the detailed designs and bidding documents for the
package consisting of piling, structural steelwork and civil
engineering.
The piling work was started in August 1984 and took siximonths,
which time was additional to the execution period.
The time needed for execution of the piling cannot be
attributed to negligence on the part of CF.



22
c.      Poor nerformance of -G  enagineer. PMG. imnort
kormalitias
It is very difficult to pinpoint the individual delays caused
by each of the factors involved under this head.
The first two aspects have already been discussed earlier.
As regards the third, as of the second half of 1985 additional
restrictions were imposed by BCT on equipment imports. During the
execution of the modernization component, no more than an import
certificate was required. However, in 1985 and 1986, when the bulk of
the equipment was ready for shipm.ut, an import license had to be
obtained, which added at least two months to the time required for each
package. This situation also continued up till 1988, during which
period we imported the secondary equipment packages the financing for
which had been blocked by the development banks in 1987.
The delay caused by these three factors together can be put at
seven Ronths.
d.      Blocking of loan funds
Following the SOFOMECA Board's decision to have an external
audit conducted of SOFOMECA and of the project, the local development
banks--STUSID, BTKDD and BTEI--blocked the remainder of the loan funds
granted for financing the project. The external auditor's report was
submitted in February 1987 and showed a financing deficit of the order
of TD 5.144 million.
SOFOHECA was asked to cut back capital expenditures and a study
was made to that end.
At the same time, SOFOHECA updated the study on the return
obtainable, which showed very significant cash-flow shortfalls for the
first five years.
A request for assistance was accordingly submitted to the
government to help the company resolve these problems, especially
foliowing the difficulties being encountered by the new foundry's two
main customers, CMT and STIA.
BTEI was less forthcoming and made continuation of the
financing subject to resolution of the financial situation.
The matter was not resolved until after intervention by
SOFOMECA's supervisory ministry and the funds began to be released in
November 1987.
The trimming of the cost and the reallocation of certain
packages also caused delays in the placing of orders, these delays being
attributable to BID in particular.



2zf
In the event, the first secondary packages were not shipped
until the end of 1987 and the last assembly work was done in July 1988.
We consider that at least nine mwngbs vere lost through all
this.
6.       Project Cost
As of December 31, 1988, the cost of the project stood at TD
33.81 million excluding working capital, i.e. TD 6.73 million more than
the initial estimate.
This cost can be broken down and compared with the original
fig.res as follows:
as of           as of                 Difference
Item               6/30/83         12/31/88   X difference  in TD'OOOs
(TD'OOOs)
Civil Eng.
+ Utilities          3260            7330      +125X            4070
Equipment             20110           19720      - 21            - 390
Duties + Taxes         1640            2580      + 571             940
Studies, Technical
Assist. + Training   1970            1340       - 32Z          - 630
Project Management      700            1210      + 731             510
Contingencies          2770               0      -100           -2770
Base Cost             30450           32180      +  5.71          1730
Tnterest
during constr.       1630            6630      +3071            5000
Total Cost            32080           38810      + 211            6730
The total overrun amounted to 211 of the initial figure. The
base cost was only 5.71 above estimate, and that despite the cuts made
in the investment in March 1987.
Interest during construction, however, eventually amounted to
3071 more than estimated, as a result of course of the late start, which
meant that the interest payable had to be placed under this head since



22
the grace periods on the financings expired for the most part as of the
end of 1986 or in 1987.
Detailed examination of the different causes of these overruns
points up four main reasons, both internal and external, which can be
summarized as follows:
A.      Underestimation o Civil Enfineerint item
The cost of the Civil Engineering item, which included both the
expenditures on concrete and steelwork structures, the technical
packages (electricity, fluids), and infrastructure facilities, proved to
be 125X above estimate, i.e. TD 7.33 million instead of TD 3.26 million.
We would note that in the first place there were the additional
packages not initially included by GF in the feasibility study.
Soil stdies and piling oackages
The soil studies were not started until 1983, at a total cost
of about TD 0.03 million. This cost was not budgeted at the start.
The final findings of these studies, which were made in two
phases, pointed to the necessity of deep foundations, in the form of 30-
m-deep piles, for the main building.
The cost of these piles, about TD 0.6 million, was not included
by GF to begin with.
Electric energy supplv
In the same way, the question of electric energy supply for the
new needs resulting from the expansion was not given full attention and
no budget for the purpose was included. During execution it was found
to be necessary to install a new electricity supply line for the new
foundry, involving an additional cost of TD 0.24 million.
***/    Size of the civil engineering packages
In addition to the above points, quantities were very
considerably underestimated for the civil engineering packages.
The fact is that back in March 1984, after preparation of the
first detailed preliminary engineering by Suter for the structure
packages, the new estimate for the New Foundry component alone had risen
from TD 2.65 million to T3  4.01 million, without counting the figures
for the machine foundations.
The cost of the Civil Engineering item was adjusted as the
detailed studies progressed and also after the bidding on each package.
The adjusted figures were always included in the quarterly project
progress reports.



30
It was very difficult to determire the cost of the Civil
Engineering item without a sufficiently detailed reference base, as is
the case with the equipment packages.
We can estimate the overrun, together with the impact of
domestic inflation on construction costs from 1983 to 1987, at about JR
3.2-million, a good part of which consisted of contingencies.
B.      Increase in Minimum Customs Duties
The SOFOMEGA project benefited from the advantages offered by
the Industrial Investments Code, which meant that it only Lad to pay llX
as minimum duty.
As of 1985 this rate was adjusted upward by a 4-point increase.
This increase in fact only applied to the lots for the new
foundry, importation of which began at the end of 1985.
The additional cost caused by this adjustment is estimated at
about IL_.5 million.
C.      Monetary Fluctuations
The very significant fluctuations of the Tunisian dinar as of
the second half of 1985, aggravated by the lOX devaluation of 1986, also
resulted in a quite sizable cost increase in imported machinery payable
in foreign exchange. The depreciation of the dinar continued in 1987
and 1988.
We estimated the impact of these fluctuations on all packages
not fully completed and taking an annual decline in value of the dinar
of 6X as normal.
This calculation indicated an additional cost of about ITD1.3
millin. The impact of these fluctuations on the customs duties is
already included in B above.
Moreover, the depreciation of the U.S. dollar (the currency in
which SOFOMECA's indebtedness to IBRD is denominated) with respect to
the other currencies required for equipment procurement, and especially
the German mark and French franc, brought about a revaluation of at
least 201 of the principal owed to IBRD.
This additional cost has been entered as interest during
construction for the years 1987 and 1988 and is estimated at TD 0.5Z
million.
For reference, we give below the movements of the main
procurement currencies with respect to the dinar.



31
(In TD)
June 87/
Currency            June 83      June 86       June 87      June 83
US$1                0.681        0.789         0.826        + 21X
DM 1                0.270        0.352         0.466        + 731
FF 1                0.090        0.110         0.139        + 541
1000 pesetas        4.753        5.500         6.656        + 401
D.      Starug Dela
Since the delay in startup of the new foundry ran beyond the
end of the grace periods for the different financings, there was a very
pronounced increase in lnterest payable during construction, which rose
by 3071, l.e.
TD 5 million, to TD 6.63 million.
This figure includes the interest on loan payments due after
the grace periods, which for the IBRD loan alone is estimated at TD 3
million.
It should be noted that the estimated interest figure announced
in the June 1988 project cost update, for startup in September 1988 and
communicated to the IBRD misslon, was TD 7.11 milllon.
The difference between that estimate and the one used in this
report is explained by the fact that previously the interest due after
December 1984 in respect of the part of the loans that financed the
modernization, and amounting to TD 1.28 million, was posted as interest
during construction instead of operating cost. The total amount of
interest due computed as of the end of December 1988 is TD 7.91 million,
which breaks down as follows:
Interest during construction                 TD 6.63 million
Interest in respect of modernization
from 1985 to 1988                           TD 1.28 million
TD 7.91 million
Of this TD 7.91 million only TD 6.93 has been paid to the
different banks, including TD 3.07 million to IBRD thanks to bridging
facilities provided by the Tunisian Treasury.
The development and updating of the cost of the project was
monitored regularly by the PMG through the quarterly financial progress
reports.
However, the difficulties began in September 1986 since it was
then that a financing shortfall for the project estimated by the PMG at
that time at TD 1.919 million first appeared.



.U
The external audit of the project confirmed that there was a
shortfall in the financing and estimated it at TD 4.35 million excluding
working capital and for a November 1987 startup.
A project cost reduction study was then made by SOFOMECA at the
request of the development banks, which focused on two objectives:
-       Reduction of the cost by eliminating bid packages or
cutting their size so as to remain within the budget
still available.
-       Ensuring that through the end of the project the
interest due to the development banks would be paid.
The following lots were eliminated:
Initial estimate (TD 'OOOs)
-       NF 17 manipulators          121
-       NF 22 paint install         310
-      NP 31 block adjust. machine 274
-      NP 41  machine tools        1007
-       ZNF 47 pattern plates      10
2712
E.       Financin
The cost reductions and compressions made it possible to
complete the physical investment without compromising the startup of the
new foundry, which took place at the end of 1988. The working capital
was financed with some difficulty from the company's cash flow.
The interest paid to the development banks since March 1987 is
approximately TD 0.84 million and was taken from the balances of loans
not yet used as of the end of March 1987.
The total financing available at the end of 1988 excluding cash
flow amounted to TD 39.689 million, broken down as follows:



TD I 0008
Capital increase              11000
Treasury facility              3067
IBRD loan                     13545
STUSID loan                   4050
BTKD loan                      2700
BTEI loan                      1500
BTQI loan                      1152
BID leasing                    1875
Best leasing                    700
39689
The sum of TD 0.255 million still blocked in the STUSID loan
and that of TD 0.054 million still blocked in the BTEI loan should be
deducted from this total of TD 39.689 million, thus making the total
financing furnished to SOFOMECA TD 39.380 million.
The total amount of the financial requirements excluding
working capital as of December 31, 1988 is:
=       Base cost of project        TD 32.180 million
=       Total interest due           TD  7.910 million
TD 40.090 million
There is therefore a shortfall as of the end of 1988 of In
0.710 million. If the STUSID and BTEI loan balances are released this
shortfall then becomes TD 0.401 million.
7.               Conclusion
In conclusion, the following lessons can be drawn from the
handling of this project:
(a)     The feasibility study should have been separated from
the other two tasks, since after the feasibility study
and following due consultations the scope of the latter
two tasks could have been determined more precisely.
(b)     As soon as the first disputes with GF developed, the
contract should have been canceled and a different
consultant selected rather than proceeding with the
project with an unmotivated consultant.
(c)     During the feasibility study it would have been wise to
require C.F to produce a detailed preliminary design for
the packages in the civil engineering and utilities
item, which would have made more precise determination
of quantities possible.
(d)     The initial planning for the New Foundry component was
too optimistic, the more so since the final project
design was not yet available.



34
(e)    The engineering contract concluded with OF was not very
specific as to time limits and overall progress, which
could have been tied in with the payment arrangements.
(f)    After the initial delay in starting the studies and
following the increase in the estimate for the Civil
Engineering item in March 1984, it would have been
wiser to recalculate the project rate of return.
(g)     Following the change in Tunisia's economic policy
toward greater liberalization of the economy, with the
resultant difficulties for SOFONECA's main local
customers, viz. CMT and STIA, who have virtually
abandoned their plans to use castings, it is true thrt
SOFOMECA could have been more aggressive in redeploying
its marketing strategy to take advantage of export
openings which offered the sole opportunities for sales
in the quantities necessary to ensure efficient
utilization of production capacity.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Tunisia: Industry IV (SOFOI4ECA ounMdry}
ITan 2301-NEX
PART I II
STATIST:ICAL ANIJEX



36
Table I
Related Bank Loans and/or Credits
Year of
Loan/Credit Title     Purpose                 Approval   Status
.................... _................................ ._.......................... ._
l.Electro Mechanical  Finance subprojects     1982       Preparing PCR
Industries          in ENI sector
2.Small Scale         Finance SSI investments/ 1984      Preparing PCR
Industries          T.A. Component
3.Electro mechanical  Finance subprojects in  1985       Next superv.
Industries          EMI sector                         mission 04/89
4.Export Industries   Finance export          1985       Next superv.
II.                 sub-projects                       mission 04/89
5.Small & Medium      Finance SMI subprojects  1988      Last superv.
Scale Industries    finance SMIs                       mission 11/88



Table 2
Project Timetable
Date           Date           Date
Item                       Planned       Revised        Actual
1.  Project Brief               11/24/81          -            11/24/81
2.  Department Approval         10/25/82          -             10/25/82
3.  Yellow Cover                03/04/83          -            03/04/83
4.  Negotiations                04/18/83           -            04/18/83
5.  Board Approval              06/02/83          -            06/02/83
6. Signing Date                 06/16/83          -            06/16/83
7.  Effective Date              12/31/83       04/16/84        04/16/84
8.  Closing Date                12/31/86       06/30/88        06/30/88
9.  Loan Completion Date        04/30/87       12/30/87        01/30/89



Table. 3
Loan Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements (in 000 USS)
Appraisal Estimate (1983)                     16,800
Actual (December 1988)                        16,1451V
Actual as percent of Estimate                 96.1
Planned Disbursement                          12/31/86
Revised Disbursement                          06/30/88
Actual Disbursement-1                         12/31/88
' The rest of the committed funds ($655,000) were cancelled.



Tablg 4
Project Implementation
Indicators                 AAppraisal Estimate      Actual/or PCR
Estimate
1.  Detailed Design Criteria
Modernization               February 1983           February 1983
New Foundry                 April    1983           April    1933
Sand Plant                  February 1983           February 1983
2.  Tecbnical EMnineering
Modernization               December  1983          December  1983
New Foundry                 June       1984         December  1987
Sand Plant                  September 1983          September 1983
3.  Civil Works
Modernization               February  1984          December  1984
New Foundry                 May        1985         July      1987
Sand Plant                  February  1985          May       1987
4. Deliverv and Installation
Modernization               September 1984          July      1987
New Foundry                 November  1985          November  1987
Sand Plant                  May        1985         July      1987
5. Commercial Production
Modernization               December  1984          July      1987
New Foundry                 August    1985          September 1988
Sand Plant                  March      1986         October   1987



Table Sa
Project Cogts and ginancina
A. Project Costs (1000 D.T.)
Appraisaj      Actual
Estimale,J (June 1288)    2ariatio-n
1.  Civil Works                   3,261          7,390          127.0
2.  Equipment                    15,590         16,800            7.8
3.  Installation                  4,521          2.700          -40.0
4.  Taxes                         1,641          2,580           57.0
5.  Tachnical Assistance          1,979          1,300          -34.0
6. Project Management               703          1,070           52.0
7.  Contingencies                 2,769            -               -
8.  Interest Payments             1,624          3,110           91.5
9.  Payments Due (30/9/88)          -            4,000          100.0
Total                        32.088         38.950           214
Fall 1982



Table 5
Project Costs and Financing
B. Project Financing (USS'O000)
Estimated
Planned        ta uriati
IBRD                    16,800          16,300             -3
STUSID                   6,430           7,700             19
BTKD                     4,280           5,100             19
STEI                     4,280           5,100             19
Commercial Banks         0,950           1,200             26
Equity                  21,320          23,000              8
Total              54.060          58.400
LV Variation in U.S.$ is lower than corresponding T.D., due to
devaluation of T.D.



"tacbment1
Pag2 7 of 7
Table 6
Use of Bank Resources
C. iaslsons
Stage of
Project    Montht/  Number of   Days in   Specialization,       Performance/
Cycl       Year    bPrsm         Field     Reoresepted          gai,a   3taE
1.   XhL2=b Appraisal
1.    12/79      1             5          IND
2.    11/80      1             4          IND
3.    04/81      3             7          IND/FIN
4.    06/81      1            10          IND
5.    11/81      2            10          IND/FIN
6.    12/81      1             2          FIN
7.    04/82      3             9          IND/FIN
8.    07/82      2             4          DID/FIN
2.   Suoervisi2
01/83      7             6          IND                    1
09/83      2             6          IND/FIN                1
04/84      2             6          IND/FIN                2
03/85      2            25          DID/FIN                2
06/85      1             7          FIN                    2
03/86      2             8          IND/FIN                2
07/86      1            10          IND                    3
07/87      1             7          IND                    3
06/88      2            13          IND/FIN                4
1)   IND  -  Industry Specialist           2)  1.  Minor Problems
IND  - Financial Specialist               2.  Moderate Problem
3. Major Problem
4. Failure



