Document of
The World Bank
FILEO QP.
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                           _
Report No. P-3573-TUN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$16.8 MILLION
TO THE
SOCIETE DE FONDERIES ET DE MECANIQUE
(SOFOMECA)
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOR A
FOUNDRY MODERNIZATION AND EXPANSION PROJECT
May 10, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Tunisian Dinar (TD)
The exchange rate of the Tunisian Dinar is floating. The rate which is
used in the Staff Appraisal Report approximates the current rate. It is;
1 US $ = IDO.63
I TD   US $1.59
SOFOMECA's Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
ACRONYMS AND ABBVREVIATIONS
AIIC -       Arab Industrial Investment Company
API  -       Investment Promotion Agency
ARMICO -     Arab Mining Company
BTEI -       Tuniso-Emirates Investment Bank
BTKD -       Tuniso-Kuwaiti Development Bank
CMT -        Mechanical Industrial Complex of Tunisia
CNEI -       National Industries Studies Center
CNSS -       National Security Fund
ERR -        Economic Rate of Return
GDP -        Gross Domestic Product
ICB -        International Competitive Bidding
IDB -        Islamic Development Bank
KHD -        Kloeckner-Humboldt-Deutz
OTTEEFP -    Employment Office
SOFOMECA -   Foundry and Mechanical Company
STIA -       Tunisian Automobile Corporation
STUSID -     Tuniso-Saudi Investment and Development Corporation



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF IUNISIA
SOFOMECA FOUNDRY MODERNIZATION AND EXPANSION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:         Societe de Fonderies et de M6canique (SOFONECA)
Guarantor:        Republic of Tunisia
Amount:           US $16.8 million equivalent, including a capitalized front-end
fee.
Terms:            15 years, including three and one-tialt years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Project
Description:      The project would support the Government objective of
developing and efficiently operating the foundry industry
in Tunisia. It would help meet the growing local demana
for foundry products, and improve the quality and cost
competLtiveness of castings thus creating also a sound
basis for exports. It would form an important backwara link
for engineering industries which have been given the highest
priority by the Tunisian Government. Further, it would serve
to strengthen and upgrade technological and managment
capabilities through technical assistance and a management
improvement program. The project consists ot (i) moderni-
zation of SOFOMECA's existing iron and steel foundry by
reorganizing the productive facilities and installing new
equipment; (ii) installation of a new fully-equipped foundry
for mechanical castings; and (iii) construction of a sand
treatment plant to supply Tunisian foundries and other
industrial users with high-quality sand. The project would
belp increase the output of foundry products in Tunisia by
more than 100 percent over present levels at full production,
wbich is expected to be attained in 1988. The main risk of
the project is related to its reliance on two principal
clients for its output. This risk is minimized through
appropriate arrangements between SOFOMECA and its main future
clients and tbrougb flexibility in the product-mix permitting
the opening up of new markets, if necessary.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:
Local             Foreign            Total
-------------US $ Million---------------
Modernization
Civil works                         0.6               0.2                0.8
Equipment                           1.0               7.0                8.0
Engineering and other services    0.1                 0.2 /1             0.3
Subtotal                           1.7               7.4                97
New Foundry
Civil works                         2.8               0.8                3.6
Equipment                           2.7              17.7               20.4
Engineering and other services    0.9                 2.3 /1             3.2
Subtotal                           6.4              20.8               27.2
Sand Treatment
Civil works                         0.1               0.0                0.1
Equipment                           0.1               1.0                1.1
Engineering and other services    0.1                 0.2 /1             0.3
Subtotal                          0.3                125
Total Base Cost                     8.4 /2           29.4               37.8
Physical Contingencies              0.8               3.0                3.8
Price Contingencies                 1.6               5.2                6.8
Incremental Working Capital         2.2              0.9                 3.1
Total Project Cost                 13.0              38.5               51.5
Interest During Constr.            0.4                2.2                2.6
Front-end-fee on Bank Loan           -                0.0 /3             0.0
Total Financing required           13.4              40.7               54.1
Financing Plan:
Local              Foreign           Total
…-------------…US $ Million -----------
Cash generation                     3.5               0.2                3.7
Share capital
STUSID                         2.4               -                   2.4
BTKD                           1.6                                   1.6
BTEI                            1.6              -                   1.6
ARMICO                          0.3               3.9                4.2
AIIC                            0.3               3.9                4.2
IDB                            0.2                3.5                3.7
Total equity                        9.9              11.5               21.4
/1  Including services financed under Project Preparation Facility totalling
$600,000.
/2  Including about $2.2 million in customs duties and other taxes.
/3  $41,895.



- lii -
Local           Foreign            Total
----US$ Million--------------
Bank                                             16.8               16.8
STUSID                          1.1               5.2                6.3
BTKD                           0.7                3.6                4.3
BTEI                           0.7                3.6                4.3
Commercial Bank (local)         1.0               -                  1.0
Total long-term debt                3.5              29.2               32.7
Total financing                    13.4              40.7               54.1
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank  FY  1984    1985    1986
-------- US$ Million----------
Annual                                     1.6       4.0    11.2
Cumulative                                 1.6       5.6    lb.b
Economic Rate of Return:   18 percent
Staff Appraisal Report.   No. 4345a-TUN of May 10, 1983.



*



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOITMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD)
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
SOCIETE DE FONDERIES ET DE MECANIQUE
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF 'rUNISIA
FOR A FOUNDRY MODERNIZATION AND EXPANSION PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recoimmendation on a proposed loan to
the Soci6tC de Fonderies et de M6canique (SOFOMECA) with the guarantee of the
Republic of Tunisia for the equivalent of US$16.8 million to help finance a
foundry modernization and expansion project. The loan, which includes a
capitalized front-end fee of 0.25 percent on the Bank loan, would have a term ot
15 years, including three and one-balf years of grace, at the standard variable
interest rate. The Government of Tunisia would charge SUFOMECA a guarantee fee
of 10 percent per annum of the Bank interest rate on the outstanding and dis-
bursed amount of the Bank loan. The project would be cofinanced through equity
contributions totalling the equivalent of $17.7 million from three locally-
established joint-venture development banks (Tuniso-Saudi Investment and
Development Corporation, Tuniso-Kuwaiti Development Bank and Tuniso-Emirates
Investment Bank), the Arab Mining Company, the Arab Industrial Investment
Company and the Islamic Development Bank as well as through loans from the same
locally-established development banks totalling the equivalent of US$14.9
million at about 12 percent interest per annum, for 13 years including 4 years
of grace.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       A special economic report entitled "Tunisia - Review ot the SiLxth
Development Plan (1982-86)" was prepared by two economic missions which visited
Tunisia in October 1981 and March 1982. A draft of the report serveu as a basis
for discussions with the Government on macroeconomic policies and sectoral
investment programs. The final version of the report includes a main volume
(No. 4137-TUN) dated March 16, 1983, and a second volume on sectoral aspects to
be issued in the near future. This part reflects the report's findings. Coun-
try Data sbeets are attached in Annex I.
3.       Much of Tunisia is arid or semi-arid.  Only three percent ot arable
land is irrigated, and areas where rainfed agriculture is possible are subject
to severe year-to-year fluctuation in rainfall.  Tunisia's most important raw
materials are phosphates, petroleum, and natural gas. While the known exploit-
able reserves of oil and gas are approaching depletion, and the phosphate
deposits are of relatively low quality, there have recently been promising
indications of new hydrocarbon reserves, although it is too early to assess
their exact potential. The country also has considerable tourism potential, and
efforts have been made during the last decade to develop it rapidly.
4.       Since independence in 1956, Tunisia has undertaken a massive effort
towards development of its human resources, paying special attention to family
welfare, education, and technlcal and vocational training. As a result, tne
infant mortality rate declined from 150 in the early 1960s to 90 at the ena ot
the 1970s, the adult literacy rate increased from under 15 percent to about 62
percent, and average caloric supply per capita increased from about 8U to 115
percent of minimum standard requirements. An active family planning policy



- 2 -
pursued by the Government led to a decrease in fertility and birth rates.
However, since at the same time mortality rates also decreased, the annual
natural demographic growth rate decreased only slightly from 2.6 percent in the
1960s to 2.4 percent in the 1970s.  Moreover, after 1976, the net emigration of
Tunisians abroad was sharply reduced by restrictive measures taken in the EEC
countries and Libya.
5.       Agriculture still occupies nearly one out of every three Tunisians in
the labor force. To accelerate Job creation, more than half of the total
investments of the Fifth Plan (l976-8l) was allocated to directly productive
sectors, but the direct emplornent effects of the leading sectors (petroleum,
phosphate mining and processing, and tourism) are small. These sectors, how-
ever, make a vital contribution to GDP, public savings, and exports. They
provided 53 percent of the country's foreign exchange earnings in l9b2 while
manufacturing activities, except phosphate-based chemicals, provided 19 percent.
6.       Recent Economic Developments.  During the Fifth Plan the growth perfor-
mance differed from the impressive growtb acbieved from 1971 to 1976, not so
much in terms of overall growth as in terms of the underlying growth factors:
output in agriculture and in food industries has grown on average below the
aemographic rate since 1976, partially as a result of bad weather conaitions;
textile production and tourism development grew at a slower pace than projected
mainly because of difficulties in European miarkets. By contrast, manufacturing
industry other than textiles, as well as energy, phosphate processing, construc-
tion, and construction materials expanded at a fast pace.
7.       In spite of the considerable increase in domestic demand, particularly
in investments, the balance of payments situation remained favorable from 1976
to 1981. Imports in current prices grew at a slower pace than exports, and the
terms of trade improved significantly due to sbarply higner post-1974 export
prices for crude oil. As a result, the resource gap remained relatively small,
and domestic savings financed on average over 76 percent of investment, which
increased from an average of 23 percent of GDP for 1972-76 to 30 percent for
1977-81. The current account deficit averaged $450 million per year (1977-81),
and was easily financed; grant aid and private investments (mainly for oil
exploration) provided about 30 percent, while the remainder was mainly covered
by long-term foreign borrowing. Thus, during the 1970s total foreign debt
increased little relative to GDP, and the debt service ratio dropped.
8.       The public sector has played a major role in mobilizing and redistribu-
ting domestic resources. Central Government revenues were equivalent to about
one-third of GDP on average for the Fifth Plan period, one of the highest shares
among middle-income countries. Over 30 percent of these revenues was saved, and
public savings financed close to two-thirds of total Government capital expen-
ditures. This comfortable public finance situation permitted a rapid increase
in payments to private consumers and public enterprises. Sucb tranfers, includ-
ing those for social security, accounted for 19 percent of total current budget
outlays and over 7 percent of GDP in 1981.
9.       The main objectives of the Fifth Development Plan were achieved, except
for the employment target, and open and hidden unemployment remains a serious
problem for the Tunisian economy at present. The actual GDP growth fell short
by 1.2 percentage points of the planned rate of 7.3 percent p.a., mainly because
of poor performance in agriculture, while the investment objective-of $9.8 bil-
lion in current prices, or 30 percent of GDP, was fully met. Completion of some



- 3 -
large projects in the public sector (steel, expansion of the oil refinery) was,
however, delayed, but private sector investments, both toreign and national,
exceeded Plan targets. Although job creation objectives were achieved in all
non-agricultural sectors except construction, these sectors could only absorb 90
percent of new job seekers at a time when migration to Libya and Europe slowed
down. The overall unemployment rate, estimated at about 12 percent Ot the labor
force in 1980, bas therefore not declined.
10.      In 1982, the current economic situation suftered a series of setbacks,
and GDP increased by only 1.5 percent in constant prices.  Three factors
accounted for this poor perfonrance: adverse weather conditions which depressed
agricultural output and consequently, agro-industrial output; recession in
Europe which reduced exports, particularly chemicals and tourism; and excep-
tional technical problems in key intermediate industries (cement, steel,
phosphate-processing). The slowdown in output, coupled with a large increase in
minimum wages and some price liberalization led to an unusually high inflation
(13.7 percent) in 1982. On the balance of payments side, despite the fall in
petroleum prices, the current account deficit did not exceed the level foreseen
for 1982 in the Sixth Plan, because the volume of petroleum exports was higher
than expected. However, this deficit still reflects a substantial deterioration
compared to earlier years. It was covered, in equal parts, by a substantial
inflow of direct foreign investment and by medium and long-term credits at
relatively favorable terms.
11.      Mediun-term Prospects.  The Sixth Development Plan (1982-86) was
approved by the Parliament in July 1982. The main objectives are employment
generation, export promotion, and more rapid growth in the three least developed
regions of the country (North-West, Center-West, and South). Sectoral priority
is to be given to agriculture, engineering industries, and tourism.
12.      The outlook for investment and growth during this period and beyond
will partly depend upon future developments in the oil and natural gas sector.
Oil and gas exploration programs under way have been encouraging. Based on
known reserves, and with the possible exploitation ot smaller fields that
recently became profitable, it is generally expected that domestic oil and gas
production would at best be, stabilized at about its present annual level ot 5-6
million tons of oil equivalent until the end of the decade. Barring large new
oil or gas discoveries, and gLven the rapid rise in domestic demand for energy,
Tunisia will have to face the consequences of a decline in energy revenues. The
Government considers that the situation requires immeaiate policy changes and
bas introduced the most urgent ones in the Sixth Plan. By introducing these
changes on time, Tunisia expects to reduce the associated economic and social
strains, and avoid major balance-of-payments problems.
13.      The Sixth Plan recommends a GDP growtb objective in the range of 5.9 to
6.1 percent depending on agricultural performance. This growth rate will be
difficult to achieve in view of the poor 1982 performance. Projected growth of
traditional exports (tourism, textiles, and phosphate-based chemicals) is
insufficient to compensate for the projected decline in oil export revenues;
these exports should be supplemented by new ones, in particular engineering
products. Production diversification and export promotion will, however, take
time to bear fruit. The Plan strategy tberefore rightly aims at containing
domestic demand in order to control import growth. The macroeconomic scenario
assumes no improvement in terms of trade, as was brought about by oil price
rises in 1973-74 and in 1979-80. This would not only affect tne external account
but also result in slower growth of domestic savings, particularly public sav-
ings.



-4-
14.      Consequently, the Sixtb Plan projects a drop in the fixed investment
rate from 30 percent of GDP in 1977-81 to about 25 percent for the Plan perioc
This would still imply an increase of 24 percent in constant prices relative to
the Fifth Plan investment. A major objective is to correct recent capital
intensive biases in projects by appropriate sectoral allocation of investments.
More resources would be allocated to small and medium manufacturing enterprises
in the underdeveloped regions, in order to ease the unemployment problem and
reduce income disparities between rural and urban areas.  Since June 1981, ae
set of policy measures has targeted the incentive system toward this objective.
The Investment Code was modified to offer free industrial zones and direct sub-
sidies to job creation for new projects in underdeveloped regions, and a Promo-
tion Fund for Handicrafts and Household Workshops was created. In order to
promote a more efficient technical and financial management of the public and
private modern sectors, the Plan assigns a major role in project promotion and
supervision to an expanded network of new development banks (two opened in 1981
and three in 1982); they are joint ventures with foreign investors and should
alleviate the pressure on the budget to finance too large a share of public
investments.
15.      Increasing budgetary constraints will require a reassessment or the
present policies of subsidies for energy, basic foodstuffs, transportation, anr
public sector enterprises. In addition, interest rate policy ana a better-
adjusted fiscal system should be used to restrain final consumption and stimu-
late savings.  As first encouraging steps in 1981 and in early 1982, sizeabie
price increases in energy and agricultural products were implemented, and tbe
whole interest rate structure was revised upward, rates on saving accounts and
term deposits and industrial lending rates being increased by 1.5 to 2 points.
There was a sizeable increase of the legal minimum wage (30 percent) in harch
1982, mainly to improve the low-wage earners' living conditions, but the Govern-
ment recognizes that overall wage and salary policies should keep labor cost
increases (including social costs chargeable to enterprises) in line with
productivity increases, particularly since Tunisia wants to stimulate tourism;
and improve its international competitiveness for exports of manufactured goods.
16.      Social Issues.  Tunisia's social performance has been impressive since
independence, and the country has come a long way towards meeting the basic
needs of its population and reducing absolute poverty. About 16 percent of GDP
is now devoted to social programs. However, unemployment among the young and
regional pockets of poverty still present serious social problems.
17.      Recently published data show that the continued attention of the
Government to poverty oriented social programs resulted in a reduction of the
ratio of people under a minimum standard income from 17 percent of the total
population in 1975 to 13 percent in 1980.  During this period, the overall
number of this group declined in urban areas but remained the same in some rural
zones in the center of the country, as a consequence of poor agricultural
performance. Income differentials between the coast (East) and the interiLor
(West) widened, in part because the system of price controls and subsidies as
well as budgetary expenditures bad a weak redistributive impact. The Government
is using the forthcoming Plan to focus on the zones of poverty, with a view to
eradicating them before the end of this century. Reducing the demographic
growth rate is considered an important factor in this endeavor.
18.      Education expenditures rank first among budgetary outlays.  The compre-
hensive education system provides free access to all students, and the gross



enrollment rate has reached 100 percent for primary education, and 30 percent
for secondary education. The performance of the system could, however, be
improved by expanding vocational training programs, iaproving their relevance
and responsiveness to labor demand, and to the special needs of the poor and
rural groups.
19.      Public health services are second among social expenditures, ana their
overall beneficial effect is reflected in the improvement of the vital statis-
tics (para. 4). There remain, however, regional disparities in the availability
*          of hospital beds, doctors and nursing personnel; bealth services have concen-
trated largely on curative medicine, and the medical referral system is not
functioning properly. As a result, the rural poor are often excluded. Closely
4          linked to nutritional deficiencies, infant mortality remains high relative to
middle-income countries.
20.      In the Sixth Plan, investment in education, health, housing and water
supply is focussed more on deprived areas, provided at lower costs (health,
shelter), and made more relevant to the needs of the economy (training). In
education, two reforms are under discussion: the first one would provide a
nine-year schooling period for all children, and the second would create poly-
technical high schools combining basic and technical education. In health, the
Sixth Plan allocates more resources to preventive medicine and nutrition educa-
tion. Finally, as regards housing, public subsidized programs will be directed
to the neediest population groups. The housing demand from households above the
minimum standard income limit will be satisfied by the private sector.
21.      External Assistance and Foreign Debt.  During the second halt ot the
1970s, the growth of foreign borrowing was modest and a growing share of toreign
funds was provided by public sources at relatively soft terms. Foreign loan
commitments averaged about $700 million per annum, 62 percent of which in tne
form of official assistance (ODA).  About 65 percent of ODA commitments came
from bilateral sources, chiefly France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Canada,
and some oil-surplus countries. About 24 percent of total ODA was committed by
the Bank Group, and some 11 percent by other multilateral sources. Borrowing
terms were favorable, averaging 5.8 percent interest and 18.J years maturity,
including a grace period of 5 years. At the end of 1982, debt outstanding and
disbursed was estimated at about $3.5 billion, or 44 percent of GNP; because
exports declined substantially, debt service was 16 percent of exports of goods
and services, as compared with 13 percent in 1981.
22.      The current account deficit reached $690 million in 1982, and is
projected to grow to about $1.0 billion in 1986.  New loan comLitments from
abroad, projected at $1.2 billion per year on average (at present dollar
exchange rates), should not be difficult to obtain, witn ODA providing halt ot
the total. Leaving aside the possibility of major oil and gas discoveries,
external debt service would remain at about 13 percent of total export revenues
until 1986.
23.      These relatively favorable prospects would depend on a timely impleiaen-
tation of policy changes to curb domestic demand, promote exports, and improve
public sector savings. It should be noted, however, that the Sixth Plan
recommends a low growth scenario in order to preserve the country's relatively
high financial stability and creditworthiness. This objective is even more
crucial if the country is to succeed in mobilizing the large inflows of direct
foreign capital assumed in the Plan. Foreign investments were small during most



- 6 -
of the 1970s but have gained momentum during the last three years in line With
increased activities in the oil sector, and new incentives offered to foreign
investors in manufacturing.  Such investments have increased from $50 million in
1976 to about $200 million in 1981, and have been equivalent to 10 percent of
total investments for 1977-81. The Plan's growth scenario estimates that about
15 percent of total investment could be financed by foreign capital, equivalent
to an annual inflow of $400 million. The newly created development banks (para.
14) are expected to play a significant role in this context.
24.      In conclusion, the balance-of-payments outlook in the medium term will               a
depend on developments in the hydrocarbon sector and on the policy changes to be
initiated during the next few years. In the 1983 Budget Law, the Government
reiterates its determination to implement all needed policy measures to preserve
macroeconomic equilibrium. Considering its long record of prudent and skillful
balance-of-payments and external debt management, there are good grounds to
assume that it will formulate and implement the necessary policy changes and
will continue to be creditworthy for future Bank lending. The Bank's close
dialogue with the Government on several policy aspects at ttue macro and micro
levels will be pursued in connection with the implementation of the Sixth
Development Plan.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TUNISIA
25.      Since 1962, the Bank has conmiitted to Tunisia fifty-five loans /1 and
eleven IDA credits amounting respectively to $1,158.8 million and $70.0 million
(net of cancellations) of which thirty-two loans and credits have been fully
disbursed. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and
IFC investments as of March 31, 1983, and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects. Project implementation is generally satisfactory. As of December 31,
1982, overall disburseaents amounted to 55 percent of appraisal estimates, which
compares favorably with other countries in the region. Disbursement performance
for irrigation, industrial finance and port projects has generally been above
the country average, while larger than average disbursement delays have been
experienced for agricultural credit, education, highway, urban and fisheries
projects, due to project specific problems that are being addressed through
supervision missions and sector discussions. In a number of sectors, important
institutional improvements have been achieved, and autonomous agencies have been
created or strengthened to ensure the efficient management of the related sec-
tors or subsectors.
26,      The Bank's lending strategy in Tunisia aims at supporting Government
efforts to: (a) increase employment; (b) encourage more balanced growth and
distribution of income among regions and income groups with particular emphasis
on rural areas, and on operations targeted to low-income population groups; (c)
promote export-oriented policies, technological changes and improvements In
labor productivity; and (d) provide selective support for the development ot
basic infrastructure and for institution building in key public services. An
important feature of this strategy is to support the Tunisian authorities in the
timely and well-coordinated preparation of projects through missions and advice
by Bank staff, the assistance of the IBRD/FAO Cooperative Program, the use of
/1 Excluding a loan of $25 million tor a Sfax Flood Protection project
scheduled for consideration by the Executive Directors on May 24, 1983.



-7 -
the Bank's Project Preparation Facility, and a Technical Assistance project
(para. 27). The Bank is also supporting the Government in its efforts to
increase the mobilization of domestic resources, and to secure cofinancing for
the projects it assists. The latter is particularly important in view of the
extent of Tunisia's external resource needs.
27.      Within this broad framework, past lending emphasizea support tor
long-term investments in infrastructure and social development. Lending for
urban and social development, including water supply, sewerage, education,
health, urban development, and the Tunis planning and public transport project
has accounted for 31 percent of Bank/IDA commitments in Tunisia since 1971.
Lending for transport, power and tourism infrastructure has accounted for 29
percent.  Agriculture and fisheries have received 24 percent, and industrial and
hotel financing, mostly through the Economic Development Bank of Tunisia (BDET),
16 percent of total commitments. In addition, earlier this tiscal year, the
Bank made a first loan for technical assistance aimed at improving the Govern-
ment's capability for project identification and preparation.
28.      In line witb its lending strategy, the Bank will pursue its efforts in
key sectors of the economy that offer prospects for economic and social develop-
ment. It will also assist projects which address the needs of the least
developed regions of the country, develop research capabilities, increase
productivity, and help reduce the gap between income groups, and between urban
and rural areas. Particular attention will be paid to employment creation,
institution building, and agricultural development. In add-tion to the proposed
foundry project, proposed future lending would include projects in agricultural
research and extension, regional development, export industry and energy, rural
bealth, water supply and electrification, urban development and technical assis-
tance to the mining sector.
29.      The Bank's economic and sector work will continue to tocus on
strengthening the macroeconomic and sector base for our lending program. It
will be centered on the analysis of economic issues and policies related to the
necessary adaptation process from a petroleum exporting to a petroleum importing
country. This analysis, which was included in the special economic report
entitled "Tunisia - Review of the Sixth Development Plan (1982-86)"
(No. 4137-TUN), dated March 16, 1983, will be pursued by an updating economic
mission tentatively scheduled for early 1984. Further economic and sector work
will include a review of employment issues, of Lncentive and prLcing policies
(in association with the study on effective protection), a study of the finan-
cial system, and reviews of the education and management training, transport,
energy and construction materials sectors.
30.      The Bank and IDA accounted tor about 19 percent of total public coniait-
ments to Tunisia during 1979-1980. Their share in total debt outstanding and
disbursed at the end of 1980 (including loans trom private sources) was 11 per-
cent and their share in debt service during 1980 was 9 percent. The share of
the Bank and IDA in Tunisia's disbursed external debt is expected to remain at
about 10 percent and their share in the debt service to increase to about 13
percent through 1986.
31.      IFU has invested in NPK Engrais (a fertilizer plant), in BDET, in
Compagnie Financiere et Touristique (COFIT, a company to promote and invest in
tourism projects), in Societe Touristique et Hoteliore RYM (a large hotel
development), in industries Chimiques du Fluor, which produces aluminum fluoride



from local fluorspar for export, and in the Sousse-Nord integrated tourism
development project. IFC's net commitments in Tunisia totalled $9.9 miLlion, as
of March 31,. 1983. Currently, IFC is considering a fertilizer project which
would produce pbosphoric acid for export.
PART III - THE MANUFACTURING SECTOR,
THE ENGINEERING INDUSTRIES SUBSECTOR AND THE FOUNDRY INDUST'RY
32.      The Manufacturing Sector,   Over the past two decades, manufacturing
has been among the fastest-growing sectors of the Tunisian economy. Growth in
value added of manufacturing accelerated from 7.9 percent per annum during the
1960s to 10.3 percent per annum during the 1970s; its contributLon to GDP (at
factor cost) increased from 7.7 percent in 1961 to 9.4 percent in 1971 and 14.3
.percent in 1981. In terms of job creation, the contribution of the sector has
been even more impressive. While in 1961, manufacturing absorbed about 8 per-
cent of the labor force, twenty years later it had become, after agriculture, a
major source of employment providing jobs to about 20 percent of the labor
force. In this period, exports of manufactured goods also increased, part of
textiles and heavy chemicals. Consequently, despite the very rapid growth in
the value of crude oil exports, the sector's share in commodity exports remained
at above 40 percent.
33.      In response to Government policies, the structure of the sector under-
went significant changes over the past twenty years. While in the 1960s, indus-
trialization focussed on establishing mostly public-sector, capital-intensive
and import-substitution enterprises, the emphasis changed in the 1970s, placing
greater reliance on the private sector tor the establishment of labor-inteosive
units often oriented towards export markets. The export-promotion law of 1972
provided substantial fiscal incentives to foreign firms, and attracted a large
number of "off-shore" industrial ventures which took advantage of Tunisia's
relatively low labor cost. A law introduced in 1974, provided special fiscal
incentives for investment and employment creation by domestic investors. Never-
theless, pervasive administrative control of the economy as well as weaknesses
in the incentive framework made the emergence of a strong private sector in
manufacturing a slow process. The public sector still plays a dominant role,
particularly as regards large and medium-sized enterprises. Despite a rapid
increase in private-sector investment during the 1970s (about two thirds of all
manufacturing enterprises are now privately-owned), over 60 percent of all
investment in manufacturing during 1977-81 was undertaken by the public sector.
34.      The Sixth Development Plan (1982-86) continues to give manufacturing an
important place in meeting the Government objectives of employment creation,
export promotion and decentralization. A large share of the planned investments
in manufacturing (projected at TDl.6 billion in current prices or 19.5 percent
of total Plan investment) would focus on labor-intensive industries, particular-
ly in the private sector. Manufacturing value added is projected to grow at
about 10.5 percent per annum in real terms, slightly faster than the growth rate
achieved during the past decade. The sector is expected to continue its impor-
tance as a provider of jobs by absorbing more than one third of the additional
labor force. The objectives of the Sixth Plan are supported by a revised
Investment Code and a new Fund for Handicraft and Smallscale Industries. Both
were introduced in 1981. The revised Investment Code provides fiscal incen-
tives for the decentralization of industrial investment and job-creation, and
introduces modifications to the existing legislation aimed at increasing the
local value added in manufacturing and promoting exports. The new Handicraft



- 9 -
and Smallscale Industries Fund provides finance for small-scale industrial and
semi-industrial operations with investments below TD20,000 which previously had
no access to organized credit. In addition, further measures for the encourage-
ment of exports through rebates of customs duties on imported raw materials and
intermediate goods were introduced in early 1983.
35.      These measures represent important improvements in the fiscal and
financial incentive framework for manufacturing. However, they do not adequate-
ly address constraints to the development of the sector caused by shortages of
experienced industrialists/promoters and skilled personnel. Several Government-
sponsored organizations, such as the Investment Promotion Agency (API), the
National Industrial Studies Center (CNEI) and the Employment Office (OTTEEFP),
focus on these issues, partly assisted by Bank-financed projects. They help in
the preparation of projects, the solution of management and technical problems
within enterprises and the training of technicians. The measure of success of
these agencies will be critical in achieving the Government's objectives in
manufacturing for the Sixth Plan.
36.      Engineering Industries Subsector.  The engineering industries (also
called "electrical and mechanical industries") started to develop in the early
l960s. Due to the establishment of a few large public-sector basic industries
(steel mills, foundries), growth was rapid during the l960s, and continued in
the 1970s. The subsector was studied by a Bank mission in 1979 ("Tunisia -
Review of the Electrical and Mechanical Industries", Report No. 2666-TUN of June
4, 1980). In 1981, it represented 14 percent of value added and 12 percent of
employment in manufacturing. Although the subsector is dominated by about a
dozen large enterprises (steel mills, foundries, ship repair, vehicle assembly,
household appliances, mechanical hardware), most of the enterprises are small
and medium-sized engaged in steel structure and plate work., metal products and
intermediate goods. The subsector is oriented towards the local market largely
assembling imported components. The growing number of assembly industries has
led to a low degree of integration within the subsector and to higher imports of
intermediate and capital goods. Low efficiency in the subsector is generally
due to the absence of foreign competition, which results from import licensing.
However, the Government intends to reduce gradually its reliance on quantitative
restrictions in favor of tariff protection. In the context of a recent Bank
loan for electrical and mechanical industries (para. 40), the Government agreed
to limit the effect of licensing so that prices of locally produced goods in the
subsector will not be more than l8 percent above those of comparable foreign
goods, and is preparing to rationalize the tariff structure through a study on
effective protection.
37.      In the Sixth Plan, the engineering industry, with an annual growth rate
of 15.2 percent, would become the most dynamic subsector in manufacturing. The
priority given to engineering industries results from a number of factors.
Tunisia has a comparative advantage in selected engineering product lines, due
to (i) its relatively low wages (despite recent substantial wage adjustments -
para. 15), (ii) the increasing competence of its labor force, and (lii) its
proximity to markets in the EEC and Arab countries which facilitates exports,
particularly through technical licencing and marketing arrangements with foreign
partners. A considerable import-substitution potential exists in several inter-
mediate and capital goods industries witb relatively small economic scales of
production.



- 10 -
38.       The Foundry Industry.  The Tunisian foundry industry is dominated by
two public enterprises (Societd de Fonderies et de Mecanique - SOFOMECA and
Fonderies R4unies) which account for 90% of total capacity and output of cast-
ings. In 1982, foundry production amounted to 7,800 tons representing about 33
percent of consumption. With Bank assistance, the Government analysed the
industry in 1982, to assess its potential and prepare a strategy for develop-
ment. The major recommendations of this study are to (i) raise productivity;
the production facilities of the two major existing foundries should be
rehabilitated and modernized, and the production range of each foundry rational-
ized (SOFOMECA concentrating on the upper quality range of castings and
Fonderies Reunies on the lower quality range); a program of technical assistance
should raise the quality of the labor force and address weaknesses in management
organization and deficiencies in plant lay-out; (ii) raise the quality of the
foundry products; new sand quarries and a treatment plant should be established
and quality and control standards be introduced; and (iii) expand the foundry
capacity; this would apply botb to existing products and to new product lines
for mechanical castings which should be integrated into downstream assembly
plants.
39.      The SOFOMECA Foundry Modernization and Expansion project would
implement the recommendations of the foundry study, as they apply to SOFOMECA.
The Fonderies Reunies project is still under preparation and is expected to lead
to the modernization and expansion of Fonderies Reunies increasing its capacity
from 3,500 tons per year (tpy) to 7,000 tpy mainly of traditional castings.  In
addition, the Government is discussing with potential foreign partners the
establishment of several entirely export-oriented foundries. One such project
(with Peugeot of France) is at an advanced stage of preparation.
40.       Bank Role in Manufacturing.   Apart from one loan for the rehaoilita-
tion of the textile industry (Loan No. 2012-TUN of October 27, 1981) the Econo-
mic Development Bank of Tunisia (BDET) has been the major vehicle for channeling
Bank funds to manufacturing. This development finance company has received to
date eight Bank loans totalling about $126 million of which about $33 million
are undisbursed as of March 31, 1983. Most of these funds financed manufactur-
ing industries. Bank loans have helped meet BDET's resource requirements while
assisting in strengthening its organization and improving its performance.
Through its representative on BDET's board, IFC has contributed significantly in
this regard.   The Project Performance Audit Report of September 1981 on loans
Nos. 648-TUN, 798-TUN and 881-TUN, covering the third (1969), fourth (1972) and
fifth (1973) loans to BDET, concluded that considerable progress had been made
in terms of institution building and management performance, and that these
loans have contributed to changing BDET's role from a supplier of equity funds
for public sector industries, to that of financier and advisor of private inves-
tors.  However, BDET's promotion and supervision capacity, and its evaluation of
physical and financial contingencies of projects needed strengthening. The
seventh loan to BDET (Loan No. 1504-TUN of 1978) addressed some of these issues,
and was associated with credit line to the Government for a pilot Small-scale
Industries (SSI) scheme (Loan No. 1505-TUN of 1978). The latter prepared the
ground for a $30 million loan to SSI through commercial banks and BDET as inter-
mediaries (Loan No. 1969-TUN of 1981). A loan to BDET for electrical and
mechanical industries (Loan No. 2113-TUN of 1982), in addition to providing
resources for this important manufacturing subsector through a line of credit,
addresses several policy issues in the subsector, such as the levels of protec-
tion and import tariffs, and the lack of technical knowhow and industrial
standards.



- 11 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
41.      Background.   The proposed project was identified during a Bank mission
to review development and prospects of the electrical and mechanical industries
(Report No.2666 of June 4, 1980) in February/March 1979, and was prepared by the
Government and SOFONECA with the help of consultants. Project preparation was
partly financed tbrough the Bank's Project Preparation Facility (PPF of July 26,
1982, amounting to $600,000). The project was appraised in October 1982, and
negotiations were held in Washington in April 1983. The Tunisian delegation was
led by Mr. Mabmoud Sifaoui, President and Director General of SOFOMEGA, and
included representatives of the Ministry of Planning and Finance, the President
and Director General of the Tunisian Automobile Corporation (STIA) and the
Deputy Director General of the Mechanical Industries Complex of Tunisia (CMT).
A report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report; Tunisia - SOFONECA Foundry Moderniza-
tion and Expansion Project" (No.4345a-TUN of May 10, 1983) is being distribut-
ed separately to the Executive Directors. The main teatures of the project are
summarized in the Loan and Project Summary and in Annex III. A map showing the
project location is attached.
42.      The Borrower.  SOFOMECA was establisbed as an independent corporation
in 1966, and is today the largest foundry company in Tunisia. Its production
facilities consist of an iron foundry (3,400 tpy capacity), a steel foundry
(1,800 tpy) and a machine shop with an assembly area for railway bogies (70,000
man-hours per year). Production increased steadily over the past tive years and
reached 90 percent of capacity in 1982, with about 21 percent of sales destined
to exports. The Government presently holds 87.2 percent of SOFUMECA's share
capital directly, the remainder being held by the company's main domestic
clients, wbich are also mainly publicly-owned. The company's board consists of
representatives of its sbareholders and a local bank and is headed by its
general manager. As a result of the project, the ownership structure of the
company (and its board) will change. Existing shareholders will own about 10
percent of the company while the majority of shares will be held by semi-public
and private local and foreign entities (para. 51).
43.      With over 500 employees, the company is one of the most important
industrial enterprises in the country. Its staff is competent and adequately
skilled in the technologies used by the company. Certain deficiencies in
SOFOMECA's financial, technical and commercial organization and management are
addressed by the project. A recently created internal audit and management
control unit reporting directly to the General Manager will focus on improve-
ments in the company's financial organization, such as general and cost account-
ing, pricing, budgeting and control, and other selected areas. Assurances have
been obtained from SOFOMECA during negotiations that it will implement a program
for the improvement of its organization and management in these areas, submit
quarterly progress reports, starting March 31, 1984 on this program to the Bank
for its review, and take any remedial action to ensure the timely execution of
the program (Loan Agreement, Section 4.08). In addition, an understanding was
reached with SOFOMECA during negotiations on the detailed contents of the
program and a timetable for its implementation. Moreover, the company bas
established and will maintain a management performance monitoring system to
follow the attainment of key financial and cechnical indicators and targets for
the company. Quarterly reports showing the results of the company's operations
in terms of such indicators and targets will be turnisbed to the Bank for review
starting January 1, 1984. Assurances to this effect have been obtained from
the company during negotiations. Assurances have also been obtained that the



- 12 -
company would take any remedial action to ensure that the performance targets
are met (Loan Agreement, Section 4.07). Furthermore, an understanding has been
reached on the individual indiLcators and targets and on a timetable tor attain-
ing them.
44.      Project Objective.  The proposed project would continue the Bank's
assistance in developing the engineering industry which has been given the
highest priority by the Tunisian Government in the manufacturing sector. The
objective of the project is to contribute towards the development of an
efficiently operating Tunisian foundry industry by (i) meeting the growing local
demand for foundry products; (ii) improving the quality and cost competitive-
ness of castings, whicb would also create a basis for exports. A further expan-
sion of the Tunisian foundry industry is envisaged through other projects (para.
39). Assurances were obtained from the Government at negotiations that it shall
not modify its general policies affecting the industry or undertake any new
important project in the industry oriented towards the Tunisian market, without
prior consultation with the Bank (Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.03). The
project would be a key element for the development of engineering industries in
Tunisia, since it would create an important backward linkage, thus promoting
intrasectoral integration in a technologically crucial area.
Project Description.
45.      The project woul'd have the following components:  (i) modernization of
existing facilities; (ii) establishment of a new foundry for mechanical cast-
ings; and (iii) establishment of a sand treatment plant.
46.      Modernization of existing facilities.  In the existing iron foundry,
the molding, material handling and sand preparation sections would be modified
by streamlining the plant layout and installing additional modern equipment.
These modifications would increase capacity from 3,400 tpy to ),200 tpy, improve
quality of products, reduce the rate of rejects and simplify maintenance opera-
tions, thus increasing labor productivity and reducing unit cost of production.
In the existing steel foundry, the molding centers would be modernized through
additional machinery, the material flow improved through new equipment and the
coremaking and finishing shops reorganized. As a result, the production
capacity would be increased from 1,800 to 2,300 tpy permitting at the same time
a better quality of products. In addition, the capacity of the machine shop
would also be expanded by installing macbine tools for valves and brake drums.
47.      New foundry for mechanical castings.  Adjacent to the existing foundry,
a fully equipped new foundry would be constructed to produce up to 7,000 tpy of
iron castings for mechanical parts. The planned facilities would permit a high
degree of flexibility with regard to product-mix. The layout of the buildings
would take into account a future capacity expansion to 12,000 tpy in a second
phase.
48.      Sand treatment plant.  The quality of foundry products depends largely
on the quality of sand used in the molding process. To improve the quality of
SOFOMECA's castings and to meet the required specifications for mechanical cast-
ings, the project includes a sand treatment plant which would be constructed
adjacent to the foundry site.  The plant would receive sand troni two quarries
near Bizerte and Hammamet, each located about 60 kilometers from the SOFOMECA
plant, clean the sand of impurities and fines, and distribute it pneumatically
to work centers.  The sand treatment plant would have a capacity of 20,000 tpy
when operating in two shifts and be able to supply sand not only to SOFOMECA but
also to other foundries and to other industrial users of high-quality sand.



- 13 -
49.      Project Cost and Financing Plan.   The total cost of the project
(excluding interest during construction) is estimated at $51.5 million of which
$38.5 million in foreign exchange. These costs include about $2.2 million of
taxes. In line witb accounting practices of SOFOMECA, interest during con-
struction amounting to $2.6 million has been capitalized. It is expected to be
financed through equity. The base cost estimates have been updated to March
1983 levels. They provide adequate physical (10 percent) and price con-
tingencies (6 percent for 9 months of 1983, 7.5 percent for 1984, 7 percent for
1985 and 6 percent for 1986, for foreign cost and 7.5 percent for 9 months of
1983, 9 percent for 1984, 8 percent for 1985 and tbereafter, for local cost).
Engineering, procurement and supervision services are estimated to require 90
man-months of foreign and 30 man-months of local consultants which are costed at
$15,400 and $3,100 per man-month, respectively, including fees, travel, over-
-heads and other expenses. The relatively-high cost for foreign consultants is
explained by industry standards for specialized services. In addition, tne
project cost estimate includes $1.3 million for technical and training
assistance that SOFOMECA will obtain, including that from Kloeckner-Humboldt-
Deutz (KHD) of the Federal Republic of Germany (para. 52).
50.      The proposed Bank loan of $16.8 million would be made to SOFOMECA,
whicb would carry the foreign exchange and interest rate risks. The loan would
cover 41 percent of the estimated foreign financing requirements, or 31 percent
of total financing requirements, including the front-end fee of $41,895. It
would have a term of 15 years including three and one-half years of grace, at
the Bank's standard variable interest rate. SOFOMECA would pay 10 percent of the
Bank's interest rate to the Government as a guarantee fee (Loan Agreement,
Section 2.10 and Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.06). The Bank's PPF of $600,000
which financed part of project preparation (para. 41) would be repaid out of the
Bank loan at effectiveness, to the extent that it would bave been withdrawn at
that time. Engineering services are being provided by the Swiss consultant firm
Georg Fiscber, whicb participated in project preparation. The Bank would also
finance the services of KHD (para. 52).
51.      The project would be cofinanced with six local and toreign financial
institutions. The local institutions are recently-established joint-venture
development banks (Tuniso-Saudi Investment and Development Corporation - STUSID;
Tuniso-Kuwaiti Development Bank - BTKD; Tuniso-Emirates Investment Bank - BTEI)
which would provide $5.6 million as equity and $14.9 as long-term loans. It is
expected that the loans would be at 12 percent interest per annum for 13 years
including 4 years of grace. Additional share capital amounting to $12.1 million
would be raised externally from the Arab Mining Company (ARMICO), the Arab
Industrial Investment Company (AIIC) and the Islamic Development Bank (IDB). A
contribution from SOFOMECA's cash generation of $3.7 million and a commercial
bank loan ($1.0 million) would provide the balance of the financing require-
ments. The boards of four of the cofinancing institutions have already approved
their contributions, and approvals by the remaining two institutions (BTEI and
IDB) are expected in the near future. The fulfillment of all effectiveness
conditions of the loan agreements between SOF0kECA and STUSID, BTKD and BTEI,
except the effectiveness of the Bank Loan Agreement, the increase in SOFOMECA's
share capital, the full subscription to the increase, the paying-in of a minimum
of 25% of the share capital upon subscription, would be conditions of effective-
ness of the Bank loan (Loan Agreement, Section 7.01 (a) and (c)). An under-
standing was reached with SOFOMECA during negotiations that an additional 50
percent of the share capital would be called by June 30, 1984 and the remaining
25 percent by March 31, 1985 in line with the expected progress in the implemen-
tation of the project. A Colenders' Agreement among the Bank and the local
development banks specifying mutual obligations of coordination of actions,



- 14 -
exchange of information and consultation regarding project execution would be
signed at a time close to signature of the Bank loan. A suspension under any of
the colenders' loan agreements with SOFOMECA would give the Bank the right of
suspension under the Bank Loan Agreement (Loan Agreement, Section 6.UI(b)). In
case of inadequacy of funds to complete the project SOFOMECA would make arrange-
ments with its shareholders or others to obtain such funds. Assurances to this
effect were obtained at negotiations (Loan Agreement, Section 5.13). SOFOMECA's
present shareholders have already, through a decision of the SOFOMECA General
Asssembly, undertaken to ensure the provision of all funds to complete the
project. SOFOMECA has indicated that it expects the future shareholders to
accept the same undertaking. The Government also agreed to ensure the timely
provision of funds, including those for any cost overruns to complete the
project, as a backup guarantee (Guarantee Agreement, Section 2.02).
52.      Project Implementation.  SOFOMECA would implement the project over two
and one-half years and complete physical works by the end of 1985. The respon-
sibility within SOFOMECA for project implementation would lie with a Project
Management Group (PMG), which would be headed by the company's technical direc-
tor, and include personnel qualified in technical, budget and project control
matters. Assurances were obtained from SOFOMECA during negotiations that it
will establish and fully staff and equip to the satisfaction of the Bank the PMG
by December 31, 1983 (Loan Agreement, Section 3.02). In preparing the detailed
engineering, in procurement, construction management and supervision, SOFOMECA
would be assisted by Georg Fischer (para. 50). This company is expected to
subcontract civil engineering tc a co_nsortium consisting of the Swiss company
Suter and the Tunisian company STUDI. Assistance in introducing the new
equipment and technology, and training would be provided by KHD, the technical
partner of SOFOMECA's main prospective client, Complexe Mecanique de Tunisie
(CMT). The signing of a formal agreement between SOFOMECA and KED on this
assistance would be a condition of effectiveness of the loan (Loan Agreement,
Section 7.01 (b)).
53.      Marketing.  SOFOMECA is the largest producer and sole exporter of cast-
ings in Tunisia. Its major domestic clients are the railway company, the water
distribution company, the housing authority and machine building enterprises.
Foreign markets bave been mainly in France and in neighboring North African
countries. While the output of the existing iron and steel foundry will
continue to serve a variety of customers at home and abroad, the production of
the new mechanical foundry will be sold largely to the expanding vehicle and
equipment assembly industry in Tunisia. More than half of the production of the
new foundry is expected to be sold to Complexe Mecanique de Tunisie (CMT).  CMT
was established in 1981 as a joint venture with KHD to produce tractors,
agricultural machines and diesel engines. About 37% of the engines would be
installed in CMT's tractors and the remainder sold on the domestic market,
mostly to STIA, a vehicles assembly plant. A satisfactory adaptation schedule
of CMT's engines in STIA's production program has been established by CMT and
STIA. STIA would also be an important direct customer of SOFOMECA's mechanical
castings. CMT started the assembly of tractors in mid-1982. The implementation
schedule of the CMT project is realistic and in line with SOFOMECA's expected
production schedule. The Government will monitor closely the implementation of
the CMT project to ensure that the facilities that machine SOFONECA castings
will be in operation by the end of 1985, when SOFOMECA's new foundry for
mechanical castings is expected to be operational. Assurances were obtained
from the Government at negotiations that it will cause CMT to implement its
1983-88 investment program and operate its facilities for machining SOFOMEGA



- 15 -
castings according to a timetable agreed upon with the Bank (Guarantee Agree-
ment, Section 3.05).  SOFOMECA has agreed with CMT and STIA on realistic
programs for integrating its mechanical castings into STIA's and GMT's produc-
tion. The Government has initiated steps to select foreign partners for STIA in
the production of commercial vehicles beyond 1984, after expiration of existing
agreements. An assurance was obtained from the Government during negotiations
that it will submit to the Bank for review proposals for the integration of
engines and mechanical castings into STIA's production under these new licencing
and technical assistance agreements, and consult with the Bank during the
implementation of such proposals and agreements (Guarantee Agreement, Section
3.04).
54.      Financial Performance.   Because of a relatively low productivity of
its facilities and inadequate financial control, SOFOMECA's profits have been
low (below 3% of sales for most years between 1975 and 1982), and as the
liquidity position tightened the current ratio decreased from 1.2 in 1975 to 0.9
in 1981. However, in 1982 the liquidity position improved considerably, as a
result of rescheduling of short-term debts to the National Social Security Fund
(CNSS) amounting to TDO.47 million and to Government for overdue loans and tax
liabilities, amounting to TDI.37 million.   This contributed to raising the
current ratio of the company from 0.9 in 1981 to 1.5 in 1982. As a result of
the project, substantial improvements are expected in the company's financial
performance. Due to increases in output, and improved productivity and finan-
cial management, operating costs per ton are expected to decline by about 22%
(in 1982 prices) between 1982 and 1986. The expected improvements in product
quality are also likely to lead to higher prices for castings from existing
operations which for purposes of a conservative financial and economic analysis
of the project, however, have not been considered. Prices for the products of
the new foundry have been assumed to remain equal to or below those presently
paid or expected to be paid for imports by the major clients of the new foundry
(CMT and STIA). As regards SOFOMECA's future pricing policy, assurances were
obtained from the company during negotiations that it will set its prices at
levels which would enable it to meet its financial obligations under the Loan
Agreement with due regard to its operating cost, and local or foreign competi-
tion on the Tunisian market (Loan Agreement, Section 5.12). The profitability
of the company would increase substantially and should permit the paying of
dividends in 1988, the first year of full project operation. The financial rate
of return of the project is estimated at about 16% (21% for the modernization
component and 14% for the new foundry and sand plant).
55.      To ensure the financial viability of the company, assurances were
obtained at negotiations, that the company will (i) maintain a current ratio of
at least 1.3, (ii) not incur any additional long-term debt wbich would raise its
debt to equity ratio above 60:40, or lower its projected debt-service-coverage
ratio below 1.5 (iii) not declare or pay dividends unless it would maintain
positive accumulated retained earnings, the debt/equity ratio at not more than
60:40 and the current ratio at more than 1.5, and (iv) not undertake any invest-
ment until project completion above TDO.5 million in any year, other than for
the project, without prior approval of the Bank (Loan Agreement, Sections 5.04
through 5.08).
56.      Procurement and Disbursements.   The Bank loan would finance seven key
machinery and equipment packages of the project and the consultants' services.
The remaining eleven major machinery and equipment packages would be financed in
parallel by the cofinancing agencies. Financing of machinery and equipment



- 16 -
under the loan would follow Bank procedures for international competitive bid-
ding (ICB) including prequalification. Foreign suppliers may wish to bid in
single packages with the participation of local contractors who may provide
structures and installation services. A margin of preference of 15 percent or
the actual customs duties (wbichever is less) would be allowed although is
unlikely to be applicable, since the type of equipment required is not produced
in Tunisia. Prequalification reports, bidding documents, bid evalution reports
and contract award recommendations would be subject to prior Bank review. The
cofinancing agencies would follow their own procedures of procurement. These
include ICB for machinery and equipment and local competitive bidding for civil,
works. The capabilities of local contractors are adequate to ensure timely and
efficient completion of these works. Consultants to be financed under the Bank
loan were selected in accordance with Bank guidelines (para. 50). The proposed
Bank loan would be disbursed against all foreign or ex-factory local
expenditures of machinery, equipment and spare parts of the seven Bank-financed
packages and all foreign and 90% of local expenditures of local consultants for
engineering and other services, including those disbursed from the Project
Preparation Facility before loan effectiveness (para. 50).
57.      Auditing and Reporting.  Until 1981, SOFOMECA's financial statements
have been examined by the Government's Financial Controller, by a company-
appointed "accounting commissioner" and by an accounting expert retained by the
company as a consultant. For 1982, external auditors have audited the accounts
and revalued the company's assets as a basis for the issuing of new share
capital in mid-1983. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that SOFOMECA
will engage independent financial auditors acceptable to the Bank, to audit its
accounts and submit to the Bank certified copies of the audited annual accounts
together with supporting reports within four montbs after the end of each fiscal
year as well as unaudited quarterly financial statements and twelve-months
cash-flow projections, within 45 days after each calendar quarter (Loan Agree-
ment, Section 5.02). In addition, assurances were obtained that SOFOMECA will
prepare and submit to the Bank monthly reports within 30 days after the end of
each month on the progress of the project and, after project completion, a final
report assessing the results achieved (Loan Agreement, Section 3.05 (b) and
(e)).
58.      Ecology.  The design of the new foundry provides for dust and sound
pollution control devices and safety and health facilities to meet generally
acceptable standards comparable to those of the US Occupational Safety and
Health Administration. The existing foundry would receive additional dust, fume
and noise pollution abatement devices so as to achieve improved working and
environmental conditions.  Assurances were obtained at negotiations that all
facilities included in the project will be designed, constructea and operated
according to health, safety and ecological standards satisfactory to the Bank
(Loan Agreement, Section 3.06).
59.      Benefits and Risks.  The main benefit of the project would be its
contribution to the systematic development of the Tunisian foundry industry and
the engineering subsector. Both receive high priority in Tunisia's Sixth
Development Plan because of the important linkages they provide witbin manufac-
turing as well as their employment generation and export potentials. The second
important benefit of the project lies in its impact on the technological and
management capability of the company and in its support to the Government Objec-



- 17 -
tive of gradually reducing direct Government involvement in the productive
sectors of the economy. After adjusting input and output prices to reflect
their economic cost and benefits, the economic rate ot return for the project Is
estimated at 18% (23% for the modernization component and 17% for the new
mechanical foundry and sand plant component).
60.      The main project risk relates to the market for mechanical castings to
be produced by the new foundry. The domestic market for mechanical castings is
closely related to the implementation of projects by CMT and STIA, SOFOMECA's
major prospective clients, and the integration of the castings in the future
production of these companies. The implementation of the CMT and STIA projects
is on schedule, and agreement bas been reacbed among the parties concerned on
programs for the integration of the castings into the projects' production
(para. 53). However, the remaining risk-relates to the timely decision of the
Government on the foreign partners of STIA for the manufacture of commercial
vehicles which is directly related to the integration of CHIT's engines and
SOFOMECA's castings into STIA's production beyond 1984. A delayed decision
would affect STIA's purchases of engines from CMT resulting in a delay of CMT's
post-1984 investment program (and thereby CMT's purchases of engine parts from
SOFOMECA) as well as STIA's purchases of castings from SOFOMECA. To minimize
this risk, the Bank will assist the Government in formulating the agreement witn
the foreign partners on the integration of locally produced engines and cast-
ings. However, should the demand by CMT and STIA for castings not materialize
on schedule, the project design is sufficiently flexible to perliLt changes in
product-mix to serve other domestic and export markets, where a potential demand
for castings at remunerative prices has been identified.  Tthe potential benefits
of the project and the safeguards provided to limit the marketing risk make this
risk well-worth taking.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS ANI) AUTHORITY
61.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Societe de Fonderies et
de, M4canique (SOFOMECA), the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Bank and the
Republic of Tunisia and the Report of the Committee provided in Article III,
Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed separately to
the Executive Directors. Special conditions of the project are listed in
Section III of Annex III. They include a) as special conditions of effective-
ness that (i) the loan agreements between SOFOMECA on one hand and the colenders
BTEI, BTKD and STUSID on the other hand shall have been duly executed on behalf
of all parties and all conditions tor the etfectiveness of these agreements
(except for the effectiveness of the Bank Loan Agreement) shall have been ful-
filled; (ii) technical consultants to assist SOFOMECA in detailed engineering
introducing the new equipment and technology, and training shall have been
employed; and (iii) SOFOMECA's share capital shall have been increased, sub-
scribed to and 25 percent of it paid in pursuant to the provisions of Section
5.10 of the Loan Agreement (Section 7.01 of the draft Loan Agreement); and b) as
special events of suspension that SOFOMECA's right to withdraw trom any of the
colenders' loans has been suspended (Section 6.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).
62.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles ot
Agreement of the Bank.



- 18 -
PART VI - RECOMNENDATION
63.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the above loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
May 10, 1983
Washington, D.C.



- 19 -
ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
TABLE 3A
TUNISIA - SOCIAL INDICATORtS DATA SHEET
TUNISIA                           REPFUENCE GROUPS (WEIGHtED AVEb GES
(TROUSAND SQ. KM{.)                                                             -iDST RECENT ESTI"ATE) '
TAICULTURAL      75.2                                tOST RILECENT        NORTHI AFRICA 6         KIDDLE INCCNE
1960  lb   1910 /b ESTIMTE lb          MIDDLE EAST       LATIII AtERICA & CARIBBEAN
CNH PER CAPITA (USj)                230.0       380.0    1310.0               1253.6                  1902.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILORAmAS Or COAL EQUVALENlT)    165.2       289.7    589.9                 713.5                  1259.9
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION  MILD-YEAR (TiOUSANDS) 4221.0     5127.0   6354.0
URBAN POPULATION (PZRCENT OF TOTAL) 36.0       43.5      51.7                 47.3                    65.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                     10.1
STATION4RY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                       17.8
4                   YEAR STATIONA2Y POPULATION 1S REACHED                 2080
POPULATION DENWIT
PER SQ. EM.                      25.8        31.3      37.9                 35.8                    35.2
PER SQ. KM. ArRICULTURAL LAND    60.7        72.9      82.4                420.9                    92.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        43.4        46.2      41.4                 44.3                    39.7
15-64 YIRS.                       52.5        50.0      54.9                 52.-                    56.1
65 ns. AMD ABOVI                   4.2         3.8       3.7                  3.3                     *.2
POPULATION GRONTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             1-8 /c      1.9/c     2.1                  2.8                     2.4
URBAN                             3.2         3.8-      3.9                  4.6                     3.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER ThOUSAND)    68.9        41.8      36.9                 41.2                    31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    21.0        14.6       9.2                 12.2                     8.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             3.4         3.2       2.6                  2.9                     2.1
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..        29.2    180.9
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WN)    ..          10.0      21.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX Or FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         97.0        96.0    132.0                 100.4                   110.0
MnR CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIBfTS)                     83.2        88.2     115.1/d              108.5                   108.4
PROTSINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         51.8        56.6      75.17:               71.9                    66.0
OF WHICH ANDUAL AND PULSE      12.9        13.5      22.77i        -      18.0                    34.0
CHIL (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE    36.1        24.5       9.8                 15.1                     5.6
HEALTH
LIFE ERPECTAiCY AT BIRTH (YEAUS)   4.1         54.2      60.2                 56.9                    64.2
INIIANT IMORTALITY RATZ
<PEf  THDUSAND)                   158.9       131.3      90.0                104.3                    64.2
ACCESS TO SAZ WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        49.0      70.0/a               59.1                    65.6
URBAN                              *-          *.      63.07:               B3.1                    78.9
RURAL                              ..          ..      77.07                39.8                    43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              .         62.0        ..                   ..                    59.3
URBAN                              ..       100.0        ..                   ..                    75.3
RURAL                              *         34.0      60.0/c                 *-                    30.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN        10026.1      5934.0   3576.2                4015.5                  1617.3
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        ..       727.5   1167.8                1802.2                  1063.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           405.2       409.1    463.7                 641.7                   477.4
URBAN                           277.3/f     302.8    340.7/c               538.3                   679.8
RURAL                          1040.97:   1269.3   1275.87               2403.3                  1903.4
AIRISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..        24.1      25.0/.               25.5                    27.3
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HROUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              *-         5.1/
URBAN                              ..
RURAL                              ..         5.1        . 
AVERAGE NLUBER OF PERSONS PER ROON
TOTAL                                         3.2
L AN .s.                                      2. 7;
RURAL                              ..6
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DIELLINGS)
TOTAL                                       424.0 /
URA                                ..          ..        ..
RURL                               ..          ..A



- 20 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
TABLE 3A
TUNISIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
TUNISIA                          REPERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE5AGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
MIDDLE INCOME
MOST RECENT          NORTH AFRICA             M MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b          MIDDLE EAST       LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                 66.0        100.0     102.0                  88.7                    104.3
MALE                 88.0        121.0     119.0                 104.5                    106.4
FEMALE               43.0         80.0      85.0                  72.5                   103.3
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                  12.0        23.0      25.0                  39.7                     41.3
MAU                  19.0         33.0      31.0                  49.3                    40.4
FEMALE                5.0         13.0      19.0                  29.0                     41.8
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (S OF SECONDARY) 23.5          11.1      35.0                  10.1                     33.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMABY                            61.1        47.5      39.2                  34.1                     29.9
SECONDARY                         15.5         27.8      20.4                  23.7                     16.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PEgCENT)        15.5        24.0/    62.0                   43.3                     79.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPbIATION                         10.5        13.0      18.3/1                17.8                     42.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        40.3         75.7      94.8                 131.3                    270.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         0.1         14."                            44.1                    107.7
NEWSPAPER (DAILY GENERAL
INTERESTI) CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  19.0        16.0      43.8                  31.5                     63.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATrENDANCE PER CAPITA  2.0           ..       1.5/d                 1.7                      2.7
LASOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)     1137.9       1214.8    1631.1
FENALE (PEBCENT)                   6.0          7.7       8.3                  10.6                     24.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              56.0        50.0      34.0                  42.4                     31.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                18.0         21.0      33.0                  27.8                     23.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCUiT)
TOTAL                                27.0        23.7      25.7                  26.0                     33.6
MALE                                 50.2        44.2      46.5                  46.2                     50.4
FEMALE                                3.3         3.6       T.3                   5.6                     16.8
ECONOHIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.8         2.1       1.8                   1.9                      1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCZNT OP PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..          ..      17.0/h
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..           ..      42.071
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLD       ..          ..       6.                     ...
IOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..          ..      15.d7.
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URUN                                 ..          ..     204.0/d               279.2
RURAL                                ..          ..      97.07a               178.6                    184.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..           ..     193.0/d               403.6                    518.0
RURAL                               ..           ..     193.O7i               285.6                    371.1
gSTDTED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..           ..      20.0/d                22.1
RURAL                               ..           ..      15.O7i                30.9
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTZS
Ia   The group average. for  ecb indicator are populatio-weighted arithaetic means.  Coverage of countriea
mong the indicator, depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   Due to migration population growth rate io lower than rate of natural increase; /d 1977; /a 1976;
/f 1962; 11 1966; /h 1975.
May, 1982



- 21-                                                                              ANNEX I
Page 3 of 6
901.:  "It-hoh telbat A      re drae  ro  totlrie.. pnal.ly lodged the sadduc          ei*lv    8  tad    n     it eh-Id 0180 he notd th.t they  -a  008 he  La---
C.oleo   seoltIdttie   rdr  of         itte -4edlodc. crat.Ieel ChrebOt  terteby dliff ..t. foveUh-i htLb. c-iaratit.    d.e..A-
7th. r         Cfrs...re9.erat  (1) the Cdod....ooeey Cro' of th   tbst.oe8  oa 2) 0  Oa IP £0p pith eabahat htghe                          L---e acs  the, the t.-t   I...,
of                -- cboo   oty (flgh  ir    Sigh Zteos    Ot fpoca         -P e   -4c. "Widdi. Lee-  North ASIriu  adS MLddl. t.." I. choe.  h. .  od  etro-g-
Lot-cUla.... Ifftcituoe.  In the re)oteetr A-e  data t            -Bae...      outltueitt atttht't--thd  .0 ti. Sade to- .-h iltdtt...o  00d Sh-l  -inY ehe
Miotit, or  ht. coontri.. In a eccoP   C dci. for cht  edC.te.  Siot th -cfSe of cosr                         - Sa  th. -odt...... d.pead  on ci  Ljv     btilty of deco
SAR  (ch--"oo  q9. .)                                                                            P.-ulatto. -a   ..LILetL Bed - toto,   tt.0   ri - PoeLotUon  -t-cl.
r-tc  - totaI enyaeo.   oneo  1000 oiaa oa  WtaNd  Iaet  1979 date.                              "Ih"e 0I Uto-L) fiLbid.  by theIr  -opctlce cuse  of W.iceeto  tat
A4111"I"aol - E..=,:eo  ottoluiol. ore   -d.  c             .f.rrly orpose.oty                   -nalittld 1  p L.obt   - ptCIt  lteal0.  upeuttlled hsplita  actco
ao rop,.tC .arde, da Cat Cta titchae lrd-n   rt  Ito full1.; 1979 date.                     ihlnco   c=ster. 9eiooaeecoteat                             ealrly  -ff.4a
hy o   ..o  oa ..   hyelutoa.  EaiO,tiahaern   P-L41die  pllrtocpely  o -
CC?Fi  CAIT  1SR)   It  P.' ..*Lt.   ec8ce  a               ar.t aeChr P't-ea. ca-                 di.l ro   Ca. toC touoddt.  ta-L heepitaL.. h.-te. lotld 1e health
colote  hi et  coavaotraahed teWo-l            Ide nt. (1970-dO  heat.); 1940.           ont         I att .a .  ..ner  no  PoraaeaLY  .t. tod hy o rhv.tr'ad  hbot hby
1970. out 1900 dacta.                                                                             =eoL.  te-te:-. torte.t.10.ifR. etc.,I ahth otf.v hec-Pattntecu
I.:tos   atP:etide     alleld  oate of adOm-I taetlLitt        For ...la
E1N1*GY C00SL'TtCtll PER CAPITA - Ote-I  Uoo     ito  ofImaa    ar   ca                             itaL P.."one. .0he-  -ePItl   oLadC         ItpioLpe,oet   ieie
ond IL4ioic. p-tret-c..tnauro  (.00  hyda.-.  -t-  d.r   tc .noo.sa  niet-                       =t oa   teie t.lclCi corL h1vMuitlt 000 :eto   -td U-t-n-"
crIciyj 1cc 1.. .loet   o .. coL oq.ol.at  er -'.pic.; 1940.14)0, oat 1979                      cacoe.loClutteed no Cta                tt - 1001008    nlY  ..a to..uL.
000e.                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~Add".ior  tar   bariof d - Otul  -luste  of adSi,oiue  tuo   tocr
fre. hEnital. dLyI4dd hy thenete  of hate.
POPULATION AND0 VITAL STATtSTItS
70001 Yaooto..9d-Y0.t  t1ho.oaOdd) - AS o  Joli I; 1960. 1970. oa  1940                      dOWI0G
dtcu.                                                                                        Ono.S.   f R---          d(nree  oc4 t,ooaorlo      .Ct.I.  re. oa  .araL-
Vrhee PopeItonto  (-nr... Iof tota) - LaCt. of  Irho  to toc.L poprletlo;                        A.41e.ed  oeoeofoto. o   citeLe  ea1 ter lbl   loyin  quorters
dlff ...h  de"l1 i"'et  of oc0 -ro  ay  affect co-rabiLity of data                             add Cheir etla  -I..  A hoerdar orIdge   ay or-votn  icluded it
*      .-gbetrinOl 1t10. 190"' e   94   aa                                                     t1hm heeabud for.. aoteirel peP-,c...
PPnula-lue 10 year 2000 - Curr-1 popiul-to  pro) entic. ar  hoat oa 194                       hebo.     ert  p.rto  Ide ott tah. oa  to-a  -ttPi   corotcto
teo  hpltloh  og   oat  aced their   rt.lttY  aed lei-LILty reuo.                  MtiliSe. reeettiteLp.  0stiLt.S. oelastno-.daet  tlt.ott.. 0.
P-) teclo    ocen              - fr tllti c.a.e toPttn  of thr.a latete  ea,.-              oetrptt  ort..
Its life  Lo.oacc       b IrtC etttteh L--.L. 1.        t pa  rapiP, ta*L   Itt.         At.,t  trtciy(rcnto    uIot  -ccI".ro,0d corel 
lerel. oa"  o-.elt lfe..cp y   Cbtebile.&g  .t 77.5 year..  The pace-                       CoNeettoeL d-llla           C nub elCirt   10 I  ai-nu    uotr  0   ate
etoefo  fttrifty rete dlad Me-tchi  le.-l. etce -CeL"e  It                             of  i.ti.L  orhee. OS rurL  uloe  -ptactively.
ftorility ottoIdtee  to Labum  tonaL c   poac           p1ah  oaint    parfoadrant.
oat te     Ittl    lacadd fo   ilcla  croe                                                 dl..C.d e i.llaat Rtau-
itotoar   oelta                       - n     etlstyPore.tattother  I. - grcuh  Ltc r".,ehol-ncl  .41.8 .t4 faae--                             t.   uel   e.08.        a
-Ice  -oo.toot.  rhl. 18 Othiond ..ly eft., fttlillty  cc.d-olts  to                           pli-ey athadi-94e.   L pOtlItoal n-rAtt  -e dtti d          ret ot h-Il
the roPLLC.aa   levl of -it net r.P-odeo1ta  -.c. tha aeth gadaaia ...tre  h, at Adjutnt fur Oifl. -ana   1aeghs  f PIrint  .otetat ; tot
of  e  eplac. lt.lf ooutl.  The etatc.r  poputotiad . ee                               = .L nneraotht sveel  detiaoaolat y Otted ~30 p-rcac
e.tnt   0the. aeo  Ith  pro-rtd ohietateIotI of fth  Poptaotno                          cat. -e  PattIL  . are     - iS.Io-bv   h    fttlohOtl oe..
It the year  00.     the roe  f  ef.    f 4-1    ce-toly ret. to replete                      codrtne -cct.olott.l- 'ICownt-  0e: I                         U-t.:"C aodd
"'ti lanel                                                                                     = ,..la  ontO   .ttet .ou  lo.te 08 q ...OedIrot otro IL-;
eeeeC uodaar  oao         isoo1  cored - the year%a   C.h. ..7eaiar  bPeiatioadiute  i.il  uu*le.l.o  teethe  -ci.0a  aei- trte MI or " rLI.
c.. cii  he r-he".                                                                          oalyof12 to  7 yea.-  of age; ...te...           a-  co.r.. ...  .etttly
Per so  o.      i d-Y", P popsloeo  P.r eafia  tioste   tC   heueot) ot                     V-otlo-al tertllest (tteat of    - -oeoY)   V-- Ootoo  ctetitucoae
Pat...L  Carea  1960, 1090 Ma  1979 date,                                                     ilucked    a)LtL, adtetatl. or oth-r .r...            -10th ttettai de-
P.r eo. Is  ont, itrL-Ie   - C.Wettd ua.6 obo ,  tttrolu L."as                                mtit  00 00 O"ad'ar,a. of  -eioedarv         ttoLbbat.
ony;190.170ea  179Sga                                                                Pet-tahe  rti   prisy. od,  Calne-To    - loaletdae  earaletin
Petlaiotte  StnomeIpecec)- CIl4rea If-I4  eA.rd). tarI.,ae   (19-                         po  :rL.4etoslrlael   tdivdd by cmaecs  If ea                   L. Ilbth
hCyar) i84rtire  (16  yer   a  oeta  pancep O  aid-leer pop.-                        Zerreepe.tleh  la-I..
0,10.1  1060, 1970. ead  MO data.                                                            Madlt ILteraCY rae(ar.             LI-tef. odelte (.41. tu red oat -ita,
P-d-luiba lr-v  Not  per-et) - total -Aeaala r,-th inLn  od tona   etd-                          eea proCcu   of total edolt pbvpeiceinasug   15 mere o.   oer..
fer  onltm  o  19O4W   19;0-70. ca  1970-00.
PopilOtl.Oe  rouch lote    -arto)     t - - -  &RdUdI jrout  ren. af orba  papa,      conuSI.TI0
lotnae fr 19040.1960-70   adt 1970-49.                                                 P.-ate-c  Cor   prtrtuodprlto)-  ?teeeger arc...cte tr
Crete smccc coa'  (ten thUaeed)  - -OaaL. 110  "cirtha re  ce-Aat .8 eatd--eecinotou10 thee  sla,   atua   -tL.tto  auldhr.. hat.ice .84
omnal,acio; 1960. 1970. aSd 1940 data.                                                        eltu-ay nehltle..
Zrcode Deocb tate  pet ci-4oat  - Aae1a  daghe per ch-datt  of aid-leer                        ladle ecoetee    (..r th.nodrplct)-nlcpec  eorr   o   ot
',,I:,toa  196..1970. Ied.1.. an.e.adat  n  ee    pu-ir   pr  choeae  u  yepciaio; rttd.. Ud-
Ctoea   . ea rtdct  ta._ - ArS. acet of deeghtr  e    m   811L bea  it                          ILt-=t  aens8t    -O.rin   oat in Year..   .. teec1.38  intl.
-tr  ovi rapr-d-enti..rrtd If  h.e tperieata  PCeoe  eg.pneif it fr-                        raeeec.efat:Ot  for ' raecY---ra  en  not he  oP ...l b. Le
ni Uc au;ctlyflee=a         -aer9e  ea4ing La 1960.  970. ot   90.....crbora  obL.d  Iosohe
Fount,  leacin  - hoiccore.  ttuet  th.oead) -  eAt1 ..ee  of otuePeore              TV ta-eLver  (Pe  tiucean  -OnoI.CX) - TV reoetrete  tot hiaftoet tt
at ourc-concrl Aevite u84. ooapieh of  aclse  fatt ....al.I   peono,              Le.to  pnlt    L.r thuat-        uea toe;l -Irc-a  T l .te .    L.teoe  TVrat-
PllvPtsatin  - eer.(pec"a   tsriaa )-Precg   fara f                                        tCtecatrieLbaet is ner. It, hgoroio   f hn -. eI                   fact.;
mm  of hu-Woo"'g  ge~ (115-:0 year.  40e  birakaera                                       S ---ec  iua..  CWreoce  (or hnea  pbI..Clttn)-SAg  h    r                 It
'PebL.!;a.ie  d-tead P,%laiiy 80 teno-diag &-..ro  ote.  It it Zmatt-rd
MOO AMe oorMTtfIt                                                                                 to he    tY' if it aPoati. a,Iac  otca.oaA
l.ade  of Food Prodeatlo  re    at   14-llf7. ee   fprcpe   o C,ieeSat'I,aaoepr  aICt  .o  .eer .eesd .C the ecte  of
prttaCila  of oIl foed  -omtItie.  Pttttcnib  neeode  ac  40   astda o-Lcokc.8e4 drra  che V-r. ILenidin  odetad oat   to drle-t   uiOeaaa
Las   ..". tna   ane haId.  Cue-ditie  -es  PC.'tr    81  (.. a4af                            atd  sb).e mice..
naiClm     tag    ctat pPina atgbt.; 1961-45. 107. oat 1940 Adata                          tota L       F.r.an   the-aed) - Zroe.latl,1  u,I-e P.,---e  latiellc
Par -co.O  -urel  of rlre           rad, of r.Icescb- Caate4 tafro                               wth    -ta.. I           "ua I"ye   baa atlUir.% h da,% m. ..  ..udeet.  tC.,.
ateru   nqtt.boatof -C toad aple                     -7lai  Ietet  per 0.51L.            IreIIng pP."LacI of91           -it, DOafiluto   in  -art..         te   r
Per del.  A.altohie  -cPPILie  .eoprfo  daas.,otu pedeacnS.. Letrt. I"ee                      -en c r-bl.; 190. 199oa   00  aa
taato   a  thoegeeI  -to .o .  fet          .-Iaaelde  -is"l  fee. eet.                  Fe.  feoa)- Peel.X lab.  focea  p..catC.. of tC ..  labor io...
qeaaeiee  oaed it toad pCd..e.aa. "0   -ada it d"gteip.ug.o.  Enquire.                                                  -L)ooj9n ) .WLbr lone to tfoMLe.G  foceetry  h"lcntt   od
eaat.  -er  attscat hy P60 hadad -. p6yawkleglaa   ..   foe d.-L -.ct-                          fiieaieecg    uf total lade. forie; 1040. 1970  .d 194  dan -
viny aet health cofids.rIL  ad"iionat CsaO               . hety .celbge. e*.                  La.W ryt (PCeer       - taboo ton   in tinte. uooa-truci.  ..eefac.eL.t
40  e-  dfoctihecte of papel-ahto.. ea  ailcen  LO pacada, far anteat                           40eetltc.ae  CSea as Po-dt.e5  of natal Iaer for.,. 
he-abol  1-.si  196L145. 197  tba 1977 doa                                                      1964. 1970 40R 1940 dat.
leocoic  Iteyo  eotoI, (at..pe  dat) - hht al .. doagC   ofi per capita                       fetto.Ina,le  a I-       rt,et) - Ctoe.L  -., oat fe-L. - Pa.ticpatida In
nec  _eo   o  foot pe   Pa.  dec  =et,  f  4   to' ted tat 08  ab..   0.                     oueicicl Ctt.aec             t aCtonal  0008.' 084 fasia. tSar fo-  ae
quirseente  mr. oIl  -acna    bealedh  US"h pr dan   for italo                                perceaca. of tt          . adada  S eal  P"ula-to  of elk oge  rePapctinLY;
eIlhanta. of'hO aR-m 9 of ..oce  or...i .Pot day eat 20 gemR  of eafee  add                   1940.  970. oe4 1940 data.  Thses eve ha.d on 11.'. p ..tItipaiio   ro.-
pale. pol.of ,kICh 10 gte-  oheLd be  nintprteL                     Thes --c-                 rnflact`UB c2--ac   ecetr f the popoIneId. ead loot It- trCa.  A
""te  r  Iar thee thee  of 75 tree of tota  Pto9a eatd 23 Cc... of                            toe cetANCe  are ft.4       toaleut.
oeal PaCt=                  a. funre ,  or he  en, P-P.."d by PAO L. the Third              IC               1ZLA1  - Nail. ofRpplt                det 15 -4  05 otoe
ttrld Font S-V;y 1961465. 1970 os  1977 dat....ntoa   aortre
Potreit  -rtea   opt  ftee etO  ot rd.ole- Ptoteta  a.Pt" of foet le-
Innd' re  al" "eat pos._ ingrnpe Cy;194143. 1970 40d 1971 doet.                           IICME ttSr!ftj?1p
05  grr  -    ao.nuhildct Lo thi. age tro.*               I or e  doe.letgs ad-               5  eta.rihe   9Poret   orec2                      e      ant Pooad-a  ed P.r...t
cries tote.dee  ft.  life tobiee; 1960. 1970  .dIM4  data,                                    of htuu.440ds.
of tea  o  baadlc    thiri;  96.1970 oat 1949 Adata                                             Aheetat  poverty lioa. o.-t L.  MChtIts  ta-t  hWI- ohich o ati.-I
-44eeete Safe dat-  fvertoet of .... lotloel .2L 'at lb-oh     aterual -   -                     ceertii-ally eteqace. oot plot. .....ii I. e.-faUd    aoi..tct  ve
ret of pearl. (coral.  rihad. aSd rort) vihre.abe tts08edafoal,
eeter .upl  (tended.. cract  ato.  -Ste. or u csctceuraaha.                                Isttleent telecIce Pcntcv Icic   Laoe1 (059..  . terteott-             ..4 ocrure,-
eater acc eeuhc tram   rotecte   horteoot. trrtge. td  Crytt  tall.)  R. garitLocr   oec  Iee. tL: lea-third o  or                                arcait
tn toeothe it .. repci   p. puL-Oaa   Xeo  ob.  ore. a pubLic                         per.-eel 100.- at t"        otr.Ia lCe  I   et.0Tmc    o
Foontoritpot(toe   o  are th- 200 eecv. fr-oe  hb-e  tyW ha                                    tne   t,b edjoain  horishpo  .een of Itoe,L   Cb-a tie..
reaooha   nte  oel .0   c_hat the  htaifc or.  h--.ar  Lf the  It.a-ed                  a  r.or_ l - PPtrcett. L:-ttoto    ar    004It  iurol  che tie     ho
Adntnn  i   pa    Oep-up-Itt.e  part of nh  day  18 f.etihlt the                              Pooi 
ot.. CtutIsI 0Dusatoltnrano   ooli                 - .ttL,  ,hoe, oat t-al -
CIlO   Ot 0.008(tn,Ii.            oat roal   btea y ..t..aco dtapoo .1
P.....ag. o-f chetr tep      WiaypelaC ""a.  tecioal  dtOp.a.I e1 LI."ot
uhe  olci    0taoa.   -ah ofotn i teeme   o  hn danrece
lot ioetaltotinet.
FPalelouepEr  (vtt       cetadjLetddd by  abdar at pIrattatog phl8i-                                                                foooofti eat SotLIi feD-  Olnoi
:n.a qato is cyo    - dita   ewagl at r   er   yLe-t.                                                                   ictaeeonlceis O   Pto.n-ci-. D.,--ac
yopleicare   ...eir. ?-at    ?"Po .Cotl   divided hbytte   f prute                                                                          ay 1942
sal  aat  eee. groteete nun... oa..iat ndae. Prec-ut  er    4



- 22 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
TUNISIA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Population: 6.5 million (mid-1981)
GNP per Capita: $1,420 (1981)
Annual Growth Rates
Amount                                               (at 1980 prices)
(million US$                             Actual                                          Projected
Indicator                      at current prices)
1982            1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982              1983      1984    1985    1986
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product 1/               7,905.9            5.3      7.1      7.1      6.0      5.0      1.5          7.3       6.0     5.8      5.6
Agriculture                           1,005.6          -10.2      4.5    -4.8       6.1      6.6    -8.7         11.5       4.0      3.9      3.7
Industry                              2,485.0            9.8      9.0    11.9       9.9      1.6      0.0         7.5       7.3      7.0      6.7
Services                              3,370.7            5.6      7.4      8.7      3.9      8.3      4.9         6.3       6.1      5.9      5.7
Consumption                             6,297.6           10.4      5.8      4.6      9.9      7.2      4.7         6.9        7.3     6.2      3.9
Gross investment                        2,370.1            6.9    12.9       3.9      5.8    14.5    -3.7          -0.4        1.2      1.0      1.8
Exports of goods and NFS                2,903.3            5.5      8.2    23.3       0.7      3.0    -6.5         20.4        7.2     8.3    13.7
Imports of goods and NFS                3,665.1           16.7      9.6    14.3       7.2    13.0    -3.2          11.8       6.3      5.9      7.4
Gross national product                  7,948.2            5.8      7.9      7.5      6.5      5.2      1.6         7.2        5.9     5.6      5.3
Gross national savings                  1,650.6           -7.2    14.8    21.8    -7.2    -1.1   -10,8              8.2        0.5     3.1    11.5
PRICES
GDP deflator                                              76.0    80.1    88.3   100.0   110.9   124.9
Exchange rate                                              2.33    2.40    2.46    2.47    2.03    1.69
Share of GDP at market prices (%)                                   Average Annual Increase (%)
(at current prices)                                             (at constant prices)
1971       1976       1981       1982       1986        1991             1971-76    1976-81    1981-86    1986-91
Gross domestic product 1/  100.0         100.0      100.0       100.0      100.0      100.0               8.8          6.0         5.3         4.9
Agriculture                18.8       18.1       13.6       12.7       12.5        11.7               8.2         0.4          2.7         3.5
Industry                  20.6        25.9       32.1       31.4       30.9        32.2              10.2         7.8         5.7          5.8
Services                  47.7        42.9       41.3       42.6       43.6        43.9               8.3         7.2          5.8         5.1
Consumption                    82.0       77.5       76.8        79.7       81.5       78.4               9.6          7.5         5.6         3.8
Gross investment               20.0       30.4       32.2        30.0       25.9       25.5              14.1          8.6         0.6         4.2
Exports of goods and NFS    23.8          29.1       42.1        36.7       41.4       41.3               5.6          7.9         8.2         6.3
Imports of goods and NFS    25.8          37.1       51.1       46.4        48.9       45.1              13.1        12.1          5.6         4.0
Gross national product         99.6       98.7      100.9       100.5       99.6       99.2               8.5          6.5         5.4         4.9
Net factor income              -0.4       -1.3        0.9         0.5       -0.4       -0.8               -            -           -
Gross national savings         17.6       21.1       24.1        20.9       18.0       20.8               2.9          3.4         2.9         8.8
As Z of GDP
(at current prices)
1971       1976       1981       1982
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current revenue                                                  21.4       24.2       30.0       32.6
Current expenditure                                              18.9       18.5       22.4        24.9
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                        2.5        5.7        7.5         7.6
Capital expenditure                                               6.9       11.4        9.2        9.8
Foreign financing                                                 3.2        1.7        1.4         1.9
1971-76         1976-81          1981-86          1986-91
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (Z)                                              8.4              6.5              5.0             4.9
GNP per capita growth rate (x)                                   5.4              3.1              2.7             2.3
ICOR                                                             2.7              5.4             6.0              5.4
Marginal savings rate                                           24.0             26.0             12.2            24.4
Import elasticity                                                1.51             2.02             1.06            0.82
/1 GDP at market prices and components at factor cost.
EMENA CP II-C
May 1983



- 23 -                                                            ANNEX I
Page 5 ot o
TUNISIA - EXTERNAL TRlADE
Population: 6.5 million (mid-1981)
GNP per Capita:  $1,420 (1981)
Annual Growth 1ates
Amount                                                  (at 1980 Prices)
(million us$                                 Actual                                      Projectea
Indicator                   at current prices)
1982                1977    1978    1979       1980    1981    IYd2        19d63    1984    195    19dt
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise exports                 1,989.2                9.7      9.6    20.7       0.8      ..3    -4.o       20.0      7.1      d.o    10.0
Crude oil                          866.8                12.4    12.8    12.4        0.2    -8.8   -22.4        *7.0    -1.8       I.d    -0.1
Other primary                        97.3                4.9   -15.7    23.1   -11.9    -0.    -17.9            8.-      b-.      8.z      6.-
4                Manufactures                      1,025.1                 6.8    10.4    33.3       3.6    20.3    15.2         19.8    14.1    13.2    2b.d 2/
Merchandise imports                 3,263.9               14.1    10.7    15.7        7.7      9.5    -5.5        1z.3      0.1     5.0      /.7
Food                                367.4                9.6      7.7    39.0    -6.8       14.3    -5.(1       4.7      2.7      3.J      3.0
Petroleum                           383.1               13.8    IS.1       9.7    1..5       4.9   -34.7       0b.2    11.3       d.2    21./ 2/
Machinery and equipment            840.5                 5.5    15.4    -2.b    -4.4         4.1    -2.4       -3.U    -0.7       0.0      O.0
Others                           1,b66.9                21.6      b.5    24.9      15.3      0.0      5.6       8.Ž      7.d      7.0      ).b
Price Index
PRICES
Export price index                                      54.6    58.7    75.5   1uo.0    !L7.4   122.9         122.7   .31.9   141.9   13i.>
Import price index                                      72.6    76.b    65.3   10O.0   114.4   131.3          131.8    143.J   155.3   107.4
Terms of trade index                                    75.5    70.6    88.5   IO.o   102.b    11U.4          93.1     92.0    91.3    90./
Composition of Merchandise Trade (X)                             Average Acaual Increase (0)
(at current Prices)                                       (at constant Prices)
1971    1976    1981    1982    1980    1991                 1971-7b      197b-81     1 81-86      19Y-91
Exports                            100.0   100.6   I0(0   IO.0   i(o.o   100.10                      4.1         8.o         1(3.Z        3.7
Crude oil                      24.5    40.9    51.5    43.6    34.1    28.7                     4.6          5.8         1.2        -0.1
Other primary                  19.2     13.4      5.0      4.9      4.4      .3                -5.4         -1.9        12.7         3.1
Manufactures                   56.3    45.7    43.5    51.5    b1.5    67.0                     6.4         14.1        17.6          8.1
Imports                           100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   10o.1   1OU.0                     13.1        11.5         5.3          d.9
Food                           21.2    12.3    11.2    11.3    1U.1          b.3                0.6         11.9         2.6        -5,3
Petroleum                       3.9    11.1    19.0    11.7    22.7    30.,                    29.2         10.9         9.7          8.b
Machinery and Equipment        30.1    31.9    25.2    25.9    17.4    12.8                    13.5          8.7        -1.2        -1.0
Others                         44.8    44.7    44.6    51.1    49.8    50.3                    1O.o         1J..         7.b         4.8
Share of Trade with             Share of Trade with             Share of Trade with              Share ot Trade witn
Industrial Countries (%)        Developing Countries (2)          Oil Exporters (;c)         Centrally Planned Countries (A)
1970      1975      1980        1970      1975       1980       1970     1975    1980             1970    1975    1980
DIRECTION OF TRADE
Exports               70.8      60.1      b8.7          4.9      21.7      25.4       13.9    11.1       4,8             9.4      6.1      U.4
Imports               85.9      79.5      81.8          7.1      10.9       7.7        0.7      6.3      7.5             b.3      3.1      3.0
1/  Constant price data at 1980 prices.
2/ Increase in refining capacity.
EMENA CP 2(4
May 19dj



24
ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(million US$ at current prices)
Population: 6.5 million (mid-1981)
GNP per Capita: $1,420 (1981)
Actual 1/                                                       Projected
1971       1976        1979        1980        1981        1982              1983        1984      1986          1991
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Net exports of goods & services                       -57.4      -417.0      -356.0      -472.6      -684.6   -718.4              -787.9      -938.9 -1,028.5    -1,350.0
Exports of goods & services                         469.4    1,479.5    3,137.5    3,912.3    3,948.4   3,338.9                3,801.8    4,352.6   6,023.9    11,107.4
Imports of goods & services                         526.8    1,896.5    3,493.5    4,384.9    4,633.0  4,057.3                 4,589.7    5,291.5   7,052.4    12,242.4
Net transfers 2/                                       52.0        52.7        61.0       100.0        38.5       25.4               32.4        32.4      24.3         24.0
Current account balance                                -5.4    -364.3    -295.0    -372 .6           -646.1   -693.0              -755.5    -906.5 -1,004.2   -1,111.0
Direct private investment                               27.6      102.6        50.9       236.0       367.2      338.6              300.0       350.0     400.0        500.0
MLT Ibans (net)                                         55.3       167.8      479.3      -322.8       282.7      354.4              545.7       669.3      773.4       871.0
Official                                             59.2       130.4       190.6       272.7       249.8     351.8              449.6       422.6      465.1        659.6
Private                                              -3.9        37.4       288.7        50.1        32.9        2.6              96.1       246.7      308.3        211.4
Other capital                                           13.7       55.2      -111.3       121.3       101.9        -                  -           -          -            -
Change in reserves                                    -91.2        38.7      -123.9       -64.9      -105.7        -                -90.2     -112.8   -169.2         -260.0
International reserves                                114.8       304.5       415.5       455.7       458.2     478.5               568.7      681.5      997.3      2,086.5
Reserves as months of imports                            2.6         2.2         1.6         1.4        1.4        1.4                1.5         1.5        1.7          2.0
Actual 1/
1971      1976        1979        1980        1981        1982
GROSS DISBURSEMENTS
Official grants                                        35.5       50.2        50.7        41.5        20.3        25.4
Gross disbursements of MLT loans                      105.2      229.5       628.8       533.9       585.1       699.7
Concessional                                           61.0      104.0       139.5       216.3       236.3       329.2
Bilateral                                            52.8       95.1       138.7      196.2       230.3       230.0
IDA                                                   4.8        8.9         0.2         1.0         1.1        0.5
Other multilateral                                    3.4        0.0         0.6        19.1        4.9        98.7
Non-concessional                                       44.2      125.5       489.3       317.6       348.8       370.5
Private                                              28.8       60.1      370.7        188.4      199.8       226.9
Official export credits                               3.2        9.9        49.5        55.5       47.0        37.4
IBRD                                                 12.2      25.3        55.4        51.1        69.4        83.4
Other multilateral                                     -        30.2        13.7        22.6        32.6       22.8
EXTERNAL DEBT
Debt Outstanding and Disbursed                        619.5   1,166.5    2,981.8    3,172.5    3,171.0    3,525.3
Official                                            440.0     971.9    1,823.0    2,017.6    2,133.9    2,485.6
IBRD                                              39.3      127.9       232.0       269.0       319.5       379.8
IDA                                               21.1       64.1        67.3        67.9        67.5        67.4
Other                                            379.6      779.9    1,523.7    1,680.7    1,746.9    2,038.4
Private                                             179.5     194.6    1,158.8    1,154.9    1,037.1    1,039.7
Undisbursed debt                                      352.5  1,110.8    1,738.2    1,803.5    1,673.5    1,698.0
DEBT SERVICE
Total debt service payments                            69.8       98.6       311.8       426.6       506.8       553.4
Interest                                             19.9       36.9      162.2       215.5       204.4       208.0
Payments as 2 exports                                   14.9       6.7         9.9        10.9        12.8        16.6
Payments as % GNP                                       4.1         2.2        4.3         4.9         6.1         7.0
Average interest rate of new Loans (2)                   4.9       5.4         7.1         6.9         8.3         6.8
Official                                              4.6        4.3         5.6         5.9         6.9         -
Private                                               6.1        7.9         9.8        10.5        12.7         -
Average maturity of new Loans (years)                  23.3       16.6        15.8        17.2        15.4        16.9
Official                                             26.2       20.4        19.4        19.4        18.2         -
Private                                              13.8        8.6         9.2         9.2         5.8         -
As 2 of Debt Outstanding
at End of Most Recent
Year (1981)
DEBT STRUCTURE
Maturity structure of debt outstanding (x)
Amortization due within 5 years                                                   37.7
Amortization due within 10 years                                                  65.6
Interest structure of debt outstanding (2)
Interest due within first year                                                     4.3
1/ Preliminary estimates for 1982.
2/ Including grants.
EMENA CP 2C
May 1983



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 12
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TUNISIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (As of March 31, 1983) a!
US3 Million
Loan or                                                                                                   Amount (less
Credit                                                                                                    Cancellation)
Number       Year            Borrower                       Purpose                              Bank       IDA e/  Undisbursed
Thirty-two Loans and Credits Fully Disbursed                                                    277.85      69.96
1068         1974     Republic of Tunisia             Irrigation Rehabilitation                  12.20                   0.94
1155         1975     Republic of Tunisia             Third Education                             8.60                   3.62
1188         1975     Republic of Tunisia             Second Highways                            28.00                  12.55
1340         1976     Banque Nationale de Tunisie  Second Agricultural Credit                    12.00                   0.46
1431         1977     Republic of Tunisia             Irrigation Development                     42.00                  10.69
1445         1977     SONEDE                          Fourth Water Supply                        21.00                   4.00
4         1504         1977      BDET                           Development Finance Company                30.00                   2.65
1505         1977     Republic of Tunisia             Small-Scale Industry Development            5.00                   1.41
1601         1978     Republic of Tunisia             Rural Roads (Third Highways)               32.00                  21.41
1675         1979     Republic of Tunisia             Second Urban Sewerage                      26.50                  18.39
1702         1979     SONEDE                          Fifth Water Supply                         25.00                   2.59
1705         1979     Republic of Tunisia             Second Urban Development                   19.00                  15.20
1746         1979     Republic of Tunisia             Second Fisheries                           28.50                  22.86
1796         1980     Republic of Tunisia             Southern Irrigation                        25.00                  22.56
1797         1980     Office des Ports Nationaux   Third Port                                    42.50                  14.49
1841         1980     Republic of Tunisia             Fourth Highways                            36.50                  32.41
1864         1980     Societd Tunisienne de
l'Electricite et du Gaz        Second Natural Gas Pipeline                37.00                  23.51
1885         1980     Banque Nationale de Tunisie  Third Agricultural Credit                     30.00                  25.28
1961         1981     Republic of Tunisia             Fourth Education                           26.00                  25.73
1969         1981     Republic of Tunisia             Small-Scale Industry Development           30.00                  29.92
1997         1981     Republic of Tunisia             Northwest Rural Development                24.00                  21.46
2003         1981      Societe Tunisienne de
l'Electricite et du Gaz        Third Power                                41.50                  40.33
2005         1981     Republic of Tunisia             Health and Population                      12.50                  12.48
2012         1981     Republic of Tunisia             Textile Rehabilitation                     18.60                  12.43
2052         1981      Republic of Tunisia            Grain Distribution and Storage             42.00                  41.76
2108         1982      Republic of Tunisia            Fifth Highway (Rural Roads)                35.50                  35.50
2113         1982     BDET                            Electrical and Mechanical Industries   30.50                      30.50
2134         1982      SONEDE                         Sixth Water Supply                         30.50                  24.96
2157         1982      Republic of Tunisia            Irrigation Development                     22.00                  21.67
2197 b/      1982     Republic of Tunisia             Technical Assistance                        4.50                   4.50
2223 c/      1983     Republic of Tunisia             Urban Development III                      25.00                  25.00
2230 c/      1983      Republic of Tunisia            Education V                                27.00                  27.00
2234 d/      1983     Republic of Tunisia             Central Tunisia Irrigation                 16.50                  16.50
TOTAL                                                                  1,124.75      69.96      604.31
Of which has been repaid                                                 124.02       7.41
Total now outstanding                                                   1000.73      62.55
Amount Sold                            14.33
of which has been repaid              14.23                               0.10
Total now held by Bank and IDA e/                                       1000.83      62.55
Total Undisbursed                                                        604.31                 604.31
a/ Does not include the Third Urban Sewerage Project, Loan 2255-TUN of $34 million approved March 29, 1983.
b/ Signed on October 29, 1982; not yet effective
c/ Signed on January 11, 1983; not yet effective
d/ Signed on February 28, 1983; not yet effective
e/ Prior to exchange rate adjustment



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 ot i2
STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS IN TUNISIA (as of March 31, 1983)
Amount in US$ Million
Year      Obligator                       Type of Business         Loan   Equity   Total
1962      NPK Engrais                     Fertilizers               2.0     1.5       3.5
1966      Societe Nat. d'Invest.          Dev. Finance Co.                  0.6       (.t
(now BDET)
1969      COFIT (Tourism)                 Dev. Finance Co.         8.0      Z.2      IU.2
1970      Societe Nat. d'Invest.          Dev. Finance Co.                  0.o       O.t
(now BDET)
1973      Socidt4 Touristique             Tourism                   1.6      .3       1.9
et Hoteliere RYM SA
1975      Societe d'Etudes et             Tourism                   2.5     0.b       3.1
de Developpement de
Sousse-Nord
1974      Industries Chimiques            Chemicals                         U.b       0.b
du Fluor
1978      BDET                            Dev. Finance Co.                  1.2       1.2
Total Gross Commitments                                 14.1    7.tb       21.7
Less Cancellations,                                     IU.U      1.8      11.8
Terminations, Repayments,
and Sales
Total Commitments now                                    4.1     5.8        9.9
held by IFC
Total Undisbursed                                        0.0    U.0         0.U



- 27 -                       ANNEX II
Page 3 of 12
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Ln. 1068:      Irrigation Rehabilitation Project;  US$12.2 million loan of
December 31, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: September 18, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Irrigation rehabilitation works in the Medjerda area are complete.
However, farmers are not fully using the available water resources due to
limited distribution hours, and unwillingness of farmers to irrigate at
night. Land reform is progressing and is expected to be completed by the end
of 1984. In the Nebhana area, rehabilitation investments have been
satisfactorily completed. Credit demand for basins and storage facilities was
less than originally expected, and a grading and packing station was not built
because of lack of capacity on the part of the cooperative which was to
construct and manage it. Land consolidation in Nebhana is expected to be
completed by mid-1983. Production of off-season vegetables under greenhouses
is encouraging. Disbursements are in progress for commitments made prior to
the Closing Date. About $0.7 million of funds allocated for credit are not
expected to be used and will be cancelled.
Ln. 1155:      Third Education Project; US$8.9 million loan of August 13, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: March 1, 1976; Closing Date: March 31,
1983.
Implementation of this project was delayed following a change in
education policy and priorities in Tunisia. The project was subsequently
amended to reduce the number of manual work training (ITM) centers to be
equipped under the project, expand the teachers' training component for ITM,
and increase technical assistance. As a result, the Bank loan was reduced by
$0.3 million to $8.6 million, covering the full foreign exchange cost of the
amended project. Disbursements are in progress for commitmaents made prior to
the Closing Date. An undisbursed balance of about US$1.0 million is expected
to remain and be cancelled. The Completion mission is scheduled for May 1983.
Ln. 1188;      Second Highways Project; US$28 million loan of January 26, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness: June 16, 1976; Closing Date: September
30, 1983.
Civil works on the Tunis-Bizerte highway and on the Hammamet-Korba
road in Nabeul have been completed.  The remaining construction works on
1/      These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced
evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 28
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 12
other roads are well-advanced. The Sfax by-pass under Lot 8 on which there
is a difficult problem of expropriation will not be undertaken as part of
the project. All studies under the project have been completed and their
results are being implemented. A loan balance, due to appreciation of the
dollar since loan approval, may be cancelled.
Ln. 1340:       Second Agricultural Credit Project;  US$12 million loan of
December 17, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 19, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Disbursements are ongoing for commitments made prior to the loan's
Closing Date and about 97% of the loan has been disbursed. It is expected
that approximately $0.2 million of the loan balance may not be used and will
be cancelled. Subloans to commercial farmers, agro-industrial investors and
small and medium farmers were fully used.  Project implementation for the
establishment of date palm plantations has improved and is now progressing
satisfactorily. However, due to start-up delays, works will not be
completed before Spring 1984. Some investments will have to be financed
under the Third Credit Project (1885-TUN).
Ln. 1431:       Sidi Salem Multipurpose Project; US$42 million loan of July
5, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: July 31, 1978; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984.
For the project as a whole, progress in implementation continues to
be satisfactory. The land reform and consolidation program is smoothly
underway. The Sidi Salem dam is completed and in operation. The first
filling-up of the reservoir has progressed well. The power plant is
expected to be in operation by mid-1983. After some initial delays,
construction of the Medjerda-Cap Bon interconnection canal is proceeding
more rapidly and completion by the end of 1983 seems possible. The
reinforcement in the water supply of the SONEDE grid during the peak
consumption period (June/July) would be possible now that works on the 1,400
ha Testour perimeter are ready, and irrigation is scheduled to start during
the current cropping season. Works on the Medjez el Bab perimeter of 3,800
ha are now progressing satisfactorily, and are expected to be completed by
the end of 1983. Contracts for works for the Safeguard of Citrus
Plantations subproject in the Cap Bon area have all been awarded; the
anticipated completion date is end-1983. This subproject is experiencing
important cost overruns, and discussions are underway with the Government to
resolve this problem.
Ln. 1445:       Fourth Water Supply Project; US$21 million loan of July 5,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: January 30, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983.
Most of the project facilities are now completed and in operation.
Disbursements including release of retention monies to contractors will be
completed in early 1984.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 12
Ln. 1504/1505: Industrial Finance Project consisting of a Seventh Loan to
Banque de Developpement Economigue de Tunisie (BDET) and a
Pilot Project for assistance to SSI; Loans of $30.0  million
to BDET and of $5.0 million to the Government of January 25,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: October 13, 1978; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983.
Both loans are fully committed. Under the project, BDET is giving
priority in its financing to projects which are located in the less
developed regions, sponsored by new entrepreneurs, characterized by high
labor intensity or export-orientation. Under the Small Scale Industries
(SSI) pilot project, the commercial banks' initial reluctance to utilize
Bank funds for SSI financing has subsided. Considerable progress bas been
made by the Tunisian authorities toward setting up a comprebensive program
delivered by Tunisian and foreign technical assistance experts, specifically
catering to the needs of SSI. A new project approved by the Bank in May
1981 supports this program (see below Ln. 1969).
Ln. 1601:       Rural Roads Project; US$32.0 million loan of July 24, 1978;
Date of Effectiveness: April 30, 1979; Closing Date: June
30, 1984.
Road construction is now underway in all the eleven provinces. The
complementary agricultural component, after an initial delay, is now
progressing satisfactorily, with the exception of the use of credit for
agro-industries wbich has generated little interest,
Ln. 1675:       Second Urban Sewerage Project; US$26.5 million loan of
April 13, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: August 31, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
Works under construction are progressing satisfactorily, although
three stormwater collectors need to be retendered as bids were considerably
bigher than anticipated and additional local funds had to be allocated.
Thirty-one contracts have been awarded for a total dollar equivalent of
US$50.2 million. Bank's commitments amount to US$20.8 million. Tenders for
civil works of the Choutrana Treatment Plant are being evaluated. This
component would be about one and one-half years behind schedule.
Ln. 1702:       Fifth Water Supply Project; US$25.0 million loan of May 31,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: October 19, 1979; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983.
The execution of the project is progressing well and should be
completed by mid-1983. Most of the project facilities are already in
operation.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 12
Ln. 1705:       Second Urban Development Project; US$19.0 million loan of
May 31, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: December 1, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
Responsibility for project implementation was transferred from the
Ministry of Interior to the Ministry of Housing following the creation of
the latter in 1981. About 60% of the civil works are now completed. They
are advancing well in Sfax but less satifactorily in Tunis due to managerial
problems and budgetary constraints.  Difficulties related to site                          )
acquisition cost overruns are being resolved.  Responsibility for the
implementation of the solid waste component was transferred recently from
the District of Tunis to the National Sewerage Authority (ONAS). The
technical assistance and studies are advancing well. A two-year extension
of the Closing Date is envisaged to allow the time for settlement of
management and budgetary issues, and full implementation of the Tunis
component.
Ln. 1746;       Second Fisberies Project; US$28.5 million loan of July 20,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: May 14, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985.
Port infrastructure construction is well underway at all sites and
general progress is satisfactory. Procurement of boat bulls is underway
although more than two years behind schedule mainly due to management
problems. Contracts for the purchase of boat engines have been signed and
cold storage and ice making plants for existing ports have been procured.
Civil works superstructure at three new ports is underway.
Ln. 1796:       Southern Irrigation Project; US$25.0 million loan of
February 8, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: September 30, 1980;
Closing Date; June 30, 1986.
After a slow start in 1980, the project has gradually developed
momentum and is now progressing satisfactorily. However, delays already
experienced will set back the completion date of civil works from 1983 to
1985. Work is underway on 13 of the 16 project perimeters. The other tbree
are expected to start in 1983.  The agricultural impact of rehabilitation is
already noticeable.
Ln. 1797:       Third Port Project; US$42.5 million loan of February 8, 1980;
Date of Effectiveness: June 25, 1980; Closing Date: June 30,
1985.
Civil works at la Goulette are progressing satisfactorily. About
two-thirds of the cellular caissons for the quay have been precast and
positioning is underway. Passenger terminal construction is belhind
schedule, but the project's completion date of June 30, 1984 is unaltered.
A request to finance rehabilitation of the port access road frora the loan
was received by the Bank and is currently being reviewed. Civil works at



- 31 -                          ANNEX I1
Page 7 of 12
Sfax are near completion, with some dredging left in the RoRo berth area,
and further works to be done to modernize the salt export berth and to build
the new access road. Execution of the contract for construction of
buildings and utilities incurred some delays. Full completion of the
contract is due by September 1983. Supervision is satisfactory in both
ports. Implementation of training programs for port personnel has started,
technical assistance being provided by UNCTAD. Execution of the study on
workshops reorganization and maintenance procedures started in January 1983.
Ln. 1841:       Fourth Highway Project; US$36.5 million loan of May 22, 1980;
Date of Effectiveness: November 21, 1980; Closing Date:
September 30, 1984.
The rehabilitation program is progressing well. The 1982 action
plan for maintenance is being implemented, and tenders are being analysed
for civil works for the 1983 program. Road maintenance equipment bas been
delivered.
Ln. 1864;       Second Natural Gas Pipeline Project; US$37 million loan of
October 22, 1980 - amended on July 15, 1981; Date of
Effectiveness: December 9, 1981; Closing Date: December 31,
1985.
The original project scope was modified because of uncertainties
related to the purchase of gas from Algeria; the project has been redesigned
to utilize royalty gas from the Algeria/Italy intercontinental pipeline as a
substitute for premium liquid fuel products. The pipeline distribution
system to be constructed under the project is expected to be completed by
mid-1983. The conversion to gas program of the consumers is progressing,
albeit with some delays. Agreement between Algeria and Italy on the gas
price was reached in early 1983 and gas supplies are expected to start in
the second half of 1983.
Ln. 1885:       Third Agricultural Credit Project; US$30.0 million loan of
August b, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: June 24, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project is financing part of the agricultural three-year
lending program of BNT (Banque Nationale de Tunisie) for medium and
long-term credit to small and medium farmers, production and service
cooperatives, commercial farmers and agro-incustries. Disbursements have
started for production cooperatives, commercial farmers and agro-
industries. However, because Government funds have also been available for
similar purposes to farmers under other programs wbich, unlike the
Bank-financed program, offer subsidies, disbursements are below the expected
level. Also, little progress has been achieved in resolving priority credit
problems.



-32-                               ANNEX II
Page 8 of 12
Ln. 1961:       Fourth Education Project; US$26 million loan of May 18, 1981;
Date of Effectiveness: November 18, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1986.
The implementation of this project, which is devoted to skilled
worker and apprentice training, is proceeding satisfactorily. The staff
recruitment and training plan progressed slowly but improvement is underway
in connection with the reorganization of the project's executing agency.
Construction lags behind appraisal estimates with delays varying from six
(Phase II) to nine months (Phase III).  However, these delays are being
reduced as the second pbase equipment contracts have been awarded for Phase
I and tenders for Pbase II are scheduled for May 1983.
Ln. 1969:       Small Scale Industry Development Project; US$30.0 million
loan of May 15, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: July 21,
1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
The project supports the Government's comprehensive assistance
program for small-scale industries through financial and technical
assistance. $29.35 million is to be administered by the Central Bank of
Tunisia and made available to small entrepreneurs through participating
banks. The remainder of the loan ($0.65 million) would strengtben the
appraisal and SSI technical assistance capacity of the Investment Promotion
Agency responsible for screening eligible subprojects. $1.6 million has
been committed to date.
Ln. 1997:       Northwest Rural Development Project; US$24.0 million loan of
July 15, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: March 23, 1982; Closing
Date: September 30, 1987.
The project is designed to help finance a five-year time slice of
the Government's 15 year development program for the Northwest Region
through the establishment of institutions which could implement the program,
and the development of extension, researcb, credit, and livestock services.
The project would also start up specific agricultural, soil conservation and
forestry activities, together with productive infrastructure works. Project
implementation is progressing satisfactorily.
Ln. 2003:       Third Power Project; US$41.5 million loan of July 15, 1981;
Date of Effectiveness: April 21, 1982; Closing Date: December
31, 1985.
The project will assist Tunisia in implementing the first three
years of a five-year program for the development of rural electrification,
and in rehabilitating the urban distribution systems by connecting to the
national network about 35,000 new customers living in about 650 villages
situated in 15 Governorates, and improving the supply of electricity in
about 60 towns. Project implementation is progressing very well. However
disbursements are behind appraisal estimates due to a revision in the
procurement procedures whicb were not in compliance with Bank guidelines.



- 33 -                         ANNEX It
Page 9 of 12
Ln. 2005:       Health and Population Project; US$12.5 million loan of
July 15, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: March 23, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1986.
The project is designed to support Government efforts to extend
basic health care to the whole population by 1990, through the provision of
better and more cost-effective health, family planning and nutrition
services to lower income groups in eight selected Governorates. It would
strengthen the Ministry of Public Health's management capacity, improve and
expand the basic health care delivery system and health education programs,
upgrade the training system, and train health personnel. All project
activities are well coordinated and project implementation is progressing
satisfactorily and according to schedule.
Ln. 2012:       Textile Rehabilitation Project; US$18.6 million loan of
October 27, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: May 7, 1982; Closing
DBate: December 31, 1984.
Equipment procured under bilateral financing as well as major
productive machines financed under the Bank loan have recently been
commissioned and are running on three shifts. Technical assistance to the
SOGITEX group is progressing satisfactorily. Financial performance of the
primary beneficiary of the Bank loan (SITEX) continues to be satisfactory.
Ln. 2052:       Grain Distribution and Storage Project; US$42.0 million loan
of October 27, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: April 2, 1982;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
The project is designed to strengtben grain storage capacity;
reduce congestion, handling costs, demurrage charges and grain losses at the
main Tunisian seaports, and the cost of transport and handling of grain;
strengthen the technical capacity and financial management of the Office of
Cereals (OC); and lay the groundwork for further moaernization of the system
of collection, storage and transport of domestic grain. The invitation to
bid for construction of silos has been delayed about a year and a half and
has not yet been issued as a result of OC's difficulties in recruiting
consulting engineers. This recruitment is now well underway. Procurement
by SNCFT of rail hopper cars and materials for construction of silo railway
sidings is underway. Consultants for technical assistance in management and
finance have been recruited by OC.
Ln. 2108:       Fifth Highway Project; US$ 35.5 million loan of May 14,
1982; Date of Effectiveness: April 21, 1983; Closing Date:
December 31, 1987.
The project will help the Government continue its efforts to
provide farmers with improved roads, support services, and farm credit.
Some 1,200 kilometers on about 100 road sections throughout the country will
be improved, 55 extension centers will be constructed and equipped, and



- 34 -
ANNEX 11
Page 10 of 12
credit will be provided. Consultant services to assist the Highway
Department and the Ministry of Agriculture will also be providea. The
Project Coordinating Committee has been established.
Ln. 2113;       Electrical and Mechanical Industries Project; US$ 30.5
million loan of May 14, 1982; Date of Effectiveness:
December 2, 1982; Closing Date:  December 31, 1987.
The Banque de Developpement Economique de Tunisie (BDET) provides
a $28 million credit line for supporting priority electrical and mechanical
industries and for general purpose lending to inaustry in Tunisia. The
remainder of this loan is being used by the Tunisian Government to provide
tecbnical assistance in setting up a Technical Center for Mechanical
Industries, and a National Institute of Standardization and Quality Control
for manufacturing industries, and in conducting a study on effective
protection.
Loan 2134:      Sixth Water Supply Project; US$ 30.5 million loan of May 14,
1982; Date of Effectiveness: October 20, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1986.
The project prcvides for the expansion and improvement of water
supply systems in about 150 rural centers. It also includes the provision
of credit facilities to help finance individual house connections and the
installation of 80,000 meters for these connections. Seventeen subprojects
that would be implemented in 37 rural centers and financed under the loan
have already been selected by SONEDE and approved by the Bank. Civil works
contracts for a total amount of US$4.2 million have been placed for ten of
the subprojects; works on these contracts are underway. Bidding for the
remaining subprojects and equipment is also underway. So far, credit
facilities have been extended to 31,900 customers for a total amount of
US$10.5 million.
Ln. 2157:      Medjerda/Nebbana Irrigation Development Project; US$ 22.0
million loan of June 8, 1982; Date of Effectivenesst
February 1, 1983; Closing Date: December 31, 1988.
The project will provide funds for a development project in which
emphasis will be placed on improving irrigation works and mnarketing
facilities in the regions of Medjerda near Tunis and Nebhana near Sousse.
The implementing agencies, the Medjerda Valley Development Agency (OMVVM)                 4
and the Nebhana Development Agency (OMIVAN), expect to increase the
production of vegetables, fruit, forage, industrial crops, livestock and
milk. The project will also provide farm access roads, fruit and vegetable
processing centers, cold stores and milk collection centers. The project
has just started and the OMIVAN component is progressing well, althougb
there are some delays in recruiting consultants. The OMVVM component has
been slow in starting due to Government budget allocation difficulties.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 12
Loan. 2197:    Technical Assistance Project; US$ 4.5 million loan of October
29, 1982; Planned Date of Effectiveness: May 27, 1983;
Closing Date; December 31, 1986.
The project will provide technical assistance to the agriculture,
industry and energy sectors through the provision of experts and training to
(i) increase the number and improve the quality of investment projects; (ii)
strengthen local project preparation capabilities; (iii) provide a sound
empirical base for the formulation of sector-wide policies; and (iv)
reinforce institution-building efforts. In spite of delays in loan
effectiveness, implementation of the project has started with training for
Tunisians in energy conservation and with the signing of the first
consultant contracts for agricultural studies.
Loan. 2223:    Third Urban Development; US$ 25.0 million Loan of January
11, 1983; Planned Date of Effectiveness: July 12, 1983;
Closing Date: June 30, 1990.
The project consists of: (i) comprehensive upgrading in four
settlements; (ii) a sites and services/housing credit scheme in tbree of
these settlements; (iii) a pilot program of upgrading and reconstruction of
the Hafsia neighborhood in the Medina of Tunis; and (iv) technical
assistance for project implementation, institution building, and
pre-investment studies. Of the five project sites, three are in Greater
Tunis and two are in the Northwest region. The executing agency (ARRU) is
now fully staffed to implement the project and the technical assistance
experts are expected to arrive in May 1983.
Loan. 2230;    Fifth Education Project; US$ 27 million Loan of January 11,
1983; Planned Date of Effectiveness: July 12, 1983;
Closing Date: December 31, 1987.
The project will improve the planning and management capacity of
the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) and assist the Ministry of Education (MOE)
in expanding its primary school teacher training capacity. It consists of:
equipping and providing technical assistance to the Bureau of Agricultural
Education Studies and Planning under MOA; providing didactic and farming
equipment to six high level technical training institutions, four
agricultural secondary scbools, fifteen agricultural training centers; and
providing equipment and technical assistance to the National Agricultural
Instructor Training Center. It will also construct and equip four new
primary school teacber training colleges under the MOE and finance studies
on the country's needs for middle and higher-level technicians in view of
designing appropriate methods and systems for their training. The project
unit is already in place and equipment lists are in the final stage of
preparation for ICB. Civil works for the MOA component are slightly ahead
of schedule while drawings for the MOE as well as the studies components are
slightly behind schedule.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 12
Loan. 2234:    Central Tunisia Irrigation Project; US$ 16.5 million Loan of
February 28, 1983; Planned Date of Effectiveness; June 28,
1983; Closing Date: June 30, 1990.
Central Tunisia, one of the least developed parts of the country,
receives low and irregular rainfall. The project will focus on better use
of existing resources and will create new public irrigation perimeters only
where resources are under-exploited. About 1,600 of the project area's
5,900 shallow wells and 37 of the 51 public irrigation perimeters will be
,rebabilitated. Steps to initiate project activities are progressing well.



- 37 -
ANNEX III
Page I of 2
TUNISIA
SOFOMECA FOUNDRY MODERNIZATION AND EXPANSION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of key events
(a) Time taken by the country
to prepare the project:       20 months (February 1981 - October 19b2)
(b) The agency wbicb prepared
the project:                 Government and SOFOMECA
(c) Project first identified
by the Bank:                 February/March 1979
(d) Date of Bank Appraisal
Mission:                     October 1982
(e) Negotiations                 April 19-22, 1983
(f) Planned date of
loan effectiveness          October 15, 1983
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special conditions
a) Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
SOFOMECA will:
(i) implement a program acceptable to the Bank to improve its financial
organization and management, and submit to the Bank quarterly reports
on implementation of this program starting Marcb 31, 1984 (para. 43);
(ii) maintain a management performance monitoring system with key
financial and technical indicators and submit to the Bank quarterly
reports on progress, starting January 1, 1984;
(iii) establish and fully staff a Project Management Group by December
31, 1983 (para. 52);
(iv) set its prices at levels which would allow the company to meet its
financial obligations under the loan and which would be reasonably
related to operating costs and competitive with those of local and
foreign competitors (para. 54);
(v) maintain a current ratio of at least 1.3, incur debt only up to a
debt/equity ratio of at most 60:40 and a projected debt-se.vice-coverage
ratio of at least 1.5; not undertake any investment above TD O.5 million
until project completion (other than for the project) without prior Bank
approval (para. 55);



- 38 -
(vi) pay dividends only from accumulated earnings and if debt/equity ratio
remains below 60:40 and current ratio above 1.5;
(vii) witbout limitation to the Government guarantee of performance of the
project and provision of funds for it, ensure that shareholders or others
provide the funds to complete project (para. 51).
The Government will:
(i) consult with the Bank before modifying the general directions
affecting the foundry industry or undertaking any new important project in
the foundry industry (para. 44);
(ii) submit to the Bank for review draft proposals for the integration of
castings into STIA's production (para. 53).
c) Loan Effectiveness conditions:
(i) Effectiveness conditions of loan agreements between SOFOMECA and
each of the colenders to be fulfilled (para. 51);
(ii) SOFOMECA's share capital to be increased and fully subscribed,
a schedule of all equity contributions to be established and 25i of
capital increase to be paid in (para. 51);
(iii) Satisfactory technical assistance agreement between SOFOMECA and KHD
to be concluded (para. 52).



IBRD1686 0
8'                      '9! nS F                                                           II.               JAN ARPS 1sE3
37JNANE                               E                         E  /L AOUARIA
37'                                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~37'-
~~~~/~~~  I                       C          \/t.AG              H       
DAHA   AM                                            QO_ GTIFY
AMMN~I               AN9
L'-A                                          SL HIAN       TEMIME
9'    Q-IARUIMAQ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MEZ~BLELE
, (;  f  ER IANA   yJs C ALI 6-N 4^UN  REGJE6   1    S X   t     EENIA A                35
SOFMEC    FONR   MOD, pERN KAIZATION./ r  
<   X   \   g    +   <    tt>   RE5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KOE
JE' AND   EXPNSION   PRJC
PROEC              RELATE    LOATON ;(,                                1     - 'i/9 G{   
_~ P4 nca Cap t_,                              A. F                 . C A
8~~~~~t~na GEo°undesA                                     H f
°c,9~~~~~~~~~~~~~K .,L                                                     AD ,.     FIDr \  AVIL       _ K ,,,E,
Earth an  GeH ...RA                                                                       9A9999p 'R999
32'  I~~~~~~~'~~~  R  verSURSO SS
*                        k~~~~~~~-                                - Internationa  Bonois 9 2  8  0 8  2       -
PROJECTERS RELATED   LOCATIONS             ' 1 O MNNASTIR
8'                               5'>fodnecs VEx'si  and  I99 I                            9      EL'AL
-e    -OI LrvnBAvunuist                              AF         
Earth ond Gravel Roods           r            >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'IN
+    Internotlonsl~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~ALA                              ANrorE |M          HnAeeeloaPEBB
-35' ~           -OZI 3n5-toC  Budre                            O-E5bysclaneRX
C ~   ~      ~     I ALIC B--N   N  PR



