Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4345a-TUN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TUNISIA
SOFOMECA FOUNDRY MODERNIZATION AND EXPANSION PR
May 10, 1983
Industry Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CUPPRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Used in the SAR)
US$1 = Tunisian Dinar (TD) 0.63
TD 1 = US$1.59
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 metric ton (t) = 1,000 kilograms (kg)
1 metric ton (t) = 2,204 pounds (lb)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ACMN      -  Ateliers de Constructions Metalliques et de Maintenance de Gabes
AIIC      -  Arab Industrial Investment Company
ARMICO    -  Arab Mining Company
BDET      -  Banque de Developpement Economique de Tunisie
BTEI      -  Banque Tuniso-Emiratienne d'Investissement
BTKD      -  Banque Tuniso-Koweitienne de Developpement
CKD          Completely Knocked Down
CMT       -  Complexe Mecanique de Tunisie
CNEI      -  Centre National des Etudes Industrielles
CNSS      -  Caisse Nationale de Securite Sociale
EMI       -  Electro-Mechanical Industries
GF        -  George Fischer Aktiengesellschaft
IDB       -  Islamic Development Bank
KHD       -  Kloeckner Humboldt Deutz
MCE       -  Mechanical Construction and Engineering
OSHA      -  occupational Safety and Health Administration (US)
PIG       -  Project Management Group
PPF       -  Project Preparation Facility
SNCFT     -  Societe Nationale des Chemins de Fer Tunisiens
SOFOMECA  -  Societe de Fonderies et de Mecanique
SONEDE    -  Societe Nationale d'Exploitation et de Distribution des Eaux
SOTINFOR  -  Societe Tunisienne d1Informatique et d'organization
STIA      -  Societe Tunisienne d'Industrie Automobile
STUSID    -  Societe Tuniso-Seouiienne dlInvestissement et de Developpement
tpy       -  Tons Per Year
FISCAL YEAR
Government   ) January 1 to December 31
and SOFOMECA )



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TUNISIA
APPRAISAL OF THE SOFOMECA FOUNDRY MODERNIZATION AND EXPANSION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.     INTRODUCTION ..........................                               I
II.   THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR, THE ENGINEERING INDUSTRIES SUBSECTOR, AND
T'E F(OUNDRY INDUSTRY    ...                                       2
A. The Industrial Sector.                                             2
B.  The Engineering Industries Subsector ........................  4
C. The Foundry Industry ........................................  7
III.   SOFOMECA - THE COMPANY .......................................... 10
A. Backgrourd and ownership .10
B. Organization and Management ................................  10
C. Present Facilities .13
D.  Recent operations and Financial Performance ................. 14
IV. THE MARKET                           ........ 17
A.  Supply and Demand of Castings in Tunisia .................... 17
B.  SOFOMECA's Market Position and Marketing Arrangements ....... 23
C.  SOFOMECA's Prices and Competitiveness ....................... 24
V.     THE PROJECr ..................................................... 26
A. Project Objective and Scope                  . . .    26
B.  Project Description .    . ....................................... 27
1.  Modernization of Existing Facilities          .      .      27
2.  New Fourdry for Mechanical Castings           .      .      27
3. Sand Treatment Plant                   ..                    28
C.  Process, Technology and Technical Assistance        ...   28
D. Raw Materials and Utilities                  ..                  29
E.  Ecology ..................................................... 30
F.  Employment, Training and Productivity            . . .    30
G.  Project Implementation Schedule and Management ...              31
This report was prepared by Messrs. Harbaksb S. Sethi and Oscar de Bruyn Kops
of the Irdustry Department.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of |
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
VI.   PROJECT COST, FINANCING PLAN AND PROCUREMENT ..................... 33
A. Project Cost Estimate                    ..                     33
B.    Financing  Plan  ........................... .................. . *  35
C. Procurement                   ............. 37
D. Allocation and Disbursement of Bank Loan          .     .      37
VII. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS                 ............. . 38
A. Prcduction Buildup, Revenues and Operating Costs      . .    38
B.  Financial Projections ard Analysis ...........................  42
C. Financial Covenants                     ..                     43
D. Financial Return ............................................. 43
E. Auditing and Reporting                   ..                     45
F. Major Risks .................................................. 45
VIII. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS ................................................ 47
A. Econcnic Costs and Benefits .................................. 47
B. Econcmic Rate of Return                   ..                   48
C. Sectoral Impact and Other Benefits             ..               49
IX.  AGREEMENTS ....................................................... 50
ANNEXES
3-1    SOFOMECA:  Current organization
3-2    SOFOMECA:  Future organization
4     Tunisia:   Projected Demand for Ferrous Castings
5-1    General Layout Plan of Present and Future Facilities
5-2    Project Management Organization
6-1    Project Cost Estimate by Project Ccmponent
6-2    Working Capital Assumptions and Requirements
6-3   Allocation of Funds by Financing Souroe and Cost Categories
6-4    Items to be Financed by the Bank
6-5    Estimated Disbursement Schedule for Bank Loan
7-1    Sales Volume and Revenue
7-2    Operating Costs and Unit Cost of Inputs
7-3    Financial Projections and Assumptions
7-4    Financial Rate of Return:  Cost and Revenue Streams
8-1    Economic Rate of Return:  Cost and Benefit Streams
8-2    Direct Foreign Exchange Effect



- iii-
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
MAP
IBRD - 16860 Tunisia: Project Related Locations
OCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
Reference                      Title
A.     Selected Reports and Studies on Subsector
A-1      "Study of Foundry Sector in Tunisia," prepared
by the consulting ccmpany, Atkins Planning,
United Kingdcom.
A-2      "Development Strategy Paper on Foundry Industry,"
prepared by the World Bank.
A-3      "Etude du Marche de la Fonderie en Tunisie,"
prepared by CNEI, November 1978.
B.     Selected Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
B-1      Initial study of a foundry project, prepared by
SOTINFOR, Tunisia.
B-2      Prefeasibility study of SOFOMECA's foundry project,
prepared by SOTINFOR, Tunisia.
B-3      Feasibility study of SOFOMECA's foundry project,
prepared by George Fischer AG, Switzerland.
B-4      "Etude du Marche des Baignoires," prepared by CNEI,
September 1980.
B-5      Summaries of Studies on the CMT-project.
B-6      Feasibility study on a foundry-cum-machining project,
prepared by Tunisie-Consult on behalf of BDET.
C.     Selected Working Papers
C-1      Technical evaluation of SOFOMECA's existing facilities,
prepared by Juri Markus, Consultant.
C-2      Integration program of SOFOMECA's castings in CMT and
STIA production.
C-3      implementation program of improvements in the organization
and management systems of SOFOMECA.
C-4      Agreement between George Fischer AG and SOFOMECA on
engineering assistance.
C-5      SOFOMECA:  Historical financial statements.
C-6      Miscellaneous statements relating to financial projections.
C-7      Background material on financial and economic return
calculations.
C-8      Documents on STIA's program planning.






TUNISIA
APPRAISAL OF THE SOFOMECA FOUNDRY MODERNIZATION AND EXPANSION PROJECT
I. INTTRODUCrION
1.01     The Government of Tunisia (the Government) arnd the Societe de Fonderies
et de Mecanique (SOFOMECA), the Project Ccmpany, have requested the Bank to
finance a project that will modernize and expand the facilities of SOFOMECA
located at Megrine Riadh, 5 km north of Tunis. SOFOMECA is the larger of the
two main foundries in Tunisia, both operating in the public sector at present.
With the Project, SOFOMECA would change fram a majority publicly owned Company
to a Company with a majority of shares held by semi-public anr private
shareholders.
1.02     The Project includes both physical and technical assistance
components. It will (i) debottleneck and mcdernize the existing facilities of
SOFOMECA to improve quality and raise productivity; (ii) create new facilities
for prcduction of mechanical castings; and (iii) establish two sand quarries ard
a sand treatment plant. Further, it will provide transfer of technical know-how
and assistance for training from a European equipment manufacturer (Kloeckner
Humboldt Deutz (KHD) of the Federal Republic of Germany). The increased output
of high quality castings would contribute to economic local integration of
industrial intermediate products, promotion of efficient development of the
Tunisian foundry industry and strengthening of its export-potential in the
long-term. These objectives are in line with the investment priorities of the
Government.
1.03     The total financing required for the Project is estimated at
US$54.1 million equivalent, of which US$40.7 million is in foreign exchange. A
Bank loan of US$16.8 million is proposed, and would cover 31% of total financing
and 41% of the foreign exchange requirements of the Project. The remaining
financing requirements (US$37.3 million including US$23.9 million in foreign
exchange) would be financed through equity contributions and loans by local and
foreign development banks and companies -- the Tunisian-Saudi Investment and
Development Bank (STJSID), the Tunisian-Kuwaiti Development Bank (BTKD), the
Tunisian-Enirates Investment Bank (BTEI), the Islamic Development Bank (IDB),
the Arab Mining Company (ARMICO), and the Arab Industrial Investment Company
(AIIC).
1.04     The Project was initially identified in 1980 as part of the Bank's
sector work on engineering industries 1/, and project preparation started in
April 1981 with assistance from the Bank. In particular, the Bank played a
major role in assisting the Government in formulating a development strategy for
the foundry industry. It stimulated actions and inputs for the sound
preparation of the technical and economical aspects of the Project which was
1/ Tunisia - Review of the Electrical and Mechanical Industries,
Report No. 2666 - TUN, June 4, 1980.



- 2 -
carried out with the assistance of George Fischer Aktiengesellschaft (GF) of
Switzerland and Societe Tunisienne dlInformatique et d'organization (SOTINFOR)
of Tunisia. Finally, the Bank is playing an important institution-building role
in strengthening the management organization of SOFOMECA. The Project was
prepared during three major missions with the assistance of consultants. It was
appraised in October 1982 by Messrs. Sethi (Chief) and de Bruyn Kops of the
Industry Department.
II. THE INDWUSTRIAL SECTOR, THE ENGINEERING INDUSTRIES
SUBSECTOR, AND THE FOUNDRY INDUSTRY
A. The Industrial Sector
2.01     Over the past two decades, Tunisian planners have singled out the
irdustrial sector as a major vehicle for econcmic development and employment
creation. During the 1960s, industrialization policies focused on encouraging
public, capital intensive, ard import-substitution projects. Due to the limited
employment creation impact of these policies, and because of the small size of
the domestic market, the inJustrialization strategy shifted during the 1970s to
export promotion and greater emphasis on the private sector. Following this
reorientation, the performance of the industrial sector improved markedly.
Growth in value added of manufacturing (food processing, textiles/leather,
construction materials, engineering industries, chemicals and others)
accelerated from 7.9% per year in real terms during the 1960s to 10.3% during
the 1970s, and manufacturing accounted for 42% of total employment creation
luring the Fifth Development Plan (1977-81) as compared to 33% during the
1960s. The subsectors contributing most to manufacturing growth and employment
creation were textiles, construction materials, ar.d engineering industries.
Total manufacturing exports performed well during the Fifth Development Plan
with 42% of total ccmmodity exports. Despite these achievements, the shares of
manufacturing in GDP and national employment remained quite modest at 14% and
22% respectively in 1981.
2.02     Although private investment has increased substantially during the
1970s, the public sector still plays an important role in the manufacturing
sector and accounted for 61% of investment during the Fifth Plan. Most of the
larger enterprises in Tunisia are publicly owned, especially in the chemicals,
construction materials, and engineering subsectors. In contrast, private
manufacturing enterprises tend to be small and medium-sized, employing between
10-50 workers 2/, and according to the 1978 Industrial Census, they represented
about 65% of the total number of firms in the sector. Manufacturing production
is mostly concentrated in the Greater Tunis area and the regions bordering the
east coast. Decentralization towards the interior of the country is being
promoted, following the introduction of new incentives in June 1981.
2/ A Bank loan addressed the specific needs of these small-scale enterprises;
see Small-Scale Industry Development Project, Staff Appraisal Report
No. 3266 - TUN, Febtuaty 5, 1981.



2.03     Although the manufacturing sector has grown quite rapidly in the 1970s,
its development has been affected by two sets of inter-related constraints. The
first set of constraints originates from the Government's reliance on a complex
system of administrative controls with regards to investment, pricing, tariff
protection and import quotas, and several shortcomings in the incentive
framework relating to fiscal exemptions, employment creation impact and sectoral
integration. In effect, price controls--of a cost plus type-- 3/ coupled with
high protection have made the domestic market more profitable (especially for
enterprises fabricating end prcducts), without encouraging them to increase
efficiency and competitiveness. The Government also has been controlling
resource allocation and investment approval. This, however, has not ensured the
desired coordination and consistency between investment programs, mainly because
well-defined sectoral and sub-sectoral strategies have not been sufficiently
developed. On the incentive framework, in spite of a beneficial impact of the
investment incentive framework (Law 1974-74 for Tunisian investors and Law
1972-38 for foreign export-oriented investment) 4/ on the initiatives of the
private sector, there have been distortions and negative secondary effects, such
as fiscal exemptions granted irrespective of the efficiency of the investments
ard their employment creation impact, and lack of encouragement for higher
sectoral integration and value added content. The new measures introduced in
June 1981 to promote accelerated decentralization of industrial activities and
to expand exports and increase their local value-added content represent
progress in this respect.
2.04     The second set of constraints involves:  inefficient planning and
management of production operations, insufficient specialization of product mix,
weak linkages between firms and subsectors, excessive capacities in several
subsectors, and shortages of skilled personnel as well as experienced indus-
trialists/promoters. Some of the simpler project preparation and production
management problems specifically faced by the small scale industries have been
addressed through a technical scheme operated by Agence de Promotion des
Investissements (API) and Centre National des Etudes Industrielles (CNEI) 5/.
However, the specialized technical, engineering-type problems encountered by
industries in general are not resolved. With regard to shortages of skilled
labor, there are several ongoing technical training programs of the Government.
To support further the Government's efforts to train technical manpower, the
Bank's Fourth Education Loan (No. 1961-TUN) approved in May 1981, will assist
the Government to expand the output of trainees, to improve the quality of
training, and to promote closer cooperation among and involvement of enterprises
in the training activities.
2.05     under the Sixth Development Plan (1982-86), the Government will pursue
the same development objectives as in the last two Plans, namely, employment
creation, export promotion, a more efficient and better integrated industrial
structure, an increased participation of the private sector, and more rapid
3/ For more details, see Special Economic Report on Price Controls and Subsidies
in Tunisia, Report No. 3405 - TUN, September 15, 1981.
4/ For more details, see Tunisia - Review of Electrical and Mechanical
Industries, op. cit.
5/ More details are available in the Staff Appraisal Report (No. 3266 - TUN) of
the First Small Scale Industry Development Project.



- 4 -
decentralization of irdustrial activities. Thus, a large share of the planned
prcductive investments in manufacturing (projected at TD 1.6 billion in current
prices or 19.5% of total Plan investment) would focus on labor intensive
industries, particularly in the private sector. Manufacturing value-added is
projected to grow at about 10.5% per year in real terms, slightly faster than
the growth rate achieved during the Fifth Plan. The fastest growth (15.2% per
year) is foreseen for engineering industries 6/ which have been given the
highest priority in the Plan. Their share of total manufacturing value-added is
expected to reach 18% in 1986 compared with 14% in 1981.
2.06     The Bank has supported the industrial sector in Tunisia primarily
through provision of loans to BDET which has been the major vehicle for
channeling Bank funds to manufacturing industries. This incluldes among others a
loan to Banque de Developpement Economique de Tunisie (BDET) for engineering
industries, which in addition to providing resources for this important
manufacturing subsector through a line of credit, addresses several policy
issues in the subsector (para 2.12).  In addition to neeting BDET's resource
requirements, these loans assisted in strengthening BDET's organization arA
improving its performance. Also, the Bank financed a project for the
rehabilitation of the textile industry (Loan No. 2012 - TUN of October 27,
1981). Recently, the Bank has approved a technical assistance loan which will
alleviate constraints to the preparation of projects in industry through
strengthening local project preparation capabilities ard will reinforce the
training efforts of the Government in industry.
B. The Engineering Industries Subsector
2.07     The Tunisian engineering industries have grown rapidly, by 18% per year
in real terms during the 1960s from a small base, by 13% per year during the
1970s, arnd have maintained their good performance during the early 1980s. In
1982, the subsector grew by 10.3% as against a 3.4% overall growth for
manufacturing. The subsector remains small, however, representing only 2% of
GDP in 1981, arnd 14% of value-added and 12% of employment in manufacturing.  The
subsector is dominated by a dozen large enterprises (steel mill, foundries, ship
repair, vehicle assembly, household appliances, mechanical hardware), which
account for more than half of the subsector's output. overall, however,
engineering industries are generally of small and medium size with the majority
of enterprises engaged in steel structure/plate work, metal products arin
intermediate gcods.
2.08     The subsector is largely inward-oriented.  As a result of policies
pursued in the 1960s, the development of engineering industries has taken place
principally in import-substituting assembly industries producing consumer ard
6/ Defined to include the following industries:  basic metals (including
foundries); fabricated metal products; non-electrical machinery and supplies;
electrical machinery, appliances and supplies; transport equipment; and
measuring and control equipment. In some countries, such as Tunisia these
industries are also defined as electrical and mechanical industries.



durable goods and relying largely on imported components. As a consequence of
the focus on assembly activities, the value-added content of the subsector's
output has remained low at an average of 25%. The proliferation of assembly
industries has also led to insufficient integration within the subsector arid an
increasing pressure on the balance of payments because of growing imports of
engineering intermediate and equipnent gocds. In spite of these structural
weaknesses, exports of engineering products grew from 10% of engineering
industries output in 1977 to 16% in 1981 with their share in total manufacturing
exports rising fram 6.0% to 8.6% during that period 7/. On the other hand,
imports of engineering goods increased from 35% of all imports in 1970 to 45% in
1979.
2.09     Two major constraints which have affected the engineering industries in
particular are: (i) the low level of labor prcductivity; and (ii) the biases of
the incentive framework (investment ccde, protection, pricing) against firm
specialization in the manufacture of intermediate and end-products,
rationalization of product-mix, intra-sectoral integration, exports, arnd the
prcduction of capital gocds and supplies. The first constraint derives partly
from the biases against firm specialization, but mainly from general weaknesses
in plant lay-out and in operating practices, due, in turn, to constraints on the
supply of technical assistance and on-the-job training of labor. Concerning the
second constraint, the investment code (Law 1974-74, revised by Law 1981-56) did
not encourage strong linkages between the supplies of intermediate ard
semi-finished products and the end-product assembly industries 8/.
Administrative red tape and the lack of quality standards have also constrained
exports by local engineering industries and intra-sectoral linkages between
local firms and the foreign exporting firms. Also, the investment code arnd the
structure of protection and tariffs for imported engineering goods has resulted
in a low or negative effective protection for Tunisian capital goods
industries. Further, the Tunisian authorities have been using discretionary
import licensing procedures to limit imports of capital, and intermediate
goods. The investment code revisions of 1981 have focussed on the general
issues of regional decentralization and capital intensity of investment in
manufacturing (para 2.02). These revisions, however, fall short of what would
be necessary to remove all constraints noted above. In this respect, under a
recent Bank loan for engineering industries (para 2.12), the Government has
agreed on specific incentives for these industries, on appropriate protection
measures anJ incentives for capital goods industries, on measures for specific
industrial standards ard better quality control, and for better procedures for
tax/duty exemption on inputs used for exports. As part of this loan, the Bank
is assisting the Tunisian authorities with an Effective Protection Study for the
manufacturing sector which would assess the appropriate levels of protection for
engineering industries also, with a view to reducing the variation in tariff
7/ Exports of electrical products have taken the largest share in engineering
exports, and have ccme mainly fran foreign firms assembling electrical and
electronic prcducts on an "off-shore" basis under the Law 1972-38.
8/ In advanced engineering industries, the final processing and assembly
typically account for 20-30% of the end-product value, while the remaining
70-80% comes fram the supplier industries where most of the engineering
processes take place.



- 6 -
levels and adjusting cases of overprotection.  Further Bank assistance in
improving the export envirorment will be provided under the recent Technical
Assistance Loan (No. 2197-TUN of October 1982) through the execution of an
export prcmotion study which will review constraints in the present incentive
system and institutional framework for exports and recommend measures for
improverment.
2.10     Tunisia has a ccnparative advantage in selected engineering product
lines. Its comparative advantage consists of its labor force with relatively
low wages and increasing competence and quality and its proximity and potential
access to the EEC markets. The primary development objectives for the
subsector, i.e., to increase labor prcductivity and local value-added content,
will be best achieved in the medium-term by focusing on three major categories
of products in the industries producing capital and intermediate goods with
potential for growth and efficiency improvement. These categories camprise:
(i) products for efficient import-substitution using simple or intermediate
labor-intensive technologies with a domestic market large enough to sustain
econcomic operations, such as castings, steel structures ard platework, selected
intermediate goods and electro-mechanical and electronic goods; (ii) products
with potential for development with smaller donestic markets than in the first
group, involving high processing technologies, such as parts and components, as
well as assembly of various machinery and equipment (air ccmpressors, generating
groups, tractors, trucks, dumpers, forklifts); and (iii) intermediate goods and
end-products with established or potential markets for exports, such as hard
tools and cutlery, mechanical and electrical conponents and appliances, and
castings. A focus on these three categories of priority activities would foster
the development of industries representing currently about two-thirds of the
engineering industries output. It would also aim at substituting efficiently
engineering industries imports and prcmoting abroad the image of Tunisia as an
efficient exporter of engineering gocds.
2.11     The Sixth Development Plan has projected a total investment in
engineering industries of about TD 385 million (US$610 million), representing
24% of total projected manufacturing investment as ccnpared to 13% during the
Fifth Plan. As a result, the growth of the subsector's value-added is expected
to accelerate from 13.1% per year during 1977-81 to 15.2% per year during
1982-86. By 1986, engineering industries would represent about 18% of
manufacturing value-added and 3.1% of GDP, thereby making their importance in
the structure of the Tunisian manufacturing sector closer to that of countries
with similar level of development. The Plan's priorities for the subsector and
the derived investment program reflect largely the strategy outlined above
(para 2.10).
2.12     To support the efficient development of engineering industries under an
appropriate policy framework, and to address the development constraints noted
above (para 2.09) the Bank has recently approved a US$30.5 million loar. for an
Electro-Mechanical Industries (EMI) project 9/ which will provide financial and
technical assistance to engineering industries. This project will finance,
9/ Loan No. 2113-TIJN, Electrical and Mechanical Industries Project, Staff
Appraisal Report No. 3689 - TUN, March 2, 1982.



through a line of credit to BDET, new and mcdernization projects in priority
engineering subsectors. Furthermore, the project provides technical assistance
to engineering industries by establishing an Institute for Stardardization and
Quality Control of industrial products, ard a Technical Center for delivering
production-related assistance and on-the-job training. Finally, the project
helps to implement changes in incentives specific to engineering industries in
the areas of protection, exports and financing. As part of the agreements
reached with the Tunisian Government concerning protection and incentives for
engineering capital goods industries, the Government would take appropriate
measures to ensure that tariffs on imports of engineering capital gocds ard
supplies be maintained below 18% (21% for steel structure and platework) and
that these levels be applied consistently for products that could be produced in
Tunisia. For priority engineering products protected by import licensing
procedures, the same competitive pricing discipline would be sought by ensuring
that manufacturers would not be allowed to charge ex-factory prices in excess of
118% (121% for steel structure and platework products) of the comparable foreign
price (defined as the ex-factoLy price of the foreign project partner in his
domestic market plus a reasonable estimated provision for transport and
insurance costs to Tunisia). The above agreements on protection of engineering
goods also apply to the ferrous castings manufactured by the proposed SOFOMECA
Project and to the products of SOFlOMECA's major new clients, such as diesel
engines and tractors (paras 4.07 ard 4.18).
C.  The Fourdry Irdustry
2.13     The Tunisian foundry industry, with an average growth of almost 8% per
year during the 1970s, has not kept pace with the overall good performance of
the engineering industries subsector (13%). Its share in the subsector is
small, and in 1981 it accounted for only 2.5% of engineering industries output,
3.6% of employment, and 4.6% of investment. The foundry industry is
underdeveloped and weakly integrated within the engineering subsector and needs
particular development if it is to become, as it should, a backbone for the
development of the Tunisian engineering industries.  Tunisian foundries,
dominated by two public enterprises (SOFOMECA and Fonderies Reunies) which
account for 90% of the national capacity and output of castings, prcduce low
grade castings of iron and steel in small series for varied uses on the domestic
market (construction sector, mines, cement industry, railways and engineering
industries), and some exports.  The two foundries cover aLmost the complete
range of traditional cast iron products (infrastructure- and housing-related)
with some duplication of the types of castings produced. Due to the small
domestic market and the diseconomies of scale there is a need for
rationalization of future production among these foundries. Foundry output in
Tunisia, due to various constraints (para 2.14), amounted to only about 7,800
tons in 1982 and represented just 33% of domestic consumption of foundry
products, with the balance being imported in rough or finished form (para 4.01).
2.14     The major constraints which have affected the development of the
foundry industry are:  (i) the low level of labor productivity; (ii) the low
quality of final products; and (iii) the bias of the policy framework against



- 8 -
development of engineering industries and intra-sectoral integration
(para 2.09). The low level of productivity of the Tunisian foundry industry is
due to the diversification of its product-mix, lack of specialization among the
two main foundries, technical inefficiencies and old equipment, and inadequate
management organization. The low quality of foundry products derives mainly
from the lack of good quality casting sand. The use of inferior sand leads to
costly finishing operations, thereby further decreasing labor productivity.
Poor quality is also the result of the lack of adherence to established quality
standards and of the lack of development of new casting technologies. Finally,
the policy environment has not been conducive to the development of the foundry
industry. The Tunisian foundries have had a low or negative effective
protection as the imported castings used in capital gocds for approved
investments pay low custom duties and taxes compared to those paid by local
foundries on their imported inputs. Further, the incentive framework in Tunisia
has not encouraged the development and integration of engineering industries
(para 2.09), thus also hampering the integration of foundry products. The
policy issues have been addressed in a broader context under the Bank's EMI-loan
(para 2.12).
2.15     To address the foundry industry-related constraints discussed above,
the Bank prepared a foundry development strategy paper in 1982 focussing on
measures to: (i) raise productivity; (ii) raise the quality of foundry
products; (iii) expand and intrcduce product lines where Tunisia has a
comparative advantage in substituting growing imports; (iv) ccmpensate for the
small domestic market by increasing domestic integration of castings; and
(v) establish a sound basis for exports. The strategy reccmmends specific
measures in each of these areas. Firstly, measures to raise productivity
include (i) rehabilitation, mcdernization and expansion of existing foundries;
(ii) rationalization of production among the two main foundries to attain higher
economies of scale and a more intensive use of facilities, with, based on the
present capabilities of the foundries, SOFOMECA concentrating on castings in the
upper range of quality, and Fonderies Reunies (the second large publicly owned
foundry, para 2.13) mainly producing castings in the lower quality range; and
(iii) a program of technical assistance and training to address weaknesses in
management organization and in the quality of the labor force. Secondly,
measures to raise the quality of foundry products focus on the establishment of
a local sand quarry and treatment plant for foundries, and establishment of
quality control standards and training of the labor force on the importance of
such standards. The modernization of present foundries and removal of
bottlenecks would also contribute to improving the quality of foundry products.
Thirdly, based on an analysis of the market for foundry products in Tunisia and
of Tunisia's comparative advantage in the various foundry products (para 4.18),
the strategy proposes that Tunisia expand its foundry capacity in the production
of castings for automotive and mechanical industries parts to substitute for
their growing imports. Furthermore, capacity of existing foundries is proposed
to be expanded to accommodate the growing domestic supply gap for traditional
castings.  Fourthly, to overcomre the limited size of the domestic market for
castings for mechanical industries, the strategy proposes integration of locally
produced castings into the production programs of downstream assembly plants



- 9 -
through the establishment of programs with the plants to incorporate local
castings into imported assembly kits. These measures, along with a revision of
procedures that would allow foundries to recover custan- duties and taxes on
imported inputs used in the production of castings for exports (para 2.09),
should form a sound basis for exports as a result of improvement in quality and
cost competitiveness.
2.16     The conclusions of the strategy paper were discussed with the Tunisian
authorities and its major aspects are reflected in the Tunisian Sixth
Development Plan. Based on the strategy, the Government has decided to
implement two foundry modernization and expansion projects, for SOFOMECA (the
Project) and Fonderies Reunies, which will remain the only two main foundries
supplying primarily the domestic market. The Fonderies Reunies project,
presently in the study stage, would consist of the mcdernization and expansion
of its existing facilities from 3,500 tpy to 7,000 tpy, mainly for the
production of traditional castings. The two foundry projects would address the
major identified constraints in the foundry industry and contribute to the
implementation of specific measures identified as part of the foundry
development strategy (paras 2.14 and 2.15). Productivity in the foundries would
be raised through (i) rehabilitation, modernization and expansion of existing
facilities, (ii) rationalization of production among the two foundries; and
(iii) technical assistance and training to improve management organization and
the quality of the labor force. Quality of foundry products would be raised
through the establishment under the SOFOMECA Project of local sand quarries and
a sand treatment plant for supply of quality casting sand to SOFOMECA and other
foundries, and through the modernization of present facilities as well as
training of the labor force (para 5.02). Furthermore, these projects fit well
into the strategy to expard into product lines where Tunisia has a comparative
advantage to meet growing imports (para 2.10). The SOF'OMECA Project would also
meet the Government's objective to prcmote private sector participation in
industrial development (para 2.05), as, with the implementation of the Project,
the ownership structure of SOFOMECA will change from a publicly owned to a
semi-public and privately owned Company. In addition to these two projects, the
Government is considering to establish export-oriented foundries in
collaboration with foreign partners, which would export their entire production
to the foreign partners in compensation for imports of assembly parts and
components for various industries. One such foundry, presently under
discussion, is to be established by Peugeot with a capacity of 7,000 tpy. In
order to ensure an orderly development of the foundry industry in Tunisia, in
line with the proposed foundry strategy, the Government has agreed to consult
the Bank before amending its general directions for or affecting the foundry
industry in Tunisia and before undertaking or approving any important project or
investment in the foundry industry for the Tunisian market.



- 10 -
III. SOFOMECA - THE COMPANY
A.  Background and ownership
3.01     The facilities of SOFOMECA were installed in 1964 as a maintenance
workshop for the Tunisian railway company, Societe Nationale des Chemins de Fer
Tunisiens (SNCFT).  In 1965, its management became independent, arnd in March
1966, SOFOMECA was established as a societe anonyme, an independent legal
entity. Initially, SOFOMECA's production was mainly geared to two major
customers, SNCFT and the Phosphate ccmpany of Sfax-Gafsa. Since the late 1960s,
however, sales diversified, and in 1972 SOFOMECA began exporting its castings.
3.02     SOFOMECA at present is publicly owned, with the Tunisian Government
holding 87.2% of the Company's shares directly, the remaining 12.8% being
divided among 24 of SOFOMECA's domestic clients, which are also mainly publicly
owned. As part of the Project financing plan (para 6.05), SOFOMECA will
increase its paid-in capital fram TD 1.21 million at present to TD 12.31 million
by 1985. The increase of TD 11.10 million will come from damestic and foreign
sources in the semi-public and private sectors (para 6.06). With the Project
therefore, the ownership structure of SOFOMECA will change from a majority
publicly owned Company to a Conpany with a majority of shares held by
semi-public and private shareholders. In order to establish the price of the
new shares to be issued by SOFOMECA, it appointed a local audit ccnpany to
provide the basis for the revaluation of the Ccmpany's assets and to recammend
an issue price of the new shares (para 7.11). The auditing canpany calculated a
price equivalent to 160% of its ncminal value (TD 5). However, SOFYOMECA decided
to fix the nominal value as the price of the new shares. This is justified on
the ground that the calculated value does not truly reflect the market price of
the shares, as SOFOMECA'S shares are not publicly traded on any exchange and the
suggested price therefore remains untested.  Further, the Government intended to
provide an incentive to the new shareholders to attract capital for this
priority project in the industrial development of Tunisia. With the
implementation of the Project, the Government will hold directly 9% of the
Company's shares and indirectly another 15% which represents the Government's
interest through the participation of five of the new shareholders' institutions
(STUSID, BTKD, BTEI, AIIC and IDB).
B. Organization and Management
3.03     SOFOMECA's present organization is shown in Annex 3-1.  Its Board of
Pdministration is appointed by the General Shareholders meeting, and consists of
12 members who are appointed for 6 years each. Presently, they represent the
Ministry of National Economy (2), the Ministry of Plan and Finance (1), a local
bank (1) and clients of SOFOMECA (8). The Board is the policy-setting and
monitoring body of the Company, which meets at least four times per year and is
not involved in the day-to-day operations of the Company. The President of the
Board, Mr. Sifaoui, represents the Ministry of National Economy and is also the
Ccmpany's General Director. In managing the daily operations of the Company,
Mr. Sifaoui is assisted by three Directors: a Technical Director who presently
acts also as



- 11 -
Deputy Director General, a Financial Director, and a Ccomercial Director.
Recently, the Company created a function of Internal Audit and Management
Control which reports to the General Director.  General Government supervision
of SOFOMECA's operations, apart from representation on the Board, is carried out
by a Financial Controller, appointed by the Ministry of plan ard Finance ard by
a Technical Controller, appointed by the Ministry of National Economy, as a
legal requirement for companies with a direct Government participation of more
than 10%.  Following the increase in the paid-in capital through the new
shareholders (para 6.06), SOFOMECA's present Board of Administration will change
to reflect the representation of the final shareholders.  The new Board, with a
larger private-sector orientation (para 3.02) is expected to be more active in
setting ard monitoring the Canpany's policies. It is expected that the new
Board will be constituted by around September 1983.
3.04     SOFOMECA presently employs 542 persons, of whcm 477 are involved in
production, including 20 apprentices, and 65 in supervisory arnd administrative
functions.  SOFOMECA's labor is competent and skilled in the technologies used
by the Ccmpany. The Canpany has also made considerable efforts in upgrading
technical skills of its labor through participation in foundry-related courses
at the Government vocational school and of its middle ard lower management
through specialized training in France. Furthermore, SOFOMECA itself operates a
good apprenticeship program. Conditions of employment are regulated by a social
statute for the Company, which is stardard for all public enterprises in
Tunisia. Salaries of management are sufficiently ccmpetitive with those in the
private sector to retain and attract qualified and experienced personnel. Wage
increases are negotiated yearly between the Government and the national trade
union (Union General des Travailleurs Tunisiens), of which the majority of
SOFOMECA's labor force are members. On top of the annual general increases of
wages, SOFOMECA's management can award premiums for all its employees. In 1981,
such premiums totaled about 9% of base wages. However, SOFOMECA does not
practice individual incentive schemes since the trade union is generally against
such schemes. Although union representation is quite strong in SOFOMECA, and
minor strikes have occurred in violation of the social statute, absenteeism is
low (less than 3% in 1981). With the decreasing share of the Government in the
ownership of the Company (para 3.02), the Company's role in determining the
conditions of work, including incentive schemes, is expected to increase.
SOFOMECA's management has discussed the Project, including the Government's
declining role, with the Conpany's Workers' Council, which has approved the
Project as it would improve the working conditions and strengthen the employment
conditions of the labor.
3.05     Several deficiencies in SOFOMECA's financial, technical and commercial
management organization and systems which need attention have been discussed
with SOFOMECA management. In the financial area, the Ccnpany does not possess
an appropriate cost accounting system which analyzes costs by work centres and
products, as well as deviations fran set standards. As a result, management is
unaware of the precise costs of prcducts, and what selling prices are
appropriate to cover costs. The Campany therefore does not have exact
information on profits or losses that it makes on specific products.



- 12 -
Furthermore, SOFOMECA's annual budget is prepared by the financial management
with aLmost no involvement frcm other technical and canmercial personnel an-d
without control on its implementation. The budget, therefore, is not used as a
management tool. Finally, improvements are needed in the management of working
capital, particularly the management of inventories and receivables. In the
area of technical management, although the Company has a proper systein for
production planning and control, it is unable to operate the system efficiently
as it takes on too many orders resulting in delays and rather long delivery
pericds. In the coammercial area, marketing is mainly restricted to the
follow-up of sales with SOFOMECA's fixed clients rather than active promotion.
This is appropriate at present with production levels near capacity. However,
with an increased capacity due to the Project and a diversification in
product-mix, the Ccmpany needs to supplement the present activities of the sales
organization with additional promotion activities and to adopt a more forward
looking and aggressive orientation. Further, it needs to explore other foreign
markets than its traditional export markets in Algeria and France, particularly
in the Middle East, where potential outlets for exports exist (para 4.11).
3.06     SOFOMECA's top management is aware of the above deficiencies and has
agreed with the Bank to take corrective actions. It has prepared a program for
the improvement of its organization and management in financial, technical,
-marketing and personnel areas. The program has been discussed with and approved
by the Bank. In this respect, the newly appointed financial and accounting
expert who heads the internal audit and management control department has
prepared a program for improvements in the financial organization and systems of
the Company. The program focuses on the establishment or reorganization and
improvement of the following areas:  (i) general accounting; (ii) cost
accounting; (iii) pricing of SOFOMECA's products; (iv) budgeting and control;
and (v) selected areas such as receivables recovery, inventory management and
procurement. Certain measures under the program have already been implemented
such as: the establishment of an internal audit function which reports directly
to the General Director (para 3.03); strengthening of the unit for receivables
recovery; the initiation of steps for autoaatic processing of SOFOMECA's
accounting data which will allow a considerable reduction in present processing
delays; and the establishment of an annual cash flow budget which will be
updated monthly.
3007     For the implementation of the program, SOFOMECA has agreed to a
timetable which is realistic and achievable. As a priority area, SOFOMECA has
started to develop a cost accounting system which would allow the recording and
analysis of actual costs by cost centre and by product. Such a system is
expected to be fully operational by mid-1984, upon which a system of standard
costing would be introduced to complement the cost accounting system. Also, the
availability of actual costs by product would be followed by a review of
SOFOMECA's selling prices and the establishment of a new pricing mechanism for
its prcducts (para 7.02). During 1984, an adequate budgeting and control system
based on inputs from the various operational units would be established and be
operational by the end of 1984. To implement such a program, SOFOMECA has



- 13 -
foreseen a staff of 9 persons, of whcm 6 are already employed and the
remaining 3 are expected to be employed by June 1983. These arrangements appear
realistic and satisfactory. Improvements in technical, marketing and personnel
areas would be completed by the end of 1984.
3.08     Apart fram these improvements in its organization, SOFOMECA has also
agreed to establish a management performance evaluation system. The system
would measure progress of the Ccmpany towards the achievement of agreed
objectives for financial ard technical performance.  An agreement has been
reached on the financial and technical targets of the management performance
evaluation system. To monitor the timely implementation of the program and the
progress of its operations, SOFOMECA has agreed to furnish to the Bank for its
review quarterly reports on these matters. If the implementation of the program
or the achievement of the targets are behind schedule, SOFOMECA has agreed that
further measures will be discussed and agreed upon with the Bank. SOFOMECA's
future organizational structure is given in Annex 3-2.
C. Present Facilities
3.09     SOFOMECA's present facilities consist of:  (i)  an iron foundry
(3,400 tpy capacity); (ii) a steel foundry (1,800 tpy capacity); and (iii) a
machine shop with an assembly area for railway bogies (70,000 man-hours per year
capacity). The installed capacity in the iron and steel foundry is about
6,500 tpy but due to technical imbalance between soae equipment in different
shops, the actual production capacity is only 5,200 tpy. The major production
facilities for iron and steel castings are located in separate bays in the main
prcduction building. The melting equipment for iron castings consists of two
cupolas (2.5 ton per hour capacity each), and for steel castings of an electric
arc furnace (3 ton capacity). The molding equipment for both the iron and steel
castings, consists of three pairs of molding machines, with sand supplied from
two sand plants. Additional work centers are provided for the production of
large castings. The iron and steel sections of the foundry share common
facilities for ferrous scrap preparation and charge make-up, as well as for
core-making and finishing.  other commcn support functions include the pattern
shop, pattern storage, laboratory, quality control, maintenance, offices and
employee welfare buildings.
3.10     The equipment installed generally dates back to the mid-1960s when the
foundries were established. Since that time, only few improvements have been
made, The relatively old equipment and production deficiencies and bottlenecks
have led to low productivity and poor quality of the finished castings. The
major reasons for low productivity and quality are: poor quality of the locally
supplied casting sand, use of lower than desirable temperatures of the molten
metal in iron castings, worn out condition of flask equipnent in molding, lack
of auxiliary equipment for material flow, non-rational operations in the
finishing shcp and poor environmental conditions. These contribute to a high
rate of rejects, poor surface finish, burn-ins and as a result, to excessive
grinding and finishing requirements to bring the castings to acceptable
standards. A detailed technical evaluation of the existing facilities is



- 14 -
provided in the Project File. The proposed Project addresses these difficulties
through the modernization of the existing iron and steel foundry, the
establishment of a sard treatment plant, and the concurrent intrcduction of
modern fourdry practices and technologies (para 5.02).
D. Recent Operations and Financial Performance
3.11     SOFOMECA's operating and sales performance during the pericd 1975-82 is
summarized in the following table.
SOFOMECA - Historical Operating Performance and Sales, 1975-82
Average
Annual
Growth (%)
1975   1977   1979   1980   1981   1982 1975-82
Production Volume (tons)
Iron Castings                 2,347  2,880  3,036  3,096  2,974  3,058    3.9
Steel Castings                1,289    591    627  1,291  1,419  1,637    3.5
Total                      3,636  3,471  3,663  4,387  4,393  4,695    3.7
Capacity Utilization (%)
Iron Castings                     69     85     89      91     87      90
Steel Castings                    72     33      35     72     79      91
Total Production              70      67     70      84     84      90
Donestic Sales Volume (tons)
Iron Castings                 1,929  2,686  2,895  2,451  2,847  2,570    4.2
Steel Castings                   198    561    514    749    915    961   25.3
Total                      2,127  3,247  3,409  3,200  3,762  3,531    7.5
Export Sales Volume (tons)
Iron Castings                    237     36    432    794    174    412    8.2
Steel Castings                   829     72      88    497    450    505   (6.8)
Total                      1,066    108    520  1,291    624    917   (2.1)
Total Sales Volume (tons)    3,193  3,355  3,929  4,491  4,386  4,448    4.8
of which % exports              33.4    3.2   13.2   28.7   14.2   20.6
3.12    As shown above, SOFOMECA's prcduction and sales levels have gradually
increased over the last 8 years.  Variation in performance has been mostly due
to changes in exports, particularly when exports declined from 1975 levels
during 1977-79 as a result of a closure of the Libyan market and a cut-off of



- 15 -
the Moroccan market following the closure of the railway connection via
Algeria. Following these years, exports picked up again representing 29% of
sales in 1980, 14% in 1981, and 21% in 1982, mainly through increased sales to
Algeria and France. Further, in recent years SOFOMECA production levels have
practically reached capacity. This trerd has continued in 1983, and presently
SOFOMECA can not keep up with demand and has had to decline potential orders for
domestic and export markets.
3.13     Regarding SOFmMECA's recent financial performance, some key irdicators
are given in the following table. Details of historical financial statements
are provided in the Project File. SOFOMECA's financial statements of 1982 have
been verified by an independent external auditor. Before 1982, they have been
examined by the Government appointed Financial Controller and by Ccmpany
appointed 'Ccnmissaires aux Ccmptes', as well as by an accounting expert
consultant that was attached to the Company, and all of them found the accounts
satisfactory. SOFOMECA has agreed to appoint external auditors to audit its
future accounts (para 7.11).
SOFOMECA - Indicators of Historical Financial Performance
1975    1977    1979   1980   1981   1982
Income Statement Items ('000 TD)
Sales Revenue a/                      1,433   1,967   2,313  3,316  4,280  4,227
Operating Profit                         111     102      138    239    204    168
Net Profit                                62       6       58     89      35     42
Cash Generation                         141      105      177    299    295    342
Balance Sheet Items ('000 TD)
Current Assets                        2,190   2,028   2,115  2,685  3,135  5,032
Net Fixed Assets                      1,270   1,552   1,915  1,815  2,096  2,186
Total Assets                          3,460   3,580   4,030  4,500  5,231  7,218
Current Liabilities                   1,870   1,698   2,186  2,613  3,423  3,379
Long-Term Debt                          627      846      755    709    594  2,583
Equity                                  963   1,036   1,089  1,178  1,214  1,256
Ratios
operating Profit/Sales (%)             7.7      5.2      6.0    7.2    4.8      4.0
Net Profit/Sales (%)                   4.3      0.3      2.5    2.7    0.8      1.0
Personnel Costs/Op. Costs (%)         48.5    47.8    42.9   34.4   32.8    39.5
Current Ratio                          1.2      1.2      1.0    1.0    0.9      1.5
Long-Term Debt/Equity Ratio           39:61   45:55   41:59  38:62  33:67   67:33
Receivables (months of sales)          6.2      4.8      4.8    4.5    3.2      4.5
Inventories (months of sales)         11.1      7.7     5.1    4.6    4.4       8.7
a/ Including sales tax.



- 16 -
3o14     overall, financial performance of the Company is quite satisfactory.
There are however 3 financial problems, which will be addressed during the
implementation of the Project, namely (i) low profitability and cash generation;
(ii) relatively high levels of receivables and inventories; and (iii) a
deteriorating liquidity position.  Regarding the Ccmpany's low profitability and
cash generation during 1975-82, for most years the net profit of the Campany
woas below 3% of sales revenue and cash generation remained under TD 300,000 per
year.  The two main reasons for its marginal profitability performance are:
(i) a weak price-cost relationship, and (ii) poor productivity of the existing
facilities. Concerning the first reason, SOFOMECA's present prices are
ccmpetitive with imported prices (table, para 4.16). However, the costs of
inputs are higher than those paid by foundries in industrialized countries
(para 7.03).  Practically all of SOFOMECA's major material inputs are imported
in relatively small quantities at high costs and until recently SOFOMECA could
not recuperate taxes on its material and energy inputs. On productivity,
SOFOMECA requires presently double the man hours to produce one ton of castings
ccmpared to similar foundries in Europe, primarily due to constraints in its
present facilities. The Project would improve SOFOMECA's prcductivity
substantially (para 5.14), and thereby ameliorate its ccmpetitiveness and
financial performance (paras 7.03 to 7.05), as personnel charges represented
almost one third of SOFOMECA's cperating costs in 1982.
3.15     Although SOFOMECA made considerable improvements in the turnover of its
-main working capital categories during 1975-81 (table, para 3.13), the levels
deteriorated in 1982, particularly concerning its clients' receivables, and its
inventories of materials and consumables. The high levels of domestic
receivables (5 months of sales in 1982) are related to the apparent poor
financial discipline among the public enterprises in Tunisia which form
SO3FOMECA's main domestic clients and the lack, until recently, of a systematic
recovery of receivables (para 3.05). The high level in 1982 resulted
particularly from the inability, due to financial problems, of the Ateliers de
Constructions Metalliques et de Maintenance de Gabes (ACMG,), a public
enterprise, to make its timely payments to SOFOMECA. SOFOMECA has already
initiated steps to regulate these payments and expects to recover these by the
end of 1983. Concerning the high levels of foreign receivables (5 months of
sales in 1982), SOFOMECA's main Algerian client has a poor payment performance,
which is considered in setting prices for castings sold to Algeria. The high
level of material inventories (9 months of sales in 1982) is related on the one
hanr to SOFOMECA's small operations in comparison with high minimum order
quantities for material inputs. On the other hand they reflect a weak
management of inventories (para 3.05). In 1982, the inventories were
particularly high due to stoppage of deliveries to ACMG. In 1981, the level of
inventories was only 4 months of sales. SOFOMECA management is aware of these
high levels ard their implications for the additional fund requirements with the
implementation of the Project if these levels are not reduced. SOFOMECA has
already started writing-off obsolete inventories ard non-collectable
receivables. Also, it has agreed with the Bank to establish certain targets for
various workirn  capital categories as part of a management performance
evaluation system for the Conpany, and to improve management of its receivables
and inventories as part of the program of improvements in its organization and



- 17 -
management (para 3.08). The targets for working capital are shown in the
context of the financing requirements for the Project (para 6.04) and are
reflected in the financial projections for the Company (para 7.05).
3.16     Finally, the third financial problem concerns SOFOMECA's liquidity
position, as reflected by the current ratio which has steadily declined from
1.2 in 1975 to 0.9 in 1981, arnd which is related to the marginal profitability
of the Company. This is mainly due to overdue payments to the Government for
duties and taxes (TD 0.82 million) and to the Caisse Nationale de Securite
Sociale (CNSS) for social security contributions of employees (TD 0.48 million),
and arrears on repayments of two Government loans (TD 0.93 million including
interest) which are included in the current liabilities.  Regarding the social
security payments, SOFOMECA has reached an agreement with CNSS for the repayment
of the overdue amount in 4 years during 1983-86. Concerning the amounts due to
the Government, the Government has made no efforts to collect the overdue debt,
and thus effectively these represent "quasi equity" although they are listed as
short term obligations in SOFOMECA's balance sheet. On request from .SOFOMECA,
the Government has agreed to reschedule these payments so as to provide SOFOMECA
with a sound financial position in the future. Under the agreement, SOFOMECA
will be obliged to repay TD 1.37 million during 1988-92 at an annual interest of
10% on the outstanding balance from 1983, but will be exempted of repayment of
TD 0.38 million which represents primarily penalties on the overdue tax
payments. Due to rescheduling of these debts, SOFOMECA's current ratio improved
to 1.5 in 1982, whereas the debt equity ratio increased to 67:33. The repayment
of CNSS and Government debts on the above terms and conditions have been assumed
in the financial projections for SOFOMECA with the Project
(para 7.06).
IV. THE MARKET
A. Supply arnd Demand of Castings in Tunisia
4.01     A detailed analysis of the market for castings in Tunisia is provided
in the Project File. The historic supply and consumption of ferrous castings in
Tunisia is summarized in the table on the following page. Foundry production in
Tunisia with an average annual growth of 7% during 1977-82 kept a gocd pace with
the demand (4.8% per year during 1977-82) and amounted to about 7,800 tons in
1982 (82% capacity utilization). It represents at present one third of dcmestic
consumption of foundry products with the balance being imported in rough or
finished form. of the total consumptior. of about 21,000 tons of ferrous
castings in 1982, about 39% was for infrastructure-related requirements, 50% for
mechanical industries, and 11% for housing-related requirements.



- 18 -
TUNISIA - Supply and Consumption of Ferrous Castings
(tons)
Average
Annual
Growth
1977    1978    1979   1980   1981         1982  1977-82 (%)
Production              5,585   5,845   6,170  7,082  7,338        7,835    7.0
of which:
SOFOMECA              3,470   3,770   3,665  4,387  4,393        4,695    6.2
REUNIES               2,025   1,890   2,225  2,325  2,595        2,740    6.2
others                    90     185      280    370    350         400   34.8
Plus:  Imports         11,234  12,684  13,845 14,535 16,942 a/ 14,172    4.8
Minus:  Exports            108     445      520  1,291    624         917   53.4
Domestic Consumption  16,711  18,084  19,495 20,326 23,656    21,090    4.8
Domestic supply as
% of consumption       32.8    29.9    29.0   28.5   28.4         32.8
a/ Import figures, distorted by a large advance purchase of iron pipes by the
Tunisian Water Authority SONEDE, have been corrected to reflect nonmal
imports.
b/  Estimated on the basis of consumption in the first ten months of 1982.
Decline in 1982 is due to the relatively high imports in 1981 of indirect
castings in CKD-kits.
Sources: Reports of Atkins Planning (UK) and SOTINFOR (Tunisia), consultants on
the foundry development strategy in Tunisia and SOFOMECAls foundry
project respectively.
4.02     The historic imports shown in the table above are composed of either
direct casting imports such as iron pipes, or indirect imports based on
estimates of the shares of ferrous castings in overall imports based on
engineering gocds. The latter include indirect imports of ferrous castings in
completely knocked down (CKD) kits for locally assembled vehicles, as these
represent a potential market for the foundry industry in Tunisia. Exports of
ferrous castings from Tunisia have not been very significant in the past. These
started in 1972, declined during 1977-79 and picked up during 1980-82 (about 900
tpy in 1982) to a few clients in Algeria and France (para 3.12). However, due
to an increasing local demand, exports are expected to remain at a low level in
the next few years. The growth in domestic consumption of ferrous castings at
an annual rate of 4.8% during 1977-82 was marked by an equal import growth (4.8%
per annum) against a higher annual increase in local production of 7% per
annum.  However, the market share of local foundries remained the same during



- 19 -
this period ard the supply deficit amounted to about 14,000 tons in 1982. There
is therefore an ample scope for import substitution. It is estimated that of
the total supply deficit in 1982, about 46% was for infrastructure-related
castings, 44% for mechanical castings and 10% for housing-related castings.
4.03     Future demart  for ferrous castings in Tunisia has been projected as
foilows (details by main product group are given in Annex 4).
TUNISIA - Projected Demand for Ferrous Castings by Main Consuming Sector
(tons)
Average
Annual
Growth
1982 a/   1984      1986     1988    1990   1982-90 (%)
Iron Castings
Infrastructure             8,180      9,100   10,140   11,280  12,550    5.5
Mechanical Construc-
tion & Engineering       8,730    10,080   11,660   13,470  15,570    7.5
Housing                    2,420      2,670    2,940    3,240   3,580    5.0
Sub-total               19,330    21,850   24,740   27,990  31,700    6.4
Steel Castings b/          1,760      2,040    2,350    2,720   3,140    7.5
Total                  21,090    23,890   27,090   30,710  34,840    6.5
a/ Estimated on the basis of consumption in the first ten months of 1982.
b/ only for mechanical construction and engineering sector.
Source: Report of Atkins Planning (UK).
4.04     The projections of ferrous casting demand are based on a review of the
Tunisian market for ferrous castings, ard are derived from both future demard
identified by major consumers ard expectations for the overall growth rates of
consumption in the main consuming sectors. The market review included a market
survey of major customers for ferrous castings; a review and updating of
forecasts set out in various earlier market studies; forecasts for the
engineering subsector set out in the Tunisian Sixth Development Plan (1982-86);
and an examination of historical and projected trends of relevant racro-economic
variables. This task was carried out in early 1982 by Atkins Planning (UK), a
consulting company retained by the Rank. The overall growth by the main
consuming sectors, as shown in the table above (para 4.03) is in line with
expectations of future growth in these sectors and priorities assigned to them
in the Sixth Development Plan.



- 20 -
4.05     Whereas the structure of ferrous casting demarxd in the infrastructure
and housing sectors is expected to remain relatively stable in the future, the
pattern of demand within the mechanical construction and engineering (MCE)
sector (7.5% per year growth during 1982-90) is expected to change
significantly. This would be caused by a rapid growth (10.2% per year during
1982-90) in the ferrous casting requirements for locally assembled vehicles and
related intermediate products. These castings would form the potential market
for the Project (para 4.14). Within total MCE sector demand, the share of
castings for vehicles and related intermediate products would thereby increase
fran about 57% (or 5,950 tons) in 1982 to about 69% (or 12,890 tons) in 1990.
In contrast, the demand of another major consumer of castings, the railway
sector (cast iron and steel railway canponents ard spare parts), is expected to
stagnate due to a reducing railway fleet size, and its share would decline from
10% in 1982 to 6% in 1990.  The shares of other major consauers in the MCE
sector (spare parts for cement and steel industry, agricultural implements,
public works, and pumps) would remain stable. The growing casting requirements
for locally assembled road vehicles would also increase the share of the MCE
sector in overall ferrous casting demand, fran  49% in 1982 to 54% in 1990.
4.06     The demand for ferrous castings in locally assembled vehicles is
directly related to the expansion of assembly and production plants in Tunisia
and the implementation of an integration strategy for local castings in their
prcducts. New projects include the expansion of Societe Tunisienne d'Irdustrie
Automobiles (STIA) for prcduction of trucks, buses and pick-ups, the
implementation of the Camplexe Mecanique de Tunisie (CMT), which will produce
tractors, agricultural implements and diesel engines, ard the establishment of
the GM/ISUZU plant for production for pick-ups. STIA is the major vehicle
assembly plant in Tunisia, assembling private cars, pick-ups, trucks, buses and
coaches based largely on imported CK)-kits, under licensing arrangements with
various foreign partners. In 1981, it produced about 1,500 trucks, buses and
coaches and has planned to increase its capacity to about 3,500 units in 1988
and 5,000 units in 1990. Expansion of STIA's facilities is already well
advanced and the expanded prcduction is expected to begin in mid-1983. STIA's
production is completely for the dconestic market, where for trucks ard buses
STIA's market shares were about 80% and 90% respectively in 1982. Although
these shares are high, it is expected that STIA can maintain these, given that
it will remain the only producer of trucks and buses in Tunisia.  STIA's prices
are in line with prices of imports for its trucks and lower than import prices
for its buses. Protection levels for these vehicles are relatively low with
import duties for trucks of 13-25% and for buses of 32%, which have been
decreased consistently over the past few years. For its trucks, STIA has
licensing arrangements with FIAT of Italy and RVI Berliet of France. The
current contracts of STIA with RVI and FIAT will expire in 1984.  The Government
has already initiated steps in inviting proposals frcm different international
manufacturers of vehicles to provide licensing arrangements and technical
assistance to STIA beyond 1984. Negotiations with the prospective partners are
planned to start in 1983. As the Government's decision on the selection of new
partners of STIA is indirectly linked to the Project (para 4.14), it has been
agreed with the Government, that by March 1984 proposals for the integration of
diesel engines and castings into products produced by STIA under future



- 21 -
technical assistance and licensing agreements with foreign partners will have
been negotiated ard provided to the Bank.
4.07     The CMT project, prepared by BDET, in partnership with Kloeckner
Humboldt Deutz (KHD), is part of the Sixth Development Plan. KHD is a well
known German diesel engine and equipment manufacturer with wide experience in
developing countries. KHD participates in CMT's capital with 35% and will
provide technology, technical, training and commercial assistance.  The CMT
project, to be implemented in 3 main stages 10/, would produce in 1988 at full
capacity 6,000 diesel engines, 2,200 tractors and 750 agricultural machines ard
implements. Prcduction of the engines beyond the requirements for tractors
will be sold to STIA - 3,000 engines -- (para 4.06) for incorporation in the
production of trucks and buses and to other industrial users (800 engines).
Based on an analysis of tractor market in Tunisia, CMT expects to cover about
75% of the market in the CMT's horse power range. The phased 3-stage project
implementation and a well developed marketing organization would help CMT to
achieve the target.  Moreover, KHD has recently asked C.KT to prepare itself to
produce 500 tractors per year for exports (to replace the production of a KHD
assembly line in Gernany for an export tractor model to be closed down).
Assuming such exports, CMT's tractor production for the domestic market would
represent in 1988 a market share of only 58%.
4.08     CMr's present management is efficient and competent.  Further, the
company has hired qualified staff trained in France arnd the Federal Republic of
Germany to build up its middle management. As a result, in advance of the
schedule contained in the contractual agreement with KHD, it has started, at
present ir rented facilities, with the assembly of tractors based on
knocked-down components supplied by KHD. Simultaneously it is constructing new
facilities to complete the project, which will start production in 1984. The
company has already completed the basic engineering of its new facilities and
has initiated the first steps towards the construction of the project 11/. The
implementation of the CMT project ard realization of its production program
appear adequately prepared and realistic. Further, the Government has assured,
that it will cause CMT to carry out CMT's investment program for the period
1983-88 according to the schedule agreed with the Bank.
10/ The three stages are--stage 1: assembly of tractors in new buildings in
1984; stage 2: introduction of assembly of engines arnd machining of engine
parts (including castings) in 1985, and stage 3: assembly and production of
all parts ard components in 1987.  The three stages require 52%, 29% ard 19%
respectively of the total project cost of US$77 million.
11/ CMr has established the financing plan for the project. Financing for the
first stage is already secured, while that for the second stage is expected
to be secured by March 1984.



- 22 -
4.09     Regarding the integration of CMT's diesel engines in STIA's vehicle
production, which has a direct impact on the SOFOMECA Project (para 4.14), the
first prototype truck with the adapted engine is under preparation. Following
the development of the prototype, adaptation of engines in STIA's trucks and
buses would start in 1984. A satisfactory adaptation schedule for the engines
from CMT has been established between CMT and STIA which is based on the timely
decision of the Government on STIA's future licensing partners (para 4.06).  The
CMT project is expected to set prices for its products 12/ in line with the
policy agreed under the Bank EMI-sector loan (para 2.12). Further, the
viability of the project is in line with eligibility criteria for subprojects
established under the EMI-sector loan which stipulates a minimum rate of return
of 10% (a detailed analysis is provided in the project File).
4.10     The projected demand for ferrous castings in Tunisia shows ample scope
for expansion of present foundry capacity for import substitution (para 4.02).
However, to meet the entire domestic supply deficit, such expansion is
constrained by the econcmies of scale required to justify financially and
economically the production of specific castings. For example, within
traditional castings, the production of cast iron pipes and bathtubs, given the
limited size of the domestic market for them, is econcmically not viable in
Tunisia. For the remaining traditional castings, the supply gap could easily be
covered by the expansion of the existing facilities of SOFOMECA and Fonderies
Reunies, since the additional volume falls in the prcduct-mix already being
manufactured by these foundries. Within the total MCE sector demand, however,
there are prcducts involving similar casting technologies and having sufficient
demand, which justify the construction of a new foundry geared at producing such
types of castings. The prcduction of these castings in Tunisia would increase
the local integration rate in vehicle assembly frcn 8% in 1982 to 53% in 1990.
4.11     With a program aimed at improving the quality of its castings and
increasing the level of productivity, planned under the development strategy of
the foundry subsector (para 2.15), the Tunisian foundries would also be able to
demonstrate ccmpetitive performance in export markets. Due to lack of quality
and limited domestic foundry capacity, Tunisian foundries have not been seeking
exports in a systematic way and their exports so far have not been very
significant (para 4.02). However, possibilities of exports of castings fran
Tunisia to European, North African and Middle Eastern countries exist. The
contracts of STIA with RVI and FIAT (para 4.06) indicate a provision that the
foreign partner would buy back goods (including castings) as ccmpensation for
imports f ran the foreign partner for about 30% of the value of the imported
CKD-kits. Under the contract between KHD and CMT, KHD has expressed its
willingness to buy castings fram the foundry supplying castings to CMT. A
recent study 13/ showed that the demand of all types of castings excluding spun
12/ The prices set in the present planning of CMr are 10% higher than the landed
prices of imported products excluding any duties and taxes.
13/ The Market for Castings in the Middle East, study conducted in March 1982 by
Foundry Management Design (United Kingdom) and Shamir Management Services
(Jordan) .



-- 23 -
pipes in eleven major Middle East countries is in the order of 200,000 tpy, with
a local supply of a maximum of 30% of this demani.  It is estimated that the
demand fron various sources could be over 5,000 tpy. However, it is assumed
that after an initial pericd of complying with the increasing local demand,
exports in the order of 2,5C0 tpy in 1)90 could be achieved but have not been
considered in the financial ird economic analysis of the Project.
4.12     Based on the development plans in the Tunisian foundry industry
(para 2.16 ), including the proposed SOFXOMECA Project and its second stage
expansion as well as the expansion of Fonderies Reunies ard excluding
export-oriented foundries, the projected demand and supply of ferrous castings
in Tunisia through 1990, as discussed in the preceding paragraphs, is reflected
in the following table. As shown in the table, with the implementation of the
current development plans in the foundry industry, not only would the domestic
supply of ferrous castings increase significantly to meet over 50% of the
projected domestic consumption in 1990, but also exports are expected to gain in
importance in the second half of this decade. Production of castings to meet an
even larger share for the domestic market is not justified due to economies of
scale and technologies involved for specific products (para 4.10).
TUNISIA - Projected Demand/Supply of Ferrous Castings
(tons)
Average
Annual
Growth
1983        1986       1990    1983-90 (%)
Dcmestic Demand               22,500      27,100    34,800         6.4
Prcduction                     8,400      13,300    20,500        13.6
Exports                           700        600      2,500       19.9
Imports                       14,800      14,400    16,800         1.8
DoEmestic supply as
% of Dcmestic demand         34.2        4.9        51.7
B. SOFOMECA'S Market Position and Marketing Arrangements
4.13     SOFOMECA is the largest producer and the only exporter of castings in
Tunisia. In 1982, the Company's production of around 4,700 tons accounted
for about 60% of Tunisian total output of these products. In the domestic
market, SOFOMECA represents a share of 18%. Its major domestic clients are
primarily public enterprises such as the railway company, water distribution
authority, housing authority and some machine building enterprises. Its main
clients abroad are located in France and Algeria. Due to the relatively poor
quality of its products and other constraints (para 3.10), and an increasing
local demand, SOFOMECA's ability to increase its export to France and other
countries has been limited; specifically, demand enquiries from Iraq and Syria
can not be met at present.



- 24 -
4.14     With the implementation of the proposed Project and that of Fonderies
Reunies, SOFOMECA's market position would change significantly, raising its
share in the domestic market to 40% in 1988.  SOFOMECA's market for the
mechanical castings of the new fourdry would be largely connected to the demand
of CMT and STIA (paras 4.06 and 4.07).  CMT wouM be SOFO4ECA's major direct
client of mechanical castings with annual requirements of about 4,000 tons in
1990 (57% of the mechanical fourdry's final output and 29% of SOFOMECA's total
final production or 24% of SOFOMECA's total sales revenue).  STIA would consume
directly about 1,200 tpy in 1990 (17% of the mechanical foundry's final output
and 9% of SOFOMECA's total final production or 10% of SOFOMECA's total sales
revenue), and indirectly an additional 2,000 tpy through the purchase of diesel
engines frcon CMT. Concerning the integration of mechanical castings frcm the
Project in CMI's and STIA's production, programs have been finalized by SOFOMECA
in collaboration with these enterprises. Further, it has been agreed with the
Government that it will cause CMT to operate the facilities included in its
investment program (para 4.08) for the machining of castings produced by
SOFOMECA according to a schedule agreed with the Bank.
4.15     Further to meeting the demand of CMT and STIA for the domestic market,
SOFOMECA has the possibility of exporting mechanical castings (para 4.11).
Along with the implementation of the Project, SOFOMECA will be strengthening its
marketing department to explore foreign markets (para 3.06). The Company has
already initiated activities in the Middle East countries to develop contacts
with prospective clients and the first results are very encouraging
(para 4.13).  However, due to high domestic demand in the initial years of
operation of the Project, SOFOMECA plans to increase its exports through further
expansion of its capacity to 12,000 tpy in a second phase (para 5.02).
C. SOFOMECA's Prices and Campetitiveness
4.16     Due to an inadequate cost accounting system, SOFOMECA does not have an
appropriate mechanism for pricing its castings (para 3.05).  The prices,
presently based on experience of technical and ccmmercial senior staff, are
almost ccmpetitive with imports 14/ in case of iron castings (except for
sanitary products) but are lower than imports for steel castings as shown in the
following table.  The low level of SOFOMECA's prices for steel castings is
mainly due to the relatively low quality of products. SOFOMECA intends to
implement a gradual real price increase for prcducts which have lower prices
than the estimated imported prices once the existing foundry is modernized,
enabling SOFOMECA to provide better quality castings within a competitive
delivery schedule. Such an increase has, however, not been assumed in the
financial analysis.
14/ The import prices should be treated with some reservations since it is
difficult to establish the traded prices for most type of castings, which
depend on design, complexity, piece weight, size of orders, and commercial
arrangements.



- 25 -
SOFOMECA - Comparison of SOFOMECA 1982 Prices with Prices of Imports
(TD per ton)
Estimated             SOFOMECA
European              Price as %
SOFOMECA       Price                  of European
Prcduct                   Price           (CIF Tunis) a/        Price
Iron Castings
Sewage prcducts         495              490                  101
Heavy Pieces            380              430                   88
Special Pieces        1,080            1,040                  104
Sanitary Pieces         950              670                  142
Valve Castings
(machined)          1,460            1,400                  104
Steel Castings
Grindilng Media
(Chrcmium)            650              850                   76
Lining Products
(Manganese)         1,080            1,220                   89
Mechanical Castings  1,080             1,160                   93
a/  Based on infoimation collected by GF in Spain, Italy ard Greece, anJ by the
Bank in the Federal Republic of Germany and USA.
4.17     Concerning SOFOMECA's competitiveness 15/, a broad comparison shows
that SOFOMECA's cost of production is almost at the same level as that of
European foundries producing similar types of traditional castings. Materials
costs are higher (41% of the average SOFOMECA price in comparison to 31% for
European foundries) due to low import quantities and transport costs
(para 7.03). The cost of labor, despite low wage levels, is almost equal
(40% of the average price) to that in a European foundry due to low productivity
(para 5.14). Therefore, SOFOMECA's present price competitiveness is mainly due
to low capital charges (depreciation and interest charges) on their old
facilities and low levels of profitability.  The modernization of the existing
facilities aims at improving productivity anJ quality, thereby improving
SOFOMECA's cost competitiveness (para 7.03).
15/ For details, see the 1ounJry Strategy Paper in the Project File.



- 26 -
4.18     The fourdry irdustry, with its high labor intensity, offers an
appropriate production area for cost ccmpetitiveness in Tunisia, provided that a
project achieves internationally comparable prcductivity levels and an
acceptable quality of castings.  The production of mechanical castings in rmedium
series needed by CMT ani STIA falls in this category of fourdry products. The
prices assumed in the Project correspord to those prevailing in Western Europe
plus cost for insurance ard freight to Tunisia. These prices are lower than the
present value of castings contained in CKD-kits supplied by RVI and FIAT to STIA
an1 are competitive with those of KHD-castings planned to be supplied to CMT.
The integration programs (para 4.14) include these price levels as reference
prices for future prices of SOFOMECA's castings to STIA and CMT. In any case,
the prices would be well below the limit of 118% of ccmparable foreign prices
reflected in the Government's ccmmitnents to the Bank in the context of the EMI
sector loan (para 2.12).
V. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objective and Scope
5.01     The objective of the Project is to contribute towards the development
of the Tunisian foundry industry by: (i) meeting efficiently the growing
iamestic dernand for foundry products; (ii) improving the quality, productivity
and cost competitiveness of castings; and (iii) creating a sourd basis for
exports. The Project would contribute to this objective through mcdernization
and extension of SOFOMECA's present facilities, installation of new casting
facilities, arnd strengthening of its technological ard management capabilities.
5.02     The proposed Project inclndes three major components:
(i) modernization and extension of SOFOMECA's existing iron and steel foundry
capacity from 5,200 tpy to 7,500 tpy; (ii) construction of new facilities for
mechanical iron castings (grey and ductile) with a capacity of 7,800 tpy (with
scope for a future expansion in a second phase to 12,000 tpy); and
(iii) installation of two sand quarries along with a sand preconditioning plant
with a capacity of 20,000 tpy to service SOFOMECA's requirements as well as
those of other Tunisian foundries. Further, it includes a program for
improvements in SOFOMECA's organization and management, ard transfer of
technical know-how and assistance for training frcn KHD, the technical partner
in the CMT project
(para 4.07) to produce castings efficiently arnd econcmically. In addition, the
Project provides additional machining capacity and installations for pollution
control in SOFOMECA's existing operations. The Project has been designed by GF
(para 5.17) with technical assistance provided by KHD. The concept and design
of the Project as well as of equipment and machinery was discussed extensively
by the Bank with SOFOMECA and GF. The major features of the Project are
described below.



- 27 -
B. Project Description
1.  Mcdernization of Existing Facilities
5.03     In the existing iron fourdry, the main modifications under the
modernization will be in three principal areas: molding, material handling and
sand preparation.  In the molding section, a modern molding system will permit
the econcEical prcduction of large series of castings with improved quality.
This new system will be capable of producing approximately 50% of the total
castings in the modernized iron foundry. Further, the existing three molding
centers will be overhauled and mechanized to a higher degree than at present by
the provision of improved conveyor systems and an additional shake-out facility.
The provision of improved material handling would facilitate scheduling, improve
pattern handling and enable use of standardized molds.  In addition, the present
sand preparation plant would be modified by increasing and improving sand
capacity ard installing a return sand cooler to raise the general quality of the
molding sand.  Finally, to permit higher rnelting capacity to meet the increased
mold prcduction ard to improve the quality of the molten metal, a new cupola
blower with accessories would be installed. These mTTdifications would lead to
higher quality, lower rate of rejects, simpler maintenance, lower tooling and
resultant higher productivity.
5.04     In the existing steel foundry, the improvements include ffudernization
of molding centers and reorganization of coremaking and finishing shops. The
nachine molding centers are to be semi-mechanized in the same manner as in the
existing iron foundry. In the large molding area, an additional overhead crane
would resolve the present bottlenecks in molding, pouring and shake-out, as the
existing single crane can no longer service the increased number of work centers
without subsequent delay in other work areas. Further, a large shake-out
machine is included for the above production which will permit improved material
flow through rationalization of the work processes. In addition, the existing
corerocm and the coresand drying and cooling equipment plant are to be
relocated, consolidated and improved by the provision of new machinery with
mnodern coremaking technology (para 5.09).
5.05     Included in the mcdernization is also a total reorganization of the
finishing and heat treatment shops. This is required to service the increasing
demand of grinding media for the mining and cement industries. Also,
substantial improvements are planned through the provision of quality centers in
various grinding and finishing operations, material handling equipment and
Lmproved work stations. The above rationalization will reduoe in-process
inventory as well as facilitate production scheduling. Concurrently with the
increased casting production capacity, the machine shop capacity is to be
increased with additional machine tools.
2. New Foundry for Mechanical Castings
5.Or6    rhe new foundry, to be constructed adjacent to the existini founilty
(para 5.08), is designed to prcduce 7,000 tpy of iron castings at full



- 28 -
production. The buildings and the layout take into account, however, possible
further expansion of the capacity to 12,000 tpy in a secord phase. The proposed
plant will include a single building which will house the following new
facilities: (i) induction furnaces for molten metal supply; (ii) one large and
one medium modern molding system; (iii) a green sand preparation plant to
service the two molding systems; (iv) a coremaking department with modeLn
process technology to supply eventually all iron casting core requirements; and
(v) a finishing department to shotblast, grind, finish, inspect and paint all
grey iron castings including those produced in the modernized existing foundry.
The planned facilities permit a large amount of flexibility with regard to
changes of prcduct-mix. The existing auxiliary departments and facilities such
as the pattern shop, raw material yard, laboratories, maintenance, quality
control, and employee welfare will be shared with the modernized existing
foundry. Improvements ard enlargement of these facilities are planned only to
the extent necessary to meet the new technologies and increased capacity of the
combined facilities.
3. Sand Treatment Plant
5.07     To permit the improvement of casting quality for the mcdernized
existing foundry and to meet the required specifications for mechanical
castings, the Project includes a sand treatment plant which will receive two
types of surface mined raw sand. Two quarries in Bizerte and Hammamet, at
distances of about 60 km frcm SOFOMECA, have been selected to supply the sand.
The sand treatment plant is divided into two separate sections: the first
section is to screen the sand at a rate of approximately 20 tons per hour to
remove oversize particles, refuse, vegetation and other extraneous matter. The
raw sand from Hammamet would require no further processing and would be used for
steel molding. The Bizerte sand, after screening in the first section, is
processed further through a thermal drier, a cooler to reduce the sand
temperature and is then scrubbed pneumatically for further cleaning and removal
of deleterious fines.  This sand is then stored in silos and distributed
pneumatically to work centers as required. The second section is designed to
process approximately 5 tons of sand per hour or a capacity of 20,000 tons per
year in a two-shift operation.
5.08     The plant layout showing the modernized and new facilities is presented
in Annex 5-1.  The new foundry is to be built alongside the existing foundry on
SOFOMECA's property.  Due to the poor soil conditions at the site and
groundwater at less than 1 meter depth, the new foundry will be constructed by
elevating the prcduction area by 5 meters, thereby minimizing the expensive
foundation work (tanking, waterproofing and pumping equipment) which would
otherwise be required. A further substantial advantage would be the improved
maintenance and repair procedures possible by having easy access to the
machinery and equipment below the operating platform level.
C.  Process, Technology and Technical Assistance
5.09     The proposed high pressure green sand molding process for the
modernization and the new foundry are new for SOFOMECA, although similar to the
presently employed medium pressure green sand molding process.  The main



- 29 -
difference is in the control of the molding media (green sard) and adjustments
in patterns and coreboxes because of the more rigid molds.  The present
technical staff of SOFOMECA is fully familiar with the necessary adjustments to
be made. The only other new process being introduced in the modernized foundry
is in the coremaking operations where the present two coremaking processes are
to be supplemented with two new types of binding materials for cores.  These
processes are well proven in the foundry industry with the proposed equipment
identical to the machinery presently used by SOFOMECA.  No difficulties in
operating these processes are expected. Concerning the prcduction of mechanical
castings in the new foundry, technical assistance, proposed to be financed by
the Bank (para 6.09), is essential to meet their quality specifications and
criteria. Due to close association of SOFOMECA's Project with the CMT project
(para 4.14), SOFOMECA has engaged KHD for technical assistance to help ensure
that SOFOMECA will produce the mechanical castings at the high quality required
for the production of CMT diesel engines under KHD license. The selection of
KHD by SOFOMECA complies with the Bank guidelines.  SOFOMECA has concluded
discussions with KHD to acquire technical assistance which would include
verification of the technical concept and design of the Project, an1 the
specifications of equipment; provision of the technical know-how for prcduction
technology, training of SOFOMECA personnel at KHD, and assistance for
installation of equipment and prcduction start-up. Conclusion of a satisfactory
technical assistance agreement with KHD is proposed as a condition for
effectiveness of the Bank loan. Further, SOFOMECA already has licensing
arrangements with Amstead Industries of the US for the production of railway
bogies and is discussing arrangements for technical assistance with Bayard (US)
for the machining and assembly of valves. With the inclusion of the technical
assistance program and the existing know-how agreement, no major difficulties
are expected in the operation of the modernized and new fourdries.
D. Raw Materials and Utilities
5.10     The main raw materials for the foundries are steel scrap, pig iron,
ferro-alloys, fourdry type sard, refractory materials, electrodes, and chemicals
and additives for molding and coremaking. The present major problem of the poor
quality of the locally available sands has been addressed by provision of a sard
treatment plant in the Project scope (para 5.02). Steel scrap will be purchased
locally as at present. The main imported materials are coke, pig iron,
ferro-alloys, bentonite, steel shot and chemicals for coremaking. In addition,
component parts for the assembly of bogies are purchased overseas. Over the
past few years, SOFOMECA has developed sufficient contacts with several sources
in Europe to ensure their procurement at competitive prices. Availability of
the raw materials ard components is expected to pose no difficulty,
5.11     As shown in Annex 5-1, the layout permits the sharing and more
intensive utilization of various service facilities. Increased requirements of
infrastructure and utilities for the new foundry will be readily available. A
new high tension sub-station is foreseen to convert the 32,000 volt primary
supply for plant use. Power is available for the estimated additional connected
load of approximately 10,000 KVA. The present gas lines are sufficient to absorb



- 30 -
the additional load, while new air compressors are included in the Project to
meet the increased demand.
E. Ecology
5.12     At present, environmental ard occupational health standards do not
exist in Tunisia. Nevertheless, the design of the new foundry includes adequate
provisions for fume and dust pollution control, sound pollution abatement arnd
adequate safety arnd health facilities provisions to meet generally acceptable
standards comparable with those of the Occupational Safety ard Health
Administration (OSHA) of the US. These include: (i) adequate dust ard fume
collectors for all sard systems, shake-outs, shotblast units, coremaking
machinery, welding and arc-air stations, as well as grinding ard cut-off
stations; ard (ii) noise reduction devices in the grinding ard finishing areas,
and protective noise absorbing walls in the shot-blast areas. The various
environmental protective devices incorporated in the design are planned to keep
the pollution levels at comparable Threshold Limit Values of OSHA-codes. The
present foundiry is also to be provided with additional dust, fume ard noise
pollution abatement devices on existing equipment so as to achieve improved
working, ecological arnd environmental conditions. These devices will
significantly improve working conditions of operating personnel which would
provide the environment for achieving higher productivity and quality. The
above measures are judged to provide adequate and satisfactory environmental and
safety control facilities; nevertheless, assurances have been obtained that the
facilities under the Project be properly designed, constructed and operated in
accordance with safety, health and ecological standards satisfactory to the
Bank.
F. Emnployment, Training and Prcductivity
5.13     The Project will create additional employment for 245 people.  Further,
it will consolidate employment of another 542 people in the present foundry with
the proposed rmodernization measures. The investment cost per job created (or
consolidated) equals US$53,000 (1982 prices) for the Project as a whole. The
labor force for the new foundry will be provided from the surplus generated in
the present foundry as a result of productivity increases, SOFOMECA's training
program and graduates from the Tunisian technical vocational school. For the
introduction of new techniques in the present foundry, normal training of
SOFOMECA personnel by the machinery manufacturers is sufficient. However, for
the technology of the new facilities, particular training would be required.
Training of key personnel at manufacturers facilities in electrical, hydraulic
and mechanical aspects of equipment and machinery would be included in all major
procurement documents. Further, the training component in the technical
assistance agreement discussed with KHD (para 5.09), would include training of
5 key prcduction people of SOFOMECA for about 4 months at KHD facilities and
appointment of 5 KHD production people for about 3 months at SOFOMECA during the
production start-up. These arrangements are regarded as satisfactory as
SOFOMECA's present production staff is already well trained. Nevertheless, the
technical assistance agreement with KHD will include the possibility of
increasing the specified man-months for the training if deemed necessary. In



- 31 -
case of any further training needs, SOFOMECA has the possibility to train its
personnel in the well established training center of GF in Switzerlar.d.
5.14    Of the present 542 personnel, 288 represent "direct" production
workers. The production of 4,700 tons in 1982 implies a productivity of 98 man
hours per ton. This compares unfavorably with European foundries, where the
productivity is twice as high for the same type of product produced. After
ccmpletion of the proposed mcdernization program, the labor productivity is
expected to improve to 64 man hours per ton, an improvement of about 35%. The
productivity of the new foundry, with a direct production requirement of 183
workers, is estimated at 42 man hours per ton. This canpares favorably with the
productivity in European foundries producing similar castings at approximately
32 man hours per ton. In view of the differences in relative wages, this would
lead to a labor cost advantage for SOFOMECA of about US$200 per ton of castings.
G. Project Implementation Schedule and Management
5.15    The schedule for Project implementation is shown in the following
chart.
Project Implwemation Sdcedule
1983           1984            1985           1986
1  2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1  2   3   4   1   2   3   4
Dnail.d D.ign Cnrfiter.
ThjtlEngi-.adg
Oi E,og-nniniI
.. ...  Snd Tretnnt Plant
V   :onnnnt,.li Pnroductnon
GF prepared the schedule based on the timing for various steps involved in the
engineering, procurement ariA installation of each major package, as well as in
the construction. of the buildings and other facilities. It was reviewed by the
Bank andA is judged to be realistic. The early realization of the mcdAernization
of the existing foundry is highly desirable because of the expanding local
market adA the necessity to improve the quality of castings. The mR.ernization



- 32 -
component is therefore scheduled to be completed in advance of the new foundry
and the sand plant.  The details of the modernization measures has been
finalized.  Formal equipment specifications arnd corresponding tender documents
for critical items are expected to be completed by mid-1983, with order
placement beginning soon thereafter. As presently planned, delivery of
equipment will ccmnence in early 1984 with start of production at the end of
1984. The works under the modernization component will be carried out in such a
way that interruption of production in the existing foundry will be minimized.
For the new foundry, the detailed engineering is practically completed.
Equipment specifications and tender documents will be prepared with order
placement of critical items starting in the fourth quarter of 1983,for delivery
of major equipment items from 1985 and start of production in the beginning of
1986 with full production being reached in 1988 (para 7.01). The sand treatment
plant, which is an important element for quality ard productivity improvements
for the existing arid new foundries, will become operational in the second half
of 1985.
5.16     For the execution of the Project, SOFOMECA has established a Project
Management Group (PMG). The organization of the Pw:, is shown in
Annex 5-2. The present technical director of SOFOMECA, who has extensive
operational and implementation experience, has been assigned primary
responsibility as project manager. The Company has also appointed a graduate
engineer to assist the project manager in the day-to-day work. It has started
seeking qualified personnel in technical, budget and project control functions
and plans to staff the PMG with 10-12 persons at full strength. Assurances with
respect to the maintaining and adequate staffing of the PMG have been obtained.
To support the technical director in his existing operational responsibilities,
SOFOMECA has engaged production engineers in the existing foundry, who would be
taking on various functions in the proposed new fourdry.
5.17     For the preparation of the Project, the Bank extended in July 1982 a
US$600,000 Project Preparation Facility (PPF) to the Government for SOFOMECA to
retain qualified foundry consultants to review and complement the prefeasibility
study prepared by SOTINFOR, a Tunisian consulting company, and, upon
satisfactory preparation of the feasibility study, to undertake the detailed
engineering of the Project.  SOFOMECA selected GF for this work from among a
number of firms that submitted proposals. The selection procedures followed
were in accordance with Bank guidelines.  In addition to the detailed
engineering, GF will also assist in the procurement of equipment, construction
management, supervision of foundry erection anr start-up of prcduction. It is
also responsible for the coordination and supervision work for the civil
engineering which would be undertaken as subcontract frcm GF by a consortium
consisting of the Swiss company Suter and the Tunisian ccmpany STUDI.
Assurances have been obtained from SOFOMECA, that in order to implement the
Project, it will maintain engineering consulting services, satisfactory to the
Bank. Civil construction work will be undertaken by Tunisian contractors. The
responsibility for the equipment erection will be undertaken by the respective
suppliers, who have the possibility to subcontract a part of erection work to
local contractors.



- 33 -
VI. PROJECT COST, FINANCING PLAN AND PROCUREMENT
A. Project Cost Estimate
6.01     The total financing required for the Project is estimated at
US$54.1 million, of which US$40.7 million or 75% would be in foreign exchange.
The detailed cost breakdown by principal Project components is given in
Annex 6-1 and the overall cost of the Project as a whole and of various
components are summarized below:
Capital Cost Estimate
Cost Item               Local  Foreign    Total    Local  Foreign   Total    %
-  (Million Dinar)---      -- (US$ million)a/ -
Civil and Building
Works                    2.15   0.64      2.79       3.41    1.02    4.43    11.7
Equipment and
Spares                   0.44  12.57    13.01        0.70   19.95   20.65    54.7
Freight and Installation 0.61   3.62       4.23       0.97    5.74    6.71    17.8
Taxes and Duties          1.38    -        1.38       2.19     -       2.19     5.8
Engineering, Tech.
Assistance arnd
Training b/              0.21   1.56      1.77       0.33    2.48    2.81      7.4
Project Management
and Preoperating
Expenses                 0.50   0.12      0.62       0.79    0.19    0.98      2.6
Base Cost                5.29  18.51    23.80        8.39   29.38   37.77   100.0
Physical Contingencies   0.53   1.85       2.38       0.84    2.94    3.78    10.0
Price Contingencies       1.00   3.28      4.28       1.59    5.21    6.80    18.0
Installed Cost           6.82  23.64    30.46       10.82   37.53   48.35   128.0
Working Capital c/        1.40   0.57      1.97       2.22    0.90    3.12      8.3
Total Project Cost       8.22  24.21    32.43       13.04   38.43   51.47   136.3
Interest during Construc-
tion and other Charges  0.20   1.40       1.60       0.32    2.22    2.54      6.7
Front-end fee on Bank
loan                      -     0.03      0.03        -      0.05    0.05      0.1
Total Financing
Required              8.42  25.64    34.06      13.36   40.70   54.06   143.1
Of which:
Modernization            2.19   6.01      8.20       3.47    9.55   13.02    24.1
New Foundry              5.94  18.62    24.56        9.43   29.55   38.98    72.1
Sand Plant               0.29   1.01      1.30       0.46    1.60    2.06      3.8
8.42  25.64    34.06      13.36   40.70   54.06   100.0
a/  Converted frcn the Dinar estimate at an exchange rate of US$1.0=TD 0.63.
b/  Includes services financed under PPF totalling US$600,000.
El Incremental due to the Project during 1983-86.



- 34 -
6.02     The base cost estimates were prepared by GF in September 1982 on the
basis of its extensive experience and quotations obtained fram equipment
suppliers in Europe. A major portion of the foreign component of fixed asset
costs was estimated in Swiss Francs and converted to Tunisian Dinars at an
exchange rate of TD 1 = SF 3.45 (September 1982). The estimates were discussed
extensively with SOFOMECA and GF. Equipment cost estimates include a year's
requirement of spares equivalent to around 5% of the equipment value.
Insurance, freight and inland transportation are estimated to account for around
12% of the cost of equipment and spares. The estimate for civil and building
works are based on an estimate by Suter (para 5.17) of the total volume of work
required and unit prices, following tests on the site. under the existing
tariff regulations in Tunisia for projects in priority sectors, SOFOMECA will be
obliged to pay 6% for duties and 5% for taxes or. the imported equipment which
have been included in the cost estimate. The estimate for installation has been
established for each individual equipment package and represents on average
around 17% of the value of equipment. This is in line with the experience of
similar foundry projects. The amount included for consulting services (US$2.81
million) reflects the contract value for the engineering services with GF for
the preparation of the feasibility study and for the detailed engineering,
estimates for procurement and supervision services to be provided by GF, the
cost of the technical assistance and training to be provided by KHD, and
estimates for any additional training ard assistance required by SOFOMECA
(para 5.13).  Engineering, procurement and supervision services, (US$1.48
million) are estimated to require 90 man-months of foreign and 30 man-months of
local consultants which are costed at US$15,400 and US$3,100 per mar-month
respectively, including fees, travel, overhead and other expenses. The
relatively high cost for foreign consultants is explained by industry standards
for specialized services and by the fact that much of the work will be carried
out in Tunisia. The cost of engineering services includes the cost of the
feasibility study and engineering for the Project to be financed under the
Bank's US$600,000 PPF (para 5.17). The estimates for technical and training
assistance (US$1.33 million) include the amount provided in the proposal made by
KHD to SOFOMECA (US$0.8 million). The pre-operating expenses provide adequately
for project management.
6.03     In view of the detailed work undertaken by GF in preparing the cost
estimates, a physical contingency of 10% on both civil and building works and
equipment has been added to the base cost estimate and is considered adequate.
The base cost estimate has been updated to March 1983 levels. Price
contingencies for foreign costs were calculated on the basis of expected annual
increases in international prices of 6% for 9 months of 1983, 7.5% for 1984, 7%
for 1985 and 6% for 1986 and thereafter; and for local costs on the basis of
expected local annual inflation of 7.5% for 9 months of 1983, 9% for 1984, 8%
for 1985 and thereafter. The price contingencies represent about 18% of the
base cost estimate. The installed cost estimate of the Project including
contingencies is in line with the known costs of similar plants, and is
considered reasonable and adequate.
6.04     The incremental working capital requirements have been estimated at
US$3.1 million, taking into account price escalation as described in the
preceding paragraph. This is based on the understanding that SOFOMECA will



- 35 -
improve its working capital management over that existing presently in its
operations (para 3.15). Details of annual working capital requirements
incluiing assumptions are shown in Annex 6-2. Interest during construction is
estimated at US$1.9 million, based on the investment schedule ard at an interest
rate of 12% (in Dinar terms) for all debt except the Bank, from both local anr
foreign sources (para 6.06). In determining the total financing required for
the Project, ccmmitment and front-end fees estimated at US$0.7 million have been
included. In line with accounting practices of SOFOMECA, interest during
construction ard other charges will be capitalized and are therefore included
in the capital cost estimate.
B. Financing Plan
6.05     The financing required for the Project is proposed to be covered as
follows:
Financing Plan
Source                    Local    Foreign  Total  Local    Foreign  Total   %
--(Million Dinar)----   --(US$ million) a/---
Equity
Cash Generation             2.17     0.16    2.33    3.45       0.25    3.70   6.8
Share Capital
Tunisian Shareholders:
STUSID                 1.50       -      1.50    2.38        -      2.38   4.4
BTKD                   1.00       -      1.00    1.59        -      1.59   2.9
BTEI                   1.00       -      1.00    1.59        -      1.59   2.9
Subtotal             3.50       -      3.50    5.56       -       5.56  10.2
Foreign Shareholders:
ARMIIO                 0.20      2.45    2.65    0.32       3.88    4.20   7.8
AIIC                   0.20      2.45    2.65    0.32       3.88    4.20   7.8
IDB                    0.14      2.16    2.30    0.21       3.45    3.66   6.8
Subtotal             0.54      7.06    7.60    0.85    11.21   12.06  22.4
Subtotal Share Capital  4.04       7.06   11.10    6.41    11.21   17.62  32.6
Total Equity             6.21      7.22   13.43    9.86    11.46   21.32  39.4
Long-Term Debt
IBRD                        -       10.58   10.58      -       16.80   16.80  31.1
STUSID                     0.69      3.36    4.05    1.09       5.34    6.43  11.9
BTKD                        0.46     2.24    2.70    0.73       3.55    4.28   7.9
BTEI                       0.46      2.24    2.70    0.73       3.55    4.28   7.9
Ccmmercial Bank             0.60      -       0.60    0.95       -       0.95   1.8
Total Long-Term Debt    2.21    18.42   20.63    3.50    29.24   32.74  60.6
Total Financing             8.42    25.64   34.06   13.36    40.70   54.06 100.0
a/ converted from Dinar at US$1.0 = TD 0.63.



- 36 -
6.06     The Project would be cofinanced with three locally established
joint-venture development banks, STUSID, BTKD and BTEI which would provide
US$5.56 million as equity and US$14.99 million as long-term loans. It is
expected that the loans of these banks would be provided to SOFOMECA at 12%
interest, to be repaid over 9 years following 4 years of grace. SOFOMECA would
bear the foreign exchange risk. These banks have indicated that their loan
agreements with SOFOMECA might include the provision that instead of financing
foreign equipment frcm their own resources, they might arrange and guarantee
export credits/financing from suppliers' countries which would carry these
banks' usual terms and conditions for the Project as mentioned above.
Additional share capital amounting to US$12.06 million would be raised from
ARMICO, AIIC and IDB.  A contribution frcm SOFOMECA's cash generation of
US$3.7 million and a  mnall ccnrerrcial loan of US$0.95 million would provide the
balance of the financing. The contribution f ran cash generation for financing
has been mostly assumed during 1985-86 following the start-up of the mcdernized
facilities at the end of 1984. During 1983-84, Project financing would be
almost completely from infusion of new capital arnd loans. The boards of four of
the cofinancing institutions have already approved their contributions, and
approvals by the remaining two institutions are expected by September 1983. No
problem in the conpletion of the financing plan is expected.  The effectiveness
of loans froam the local development banks and the subscription by the new
shareholders to their full capital for the Project, as well as the paying in of
25% of their total share capital upon subscription, are proposed as conditions
for effectiveness of the Bank loan. An understanding was reached with SOFOMECA
that an additional 50% of the share capital will be called by June 30, 1984 and
the remaining 25% by March 31, 1985.  A Colenders' Agreement among the Bank ard
the local development banks specifying mutual obligations of coordination,
exchange of information and consultation regarding Project execution would be
signed around signature of the Bank loan. With the change in the ownership
structure of the Ccmpany, it is important that the new shareholders be
responsible for the timely provision of any necessary deficiency funds resulting
frcm a cost overrun and/or a shortfall in available financing for the Project.
In this respect, assurances have been obtained fram SOFOMECA that in case of
inadequacy of funds to complete the Project 16/, SOFOMECA will take all actions
to make arrangements with its shareholders or others to obtain such funds on
terms satisfactory to the Bank. SOFOMECA's present shareholders have already,
through the SOFOMECA General Assembly, undertaken to ensure the provision of all
funds to ccmplete the Project. SOFOMECA has indicated that it expects the
future shareholders to accept the same undertaking. In addition, the Government
has agreed to cause to provide or provide SOFOMECA with the necessary funds to
ccmplete the Project.
6.07     The Bank loan of US$16.8 million would be provided directly to SOFOMECA
and will be guaranteed by the Government. The loan would be provided for a
period of 15 years including 3.5 years of grace at the standard variable
interest rate 17/ plus a fee of 10% on the Bank's lending rate payable to the
16/ Ccnpletion of the Project is defined as the achievement of prcduction at
80% of capacity for at least 2 continuous months.
17/ Assumed in this report to be 11.0% per year.



- 37 -
Goverrment by SOFOMECA as a guarantee and administration fee, bringing the total
cost of borrowing to the Conparny (excluding the ccmmitment and front-erd fees)
to 110% of the actual Bank lending rate. The foreign exchange risk will be
borne by the Conpany. Thus the total cost of the Bank loan, 12.1% based on the
present interest rate of the Bank, and SOFOMECA bearing the foreign exchange
risk, will be in line with that charged by the local development banks
(para 6.06). The Bank's USS600,000 PPF provided to finance the feasibility
study and engineering for the Project (para 5.17), the cost of which has been
included in the capital cost estimate (para 6.02), would become part of the Bank
loan at its effectiveness at the same term and corditions.
6.08     The allocation of funds by sources of financing and by different cost
categories, shown in Annex 6-3, has been designed to cptimize the use of
available sources of funds consistent with the Project's requirements.
C. Procurement
6.09     The Bank loan is proposed to finance 7 foreign packages of the 18 major
packages of equipment and machinery, including installation for the new foundry
ard the sand treatment plant and the consultants' services. These packages,
totaling US$13.7 million, are listed in Annex 6-4 and will be procured by
international campetitive bidding (ICB). In the procurement of these packages,
foreign suppliers may wish to seek the participation of local suppliers in
providing structures, other items ard installation services. However, in view
of the need to assign single contractor responsibility for these related
items/services, they have been included in their entirety under single packages
to be financed by the Bank loan. The total amount of local currency
expenditures arising fran such local participation in these packages is expected
to be under US$1.5 million. A margin of preference of 15% or the actual custom
duties (which ever is lower) is allowed, but such margin of preference is
unlikely to be applicable to these packages, as the type of equipment required
for the Project is not produced in Tunisia. Prequalification reports, bidding
documents, bid evaluation reports and contract award recormendations for these
packages will be subject to prior review by the Bank and will follow procedures
consistent with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement. Procurement of all the
items for the modernization component ard of the remainder items for the new
foundry, financed by the development banks (para 6.06), would be made in
accordance with their guidelines which are acceptable to the Bank. These
include ICB for machinery and equipment and local competitive bidding for civil
works.  Civil works would be procured locally after competitive bidding among
local contractors. The capabilities of these contractors are considered
adequate for timely and efficient completion of these works. Consultants to be
financed under the Bank loan were selected in accordance with Bank guidelines
(paras 5.09 and 5.17).
D. Allocation and Disbursement of Bank Loan
6.10     The allocation of the proposed Bank loan of US$16.8 million will be as
follows:



- 38 -
Allocation of Bank Loan
(US$ million)
Categoty                            Amount           Application
Machinery, Equipment                13.70       100% of foreign
and Spares                                    expenditures and 100% of
local expenditures (ex-
factory cost)
Consultants' Services                 1.45      100% of foreign
expenditures and 90% of local
expenditures of local
consultants
Refunding of Project Preparation
Advance                            0.60       100% of amount due
Front-end Fee                        0.04       100% of amount due
unallocated                           1.01
Total                               16.80
6.11     The projected schedule for the disbursement of Bank funds is shown in
Annex 6-5. A payment of around US$200,000 under the PPF is expected to be
disbursed prior to the Board presentation (para 6.07). The projected period of
disbursement of about 3 years is favorable in conparison with the typical Bank
profile of 6 years for industrial projects in EMENA countries, and about 7 years
for all projects in Tunisia. The shorter disbursement period is based on the
following factors: (i) the advanced state of preparation, engineering and
procurement activities; (ii) reliance on disbursement profiles of the
Bank-financed foundry projects in Yugoslavia and Portugal; ard (iii) the
relative simple nature of the Project, with Bank financing of only 7 key
packages.
VII. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Production Buildup, Revenues and operating Costs
7.01     The expected production buildup of the Project is based on discussions
with SOFOMECA and GF and on the experience of similar Bank-financed facilities.
Concerning the modernization component, production in the existing foundry would
start increasing fran the last quarter of 1984 fran a level of 4,800 tpy during
1983-84 to reach full production of 7,000 tpy in 1986, of which 4,800 tpy of
iror castings and 2,200 tpy of steel castings.  Interruption in the production
of the existing foundry are expected to be minimal as the installation of the
new moulding line will be outside the present prcduction areas, ard this new
lirne would compensate for an eventual reduction in production of the other



- 39 -
lines during their -modernization work. Full production would represent
93% of exparded capacity of the rnodernized existing foundry (para 5.02). The
new foundry for mechanical castings is expected to start production at the
beginning of 1986, to reach full production of 7,000 tpy in 1988 following a
conservative production build-up of 30% of full production in 1986, 70% in 1987,
and 100% in 1988. Full production would represent 90% of the capacity of the
new foundiry (para 5.02).  Of total production of the new foundry, 6,000 tpy
would consist of grey iron castings, of which 4,900 tpy would be rough and
1,100 tpy machined, and 1,000 tpy would be GS iron castings, of which half would
be machined. The sand plant would be operational in the seconJ half of 1985,
when it would start supplying the nKodernized existing foundry. The sand plant
would reach full production of about 16,000 tpy in 1988, of which almost half
would be consumed in SOFOMECA's existing and new foundries.  The other 8,000 tpy
would be sold to other local foundries anr  sand-using industries such as glass
factories. Based on experience in other facilities and production start-up
assistance by GF, and in view of adequate experience of SOFOMECA in operating
similar equipment, these prcduction levels, summarized below, are considered
realistic anA attainable.
S,OFOMECA - Production Build-up and Capacity Utilization by Facility
Frcm
1983-84     1985       1986      1987       1988
(per year)
A. Production (tons)
Existing Foundry
Iron Castings               3,150       4,000     4,800      4,800      4,800
Steel Castings              1,650       2,000      2,200     2,200      2,200
Subtotal              4,800       6,000     7,000      7,000     7,000
New Foundry
Grey Iron Castings            -           -        1,800     4,200      6,000
GS Iron Castings              -           -          300       700      1,000
Subtotal                -           -       2,100      4,900     7,000
Total Castings        4,800       6,000     9,100    11,900    14,000
Sand Plant
Production for SOFOMECA       -           -        3,920     5,795      7,770
Production for Sale           -           -        4,000     8,000      8,000
Total Sand              -           -       7,920    13,795    15,770
B. Capacity Utilization (%)
Modernized Existing Foundry  64           80         93        93         93
New Foundry                   -           -          27        63         90
Sand Plant                                -          40        69         79



- 40 -
7.02     The existing foundry would continue to produce almost the same
preluct-mix as at present, with the addition of small ard large machined valves
from 1985 (300 tpy). Exports from the existing fourdry would be kept at a low
level during 1983-85, due to the large domestic demand (para 4.13). Production
of the new fourdry would be geared Tnostly to the local market with only 500 tpy
of GS iron castings foreseen for expoLt in 1988. Revenues for SOFOMECA with the
Project are derived from the sales volume forecast and projected selling
prices. For the existing foundry, selling prices have been based on existing
prices. With the implementation of the moderrization component, prices for
castings from the existing foundry are expected to increase with the impact on
the quality of the castings due to the Project. Such price increases have not
been considered for the financial or economic analysis of the Project. For the
new foundry, price levels are projected to be below or in line with prices now
paid or expected to be paid by SOFOMECA's major clients of the new foundi.y (STIA
and CMTr) to their foreign partners for comparable castings. These prices have
been discussed by SOFOMECA with CMT and STIA ard form part of the integration
programs between them (para 4.18). Export prices for existing castings are based
on present export price levels. For the new foundry, the export price for rough
GS iron castings is estimated at 85% of the equivalent domestic European price
or 75% of Tunisian domestic price. For the sale of sand, the price is set at
TD 23 per ton in 1982 prices to allow full recovery of the sard plant's
operating costs as well as a 15% profit margin. This price is in line with the
price prevalent in Europe. Concerning SOFOMECA's future pricing policy,
assurances have been obtained from SOFOMECA that it will set prices that
(i) are in line with similar imported or locally produced castings, (ii) are
reasonably related to operating costs, and (iii) enable compliance with
financial covenants (para 7.07). Details of sales revenues, including
product-mix ard domestic and export sales are given in Annex 7-1. The following
table gives a summary of sales revenue by facility.
SOFOMECA - Sales Revenue with the Project
(Current million TD)
From   % of Total
1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   in 1988
Existing FoundLy            5.65   6.15   8.38  10.41  11.17  11.99         53.3
New Fourdry                  -        -     -      2.76   6.75  10.20       45.4
Sand Plant                   -        -     -     0.12   0.27   0.29         1.3
Total Sales Revenue   5.65   6.15   8.38  13.29  18.19  22.48         100.0
7.03     The operating costs for the Project have been assessed in detail by
GF.   Annex 7-2 contains a  summary of SOFOMECA's operating costs with the
Project and incremental due to the Project, as well as the unit prices of the
main operating inputs, including a comparisorn with European levels.  The
following table shows the comparative operating cost structure before and after
the Project for the existing foundry and for the new foundry.



- 41 -
SOFOMECA - Operating Cost Structure Before and After the Project
(1982 prices)
Cost Item                   Existing Foundry               New Foundry  Difference
Present       1986 a/                   (1988) a/  New vs.
TD/   % of    TD/   e of                TD/   % of   Existing
ton   Total   ton   Total  % change   ton   Total  Foundries
Materials &
Consumables b/c/ 207    31.1   199    38.5    (3.9)    188   44.7          (5.5)
Energy d/           79    11.9    77    14.9    (2.5)       80   19.0        3.9
Personnel e/       264    39.7   182    35.2   (31.1)    103   24.5        (43.4)
Administration
Cost              115    17.3    59    11.4   (48.7)       50   11.8      (15.3)
Total        665   100.0   517   100.0   (22.3)    421  100.0         (18.6)
a/ at full production.
b/ before tax.
c/ excl. merchandise for steel bogies, incl. machining sub-contracting
costs.
d/ before tax.
e/ includes direct ard indirect prcduction related personnel only.
7.04     For the existing foundry, the existing operations formed the basis for
the operating cost projections with improvements in prcduction yields and
consumption coefficients, following the implementation of the mcdernization
component. Other improvements in the costs per ton of the existing fourdry
result frcm the reduced labor costs following a transfer of part of the labor to
the new foundry (para 5.13) as well as fran gains in labor productivity after
completion of the modernization. Administration expenses will be reduced in a
similar manner. For the new foundry, improvements during the learning pericd
are reflected in declining unit consumption rates where appropriate. The main
difference in the operating costs of the existing and new foundries after the
Project lies in the personnel costs. The personnel cost advantage of the new
foundry of 43% is due to lower manpower requirements for production and
maintenance in the new foundry (256 persons) than in the existiny foundry
(457 persons). The new foundry's energy costs are about 4% higher per ton than
the existing foundry due to high electricity requirements because of higher
melting temperatures for the relatively refined prcduct-mix. These higher
energy costs are however offset by the reduction of 6% in the costs for
materials and consumables and 15% in administration costs. The new foundry's
cash operating costs per ton are therefore 19% lower than for the mcdernized
existing foundry.



- 42 -
B.  Financial Projections ard Analysis
7.05     The projected financial statements for the Conpany based or. the sales
revenue ani cost assumptions discussed above are given in Annex 7-3 (including
assumptions) and summarized below.
SOFOMECA - Summary of Financial Projections
(Current '000 TD)
1982     1984    1985    1986    1987    1988
(act.)
Income Statement Items a/
Revenues                           4,286    6,154   8,381  13,288  18,189  22,476
Gross Operating Incone             1,188    1,923   3,526   6,086   9,033  11,607
Net Income                            42       343     659  (1,166)b/  914   1,276
Funds Flow Items
Internal Cash Generation             342       577   1,608   2,511   4,574   6,166
Long-Term Debt Repayments            141       283     283      369   2,219   2,493
Balance Sheet Items
Current Assets c/                  5,032    3,946   4,682   6,872   9,051  10,975
Total Assets                       7,218   18,968  31,264  36,658  35,975  35,301
Current Liabilities                3,379    1,446   1,677   4,196   5,092   5,489
Long-Term Debt                     2,583    7,369  16,000  20,041  17,548  15,201
Share Capital                      1,029    9,538  12,313  12,313  12,313  12,313
Reserves & Retained Earnings         227       615   1,274      108   1,022   2,298
Total Equity                       1,256   10,153  13,587  12,421  13,335  14,611
Financial Ratios
Gross Operating Income/
Sales (%)                         27.7      31.2    42.1    45.8    49.7    51.6
Net Inccme/Sales (%)                 1.0       5.6     7.9    (8.8)    5.0    11.4
Long-Term Debt Service Coverage    2.3         1.6     2.6      1.8      1.5     1.8
Current Ratio c/                     1.5       2.7     2.8      1.6      1.8     2.0
Long-Term Debt7Equity Ratio        67:33    42:58   54:46   62:38   57:43   51:49
a/ Before inlirect taxes.
b/ Start-up loss.
c/ Before surplus cash.
7.06     The financial projections for SOFOMECA with the Project show
satisfactory financial ratios throughout the projection perind despite a net
loss in 1986, the first year of operation of the new foundry, mainly due to
increased depreciation and amortization expenses and interest charges in that
year. Although the projections show cash generation from existing operations,
during 1983-84 these have been assumed to finance mainly non-project
expenditures such as: the planned investments in social and office buildings
outside the Project scope; working capital increases on existing operations;



- 43 -
long-term debt repayments on existing debt; and the reduction of short term
debt. Mainly during 1985-86, it has been assumed that cash generation
contributes to the financing of the Project (para 6.06). The projections
include the repayment of the overdue CNSS debt (TD 0.48 million at the end of
1982) during 1983-86 in four equal annual installments, as well as the repayment
of the overdue Government debt (TD 1.37 million at the erd of 1982) during
1988-92 in five equal annual installments, at an annual interest of 10% on the
outstanding balance from 1983 (para 3.16). Dividends are assumed to start in
1988, the third year of operations of the new foundry by which time the Conpany
is expected to reach full production.
C. Financial Covenants
7.07     Based on the financial projections, it is expected that SOFOMECA will
maintain a sound financial position during and after Project implementation.
However to ensure the financial soundness of the Conpany, assurances have been
obtained from SOFOMECA that it shall (i) maintain at all times a current ratio
of at least 1.3; (ii) not incur, without prior approval of the Bank, any
additional long-term debt if, after incurring such debt, its debt to equity
ratio would exceed 60:40, or its projected debt service coverage would fall
below 1.5 times; (iii) unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, not declare or pay
dividends, unless, after payment of such dividends: (a) it would continue to
maintain positive accumulated retained earnings, (b) its debt to equity ratio
would be below 60:40, and (c) its current ratio would exceed 1.5; (iv) not
undertake in any fiscal year prior to the completion of the Project any
investment (outside the Project scope), exceeding TD 0.5 million; and (v) not
engage in any subsidiaries, partnerships, etc. without prior approval of the
Bank. Further, assurances have been obtained fram the Government that it will
cause to provide or provide SOFOMECA with the necessary funds, including those
for any cost overrun, to complete the Project on terms satisfactory to the Bank.
D. Financial Return
7.08     The pre-tax financial rate of return (FRR) for the Project is estimated
to be about 16% in real terms. For the modernization component, the FRR is
estimated at about 21%, and for the new foundry at about 14%. The canparatively
high rate of return for the mxcdernization component reflects the fact that a
relatively small debottlenecking investment leads to a substantial increase in
prcductive capacity. The FRR is calculated on an incremental basis, i.e. based
on the incremental costs and revenues to SOFOMECA due to the Project. For the
case without the Project, SOFOMECA production is expected to remain at the level
of 4,800 tons per year, with constant revenues and operating costs in real terms
frcm 1983. Some of the operating cost reductions in the existing foundry due to
the implementation of the new foundry, in particular the reduced personnel costs
due to transfer of labor and lower administration overheads, have been credited
to the new foundry in the FRR calculation 18/. The costs and benefits of the
sand plant have been taken into account with the new foundry, since the sand
18/ Excluding the transfer of these reductions, the FRR for the nrrdernization
component and the new foundry is estimated at 24.6% and 12.4% respectively.



- 44 -
plant would not have been installed without the implementation of the new
foundry. The cost ard revenue streams for the FRR analysis are shown in
Annex 7-4. The return on equity (ROE) for the life of the Project, based on the
projected dividend stream and residual book value is estimated at about
12% 19/.
7.09     Results of the sensitivity tests on the Project's financial rate of
return arnd the Ccmpany's debt service coverage are shown in the following table.
Financial Sensitivity Analysis
Debt Service
Financial Rate of Return (%)        Coverage a/
Mcderni-     New
zation       Fourdry
of Existing  and Sand  Total
Foundry      Plant      Project  FY 86 FY 87 FY 88
1.  Base Case                       20.7        14.0      15.8     1.8   1.5   1.8
2.  Output Price:  (a) -10%         17.3        10.8      12.6     1.2   1.1   1.4
(b) +5%        22.4         15.5      17.4     2.1   1.6   1.9
3.  Prcduction Level:  (a) -10%   18.3          11.8      13.6      1.5   1.3   1.5
(b) +5%    21.8         14.9     16.9      2.0   1.6   1.9
4.  Operating Costs: +10%           19.6        12.6      14.6      1.5   1.3   1.6
5.  one Year Delay Start-up         17.6        12.2      13.8      1.0   1.1   1.5
6.  Fixed Capital Costs: (a) +10% 18.8          12.5      14.3     1.7   1.4   1.7
(b) -5%  21.8         14.8     16.8      1.9   1.5   1.8
7.  Combination of 2(a) and 4       16.1         9.3      11.2     0.9   0.8   1.1
8.  Combination of 5 and 6(a)       16.1        11.0      12.5     0.9   1.0   1.4
a/  Cash shortfalls under the different scenarios are assumed to be covered by
short-term debt at 10% interest.
The FRR and debt ser-vice coverage urder the various cases are still quite
satisfactory. The FRR is most sensitive to a reduction in sales revenue,
particularly when ccmbined with an increase in operating costs. The debt
service coverage would fall below 1.0 in FY 86-87 in the combined cases of
reduction in price (10%) and increase in operating costs (10%) as well as delay
19/ Assuming no inflation beyond 1990 and a dividend pay-out rate of 50% of net
inccme after taxes. The ROE would increase with further inflation, due to the
fixed nature of debt and capital charges, and with a higher dividend pay-out.
Assuming a 100% dividend pay-out, the ROE increases to 14%.  The lower ROE
(relative to the FRR) is largely explained by the impact of income tax on the net
inccne of SOFOMECA on which the dividends (and hence the ROE calculation) are
based, but which been excluded from the FRR calculation.



- 45 -
in production start-up (1-year) and increase in capital costs (10%). These
cases are however considered unlikely (para 7.15).
7.10     Based on the operating cost structure of the Project, its profit
break-even in 1988, the first year of full operation, is estimated at 82% of the
projected selling price, and 73% of the projected output level. Cash
break-evens (including debt repayment) amount to 77% ard 65% respectively.
E. Auditing arid Reporting
7.11     Independent financial auditors have carried out an audit of the
Company's financial statement of 1982 (para 3.13).  The firm engaged by SOFOMECA
is satisfactory to the Bank. Furthermore, SOFOMECA has agreed to have annual
financial audits carried out by independent auditors from 1983.  Assurances have
been obtained from SOFOMECA that it will suhnit to the Bank (i) audited
financial statements within four months of the end of each fiscal year;
(ii) unaudited quarterly financial statements and 12 months cash-flow
projections within 45 days of the end of each quarter, (iii) monthly project
progress reports within 30 days of each month-end; ard (iv) upon ccmpletion of
the Project, a comprehensive report on the Project, its implementation, initial
operations, and costs ard benefits derived ard expected to be derived therefrom.
F. Major Risks
7.12     The Project's main risk relates to the market for mechanical castings
to be produced by the new foundry, with regard to both demand ard price. As
explained earlier (paras 4.06 ar.d 4.07), the domestic market for mechanical
castings is closely related to (i) the implementation of projects by SOFOMECA's
main future clients STIA and CMT arid the marketing arrangements between these
clients, and (ii) the integration of SOFOMECA's mechanical castings in the
production programs of these two clients. STIA's expansion is almost
completed. Concerning the CMT project, assurances for the timely ccmpletion
have been obtained (para 4.08). New operations of STIA and those of CMT are
expected to start in advance of the projected start-up of SOFOMECA's new
foundry. Concerning the marketing arrangements of SOFOMECA's main future client
CMT, it has already initiated steps for the integration of its engines into the
production program of STIA (para 4.09). However, the risk relating to this
concerns the timely decision of the Government on the foreign partners of STIA
for the manufacture of trucks beyond 1984 (para 4.06). The Government has
already initiated steps in the selection process and has assured the Bank, that
it will make a timely decision to ensure the realization of the adaptation
schedule for the engines agreed between STIA and CMT and thus the timely
integration of SOFOMECA"S castings from the new foundry in 1986 (paras 4.06 ard
4.07). Furthermore, concerning the market for CMT's tractors, CMT has already
started sales of tractors assembled by it (para 4.08), which represent 20% of



- 46 -
the Tunisian tractor market. Moreover, KHD has irdicated its intention to close
dowr. its assembly line for one tractor model for export (500 units per year) ard
to transfer the prcduction to CMT.
7.13     Con.cerning the integration of SOFOMECA's mechanical castings, STIA and
CMT have agreed with SOFOMECA on detailed programs for integration of SOFOMECA
castings in their production programs (para 4.14). If for unexpected reasons,
the demard of the two major clients would not be forthcoming in line with the
anticipated schedule, the Project design is flexible to permit changes in
product-mix and can service other dcxnestic clients and realize exports.  In this
respect, other projects, apart from STIA and CMT, are presently being
established in Tunisia, of which some have already shown a keen interest in the
SOFOMECA Project and would be willing to buy its castings. Furthermore, the
Project would be fully capable of exporting a larger portion of output and
retain its viability (paras 4.11 and 4.15). Assuming an export of 50% of the
new foundry's output at 75% of the projected donestic prices, the financial rate
of return of the new foundry would still be quite acceptable at about 10%.
Concernring the selling prices, SOFOMECA's present prices of its existing foundry
formed the basis for the prices of the mczdernization component. For the new
fouriry, price levels assumed in the financial and economic analysis, were
extensively discussed and will form part of the finalized integration programs
between SOFOMECA ard these firms (para 4.18).
7.14     An additional risk concerns a lower cash generation than anticipated
for financing of the Project.  In the fund flow projections for the Company, it
has been assumed that cash generation during 1985-86 will be used for Project
financing, when the modernization ccmponent would be or. stream. Cash generation
prior to 1985 would be almost totally used for non-project expenditures. As a
result, of total cash generation available during the implementation arnd
start-up period of the Project, only 43% will be used for the Project or 65% of
cash available after all non-project expenditures and repayments of Project
loans, with the remaining 35% being used for reduction of SOFOMECA's short term
debt.  Shortfalls in internal cash gereration are expected to be minimized by
agreements obtained fron SOFOMECA on adequate pricing of SOFOMECA's products
(para 7.02) and limiting SOFOMECA's other investments (7.07). This is in
additior. to the agreement obtained frcm the Government to cause to provide
SOFOMECA with sufficient funds to camplete the Project (para 6.06).
7.15     other minor Project risks relate to the implementation period, capital
ard operating cost estimates, and SOFOMECA's ability to achieve the quality of
its new castings. Concerning the implementation period, the Project's schedule
(para 5.15) takes into account the timing for various steps involved in the
engineering and procurement of each major package. Progress to date on the
detailed engineering and procurement of items for the modernization conponent is
in line with the Project schedule. However, there is a risk relating to the
capability of the PMG to control and manage Project implementation. While the
project manager has extensive implementation experience in the foundry industry,
the effectiveness of the PMG to manage a project of the proposed size has not
been tested. This risk is minimized, however, by the provision of adequate
technical assistance by GF (para 5.17), which has demonstrated its capability in



- 47 -
implementing similar projects in other developing countries. Therefore, a
possible delay of more than 6 months is considered unlikely. The risk of a
capital cost overrun has been minimized through a careful preparation of the
cost estimates (para 6.02). Furthermore, a 10% physical contingency has been
provided to meet the possible increases due to unforeseen circumstances.
Concerning the operating costs, an increase of more than 10% is unlikely to
occur, since these costs have been based on SOFOMECA's present operations and
GF's experience in other developing countries in foundry operations similar to
those in the Project. On the quality of SOFOMECA's castings, it has retained
qualified technical consultants (KHD) who would help to ensure a high quality of
castings (para 5.09).
VIII. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A. Econonic Costs and Benefits
8.01     For calculating the econamic costs and benefits of the Project, border
prices have been used for all tradeable goods.  In the econonic analysis, unit
prices of incremental sales by SOFOMECA as a result of the Project have been
based on their import substitution ard export benefits to the country.
Therefore, SOFOMECA domestic sales, based on the prices mentioned earlier
(para 4.16), have been valued at the projected landed prices in Tunisia of
comparable prcducts. The table on the next page shows average unit prices used
in the econcmic analysis and a comparison with financial unit prices. As can be
seen, average econonic prices of all castings are about 3% lower than their
financial levels.  Econoxnic prices for the existing foundry are on average
6% below financial prices, due to the lower average prices for iron castings
(-11%), which is partly offset by the higher economic prices (+4%) for steel
castings (para 4.16). Econcnic prices for the new foundry are in line with
financial prices.
8.02     SOFOMECA presently imports most of its material inputs.  To arrive at
their border prices, custom duties which range fron 6 to 15%, as well as the
5% import tax have been exclucled fron the prices of imported material inputs.
Financial prices of locally purchased steel scrap have been increased to
US$110 per ton, or by 37%, to reflect their econconic opportunity cost.
Concerning the Project's capital costs, taxes have been excluded fram the fixed
investment. The materials and consumables, and work-in-progress inventories
conponents of working capital are included as an economic investment, adjusted
for duties and taxes on imported materials, which is recovered at the erd of the
operating life of the Project. Finished goods inventory is assumed to replace
stocks of imported castings that would otherwise be carried by the country. It
is expected that Tunisia's inventory requirements for castings will be lower
with a source of stable local supply than in case of imports. A useful
operating life of 15 years after start-up of the new foundry and a residual
scrap value of 10% of the plant investment is assumed.



- 48 -
Average Economic Unit Prices ard Comparison with Financial Prices
(prices in 1982 terms)
Comparison
Economic vs.
Economic Prices Financial Prices Financial
TD/ton  US$/ton  TD/ton   US$/ton  Price (%)
Domestic Prices
Existing Fourdry: a/
Iron Castings                     645    1,057       722      1,184      (10.7)
Steel Castings b/               1,167    1,913    1,121       1,838        4.1
All Castings b/                   775    1,270       822      1,348       (5.7)
New Fourdry:
Grey Iron Castings (Rough)        850    1,393       860      1,410       (1.2)
Grey Iron Castings (Machined) 1,100    1,803    1,080         1,770        1.9
GS Iron Castings (Machined)   1,300    2,131    1,300         2,131         -
All Castings                      916    1,502       920      1,508       (0.4)
Export Prices
New Foundry:
GS Iron Castings (Rough)          780    1,279       780      1,279         -
All Prices of Castings              849    1,392       873      1,431       (2.7)
a/ based on average revenue per ton in 1986 at full production of the
mcdlernized existing foundry.
b/ excluding steel bogies.
B.  Economic Rate of Return
8.03     As in the financial rate of return analysis, the economic rate of
return (ERR) is based on the incremental costs and benefits of the Project
(para 7.08), taking into account the adjustments in output ard input prices
described above. On this basis, the ERR for the overall project is estimated at
about 18%, for the mcdernization of the existing foundry at 23%, and for the new
foundry and the sand plant at 17%. The ERR is slightly higher than the
financial return since the adjustments of capital and operating costs in the
economic analysis, mostly on account of taxes and duties (para 8.02), reduce the
overall costs of the Project below financial levels, anJ more than offset the
slight average reduction of economic output prices from their financial levels
(para 8.01). Details of cost ard benefit streams for the economic rate of
return calculation are given in Annex 8-1.
8.04     The sensitivity of the base case ERR to various changes in the expected
costs anid benefits of the Project is illustrated in the following table.



- 49 -
Economic Rate of Return - Sensitivity Analysis
Rate of Return (%)
Modernization of  New Foundry and       Total
Existing Foundry   Sand Plant          Project
1.  Base Case                        22.9                16.6             18.3
2.  output Price:  (a) -10%          19.4                13.3             15.0
(b) +5%         24.6                 18.1             19.9
3.  Production Level:  (a) -10%    20.5                  14.3             16.0
(b) +5%     24.0                17.6             19.4
4.  Operating Costs:  +10%           21.8                15.3             17.1
5.  One Year Delay Start-up          19.2                14.3             15.7
6.  Fixed Capital Costs:  (a) +10% 20.8                  14.9             16.5
(b) -5%  24.0                17.5             19.3
7.  Combination of 2(a) and 4        18.2                11.9             13.6
8.  Combination of 5 and 6(a)        17.6                12.9             14.2
C.  Sectoral Impact and Other Benefits
8.05     The Project will have a major impact on the development of the foundry
industry and the engineering subsector in Tunisia, both of which have been given
the highest priority in the Tunisian Sixth Development Plan. Firstly, it will
initiate an orderly development of the foundry industry based on a development
program for the industry prepared with Bank assistance in the context of the
Project (para 2.15). Secondly, the Project would address quality problems in
the Tunisian foundry industry through the establishment of a sand treatment
plant which will supply quality casting sand to the Tunisian foundries.
Thirdly, the Project would be a key element in the development of engineering
industries, as it would form, with the establishment of the new foundry, an
important backward link for engineering industries which have been identified
for their development potential in Tunisia (para 2.10). The Project would
thereby promote integration within the engineering industries subsector, which
is presently lacking and forms one of the main constraints for its development
(para 2.09). Fourthly, the Project would also meet the Government's objective
to promote private sector participation in industrial development, as with the
implementation of the Project the ownership structure of SOFOMECA will change
from a majority publicly owned to a semi-public and privately owned Ccmpany.
8.06     The Project would result in substantial foreign exchange savings and
earnings through efficient import substitution and exports. The modernization
and expansion of the existing SOFOMECA foundry would allow the efficient
substitution of growing imports of traditional castings (para 4.10).
Furthermore, the new foundry would replace efficiently the imports of assembly
components and parts for the local autcmotive industry. The direct net foreign
exchange savings of the Project (excluding debt service and dividends) are
expected to amount to about US$162 million over the life of the Project (in
constant 1982 prices), as compared to the foreign exchange component of



- 50 -
investment (including working capital) of about US$30.4 million. A detailed
foreign exchange balance is presented in Annex 8-2.
8.07     The Project will generate benefits in social and environmental
aspects. It will provide direct additional employment to 245 people. In
addition, it will consolidate employment of another 542 people which would have
been in jeopardy since, in the long term, it would be difficult for SOFOMECA to
continue its operations with the poor condition of its existing facilities.
Further, it will ameliorate the working conditions ir. the existing foundry
through provision of dust, noise and pollution abatement devices (para 5.12).
8.08     Finally, the Project will serve to strengthen ard upgrade technological
and management capabilities through technical assistance arnd the management
improvement program including the management performance evaluation system
(para 3.08). Such system would set ar. example for other Tunisian irdustries,
particularly in the public sector. Further, the Project is expected to serve as
a model for the execution of similar miedium-size projects in the engineering
subsector.
IX. AGREEMENTS
9.01     Conclusion of a satisfactory technical assistance agreement with KHD
is closely linked with the implementation of the Project and is proposed as a
condition for effectiveness of the loan (para 5.09). Further, the timely
availability of the funds for the Project is regarded to be essential.
Therefore, the effectiveness of loans fram the local development banks, the
subscription by the new shareholders to their full capital for the Project,
aril the paying-in of 25% of the total subscribed share capital, are also
proposed as conditions for effectiveness of the Bank loan (para 6.06).
9.02     The following major agreements were reached:
A.  With the Government that it will:
(i)  consult with the Bank before amending directions and/or unJertaking
any important project in the foundry industry
(para 2.16);
(ii) make available to the Bank proposals on the integration of engines
arid ferrous castings negotiated with the future partners of STIA
(para 4.06);
(iii)  cause CMT to carry out CMT's investment program for 1983-88 and to
operate its facilities for machining SOFOMECA's castings in
accordance with an agreed timetable (paras 4.08 and 4.14); and



- 51 -
(iv) provide or cause to provide SOFOMECA with the requisite funds
(including those for any cost overrun), so as to enable SOFOMECA to
complete the Project (paras 6.06 and 7.07).
B. With the Ccmpany that it will:
(i)  implement the program for improvements in its organization and
management systems according to the time schedule agreed with
the Bank, review progress in this regard and implement necessary
corrective measures (para 3.08);
(ii)  implement measures to achieve ard maintain the targets for financial
and technical performance as part of the management performance
evaluation system (para 3.08);
(iii)  design, construct and operate the facilities under the Project
in accordance with safety, health and ecological standards
satisfactory to the Bank (para 5.12);
(iv)  maintain a PMG with adequate staff to manage the execution of the
Project (para 5.16);
(v) maintain necessary consulting services to implement the Project
(para 5.17);
(vi)  take all necessary actions to make arrangements, satisfactory to the
Bank, with its shareholders for the necessary funds to carry out and
complete the Project in a timely fashion (para 6.06);
(vii)  establish selling prices for its products which will be related to
its operating costs (including financial obligations) and be
competitive with those charged in the Tunisian market (para 7.02);
(viii)  ccmply with certain financial covenants (para 7.07); and
(ix)  ccnply with auditing and reporting requirements (para 7.11).
9.03     Based on the above agreements, the Project is suitable for a Bank loan
of US$16.8 million equivalent for 15 years, including 3.5 years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate plus a guarantee fee (equal to 10% of the
interest rate) payable to the Government.
Industry Department
May 1983



TUNISIA
SOFOMECA FOUNDRY MODERNIZATION AND EXPANSION PROJECT
SOFOMECA: Cunrent Organization
Board of Administration
President & General
Director
IM. Slfaouil
Financial Controller      -                          _ _ _ _                           Technical Controller
Deputv General
Dlrector
(Fl. Hadidanel
;;;:ial  Director  t                     ~~~~~Director      |                                                          DeiCrhe tCoar                                   Inera Audicto  
nM.  Hamani)    DBa Soguirr                                                                                              (  Hadidane)                                     Managnement Controlr
ProdLiction Manager                                               8          Prhsn                                                             r
ay 1983
_    IBudget &                         _          Invoicing'.
Accountng                                                                                                                                                         ahnn
Production                            Maintenance       |            _          Mahng
Facilities                          II (Equipment) 
_    Personnel                         _         Expedition                          Melin
|    j                 |                       J              F~~~~~~~        ~        ~     ~       ~    ~ ~~~~~~ Molding  ( Civil)  l1          PtenSo
j   General   |                                                 '1-~~~~~~~~~-Coremaking
Administration  |                              L  F ttling                         l     ~~~~~~~~~~ ~~           ~    ~ ~~~Production  S ;   turi es  
Planning &            t
Industry Department
May 1983



TUNISIA
SOFOMECA FOUNDRY MODERNIZATION AND EXPANSION PROJECT
SOFOMECA: Future Organization Chart
Board of Administration
President & General
Director
Financial Controller                                 t                                  Technical Controller
Deputy General Director
Financial                      Commercial                                                                       Technical                                          Internal Audit &
Department                      Department                                                                      Department                                         Management Control
Existing                      Mechanical                       Fettling &                        Sericet
Foundry                    Castings Foundry                    Machining
Iron
Finance                 ~~~~~~Sales                     astingsPrdcinrnQult
Facilities                      Facilities                       Fettling                        Control
St,eelSelMehd 
Accounting                       Marketing                       Cating:s                      Maintenance                        Fettling                        Studs&
Facikgies~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tde
C Bu dge t &                                                                                   Production                                                          Pattern
Cost Control                      Purchges                      Maintenance                      Planning &                       Machining                         Making
Control
Production
j   Personnel    l       4 _Invoicing                          Planning &                                                                                       Transport
Control
LEE _ .. |                                                                                                                              Sand
Adminieration                        Expedition    |                                                                                                                    Pin 
World Bank-24437
Industry Department
May 1983
41~



- 54 -                               ANNEX 4
TUNISIA
SOFOMECA FOUNDRY HODERIZATION AND EXPANSION PROJECT
PROJECTED DEMA14D FOR FERROUS CASTINGS IN TUNISIA
(tons)
Average
Annual
Growth
1982     1984      1986       1988      1990   1982-90 (,)
A.  Infrastructure
Special Pieces                 1,370    1,530    1,700        1,900    2,110       5.5
Valves                           670       750       830        930    1,030       5.5
Water Fittings                   480       530       590        760       740      5.6
Pipes                          2,220    2,470    2,750        3,060    3,400       5.5
Road Infrastructure Castings
-  Manholes                    1,380    1,540    1,700        1,840    2,010       4.8
-  Gratings                      600       660       710        790       880      4.9
-  Fittings                      -         400       440        500       550      n.a
Other                          1,460    1,220    1,420        1,600    1,830       2.9
Subtotal                    8,180    9,100   10,140    11,280   12,550         5.5
B.  Mechanical Construction
and Engineering (MCE)
Railways                         500       500       500        500       500       -
Road Vehicles
-  STIA and SETCAR             3,290    4,250    5,330        7,030    9,130    13.6
-  Mechanical Complex (CGIT)    -        1,190    1,410       1,940    1,940      n.a
-  GM/ISUZU                      -         690       920      1,270    1,820       n.a
Agricultural Machinery           240       270       300        330       360      5.2
Public Works                     190       220       240        260       290      5.4
Parts for Engines/Pumps a/       170       290       360        470       610    17.3
Spare Parts _                  1,370    1,480    1,630        1,790    1,990      4.8
Other c/                       4,730    3,230    3,320        2,600    2,070    (9.8)
Subtotal                   10,490   12,120   14,010    16,190   18,710         7.5
C.  Housing
Sanitation                       220       240       260        290       320     4.8
Heating                          530       580       640        700       780     5.0
Bath tubs                      1,270    1,400    1,540        1,700    1,880      5.0
Hardware                         400       450       500        550       600     5.2
Subtotal                    2,420    2,670    2,940       3,240    3,580       5.0
Total                      21,090   23,890   27,090    30,710   34,840         6.5
a/  Excluding castings for Mechanical Complex.
b/ For Railways and Road Vehicles.
c/ These include castings which could not be identified in
individual industries within lICE.
Source: Report of Atkins Planning (consultant).
Industry Department
2ay 1983



TUNISIA
SOFOMECA FOUNDRY MODERNIZATION AND EXPANSION PROJECT
General Layout Plan of Present and Future Facilities
.4~~-    4'~1gSt31_;;,,,, 
/  /                          ~~~~     ~    ~~~~~~SAND  |STATION |  .' SAD            OR
TREATMENT                             PLANT              SHOP
___,__ _n_._I                                MOLDING LINE            FETTLING
SOCI AL    :   i                                    SIRON)
WELFARE   ' t            MOLDING LINE               SION
/  /  |  |  >   MOLDING LINE (FUTUREI
/ / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. ,t   ''...., ......................
/  /      MOLDING   WO|
STORES             ~~~~~LINE (IRON)   0 I                                                      .1
STORES   I;10=STORES   J    E   UJ   NEW    j   r        --* 
Z w                           z~~I -*4  MOLDING   I
r -M A-1-N 1       -i        LfNE IIRON)
J                                        - - - _OIC  I     FETTING SHOP (STEEL)
OFFICE                 ~~~~~STEEL
1        ~~MOLDING
PATTERN                                                                                             1
SHN                                                                              MACHINE SHOP
P~~~~~~~~~P~PA
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ . _                              41-             PLANT SERVICES     |.
RAILWAY TRACK
  - - - - - Present Production Facilities
................... New Foundry for Mechanical Castings
_    _-_   _   Sand Twatment Plent
World Bank-24436
Industry Department
May 1983
1I
tUn
f-



TUNISIA
SOFOMECA FOUNDRY MODERNIZATION AND EXPANSION PROJECT
Project Management Organization
Project Manager
Civil                               Tehial
Engineering                                                                                                          Secretarial
Consultants                            Consultants                                                                    Support
UlJ
Cost Control                          Procurement                           Coordination                         Pcedlanine
(Technical &Civil)
World Bank-24438
Industry Department
May 1983



TUNISIA
SOFOMECA MODERNIZATION AND EXPANSION PROJECT
CAPITAL COST ESTIMATE BY PROJECT COMPONENT
('000 TD)
Modernization                               New Foundry                                  Sand Plant                           Total Project
Local      Foreign a,     Tot~al               Local       Foreign a/   Total             Local      Foreign a, Total            Local    Foreigna/       Total'
Civil Works                  368          126           494                 1,745          505        2,250              40           9            49         2,153        64')        2,793
Equipment and Spares           87      3,264          3,351                    350      8,842         9,192              -          471           471           437     12,577        13,014
Freight and Installation   172         1,129          1,301                   408       2,328         2,736              29         162           191           609      3,619         4,228
Taxes anid Duties            400           -            400                   921           -           921              64           -            64         1,385          -         1,385
Enginieering Services,
Tecin. Assistance and
Tratning                    21          113           134                   176       1,358         1,534              14          85            99           211      1,556         1,767
Project Management and
Preoperattrig Expenses      50           12            62                   397           96          493              50          12            62           497         120          617
Base Cost                1,098       4,644          5,742                 3,997      13,129        17,126             197         739          936          5,292     18,512        23,804
Phvsical Contingencies        110         464           574                   400        1,313        1,713              20          74            94           530       1,851        2,381
Price Contingencies           136         457           593                   828      __2 89         3,517              39         130           169              3        276        4,279
Inqtalled Cost           1,344       5,565          6,909                 5,225      17,131        22,356             256         943        1,199          6,825     23,639        30,464
Working Capital b/            796         268         1,064                   579          297          876              23           4            27                       569        1,967
Total Project Cost       2,140       5,833          7,973                 5,804      17,428        23,232             279         947        1,226          8,223     24,208        32,431              ..en
Interest Dtiring                                                                                                                                                                                            -
ConlstructLion and
Other Charges               54          173           227                   137       1,167         1,304               5          62            67           196      1,402         1,598
Front-end Fee on Bank
Loan                       -             -             -                     -            24           24              _            2             2           -            26           26
Total Financing
Requilred                2,194       6,006          8,200                 5,941      18,619        24,560             284       1,011        1,295          8,419    25,636         14,055
a/ Includes indirect foreign exchange component
E/ Incremental during 1983-86
Industry Department
May 1983
F4



TUNISIA
SOFOMECA FOUNDRY MODERNIZATION AND EXPANSION PROJECT
ASSUMPTIONS FOR WORKING CAPITAL PROJECTIONS
From
Number of Months of:                1981      1982      1983    1984    1985    1986
(act.)   (prel.)
-----(No. of Months)--------------
Current Assets
Cash                                            Personnel Costs                      neg.    neg.        0.5      0.5      0.5    0.5
Advances to Suppliers                           Materials, Consumables &
Merchandise a/                     1.0     0.1         0.3     0.3      0.3    0.3
Receivables
-  Local                                        Local Sales a/                       3.1      4.9        3.2      3.0      3.0    3.0
-  Export                                       Export Sales                         4.4      5.4        4.0      3.0      3.0    3.0
Inventories
Materials, Consumables, Merchandise
-  Local Supplies                           Local Materials, Consumables &
Merchandise a/                     2.2    10.5         2.0      1.8     1.5    1.5
-  Foreign Supplies                         Foreign Materials, Consumables &
Merchandise a/                    11.9    16.9       10.0      8.0      7.0    6.0
Work in Progress                            Production Costs a/                   0.8      1.1        1.0      1.0      1.0    1.0              I
Finished Products                           Production Costs a/                   0.8     2.0         1.0      1.0     1.0    1.0               Ln
Other Current Assets                            Cash Operating Costs a/              1.4      1.3        1.0      1.0      1.0    1.0
. Current Liabilities
Advances from Clients                           Sales a/                             0.1      1.8        0.3      0.3      0.3    0.3
Payables
-  Local Supplies                               Local Materials, Consumables &
Merchandise, Subcontracting,
Energy a/                          6.5     9.2         5.0     4.0      3.0    3.0
-  Foreign Supplies                             Foreign Materials, Consumables &
Merchandise a/                     0.5     0.2        0.5      0.5      0.5    0.5
Other Current Liabilities                       Cash Operating Costs a/              1.8      4.5        1.5      1.5      1.5    1.5
a/  Before tax.
I-'



- 59 -                                ANNEX 6-2
Page 2
TUNISIA
SOFOMECA FOUNDRY MODERNIZATION AND EXPANSION PROJECT
--------------------------------------------------_.-
SOFOMECA - WORKING CAPITAL WITH THE PROJECT
---._---------------------------------------
('000 'TD)
1982   19133  1984   1985   1986   1987    1988    1989    1990
(act.)
CURRENT ASSETS
______________
MINIMUM CASH                       6      72     79     83    111    134      155     166     178
ADVANCES TO SUFPLIERS              7      61     66     77    114    148      176     189     204
RECEIVAD LES
DOMESTIC SALES               1,305  1,413  1,425  2,002  3,323  4Y491   5,465   5,868   6,299
EXPORT SALES                   295    138    114      93      -     58      155     166     178
SUB-TOTAL                    1,600  1,551  1,539  2,095  3,323  4,549   5,620   6,034   6,477
INVENTORIES
MATERI ALS CONSUMABLES
LOCAL SUPFLIES               334     84      80     81    127    172     209      224     240
FOREIGN SUFFLIES           1Y954  1,278  1,112  1,123  1,404  1,768   2,107   2,264   2,430
SUB-TOTAL                    2,288 .1,362  1,192  1,204  1,531  1,940   2,316   2,488   2,670
WORK IN PROGRESS               262    312    338    388    576    732      869      934   1,002
FINISHED PRODUCTS              498    312    338    388    576    732      869      934   1,002
SUB-TOTAL INVENTORIES        3,048  1,986  1,868  1,980  2,683  3,404   4,054   4,356   4,674
OTHER CURRENT ASSETS             371    362    394    447    641    816       970   1,042   1,117
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS         5,032  4,032  3,946  4,682  6,872  9,051  10,975  11,787  12,650
CURRENT LIABILITIES
-ADVANCES FROM CLIENTS             574    170    185    251    399    545      675     724     778
PAfYABLES
LOCAL SUPPLIES                 536    377    320    309    503    688       845     907     973
FOREIGN SUPPLIES                21      62     66     77    113    142      168     181     195
SUB-TOTAL                      557    439    386    386    616    830   1,013   1,088   1,168
OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES      1,190    543    592    671    962  1,224   1,454   1,562   1,676
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES    2,321  1,152  1,163  1,308  1,977  2,599   3,142   3,374   3,622
NET WORKING CAPITAL            2,711  2,880  2,783  3,374  4,895  6,452   7,833   8,413   9,028
CHANGE IN NET WORKING CAFPITAL    701    169    (97)   591  1,521  1,557   1,381      580     615



-60-                                  ANNEX 6-2
Page 3
TUNISIA
SOFOMECA FOUNDRY MODERNIZATION AND, EXPANSION F'ROJECT
SOFOMECA - INCREMENTAL WORKING CAPITAL DUE TO PROJECT
('000 rD)
1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990
CURRENT ASSETS
MINIMUM CASH                          -     20      34      48      51      55
ADVANCES TO SUPPLIERS                 9     41      70      92      99    107
RECEIVABLES
DOMESTIC SALES                   462  1,667  2,714  3,557  3.819  4,100
EXF'ORT SALES                    (30)  (132)   (84)        3       2       3
SUB-lOTAL                        432  1.535  2,630  3,560  3,821  4,103
INVENTORIES
MATERIALLS&CONSUMA B LES
LOCAL SUPFLIES                  10      51      90    121    129    138
FOREIGN SUPF'LIES              132    485    782  1,048  1,L28  1,210
SUB-TOTAL                        142    536    872  1,169  1,257  1,348
WORK IN PROGRESS                  37    196    321    428    460    493
FINISHED PF'RODUCTS               37    196    321    428    460    493
SUB-TOTAL INVENTORIES            216    928  1,514  2,025  2,177  2,334
OTHER CURRENT ASSETS                37    196    334    453    487    521
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS             694  2,720  4,582  6,178  6,635  7,120
CURRENT LIABILITIES
ADVANCES FROM CLIENTS               51    184    315    428    458    493
F'PAYABLES
LOCAL SUPPLIES                    59    234    399    535    574    615
FOREIGN SUFPLIES                   9      40      63      83      90      97
SUB-TOTAL                         68    274    462    618    664    712
OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES           56    295    502    679    730    782
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES        175    753  1,279  1,725  1,852  1,987
NET WORKING CAPITAL                519  1,967  3,303  4,453  4,783  5,133
CHANGE IN NET WORKING CAFPITAL   519  I,448  1,336  1,150    330    350
Industry Department
May 1983



TUNISIA
SOFOMECA FOUNDRY MODERNIZATION AND EXPANSION PROJECT
ALLOCATION OF FUNDS BY FINANCING SOURCE AND COST CATEGORIES
('000 TD)
Cost Category                                                      Loans                                 Equity             Total
IBRD    STUSID   BTKD       BTEI    Commercial    Capital         Cash
Modernization:
Civil Works a/                                                           -           -            553          -             553
Equipment and spares a/                       -      1,350     900       900         -          1,929          -           5,079
New Foundry:
Civil Works a/                                -         -       -        -           -          2,650          -           2,650
Equipment and spares a/                    7,910    2,700   1,800    1,800           -             47          -         14,257
Sand Treatment Plant:
Civil Works al                                -         -       -        -           -             58          -              58
Equipment and spares a/                      720        -       -        -           -              55         -             775
Taxes and Duties                                -         -        -                  600          1,041          -          1,641
Engineering Services                           790        -        -       -           -             215          -          1,005
Technical Assistance                           500        -        -       -           -            474           -            974
Project Management                              -         -      _                                  703           -            703
Base Cost _/                               9,920    4,050   2,700    2,700          600         7,725          -         27,695                 co
Physical Contingencies b/                      634        -        -       _           -          1,060         1,075        2,769
Working Capital                                 -         -        -       _           -             717        1,250        1 967
Total Project Cost                        10,554    4,050   2,700    2,700          600         9,502        2,325       32,431
Interest During Construction
and other Charges                             -        -       -         -           -          1,598          -           1,598
Front-end Fee (Bank Loan)                       26       -        -                                   -           -             26
Total Financing                           10,580    4,050   2,700    2,700          600        11,100        2,325       34,055
a/ Includes freight and installation costs
b/ Includes related price contingencies
Industry Department
May 1983



- 62 -                              ANNEX 6-4
TUNISIA
SOFOMECA FOUNDRY MODERNIZATION AND EXPANSION PROJECT
ITEMS TO BE FINANCED BY THE BANK
Items                                      Amount of Loan
(000 USS equivalent)
Melting Shop Equipment                          2,440
Molding Lines (two)                             5,160
Sand Preparation Plant                          1,620
Fettling Equipment                                890
Coremaking Machines                               920
Environmental Control Equipment                 1,560
Sand Treatment Plant                            1,110
Subtotal                                 13,700
Engineering Services                            2,050
Unallocated                                     1,008
Front-end Fee                                      42
Total                                    16,800
Industry Department
May 1983



- 63 -                               ANNEX 6-5
TUNISIA
SOFICMECA FOUNDRY MODERNIZATION AND EXPANSION PROJECT
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE FOR BANK LOAN
(US$ million) 
Undisbursed
FY      Quarter       Disbursement            Cummulative         Amount
84       II               0.6                     0.6              16.2
III              0.5                    1.1              15.7
IV               0.5                    1.6               15.2
85       I                0.6                     2.2              14.6
II               1.0                    3.2               13.6
III              1.0                    4.2              12.6
IV               1.4                    5.6              11.2
86       I                2.1                     7.7               9.1
II               3.2                   10.9               5.9
III              3.2                   14.1               2.7
IV               2.7                   16.8
Industry Department
May 1983



- 64 -                                                          ANNEX 7-1
Page 1
11)4        lI JA
)1 LIJACTA - I:rJII V MI LIIM NI.'NA kI  1 6t11: I, t(A. I[IN I EOI LCT
- --- ---CA - -) I '.      ANf El ('I Rio hi I IE f-oiui CT
1953      1944      19B1      1986      1907      190-2      1999      1990
DfOMESTIC SALES VOLUME ITONS)
lOS'FFiNIZATIOIN-IRON rASTINGI:
SEWAGE CASTINGS                       600       600       700       BOO        880       808       8OO       8OO
HEAVY CASTINGS                        400       400       458      50         500       580       580       500
SHARE SHOES                           400       400       600     1, 068    1,008     1,000      1,000     1.000
OTIAER, NORMAL IROIN CASTINGS         650       650       800       BOo        808       BOO       888       888
SPECIAL CACTINCS                      B00       BOO       950    1, 000    1.008    1,000        1,008     1.088
SANITARY CArTINGS                     188       8OO       2t08      400       400        400       400       400
ShALL VALVES (60-150 AM)                -         -       I0        10  loo              100       180       100
LARGE VALVES (200-300 M)                -         -       150       200                  200       788       200  -
SUS-I8TAL                           2,950    2,950    4.000    4.800    4,0O0         4,800    4,808       4,080
A0IERNIZATION - STEEL CASTINGS1
GRINI'INII EA_LLE (NOIRMAL)           100       180         -         -          -         -         -         -
RI NTINO E1t4 L5 IDCHrOE)                  100roo         300       350       350      . 350       350       350
LININGS (NIn IANE:E)                  150       1.o       200       200                 200        200       200
RETRACTORA CASTINLS                -   50        so       100       180       1oo        100       188       1o0
OTHHER STEEL CAS'TINGS                450       450       600       958       900        950       950       950
STEEL SOGIES (AL^SEMELES              .00       508       580       680       600       600        600       600
SU0-TOTAL                           1.300    1.350    1,700    2,200    2,200    2,200    2.200    2.200
NEW fOUNTITY - IRON C0Til505:
L;f(EM  IRON CAS) I I5N,S5-R,JII        -         _         -    1,50      3,000    4.920      4,920    4.920
1Y1 LfUN CLA.: 'I1'1 ; 51,A HINEll      -         -         -       300       700    1 .o00      I   1 .00  1 .0210
0S IRON CArTINL.-MACHINED               -         -         -       300        000       50,       500
S90-TOTAL                               -         -         -    2,100    4,700    6,500    6.500          6.500
SU0-TOTAL I'OMETTIC SALES          4.300    4.300    5,700    9,100   11,700   13,500   13.500   13.500
ExFORT SALES VOLUnF (TONS)
90rCRHIZATIT1   - 1f008 CASTINGS:
SrTiARE SHOES                         158       108         _         _          _         _         _         _
O)THER                                 so        50         -         -          -         -         -         -
SUB-TOTAL                             200       200         -         -          -         -         -         -
ADOGERNIZAIIN - STEFL CASTINGS          300       300       300          -         -         -         -          -
NEW FOUN0IEY - GS IRON CASTINGS           -         -         -          -       200       500       500       500
80P-TOTAL EXPORT SALES                500       S00       300         -       200       500        508       500
SUO-TOTAL CASTING SALES            4,000    4. 600          6,000     9    1. 1.0    14.000    14.000   14.000
SAND SALES                                -         -         -    4,000    9.000    8.000    0.000    8,000
TOTAL SALES VOLUME                    4.880    4,800    6.000    13.180    19,9OO   22.000    22.000   22.000
DOMESTIC SALES REVENUE (' 008 T7)
8olIEI,NIZATISN lEfON CASTINGS:
SEW NUE CAGTSNSS                      323       351       443       544       0B4       627        674       723
HEAVY CASTINGS                        165       180       219       261       2B0       301        323       347
SNAfrE sHlICS                         IR7       203       330        51       635 30     61        731       185
OITHE R, NO0RMAL IRON CAST INGS       416       404       604       649       697        742       003       862
S  CIAL CA19                          s.5     1. 0. 2   1.212      ."1 :    1.0,94    17 1       1, 037    1,9 72
SANIT0F  CASTINGS                    103       117       104       523       5e.1        02       646       694
SMALL VALVES  60-I 50 AM)               -         -       287       700       331       355        39F)      409
LARGE VALVES I200-3o MM)                          -        Il20     402       431        463       497       533
SUS-TOTAL                2. 132    2,322    3,779    4,763    5.113    5,480C    0. 892    6.325
OI, RNIZATICIN - Sll IL CASTINGS:
I;CENfOINFO I;II I c   A:L41 )5 9                64         -         -         -
.lNI'ING 1L.0  A (1 IISI,9L)        71        77       249       :i)3      35.6       360      717        410
119   198N6:S      00)                176       192       276      :2-        319       342       367        394
RI II RLT0RE) l A, I(4)               176       192       414       4-I.      410       213        001       598
OIiLR STILL  80)1I0G                 5211 51%             52')    1,1       1.014       1.1"    (-'40      1.073
STEEL BOGIES (ISSEhfLLI)           2,091     2,271    2.462    3.:'6    3.410    3,600Y    7,Q9    4.218
SIJO-TOTAL                         3,101    3,377    4,230    5.643    6.05'    6,499    6.979    7,492
NFW FOUNDFrY - IRON CASTINSSI
LGRAY IRON CASTTING,;S-EOUI) f-                   -         -    1.774    4.443    6,782    7.197         772
GrA yIRON CASTINUS-MACHI5NED            -         -         -       446    1,016    1 848    1.984    2 130
C0  IRON CAST7IN)S-_MCHINED             -         -         -       536       959     1,030     1,106      1,187
SUB-TOTAL                               -         -         -    2.756    6,518    9,580   10.287   11.043
-- -- - --  -- -- - --  -- -- - --  -- -- - --  -- -- - --  -- -- - --  -- -- - --  -- -- -- -
SUB-TOTAL DDOESTIC SALES           5.233    5.699    8,009   13,162   17.688   21.567   23,158   24,860
EXFORT SALES REVENUE ('000 TO)
MODIFRNIZATION - IRON CASTINGS:
PRAtAE SHOES                           73        88         -         -         -          -         -         -
OtHlER                                 28        31         -         -         -          -         -         -
SLIO-TOTAL                            101       111         -         -         -         -          -         -
tODCRNIZATION - STEEL CASTINGS          316       344       372          -         -         -         -         -
NEW FOUNDRY - 05 IRON CASTINGS            -         -         -          -      230        61B       663       712
SUO-TOTAL EXTORT SVIAES               417       455       372         -       230       618        663       712
')IB-TOTAL CA'9TING SALES          5.600    6,154       8,381    13,162   17,'18   22,185   ?3,21    25,572
SAND SALES                                                            i 26       271       291       303       336
TOTAL SALES REVENUE                   5.650    6,154    0,301    13.0218   18.189   22.476   24,134   25,908



- 65 -                                                        ANNEX 7-1
-------                                                  Page  2
SOrLO)M CA iV-NCRY MC(II ItN17SA ION AND I XFANSIION r hEiCT
SOFOMECA-INCrMEMNTAL SALES VOLUME AND REVFNUE DUE TO FFiOJECT
1985   1986    1987    1988    1989    1990
.~~~~~~~~~~~~-    ---                       ---      ---      ---    _-_-_-
DOMESTIC SALES VOLUME (TONS)
HODERN17AIlON-IRON CASTINGS:
SEhAGE CASTINCS                    100    200      200      200      200      200
HEAVY CASTINGS                      50    100      100      100      100      100
BRAKE SIIOLS                       200    600      600      600      600      600
OTHER, NORMAI IRON CASTINGS           150      150 ISO      150       150     10
SPECIAL CASTINiS                   150    200      200      200      200      200
SANITARY CASTINGS                  250    300      300      300      300      300
SMALL VALVES (60-lEO MM)          loo    loo       loo      100      100      100
LARGE VALVES (200-300 MM)          150    200      200      200      200      200
EUP-TOTAL                       1.050  1,850   1,850   1,850   1,850   1,850
MODERNIZATION - STEEL CASTINGS:
GRINDING EBALL.S (NORMAL)         (100)  (100)   (100)   (100)   (1001    (100)
GRINIING BALLS (CHROME)            200    210      250      250      250      250
LININGS (MANGANESE)                 50     50       50       50       50       50
REFRACTGRTY CASTINGS                50     50       50       50       50       50
OTHER STEEL CASTINGS               150    500      SOO      SOO      500      SOO
STEEL BOGIES (ASSEMBLED)             -    100      100        100     (00     100
SUB-TOTAL                         350    850       850        850     850     550
NEW FOUNDRY - IRON CASTINGSI
GRAY IRON CASTINGS-ROLIG1            -  1,500   3,500   4.920   4,920   4,920
GRAY IRON CASTtNGS-MACHINEt          -    300      700   1.080   1,080   1,080
SS IRON CASTINGS-MACHINED            -    300      500      500      100      500
SUB-TOTAL                            -  2,100   4,700   6,500   6,500   6,500
SUB-TOTAL DOMESTIC SALES        1,400  4,800   7,400   9.200   9,200   9,200
EXPORT SALES VOLUME (TONS)
MODERNIZATION - IRON CASTINGS:
BRAKE SHOES                       1150)  (150)   (150)   (150)   (150)   11501
OTHER                              (50)   (50)    (50)    (50)    (501        (50)
SUB-TOTAL                         (200)  (200)   (200)   (200)   (200)   (200)
MODERNIZATION - STEEL CASTINGS         -   (300)   (300)   (3001    (1001   (300)
NEW FOUNDRY - GS IRON CASTINGS         -       -     200      500      SOO      500
SUB-TOTAL EXPORT SALES            (200)  (500)   (300)        -        -        -
SUB-TOTAL CASTING SALES         1,200  4,300   7,100   9.200   9,200   9,200
SAND SALES                             -  4,000   8,000   8,000   8,000   8,000
TOTAL SALES VOLUME                1,200  8,300  15,100  17,200  17,200  17,200
DOMESTIC SALES REVENUE ('000 TI)
MODERNIZATION IRON CASTINGS:
SEWAGE CASTINGS                    63    136       146      157      169      181
HEAVY CASTINGS                      25     52       56       60       64       69
BRAKE SHOES                       110 .  354       381      409      438      471
OTHER, NORMAL IRON CASTINGS       114    122       131      141      151      162
SPECIAL CASTINGS                  207    297       319      342      367      394
SANITARY CASTINGS                 182    392       421      452      404     521
SMALL VALVES 160-ISO HA)          287    308       331      355      381      409
LARGE VALVES (200-300 MM)         280    402       431      463      497      533
SUB-TOTAL                       1,268  2,063   2,216   2,379   2,551   2,740
MODERNIZATIGN - STEEL CASTINGS:
GRINDING BALLS (NO RMAL)           (69)   (74)    (80)    (86)       (92)    (99)
GRINDING BALLS (CH ROME)           166    224      240      257      276      296
LININGS (MANGANESE)                69      74       80       85       91       98
REFRACTORY CASTINGS               207    223       239      256      275      296
OTHER STEEL CASTINGS              207    743       797      855      918      986
STEEL BOGIES (ASSEMBLEDI             -    529      569      610      655      703
SUB-TOTAL                         580  1,719   1,845   1,977   2,123   2,280
NEW FOUNDRY - IRON CASTINGS:
GRAY IRON CASTINGS-ROUGH             -  1,774   4,443   6,702   7,197   7,726
GRAY IRON CASTINGS-MACHINED          -    446   1,116   12848   1,984   2,130
GS IRON CASTINGS-MACHINED           -    536       959   1,030   1.106   1.187
SUB-TOTAL                            -  2,756   6,518   9,580  10,287  11,043
SUB-TOTAL DOMESTIC SALES        1,848  6,538  10,579  13,936  14,961  16,063
EXPORT SALES REVENUE ('000 TD)
MODERNIZATION r- IRON CASTINGS:
BRAKE SHOES                       (86)   (93)   (1001    (107)   (1151   (1231
OTHER                              (33)   (36)    (38)    (41)    (44)    (47)
SUB-TOTAL                        (119)  (129)   (138)   (148)   (159)   (170)
MODERNIZATION - STEFL CASTINGS         -   (400)   (430)   (461)   14951   1531)
MEW FOUNDRY - IS IFIN CASTINGS         -      -      230      618      663      712
SUB-TOTAL ExPORT SALES           (119)  (529)   (338)         9        9       11
SUB-TOTAL CASTING SALES         1,729  6.009  10,241  13,945  14,970  16,074
SAND SALES                             -    126      271      291      313      336
TOTAL SALES REVENUE               1,729  6,135  10,512  14,236  15,203  16,410
Industry Department
May 1983



- 66 -                                  ANNEX 7-2
TUNISIA                                 Page 1
SOFOMECA FOUNDRY MODERNIZATION AfND EXFANSION PROJECT
SOFOMECA - OFPERATING COSTS WITH THE PFiOJECT
1983   1984   1985   1986    1987    1988    1989    1990
PRODUCTION VOLUME (TONS)
_____ __________________
GRAY IRON CASTINGS              3,150  3,150  4,000  6.600   9,000  10,800   10,800  10SOO
GS IRON CASTINGS                    -      -       -    300      700   1,000   1,000   1,000
STEEL CASTINGS                  1,650  1,650  2,000  2,200   2,200   2,200   2,200   2,200
TOTAL PRODiLJCTION CASTINGS     4.800  49800  6,000  9,100  11,900  14,000  14,000  14,000
SAND FOR EXISTING F7OUNDRY          -      -       -  2,515   2,515   2,515   2,515   2,515
SAND FOR NEW FOUNDRY                -         -    -  1,580   3,680   5,255   5,255   5,255
SAND FOR SAlE                       -      -       -  4,000   8,000   8,000   8,000   8,000
TOTAL PRODUCTION SAND               -      -       -  8,095  14,195  15,770  15,770  15,770
MACHINING VOLUME                1,700  1,700  1,900  2,600   3,200   3,580   3,580   3,580
ASSEMBLED BOGIES                  500    500    500    600       600     600      600      600
SUBCONTRACTING MACHINING          200    200    500       -        -       -                 -
EMPLOYMENT (PERSONS)
PRDDUCTION                        477    477    477    608       667     708      708      708
ADEMINISTRATION                    65     65      65     65       75      84       84       84
TOTAL EMPLOYMENT                  542-  542    542    673        742     792      792      792
OPFERATING COST ('000 TID)
RAW MATERIAfllS
LOCAL SUPPLIES                  139    151    194    331       469     576      619     662
FOREIGN SUFPLIES                416    448    576    933   1,304   l,643.  1,764   1,894
SUB-TOTAL                       555    599    770  1,264   1,773   2,219   2,383   2,556
CONSUMABLES
LOCAL SUFFLIES                  166    178    219    380       564     722      775     831
FOREIGN SUFFLIES                384    413    540    813   1,093   L,350   1,451   i,55B
TREATED SAND                      -      -       -     36       54      71       77       82
SUB-TOTAL                       550    591    759  1,229   1,711   2,143   2,303   2,471
MERCHANDISE
LOCAL SUFFLIES                  188    203    208    269       289     310      332      357
FOREIGN SUPPLIES                740    798    821  1,060   i,138   1,221   1,311   i,408
SUJB-TOTAL                      928  1,001  1,029  1,329   1,427   1,531   1,643   i,765
SUBCONTRACTING                     37     40    109       -        -       -        -        -
ENERGY                            368    398    507  1,032   1,430   1,769   1,900   2'040
FERSONNEL COSTS (PRODUCTION)  1,456  1,602  1,681  2,348   2,815   3,207   3,445   3,697
TOTAL PRODUCTION COST           3,894  4,231  4,855  7,202   9,156  10,869  11,674  12,529
ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES:
PERSONNEL COSTS                 343    378    397    434       548     659      707      759
OTHER OVERHEAD COSTS            292    321    337    369       466     560      601      646
OVERHEADS SAND PLANT              -      -       -     13       28      30       33       35
TOTAL ADMIN. EXP.                 635    699    734    816   1,042   1,249   1,341   1,440
TOTAL CAlSH OFERATING COSTS    4,529  4,930 5,589 8,018  10,198 12,118 13,015  13Y969



- 67 -                                  ANNEX 7-2
TUNISIA                                   Page 2
SOFOMFCA FOUNDRY MODtERNIZATION AND EXPANSION FROJECT
----------------------------------------------------
SOFOMECA - INCREMENTAL OFERATING COSTS DUE TO PROJECT
1985   1986    1987    1988    1989    1990
PRODUCTION VOLUME (TONS)
________________________
GRAY IRON CASTINGS                850 '3,450   5s850   7,650   7.650   7,650
GS IRON CASTINGS                    -    300      700   1,000   1,000   1,000
STEEL CASTINGS                    350    550      550     550      550     550
TOTAL PRODUCTION CASTINGS       1,200  4,300   7,100   9,200   9,200   9,200
SAND FOR EXISTING FOUNDRY           -  2,515   2P515   2,515   2,515   2,515
SAND FOR NEW FOlJNDRY               -  1,580   3,680   5,255   5,255   5,255
SAND FOR SALE                       -  4,000   8,000   8,000   8,000   8,000
TOTAL PRODUCTION SANDt              -  8,095  14,195  15,770  15,770  15,770
MACHINING VOLUME                  200    900   1,500   1,880   1,880   1,8SO
ASSEMBLEDl BOGIES                   -    100      100     100      100      100
SUBCONTR,ACTING MACHINING         300   (200)   (200)   (200)   (200)   (200)
EMPLOYMENT(PERSONS)
PRODUCTION                          -    131      190     231      231     231
ADMINISTRATION                      -      -       10      19       19       19
TOTAL EMFLOYMENT                    -    131      200     250      250     250
OFERATING COST ('000 TD)
_______________________
RAW MATERIALS
LOCAL SUPPLIES                   39    165      291     385      413     441
FOREIGN SUPPLIES                115    437      772   1,071   1,151   1,235
SUB-TOTAL                       154    602   1,063   1,456   1,564   1,676
CONSUMABLES
LOCAL SUFPLIES                   35    183      352     494      531     568
FOREJGN SUPPLIES                114    355      601     823      885     950
TREATEDl SANED                    -     36       54      71       77      82
SUB-TOTAL                       149    574   1.007   1,388   1,493   1,600
MERCHANDISE
LOCAL SUPFLIES                    -     45       49      52       55      59
FOREIGN SUPPLIES                  -    177      190     203      218     235
SUB-TOTAL                         -    222      239     255      273     294
SUBCONTRACTING                     65    (47)    (51)    (54)    (58)    (63)
ENERGY                             98    591      957   1.262   1,355   1,455
PERSONNEL COSTS (PRODUCTION)        -    506      801   1.046   1.124   1,206
TOTAL PRODUCTION COST             466  2,448   4,016   5,353   5,751   6.168
ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES:
PERSONNEL COSTS                   -      -       73     149      160     171
OTHER OVERllEAD COSTS             -      -       62     126      136     146
OVERHEADS SANDt PLANT             -     13       28      30       33      35
TOTAL ADMIN. EXP.                   -     13      163     305      329     352
TOTAL CASH OFERATING COSTS        466  2,461   4,179   5,658   6,080   6,520



- 68 -                             ANNEX 7-2
Page 3
TUNISIA
SOFOMECA FOUNDRY MODERNIZATION AND EXPANSION PROJECT
UNIT COSTS OF MAIN OPERATING INPUTS AND
(1982 prices)
SOFOMECA Cost
Comparable       as % of
Type of Input (Unit)                 SOFOMECA Cost    European Cost   European Cost
TD/Unit   US$/Unit   (US$/Unit)0/
Materials and Consumables (tons)a/
Pig Iron                            156.0     255.7         171.4          149.2
Scrap                               48.9       80.2         109.5           73.2
Ferro-Alloys:
-  Manganese (non-carbonated)    688.9   1,129.3           452.4           249.6
-  Chrome (non-carbonated)         855.9   1,403.1       1,238.1           113.3
-  Molybdenum                    6,098.6   9,997.7    10,000.0             100.0
Chemical Binding Materials:
B Bentonite                         98.8      162.0        119.0           136.1
-  Oil Additives                   705.1   1,155.9       1,142.9           101.1
-  Silicate                        373.4      612.1        295.2           207.4
Lime                                36.4       59.7         95.2            62.7
Silica Sand                          4.9        8.0         33.3            24.1
Steel Shots                        470.1      770.7        714.3           107.9
Energy
Electricity ('000 kwh) b/           41.0       67.2         50.0           134.4
Coke (ton) a/                       156.0     255.7        238.1           107.4
Personnel Costs c/
Production (Manyear)             2,600.0   4,262.3    15,000.0              28.4
Administration (Manyear)         4,500.0   7,377.0    22,000.0              33.5
a/ SOFOMECA costs include 14.4% Production Tax and for imported materials
import-duties and 5% import tax.
b/ Cost excludes 7% Tax on Services.
c/  SOFOMECA costs include for projections a 2% yearly increase in real wages
and salaries during 1983-87.
d/ Comparable price at George Fischer foundries in Western Europe countries,
converted from Swiss Francs at US$1 = SFR 2.1
Industry Department
May 1983



- 69 -                              ANNEX 7-3
Page 1
TUNISIA
SOFOMECA FOUNDRY MODERNIZATION AND EXPANSION PROJECT
FINANCIAL PRDJECTIONS AND ASSUMPTIONS
Assumptions
1.       The financial projections have been prepared in current Tunisian Dinars
up to 1990 and in constant 1990 terms thereafter. Price escalation on foreign
costs were calculated on the basis of expected annual increases in international
prices of 8% for 1983, 7.5% for 1984, 7% for 1985 and 6% for 1986 and
thereafter; and for local costs on the basis of expected Tunisian annual
inflation of 10% for 1983, 9% for 1984, 8% for 1985 and thereafter. Price
escalation for sales revenues are assumed to be in line with the average price
escalation on operating costs.
2.       Revenues:  Sales volumes, selling prices and revenues are shown in
Annex 7-1 and the main assumptions for these are discussed in para 7.02.
3.       Operating Costs:  Operating cost projections, like those of sales
revenues, have been based on the product-mix and prcduction build-up shown in
Annex 7-2. George Fischer made detailed projections of operating costs of which
a summary is shown in Annex 7-2. Input prices for the main operating inputs are
also shown in Annex 7-2. For the existing foundry, production costs have been
based on present operating conditions with improved production yields and
reduced personnel costs due to the transfer of labor to the new foundry
(para 7.03) after the implementation of the modernization project. Import
duties ranging between 6% and 15% for imported materials and consumables are
included in their costs. Personnel costs include a yearly 2% real wage
increase during 1983-87. Selling and administrative costs include costs of
administrative personnel and other administration expenses (85% of
administration personnel costs) in line with historic SOFOMECA costs.
4.       Depreciation and Amortization:  In line with Tunisian practice,
straight line depreciation and amortization has been assumed for Project, and
existing and new non-project fixed assets, as follows: 25 years for civil
works; 10 years for equipment; and 5 years for project management, technical
assistance, engineering and financial charges during construction.
5.       Taxes:  The projections were carried out before Production Tax (TP) and
Tax on Services (TPS) on SOFOMECA's sales and operating inputs, since these have
no net impact on the income of the Company. Since 1982, SOFOMECA can recuperate
the 14.4% TP and 7% TPS it pays on all its imported and local materials, energy



- 70 -                                ANNEX 7-3
Page 2
inputs and services such as machining sub-contracting. Apart from import
duties, a 5% import tax is included in the cost of imported materials. Other
direct and indirect taxes on SOFOMECA's operations are projected at 2% of sales
revenue in line with historic experience. Income tax amounts to 38% of income.
6.       Short-Term Debt:  Existing short-term bank debt has been assumed to be
repaid frcn internal cash generation during the implementation of the Project.
Interest on short-term debt is assumed at 10%. In addition, during the
implementation of the Project, short-term interest on discounted receivables has
been included at 6% of outstanding receivables in line with historic experience.
7.       Income on Surplus Cash  is assumed at 5% per year of accumulated
surplus cash and is included in the income statement.
8.       Dividends:  A dividend payout rate of 50% of income after taxes has
been assumed from 1988.
9.       Working Capital:  Working capital assumptions as well as detailed
annual working capital requirements are given in Annex 6-2.
10.      Non-Project Investments ard Financing:  Investments outside the Project
scope include the construction of a social building (TD 176,000) during 1983-84,
and an office building (TD 339,000) during 1984-85. Financing of these
investments as well as working capital for the existing foundry before start-up
of the mcdernization component has been assumed from cash generation of the
existing foundry.
11.      Repayment of Existing Debt  is included in the projections including
repayment of (i) overdue Government debt (TD 1.37 million at the end of 1982) in
five equal annual installments during 1988-92 with 10% interest on the
outstaniing balance fram 1983, and (ii) overdue CNSS debt (TD 0.48 million at
the eel of 1982) during 1983-86 in four equal annual installments.
12.      Financial projections based on the above assumptions are presented in
the following financial statements.



- 71 -                                   ANNEX 7-3
Page 3
TUNISIA
SOFONECA FOUNDRY MODERNIZATION AND EXPANSION PROJECT
SOFOMECA - INCOME STATEMENT
('000 TD)
1982   1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990
(act.)
SALES VOLUME(TONS)
__________________
EXISTING FOUNDRY               49450  4,800   4,800   6,000   7,000   7,000   7,000   7,000   7,000
NEW FOUNDRY                        -      -        -        -   2,100   4,900   7,G00    7,000   7,000
SANED PLANT                        -      -        -        -   4,000   80000   8,000   8,000   8,000
TOTAL SALES VOLUME             4,450  4,800   4,800   6,000  13,100  19,900  22,000  22,000  22,000
SALES REVENUEE(BEFORE TAX)
_________________________
EXISTING FOUNDRY               4,286  5,650   6,154   8,381  10,406  11,170  11,987  12,871  13,817
NEW FOUNDRY                        -      -        -        -   2,756   6,748  10,198  !0r950  11,755
SANED FLANT                        -      -        -        -     126      271      291      313      336
TOTAL SALES REVENUE           4,286  5,650   6,154   8,381  13,288  18,189  22,476  24,134  25,908
COST OF GOODS SOLD(BEFORE TAX)
MfATERIALS9CONSUMABLES         1,472  2,033   2,191   2,558   3,822   4,911   5,893   6,329   6,792
SUB-CONTRACTING(MACHINING)        26     37       40      109       -        -        -        -        -
ENERGY                           280    368      398     507   1,032   1,430   1,769   1,900   2,040
PERSONNEL COSTS                1,320  1,456   1,602   1,681   2,348   2,815   3,207   3,445   3,697
TOTAL COST OF GOODS SOLDI    3,098  3,894   4,231   4,855   7,202   9,156  10,869  11,674  12,529
GROSS OPERATING INCOME         1,188  1,756   1,923   3,526   6,086   9,033  11,607  12,460  13,379
OVERHEAD EXPENSES
ADMINISTRATION EXPENSES          530    635      699      734     816   1,042   1,249   1,341   1,440
DEPRECIATION&AMORTIZATION        300    270      234      949   3,677   3,660   3,613   3,601   3,473
SHORT-TERM INTEREST              190    145      100      126     199        -        -        -        -
TOTAL OVERHEAD EXPENSES        1,020  1,050   1,033   1,809   4,692   4,702   4,862   4,942   4.913
NET OPERATING INCOME             168    706      890   1,717   1,394   4,331   6,745   7,518   8,466
LONG-TERM INTEREST                18    224      213     549   2,294   2,502   2,227   1,945   1,671
INCOME ON SURPLUS CASH             -      -        -      63        -        9       49      104     222
INCOME BEFORE TAXES              150    482      677   1,231    (900)  1,838   4,567   5,677   7,017
DIRECT&INDIRECT TAXES             85    113      123      168     266      364      450      483      518
INCOME TAX                        23    140      211     404        -      560   1,564   1,974   2,470
NET INCOME AFTER TAXES            42    229      343     659  (1,166)    914   2,553   3,220   4,029
DIVIDENDS                          -      -        -        -       -        -   1,277   1,610   2,015
RETAINED EARNINGS                 42    229      343     659  (1,166)    914   1,276   1,610   2,014
RATIOS:
GROSS OP. INCOME AS % SALES   27.7   31.1    31.2    42.1    45.8    49.7    51.6    51.6    51.6
NE  OFP, INCOME AS X SAL_ES      3.9   12.5    14.5    20.5    10.5    23.8    30.0    31.2    32.7
NET INCOME flS X SALES           1.0    4.1      5.6     7.9    (8.8)    5.0    11.4    13.3    15.6
FROFIT IE, R i-rK-EN:
CfefiCITY UTILIZATION        0.97   0.89    0.84    0.81    1.14    0.88    0.73    0.68    0.63
SALES 1RTIC'-                0.98   0.93    O.Q1    0.88    1.09    0.92    0.82         0.79    0.76
CAL,li EtF-:Er.m -EVFN
CAhPCITY ULILIZATION         0.91   0.36    0.86    0.68    0.75    0,75    0.65    0.60    0.5/
561E   FRILE                 0.95   0.92    0.92    0.30    0.84    0.84    0.77    0.7,4    0,71



- 72 -                                    ANNEX 7-3
Page 4
TUNISIA
SOFOECA FOUNDRY MODERNIZATION AND EXPANS ION PROJECT
SOFOMECA - FUNDS FLOTW STATMEN
('000 TD)
1982   1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988          1989     1990
(act.)
SOURCES OF FUNDS
________________
NET PROFIT AFTER TAX               42    229      343      659  (1166)    914   2F553   37220   49029
DEPRECIATIONSAMORTIZATION        300    270       234  ,  949   3,677   3,660   3,613   3,801   3Y473
INTERNAL CASH GENERATION         342    499       577   19608   2,511   4,574   6,166   6,821   7,502
SHARE CAPITAL                       -  2,775   5P550   2,775          -        -        -        -        -
LONG-TERM DEBT
NON-PROJECT LOANS              705       -        -        -        -        _        _        _        -
IBROR                            -    380   1,700   4,760   3,740            -        -        -        -
OTHER PROJECT LOANS               -      -   3,290   4,240   2Y520           -        -        -        -
TOTAL LONG-TERM DERT           705    380   4F990   9P000   6,260            -        -        -        -
DRAWDOWN OF SURFLUS CASH            -      -        -   19249         -        -        -        -        -
CHANGES IN SHORT-TERM DEBT       184   (720)   (161)         -        -        -        -        -        -
TOTAL SOURCES                  1,231  2Y934  10,956  14,632   8,771   4,574   6P166   6P921   7,502
AFFPPLICATIONS OF FUNDIS
=____________________
FIXED ASSETS
NON-PROJECT                    265      83      251      174        -        -       -         -        -
PROJECT                         93  2,265   8,759  12,677   6P673            -        -        -        -
FIN. CHARGES DUR. CONSTR.        -    222       495      907        -        -        -        -        -
TOTAL FIXED ASSETS             358  29570   9,505  13,758   6Y673           -        -         -        -
CHANGE IN WORKING CAFITAL
NON-PROJECT                    732    169       (97)      72       73     221      231      250       265
PROJECT                          -       -        -      519   1,448   1,336   1,150        330       350
TOTAL WORKING CAPITAL          732    169       (97)    591   19521   1,557   1,381         580      615
REFPAYMENT LONG-TERM DEBT
NON-PROJECT:
EXISTING GOVERNMENT DEBT         -      -         -        -        -        -     275      275       275
EXISTING CNSS DEBT              15    120       120      120      120        -        -        -        -
OTHER LOANS                    126      75      163      163      163     163      162        16        -
TOTAL NON-PROJECT              141    195       283     283      283      163      437      291       275 --
PROJECT:
IBRD LOAN                        -       -        -        -        -     920      920      920      920
OTHER LOANS                                                       8 -  -  -  86   1,136   1,136   1P136   1,136
TOTAL PROJECT                    -       -        -        -      86   2,056   2P056   2,056   2,056
TOTAL REFAYMENT L-T DEBtT      141    195       283     283      369   2P219   2P493   2,347   2,331
DIVIrDENDS                          -      -        -        -        -        -   1,277   1.610   2,015
TOTAL AFFPLICATIONS            1,231  2,934   9,6t  14,632   8,563   3,776   5,151   4'._7   4,961
CASH SURPFLUS/(DEICIT)              -           1P265        -      208     798   1015  _2_ 4   2,541
ACC, CfSH SURFPLlJS/(rEFTCIT)      -       -   1,265        16      224   1,022   2,037   4'321   6,862
L.-T DEPT SERVICE COVERAGE      2.26   1.73    1.59    2.i9   1.80    1.50    1.78           2.04    2.29



- 73 -                                          ANNEX  7-3
Page 5
TUNISIA
SOPOMECA FOUNDRY MODERNIZATION EXPANSION PROJECT
SOFOMECA - BAIJNCE SHFET
('000 TD)
1981   1982   1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989           1990
(act.) (act.)
CURRENT ASSETS
OPERATING CASH                         2      6      72       79       83     111      134      155      166      178
ADVANCES TO SUFPLIERS                140       7     61       66       77     114      148      176      189      204
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE                1,104  1,600  1.551   1.539   2,095   3,323   4,549   5.620   6,034   6,477
INVENTORIES:
MATERIALSSCONSUMABLES           1,098  2,288  1,362   1,192   1,204   1,531   1,940   2,316   2,488   2,670
WORK IN PROGRESS                   198    262    312      338      388      576      732      869     934    1,002
FINISHED PRODUCTS                  193    498    312      338      3B8      576      732      869     934    1,002
TOTAL INVENTORIES               1,489  3,048  1,986   1,068   1,980   2,683   3,404   4,054   4,356   4,674
OTHER CURRENT ASSETS                 401    371    362       394     447      641      816      970   1,042   1,117
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS              3,136- 5,032  4,032   3,946   4,682   6,872   9,051  10,975  11,787  12,650
SURPLUS CASH                           -      -       -   1,265        16     224   1,022   2,037   4,321    6,862
FIXED ASSETS
GROSS FIXED ASSETS                3,703  4,061  6,631  16,136  29,894  36,567  36,567  36,567  36,567  36,567
ACC. DEPRECIATION&AMORTIZATION  1,607  1,875  2,145   2,379   3,328   7,005  10.665  14,278  17,879  21,352
NET FIXED ASSETS                  2,096  2,186  4,486  13,757  26,566  29,562  25,902  22,289  18,688  15,215
TOTAL ASSETS                      5,232  7,218  8,518  18,968  31,264  36,658  35,975  35,301  34,796  34,727
CURRENT LIABILITIES
ADVANCES FROM CLIENTS                 24    574    170       185     251      399      545      675     724       778
PAYABLES                             573    557    439       386     386      616      830   1,013   1,088    1,168
OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES            529  1,190    543      592      671      962   1,224   1,454   1,562    1,676
OVERDUE GOVERNMENT DEBT            1,036      -       -        -       -        -        -        -        -        -
OVERDUE CNSS DEBT                    495      -       -        -       -        -        -        -        -        -
CURRENT PORTION OF L-T DEBT           70    177    283      283      369   2,219   2,493   2,347   2,331    2,331
SHORT-TERM DEBT                      697    881    161         -       -        -        -        -        -        -
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES         3,424  3,379  1,596   1,446   1,677   4,196   5,092   5,489   5,705   5,953
LONG-TERM DEBT
OVERDUE GOVERNMENT DEBT              400  1,393  1,375   1,375   1,375   1,375   1,100          825     550       275
OVERDUE CNSS DEBT                      -    360    240       120        -       -        -        -        -        -
OTHER NON-PROJECT LOANS              194    830    667      504      341      178       16        -        -        -
IBRD LOAN                              -      -    380   2,080   6,840   9,660   8,740   7,820   6,900   5,980
OTHER PROJECT LOANS                    -      -       -   3,290   7,444   8,828   7,692   6,556   5,420   4,284
TOTAL LONG-TERM DEBT                 594  2,583  2,662   7,369  16,000  20,041  17,548  15,201  12,870  10,539-
TOTAL LIABILITIES                 4,018  5,962  4,258   8,815  17,677  24,237  22,640  20,690  18,575  16,492
EQUITY
SHARE CAPITAL                     1.029  1,029  3,980   9,538  12,313  12,313  12,313  12,313  12,313  12,313
RETAINEID EARNINGSSRESERVES          185    227    272      615   1,274       108   1,022   2,298   3,908   5,922
TOTAL EQUITY                      1,214  1,256  4,260  10,153  13,587  12,421  13,335  14,611  16,221  18,235
TOTAL LIA8ILITIESSEOUITY          5,232  7,218  8,518  18,968  31,264  36,658  35,975  35,301  34,796  34,727
RATIOS:
CURRENT RATIO                      0.92   1.49   2.53    2.73    2.79    1.64    1.78    2.00    2.07           2.12
QUICK RATIO                        0.32   0.48   1.02    1.12    1.30    0.82    0.92    1.05    1.09           1.12
L-T DEBT/EgIJIrY RATIO             0.33   0.67   0.38    0.42    0.54    0.62    0.57    0.51    0.44           0.37



- 74 -                                                       ANNEX 7-3
Page 6
TUNISIA
ttOFOlIFCA 9OCJ255!Y NSNITATIOS A.ND EIPANISION PROJECT
SOoNECA - LOAN SC      IT OVO   RCD)
1983   1984   1985   19B6   1987   1988   1909   1990
DISBURSEMENT
NON-PROJECT
EXIST. COMME.RCIAL LOAN               -      -       -      _       _       _      _
EXIST. GOVELNMENT DEBT        -       -      -       -      -       -       -       -
EXIST. CNSS DENT              -       -      -       -       -      -       -      _
NEW LOANS                     -       -      -       -       -      -       -      -
TOTAL NON-PROJECT             -      -       -       -      -       -       -      -
PROJECT
IBRD                        380  1,700  4,760  3.740        -       -       -      -
STUSID                        -  1.410  1,560  1,080        -       -       -      -
PTKD                          -    940  1.040    720        -       -       -      -
NTEI                          -    940  1 040    720        -       -       -      -
COMMERCIAL LOAN               -       -    600       -      -       -       -      -
TOTAL PROJECT                 380  4,990  9.000  6,260         -      -       -      -
TOTAL DISBURSEMENTS           380  4.990  9.000  6.260         -      -       -       -
COMMITMENT FEE
NON-PROJECT
EXIST. COMM. LOAN             -      -       -       -      -       -       -      -
EXIST. GOVT. DEBT             -      -       _       -      _       _       -      _
CNSS DEBT                     -      _         -    _       -       -       _      -
NEW LOANS                     -      -       -       _      _       _       -
TOTAL NON-PROJECT               -       -      -       -      -       -       -      -
PROJECT
IBRD(0.752)                  39     70      46     14       -       -      -       -
STUSIDII.OX)                 21     34      19       5      -       -       -      -
BTKD  I.OX)                  14     22      13       4      - -     -       -
PTEI(1.0%)                   14     22      13       4      -       -       -      -
COMMERCIAL LOAN               -       -      -       -      -       -       -      -
TOTAL PROJECT                  88    148      91      27       -      -       -       -
TOTAL COMMITMENT FEE           88    148      91      27       -      -       -       -
INTEREST
NONPROJECT
EXIST  C0MM. LOAN            86     75      59      42     26      tO       1      -
EXIST. GOVT. DEBT           138    138    138    138    138    124        96      69
CNSS DEBT                                    -       -      -       -       -    -
NEW LOANS                     _       _      -       _      _                      -
TOTAL NON-PROJECT             224    213    197    190    164    134         97     69
PROJECT
IBRD112.12)                  12    149    540  1,054  1,225  1.113  1,002    890
STUSID(12.0%)                 -     84    262    421    459    405    351    297
DTKDCI2 0l)                   -     57    176    281    306    270    234    198
BTEI(12.0)                   -     57    176    281    306    270    234    199
WOMERCIAL LOAN(9.03)         -       -     14      50     42      35      27      19
TOTAL PROJECT                  12    347 .1,168  2,087  2.338  2,093  1,648  1.602
TOTAL INTEREST                236    560  1,365  2.267  2,502  2.227  1.945  1.671
OTHER LOAN FEES
FRONT-END FEE IBRD(0.25X)    27         -      -       -      -       -       -      -
FLAT FEE STIISID(1.O%)         41       -      -       -      -       -       -       -
FLAT FEE "TND(l.O%)            27       -      -       -      -       -       -      -
FLAT FEE NTEI(1.0%1            27       -      -       -      -       -       -       -
FLAT FEE COMMERCIAL LOAN        -       -      -       -           _     _       __-
TOTAL OTHER FEES              122       -      -       -      -       -       -      -
.... sss ...    ...   ...... ="=   .=   .....  .....  .....
PRINCIPAL REPAYMENT
NONPROJECT
EXIST. COMM. LOAN            75    163    163    163    163    162         16      -
EXIST. GOVT. DEET             -      -       -       -      -    275    275    275
CNSS DENT                   120    120    120    120        -       -       -      -
NEW LOANS                     -      -       -       -      -       -       -      -
TOTAL NON-PROJECT             195    283    283    283    163    437    291    275
PROJECT
IBRD                          -      -       -       -    920    920    920    920
STUSID                        -      -       -       -    450    450    450    45Q
BTKD                          -      -       -       -    300    300    300    300
BTEI                                                      300    300    300    300
COMMERCIAL LOAN               -      -       -      86     86      86     86      86
TOTAL PROJECT                   -              -      86  2.056  2.056  2.056  2.056
TOTAL PRINCIPAL REFAYMENT   195    283    283    369  2.219  2,493  2,347  2.331
Industry Department
May 1983



TUNISIA
SOFOMECA FOUNDRY MODERNIZATION AND EXPANSION PROJECT
FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN: COST AND REVENUE STREAMS a/
('000 TD in 1982 prices)
Year          Fixed Capital _. .                 Working Capital                 Operating Costs                        Revenues              Net Revenues
Moderni-         New Foundry &    Moderni-        New Foundry &   Moderni-          New Foundry &   Moderni-    New Foundry &
zation           Sand Plant        zation        Sand Plant        zation           Sand Plant        zation       Sand Plant
1982         34               59              -                                                                                                     (93)
1983     1,239               846              -                -             -                  -                -               -               (2,085)
1984     4,056             3,348              -               -              -                  -                -               -               (7,404)
1985        573            9,339             406               -            391                 -              1,351             -               (9,358)
1986        -              4,853             368             655            829               1,047            2,367           2,096             (3,2S9)
1987        -                -                -              807            829               2,145            2,367           4,756              3,342
1988         -               -                -               577           829               2,922            2,367           6,622              4,661
1989        -                -                -                -            829               2,922            2,367           6,622              5,238
1990        -                -                -                -            829               2,922            2,367           6,622              5,238
1991        -                -                -                -            829               2,922            2,367           6,622              5,238
1992        -                -                -                -            829               2,922            2,367           6,622              5,238
1993         -               -                -                -            829               2,922            2,367           6,622              5,238      1
1994        -                -                -                -            829               2,922            2,367           6,622              5,238      _
1995        -                -                -                -            829               2,922            2,367           6,622              5,238      e
1996        -                -                -                -            829               2,922            2,367           6,622              5,238
1997         -               -                -                -            829               2,922            2,367           6,622              5,238
1998        -                                 -                -            829               2,922            2,367           6,622              5,238
1999         -                                -                -            829               2,922            2,367           6,622              5,238
2000      (590) b/       (1,845) b/        (774) C/      (2,039) C/         829               2,922            2,367           6,622             10,486
Rate of Return:
Modernization                20.7%
New Foundry & Sand Plant: 14.0%
Total Project             :  15.8%
a/  Assumed operating life of 15 years from start-up of the new foundry in 1986
5/ 10% Scrap value of fixed capital
c/ 100% recovery of working capital
Industry Department
May 1983



TUNISIA
SOFOMECA FOUNDRY MODERNIZATION AND EXPANSION PROJECT
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN: COST AND BENEFIT STREAMS a/
('000 TD in 1982 prices)
Year               Fixed Capital                 Working Capital                 Operating Costs                     Benefits              Net Benefits
Moderni-  New Foundry and    Moderni-   New Foundry and    Moderni-    New Foundry and    Moderni-  New Foundry and
zation       Sand Plant        zation        Sand Plant         zation         Sand Plant         zation       Sand Plant
1982         34             59               -              -                -               -                -              -                   (93)
1983      1,159            846               -              -                 -              -                -              -                (2,005)
1984      3,736          3i348               -              -                -               -                -              -                (7,084)
1985        573          8,351              129             -               340              -              1,22-5           -                (8,168)
1986        -            4,853              133            229               727             973            2,231          2,095              (2,589)
1987        -              -                 -             255               727           2,037            2,231          4,751               3,963
1988        -              -                 -             187               727           2,722            2,231          6,610               5,205
1989        -              -                 -              -               727            2,722            2,231          6,610               5,392
1990                       -                 -              -                727           2,722            2,231          6,610               5,392
1991        -              -                 -              -               727            2,722            2,231         6,610               5,392
1992        -              -                 -              -               727            2,722            2,231          6,610               5,392
1993        -              -                 -              -               727            2,722            2,231          6,610               5,392
1994        -              -                 -              -               727            2,722            2,231         6,610                5,392
1995        -              -                 -              _               727            2,722            2,231          6,610               5,392
1996        -              -                 -              -               727            2,722            2,231          6,610               5,392
1997        -              -                 -              -               727            2,722            2,231          6,610               5,392
1998        -              -                 -              -               727            2,722            2,231          6,610               5,392           o
1999        -              -                 -              -               727            2,722            2,231          6,610               5,392
2000      (550) bt      (1,746) b/         (262) c/       (671) c/          727            2,722.           2,231          6,610               8,621
Rate of Return:
Moderni zation             :  22.9%
New Foundry & Sand Plant:  16.6%
Total Project                 18.3%
a/ Assumed operating life of 15 years following start-up of the new foundry in 1986.
b6/ 10% Scrap Value
CF 100% recovery.
Industry Department
May 1983
r__M.F._-  .......................... I' _ ..... ... . . .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~>



- 77 -                                ANNEX 8-2
TUNISIA
SOFOMECA FOUNDRY MODERNIZATION AND EXPANSION PRXJECT
DIRECT FOREIGN EXCHANGE EFFECT
('000 TD in 1982 prices)
Foreign
Net Foreign Capital Flows         Value of    Foreign   Net Foreign
Capital       Operating   Value of  Exchange
Year          Equity    Loans    Investment a/  Costs   b/  Sales c/  Benefits
1982            -         -            (77)                                    (77)
1983          1,750       279      (1,528)            -           -            501
1984          3,214    1,264       (5,492)            -           -         (1,014)
1985          1,486    3,302       (6,708)          (179)     1,164           (935)
1986            -      2,013       (4,973)          (704)     4,110            446
1987            -     (1,378)         (233)       (1,059)     6,633          3,963
1988          (497)   (1,220)         (167)       (1,325)     8,399          5,190
1989          (584)   (1,076)          -         (1,325)      8,399         5,414
1990          (681)      (947)         -         (1,325)      8,399         5,446
1991          (810)      (892)         -         (1,325)      8,399         5,372
1992          (853)     (836)          -         (1,325)      8,399         5,385
1993          (897)     (780)          -         (1,325)      8,399         5,397
1994          (940)      (726)         -         (1,325)      8,399         5,408
1995        (1,045)      (670)          -         (1,325)     8,399         5,359
1996        (1,268)      (614)         -          (1,325)     8,399         5,192
1997        (1,294)      (559)         -         (1,325)      8,399         5,221
1998        (1,322)      (266)         -         (1,325)      8,399         5,486
1999        (1,345)        -            -        (1,325)      8,399         5,729
2000       (18,626) d/    -            -          (1,325)     8,399       (11,552)
a/ Including incremental working capital.
b/ Based on incremental operating costs due to the Project.
c/ Based on incremental sales due to the Project.
d/  Including distribution of initial paid-up capital ard retained earnings.
Industry Department
May 1983






IBRD16860
JANUARY 19831
.- q  A     S      OJ>B~~~~~EL
37"                                                                               RUU GU tARJ L UE                               L AOUARIA
KAiRO..AHANI AM;CUN    /   X W Q  =  ATOP h K -rEL BIA
T INL   S                               A          A         E |AACH
SOFMECA   FO0UNRY    ODERN>\I>ZATIOUN                                                                                   0010001U
pe os  tSh4RDlMAOU    ;  = H A     M        M       _      M     -I                b~YMAME
AND   EXPANSN   P              TIL                              AU  FIDAVIRLE
~~ ? >M4 NX ,. S~~~~~B                                        KASS
PROJECTyRELATED                 SOCA TIN
fo    /   /             \_/        ./        eCL HAJLA       .  \~ ~ ~~~~~~SOUS OUSESA
LLI   Safomeca .ESSEN      Knd  NEewAL
San     ]>d QurrEs 
'o                                                                                             MgAHSRN DJEIAN
Poued Roads ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~ALARESA
(- PantsNA                     .g                  - 3      MENZE.            BANE                  CHE\  J
. ntentiaD A.l 3EN AOrN                                 EGUEt
<  @  <   /             g/                 =          /CAR 8X7 S~~~~~~~~~~~~FAX
rl   ./--  tv / yBENI~~~~~~~~~~~~~El  KHALcT 
SalEvE   t LakE             E ETTAP
3"  \i,sES-5EKF RA
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  0 EES                                            ,                         mriOmrO;
;0 -OEJ          VS ~ETHOUIA
NEFTA                EGC \                                  = --                    GABES                      HOUVNT SOUK
S                    <  .                    . / - / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EL HAMMA.1
\                 I                                C M 41MATA  V           /          /  S ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ZARZIS
T U N I S I A                                  t ~~~~~~~DDACHE        
SOFMECA   FOUNDRY  MODERNIZATION                                                                               /9END
33.            AND   EX PANS ION   PROJECT                                                      GHOUNRAD.   3
PROJECT           RELATED   LOCATIONS                                                 /   4AOIE 
Sofomneca  Ex,stirgaond  New                                                                                                      <
:1 Foundry and Sand T,eatment Plant            -~d                    
,:      Sfomeca Principal Clents (CMT,ST1A),"~;      
Z,    Sand Quarries''/
ru)    P,ovin,ol Cap'tols                           A F R I C A-/\
Prov nc,al Boundor es              ~~                      
-    Poved R..ds ,
-    Ea,th and Grovel R.ods                                                       >/                                              a
I IRad4Wys                                                  ..    /                      REN.A A       VrttrPStecur
nte,nati.nal A,,p.rts                                                                         meusOTYW/E
Salt Lakes                                                                                  e  tt6bt
-32                =       R,. e r S                                                                     ?r DT Wr        t
--Int-rnot onol Bound.,is          e      0 2D   40       6Y 0    B?     1ywR00rs,t.u
_ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I                     LO                  I  T



