RESTRICTED
Report No. PA-57a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUC}ION AND DEV13LOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT III
INDONESIA
October 20, 1970
Agriculture Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US $1.00       -  Rupiaha (Rp) 378
Rp. 100        a US $0.26
Hp. 1 million  - US $2,645.50
WEI(ITS AMD MEASURPS - NETRIC'SISTEN
1 hectare (ha)               - 2.47 acres
1kilometer (in)              - 0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (k0=2)    - 0.386 square miles
1 meter (m)                  - 39.37 inches
1 square meter (m2)          - 10.76 square feet
1 cubic meter (W3)           - 35.31 cubic feet
1 million cubic meters (MO3) a 810.6 acre feet
1 Millimeter (m)             - 0.039 inches
1 kilogram (kg)              - 2.2 pounds
1 liter  (1)                 - 0.264 galloe   (U.S.)
ABBREVIATIONS
BIMHS            - A farm imput  package program
BULOG, DOLOG     - Central and Provincial rice buying agencies
OI              -  Oovernment of Indonesia
MPWEP            - Ministry of Public Works and Electric Power
PROSID           -  PROJEK IRIGASI IDA.  The organisation
established by Ministerial decree 79APTS/1969
to construct those Irrigation Rehabilitation
Projects for which financial asuistanco was
received from IDA.
FWD              -  Provincial Public Works Department



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT III
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY   AND   CONCLUSIONS                              ................                    .....................
I. INTRODUCTION                                           .................,.1
II.       BACKGROUND   .............................................                                                                          2
General   ................................................                                                                          2
Efforts  to  Increase  Production  .........................                                                                        3
Irrigation   and   Drainage    ................................                                                                     3
Agricultural   Taxation   ..................................                                                                        4
III.   THE   PROJECT   AREAS    ...............................  ......                                                                       4
General    ................................................                                                                         4
Climate    ................................................                                                                         4
Soils   and   Topography    ...................................                                                                     4
Cropping Patterns,  Production and Yields  ....                                                        ...........                  5
Existing  Irrigation  and Drainage  .......................                                                                         5
Farm   Size   and   Land   Tenure   ..............................                                                                  6
Agricultural  Support  Program  ...........................                                                                         6
Marketing,   Credit   and   Storage    ..........................                                                                   7
Transportation   .........................................                                                                          7
Ecology    ................................................                                                                         8
IV.       THE   PROJECT    ............................................                                                                        8
Description   ............................................                                                                          8
Project   Works    ..........................................                                                                       8
Operation   and   Maintenance    ..............................                                                                     9
Consultants'    Services    ..................................                                                                      9
Water   Supply   and   Demand   ................................                                                                  10
Flood   Control   and   Drainage   .............................                                                                  10
Construction   Schedule    ..................................                                                                     10
Cost   Estimates    .........................................                                                                     10
Financing    ..............................................                                                                       12
Procurement   and   Contracts    ..............................                                                                   12
Disbursement    ...........................................                                                                       13
Auditing   of   Accounts    ...................................                                                                   13
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to
Indonesia in `'arch and April 1970, composed of Messrs. D. J. Parsons,
K. Pranich and H. er Rashid (of the Association) and Messrs. R. Fagerberg
and F. Ijserinkhuijsen (consultants).



-2-
Pa,Se No.
V.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ............................             13
Project Coordination and Supervision ....          ...............   13
Operation and Maintenance ..............................            15
Staff Training ........        ...................................   15
Roads and Communications .......................                    16
O&M Organization .........        ..............................    16
Water Charges ..........       ................................     16
Recovery of Project Expenditures .......................            16
Marketing and Storage .......         ............................  17
Transportation ............                                         17
VI.  PRODUCTION, MARKET-PROSPECTS AND FARM INCOME .          .......      17
Production ..........        ...................................    17
Market Prospects .......................................            18
Rice Prices ............................................            18
Farmer's Income ..........................................          19
VII. BENEFITS AVND JUSTIFICATION ............. .. ..............          20
VIII.RECOMMENDATIONS ........        ................................     21
ANNEXES
1.   Experience gained in the Operation of Irrigation Rehabilitation Project I
2.   Agriculture
3.   Agricultural Services
4.   Project Works
J.   Consultants' Services
6.   Water Stpply and Der,wn
7.   Construction Schedules
8.   Cost Estimates and Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
9.   List of Construction and O&M Equipment
10. Sys tems Operation and Maintenance
11. Draft Decree
12. Dry Stalk Paddy Production
13. Labor Requirements for Rice Production
14. Farm Budgets
15. Economic Rate of Return
FIGURES
I.   Proposed PROSIDA Management Organization
II. Proposed PROSIDA Sub-project Organization
III. Sadang Sub-projeCt Operation end Maintenance Organization
IV. Tjiudjung Sub-project Operation and Maintenance Organization
V.   Pemali-Tjomal Sub-project Operation and Maintenance Organization



- 3 -
MAPS
1.   Location Map
2.   Tjiudjung Irrigation Sub-project
3.   Pemali-TJomal Irrigation Sub-project
4.   Sadang Irrigation Sub-project






INDONESIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT III
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The extensive gravity irrigation systems constructed in Indonesia
between 1850 and 1940 have suffered from an almost complete lack of main-
tenance works over the last 20 to 30 years. Consequently, their present
condition does not permit adequate irrigation of the designed command area,
and both area and yield of irrigated rice have been reduced. Together with
increasing population growth, this has made it necessary for Indonesia to
import rice from abroad. The Government of Indonesia therefore requested
IDA assistance in the rehabilitation of her irrigation systems. The first
credit for this purpose (127-IND for US$5 million) became effective in March
1969, and is progressing satisfactorily. A second credit (195-IND for US$18.5
million) was signed in June 1970. This report appraises the third project
in the series.
ii.       The project provides for the rehabilitation of three sub-projects,
Tjiudjung (24,300 ha in West Java), Pemali-Tjomal (123,000 ha in Central
Java) and Sadang (54,600 ha in South Sulawesi). Rehabilitation works would
include desilting of canals; repairing canal banks and structures; and im-
proving drainage.
iii.      The rehabilitation and, during the construction phase, the operation
and maintenance of that part of the systems where rehabilitation has been com-
pleted, would be carried out by PROSIDA, the executive body created by decree
of the Ministry of Public Works and Power. PROSIDA's General Manager has the
power, subject to confirmation by the Director General of Water Resources
Development, to appoint and dismiss staff from within or without Government
at rates of pay in excess of government scales. It is financed by budgetary
allocations through the Directorate General. The management is young and
keen but requires strengthening, both by addition to, and training of, its
staff and by the injection of outside management assistance. In addition,
consulting engineers would be employed to help PROSIDA in carrying out the
rehabilitation works.
iv.       The project would have a high proportion of local currency financ-
ing. Apart from funds required for management assistance and the employment
of consultants, the main foreign exchange requirements would be for the pur-
chase of vehicles and equipment, all of which would be subject to interna-
tional competitive bidding. Most of the expenditure would be in local cur-
rency for excavation and repairs by hand labor contracts. Such contracts
would be scattered over large areas in Java and South Sulawesi and would
not be sufficiently large to attract foreign contractors.  They would be
put out to competitive tender among pre-qualified contractors.
v.        The total project cost would be about US$29.1 million equivalent.
Under the proposed project, the Association would provide US$14.5 million
equivalent, of which almost US$5.0 million would be for foreign currency
financing.



- ii -
vi.       As a result of the project, rice production would increase by
about 123,000 tons over seven years without other inputs.  Farmers aver-
age incomes would increase by about Rp 12,000 (850 kg of dry stalk paddy)
per ha as a result of the provision of improved water supplies alone.
With additional inputs made potentially profitable by such provision, in-
creases would be considerably greater. Water charges would be raised from
beneficiaries, averaging about Rp 1,000 (70 kg of dry stalk paddy) per ha
per annum.  This is the estimated annual cost of operating and adequately
maintaining the rehabilitated systems, and the funds obtained would be
allocated for this purpose. Other project costs, which are considered
as deferred maintenance for which land tax has been levied annually, would
not be recovered directly. The project's overall rate of return to the
economy would be 25% without other inputs, ranging from 17% to 40% for
the three sub-projects. With other agricultural inputs, which the Govern-
ment has agreed to provide, the project's overall rate of return would rise
from 25% to 37%.
vii.      With the assurances obtained during negotiations, the project is
suitable for a credit to the Government of Indonesia of US$14.5 million
on the usual IDA terms.  This amount would contribute about 50% of total
project costs; about 66% of the credit would be for local expenditures.



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT III
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      In 1968, the Government of Indonesia (GOI) requested a credit of
US$5 million to assist in financing the Irrigation Rehabilitation Project I
(Rehab I), consisting of the rehabilitation of three existing irrigation
systems in West and Central Java and the completion of a new irrigation
system in South Sumatra (Map 1). This project was appraised in March 1968
and the credit was signed on September 6, 1968: it became effective in
March 1969 (Credit 127-IND). A second Irrigation Rehabilitation project
(Rehab II) for the rehabilitation and completion of the Djatiluhur Irriga-
tion system was requested during 1969 and a credit of US$18.5 million was
signed in June 1970 (Credit 195-IND). The third request for assistance,
which formed the basis of the present project, was received during March
1970. The experience gained during the last year has made it possible to
estimate the costs and benefits of the present project with a great deal
more confidence.
1.02      The first Irrigation Rehabilitation Project was appraised without
the benefit of feasibility studies. The purpose of Credit-127 was to fi-
nance equipment that was urgently required to make a start on the rehabilita-
tion program. It also provided for consultants to prepare further irrigation
rehabilitation projects. Practically all of the equipment was ready for
use during the 1970 dry season: operator training has been satisfactory
and movement of machinery between and within sub-projects has proved to
be less of a problem than expected. Two recent supervision missions (April
and September 1970) have reported that most of the equipment is being ef-
fectively utilized and that work is being carried out on schedule. More
details of the background and operation of Rehab I are given in Annex 1.
1.03      The credit proposed for the present project would finance civil
works contracts as well as consultants and equipment. It would provide
US$14.5 million equivalent out of a total remaining cost estimated at
US$29.1 million equivalent for the completion of the rehabilitation of
three irrigation areas situated at Tjiudjung in West Java, Pemali-Tjomal
in Central Java and Sadang in South Sulawesi. Rehabilitation was commenced
on these systems by GOI in 1968/69.
1.04      The three sub-project areas would be rehabilitated by Projek
Irigasi IDA (PROSIDA), the executive body created by the Ministry of Public
Works and Electric Power (MPWEP) to execute rehabilitation projects fi-
nanced by IDA (para 2.08) 1/. PROSIDA is already operating Rehab I with
1/   The rehabilitation of the multi-purpose Djatiluhur Irrigation System
(Rehab II) has been entrusted to an autonomous agency, PROSIDJAT
(Report PA 37 of May 26, 1970). PROSIDA would not be an appropriate
agency to operate such a multi-purpose project.



the assistance of consultants (Harza, USA) finianced under that credit.
The consultants, in addition to assisting PROSIDA in the supervision of
Rehab I, were also engaged to prepare the feasibility reports for Rehab
III, upon which this appraisal is based.  They are also preparing pro-
posals, scheduled for completion in early 1971, for rehabilitation of a
further 200,000 ha in East Java.
1.05      This report is based on the visit of an appraisal inssion to
Indonesia during March and April 1970, led by Mr. 1). J. Parsons, and corn-
posed of Messrs. K. Pranich and H. er Rashid (of the Association) and
M4essrs. Fagerberg and Ijserinkhuijsen (consultants to the Association).
II. BACKGROUND
General
2.01      Indonesia, an archipelago of more than 3,000 islands, stretches
along the equator for some 5,000 km. The mountains reach 4,000 m in height
in some parts of the central volcanic ridge of Java. The total area is
about 1.9 million km2, and the population, which is growing at a rate of
2.5% per year, is about 120 million. However, distribution of both popula-
tion and natural resources between the various islands is very uneven. The
island of Java, consisting of only 7% of the total land area, supports al-
most 70% of the total population.
2.02      Agriculture accounts for more than half of Indonesia's national in-
come and provides the livelihood of about 75% of the population, but, like
most sectors of the economy, per capita agricultural production has been
virtually stagnant during the last 30 years. The rural population is largely
self-sufficient in food. About 75% of the cultivated area of Java is de-
voted to food production, but the island is not self-sufficient in rice, the
staple food, and surpluses from the outer islands cannot fill the deficit.
In spite of a shortage of foreign exchange, the Government imports large
quantities of rice to prevent hunger in urban centers, while holding down
domestic rice prices. Details of agriculture are given in Annex 2.
2.03      All irrigated land in Java grows at least one rice crop each year,
but the dry season water supply from unregulated flows and the few existing
storage reservoirs is usually only sufficient to irrigate properly a second
rice crop on about one-fourth of the area served during the wet season. Far-
mers are responsive to improved techniques, inputs and incentives and have
demonstrated their ability to maximize their yields, given the means. Aside
from the inadequate irrigation water supply, four basic problems have in the
past beset the Government's efforts to increase food production:
(a) up to 1965, the lack of foreign exchange to import fertilizer and
other farm inputs, and, up to the present, the lack of infrastruc-
ture for their efficient distribution and marketing;



- 3 -
(b) a lack of an assured market at remunerative and stable prices
to justify the farmers' use of purchased inputs;
(c) inadequacy of supporting government services, particularly
agricultural extension and irrigation; and
(d) absence of a sound credit system for farmers.
Efforts to Increase Production
2.04      Since 1963, the Government has been trying to intensify produc-
tion of rice by providing farm inputs, credit and a higher level of exten-
sion services to farmers in areas with adequate, assured and controlled
water supplies. These package programs, generally referred to as BIMAS 1/
programs, cost about US$30 per ha. They were initially quite successful,
eventually covering almost 500,000 ha in the 1967/68 wet season, and ac-
counted for additional rice production of some 300-400,000 tons.
2.05      In 1968, Government launched a new program, known as BIMAS Gotong
Rojong 2/, which has progressively displaced the original BIMAS programs
(which are now called BIMAS Nasional).  Under BIMAS Gotong Rojong, foreign
suppliers contract to supply and distribute their own brands of fertilizers
and pesticides and to provide back-up service for extension workers. The
components of the package vary in the different contracts and the cost has
therefore varied, as shown in Annex 3. This program has not proved so suc-
cessful and, by a cabinet decision of May 22, 1970, GOI has decided to dis-
continue the BIMAS Gotong Rojong program because of excessively high costs.
BIMAS Nasional will continue.
Irrigation and Drainage
2.06      The present run-down condition of Indonesia's irrigation and
drainage systems - the consequence of about 30 years of neglect - is the
major constraint on the Government's efforts to increase production. Al-
most all of these irrigated areas in Indonesia - 1.9 million ha or one-
third of the cultivated area - need rehabilitation.
2.07      MPWP is responsible for the construction and rehabilitation of
large-scale works of national importance ("Special Projects").  The provin-
cial Public Works Departments (PWD's) are responsible for the construction,
operation and maintenance of all other irrigation systems from the source
of water down to the secondary canals. The responsibility for the construc-
tion, operation and maintenance of the tertiary canals and farm turnouts
falls upon village officials, responsible through the district and provin-
cial governments to the Ministry of Internal Affairs.
1/   Abbreviation for "Bimbingan Massal Swa Sembada Bahan Makanan," liter-
ally "mass guidance for self-sufficiency in foodstuffs."
2/   Literally BIMAS self-help.



- 4 -
2.08      Under the authority of various decrees and resolutions, the Minister
of Public Works and Power issued decree No. 79/KPiS/1969, creating PROSIDA in
April 1969, as a "Special Project" for the construction of the Irrigation Re-
habilitation I project. More recently, (April 18, 1970), PROSIDA was also
given sole responsibility for the Irrigation Rehabilitation III project
areas under the decree of the Minister of Works and Power No. 95/KPTS/1970,
thus making it responsible for the reconstruction of a total of seven sys-
tems covering over 400,000 ha.
Agricultural Taxation
2.09      Apart from the extra-legal payments to irrigation officials who are
paid about Rp 6 per day (US 1-1/2 cents), farTLers make no direct payment for
irrigation water, although they are expected to contribute their labor volun-
tarily for work on the tertiary canals. However, the provincial governments
levy a land tax varying from Rp 600 to Rp 2,800 (40 kg to 190 kg of dry stalk
paddy) per ha per annum based on a land classification now largely out of date.
The higher tax is raised generally from irrigated land.  Land tax collections
are unsatisfactory in all provinces, yielding only between 30% and 70% of
total potential recoveries. Minimal amounts are transferred to the provin-
cial public works for the operation and maintenance (O&M) of the irrigation
projects, and other services such as the maintenance of roads, schools and
mosques, at present fully utilize all tax collected.
III. THE PROJECT AREAS
General
3.01      The project areas (Map 1) comprise three irrigation sub-projects,
covering over 200,000 ha as follows: (a) Tjiudjung in West Java, 24,300 ha
(Map 2); (b) Pemali-Tjomal in Central Java, 123,000 ha (Map 3); and (c) Sadang
in South Sulawesi, 56,000 ha (Map 4).
Climate
3.02      The Indonesian climate is tropical and  temperatures vary only a
few degrees around the annual average of 270C. Daylengths are almost con-
stant throughout the year. Rainfall is monsoonal, the wet North-Westerly
monsoon, during which 75% of the annual precipitation occurs, lasting from
November through May and the dry South-Easterly monsoon from June through
October (Annex 2). Despite the high annual totals of between 1,500 and 2,500
mm, rainfall is erratic and supplementary irrigation improves rice yields
in the wet season while irrigation is essential to rice production during
the dry season.
Soils and Topography
3.03      Soils in the area are in general suitable for rice growing, being
alluvial and of volcanic origin. They are mostly slightly acid and respond
positively to nitrogenous and phosphatic fertilizers. The beneficial effect



- 5 -
of potash fertilizers is not so clearly established.  Tjiudjung has the
poorest soils and this is reflected in lower yields. The topography in
all areas is flat to slightly undulating and causes no problems. The
general land inclination is toward the sea and the numerous rivers and
streams flowing through the areas serve as natural drains. Near the coast,
the rivers become extremely flat and frequently flood adjacent lands during
the wet season.
Cropping Patterns, Production and Yields
3.04      The present annual production of dry stalk paddy 1/ from the project
area is assessed at about 500,000 tons. The production of other crops on irri-
gated land is small, comprising about 72,000 tons of sugar and about 10,000
tons each of maize, sweet potatoes and onions. Groundnuts, soya-beans, chil-
lies, cassava and vegetables are also produced. Present yields are very low
and vary over the different areas according to variations in soil fertility,
rainfall and efficiency of irrigation. Rainfed yields are estimated at 1.2
tons per ha and irrigated yields average between 1.5 tons and 2.5 tons per
ha of dry stalk paddy.
3.05      In some areas, where the distribution of irrigation water is poor,
a small portion of the area grows rainfed crops during the rainy season,
but, in all cases, the whole of the project-commanded area is cultivated dur-
ing this time of year. During the dry season, only a portion of the com-
manded area is cultivated. Cropping intensities vary between systems and
from year to year around an average of 125%.
Existing Irrigation and Drainage
3.06      Tjiudjung and Sadang are typical gravity run-of-the-river irriga-
tion systems, comprising barrages or weirs built on the main rivers to raise
the level of water and divert it into networks of irrigation canals. Pemali-
TJomal is the most complex, having 41 weirs built on 28 rivers to serve 41
sets of canals and 5 small storage reservoirs to help regulate water sup-
plies. Drainage in all the areas is effected mainly through natural water-
courses and creeks.
3.07      All systems have suffered severe deterioration (para 2.06).  Most
of the structures have damaged gates, lifting devices, aprons and bank pro-
tection. Many gates can no longer be lifted. Canals have been silted up
and their embankments broken down or severely eroded. In many areas, ter-
tiary canals no longer exist as farmers have leveled the canals to increase
their cropped areas. Illegal pipe turnouts have been installed by farmers
living along canal banks. In Pemali-Tjomal, four major weirs were totally
washed away, partly due to a lack of maintenance. Under existing conditions,
effective irrigation is no longer possible.
1/   Stalk paddy consists of the rice panicle, cut off by hand, with about
15-20 cm of the stalk attached. When dry, it converts to about 50%
milled rice by weight.



- 6 -
3.08      In all areas, the river supplies in the wet season are more than
ample for the irrigation of the whole commanded area. On the other hand,
the dry season supplies are only sufficient to cover 26% of the commanded
area in Pemali-Tjomal, 37% in Tjiudjung and 88% in Sadang. Increased crop-
ping intensity would be possible only by providing additional dry season
water supplies. These could be obtained either from reservoirs created
on the main rivers or by the provision of groundwater. GOI is studying
the possibility of constructing reservoirs under bilateral (Netherlands)
assistance, and the Association is considering a proposal for a ground-
water project.
3.09      The river waters that provide irrigation supplies for the sub-
projects have been tested in the past and found to be of excellent quality.
No recent analyses are available but there are no signs of adverse effects
on land that has been irrigated for 50 years or more. People also use
these waters for domestic purposes.
Farm Size and Land Tenure
3.10      There are about 260,000 farm families in the three areas.  The
average size of farms in Tjiudjung and Pemali-Tjomal is about 1.0 ha. In
Sadang, the average farms are larger, averaging almost 2 ha. Almost 36%
of the whole project area supports farms of less than 1 ha and 38% of the
area is occupied by farms of over 2 ha. Farm size distribution is shown
in Annex 2. In general, there are no large landowners in the project
areas and very few families own over 5 ha.
3.11      Most of the farmers within the project own their own land, but
lease and rental agreements are common, mainly on a 50% crop sharing basis.
Fragmentation of holdings is almost universal, but the average number of
fragments under one owner is not excessive; neither are the individual
parcels of land so small that husbandry is adversely affected.
Agricultural Support Program
3.12       In addition to the price support program of GOI, the most impor-
tant support to farmers is given through the BIMAS programs (paras 2.04
and 2.05 and Annex 3). The support at present given by the agricultural
extension service is weak. Rough estimates show that over Java as a whole,
there is one extension worker in the field to about 3,000 to 5,000 farm
families, which is very low. The density is somewhat higher in the proj-
ect areas, and would be further increased under the project, as explained
in paragraph 5.06. Very low pay scales and the general lack of transporta-
tion facilities adversely affect the efficiency of the field staff. Train-
ing programs for farmers, farm youths and farm wives have recently been
started, and demonstration farms exist on which key farmers, under the
guidance of the agricultural extension service, practice modern techniques.
These are proving quite successful.



3.13      Agricultural research is carried out in Bogor by the Central Re.
search Institute for Agriculture and the Agricultural lUuiiversity.  I trovt I
rice varieties are beginning to find their way to the fanrers froin these
institutions through their seed multiplication centers in the provinces.
The Association will soon appraise a project for the production, multipli-
cation and distribution of improved rice seeds. Experiments are also in
progress to refine the present very general fertilizer recommendations.
Marketing, Credit and Storage
3.14      Overall marketable surpluses exist at present in Tjiudjung and
Sadang. Pemali-Tjomal is a deficit area. Many farmers in all areas, how-
ever, have rice for sale and it used to be the normal practice to sell to
the village middlemen, either as stalk paddy or threshed as "padi gabah". 1/
With the spread of small hullers, farmers are increasingly taking to mar-
keting rice. In the deficit areas, a considerable amount of paddy and
rice is marketed immediately after harvest to pay debts and taxes and
usually the small farmers have to buy back their requirements on credit
later in the season.
3.15      Institutional credit is scarce in the agricultural sector.  The
larger landowners can get credit from Bank Rakiat Indonesia, but the ma-
jority of farmers have to rely on village money-lenders, tradesmen and
relations. The entire cooperative movement is moribund and quite inef-
fective. In the areas chosen for the BIMAS program, farmers have been
able to get seed, fertilizers, pesticides and a cost of living allowance
in cash (Annex 3). The credit made available in this manner has varied
from Rp 9,000 to Rp 17,000 (US$23-45) per ha, and must be paid back in
cash or kind in seven months.
3.16      There is government and private storage for rice in all the sub-
projects. Government storage, used to control price fluctuations, is man-
aged by BULOG and DOLOG, which are the central and provincial rice procure-
ment agencies. There are rice mills in all areas that are antiquated,
producing up to 50% broken rice. Drying is carried out by farmers on
roads and paths before sale, or by mills on sun-drying floors or platforms.
There is no mechanical drying, of grain in the project area.
rransportation
3.17      Carry-poles, bicycles and buffalo carts are used to transport
rice and produce to mills and village markets. Although the Pemali-Tjomal
area imports rice, onions and other surplus crops are railed to Surabaja,
Djakarta and other centers. Tjiudjung is connected to Djakarta by ade-
quate, but, in the past, poorly maintained roads. Road maintenance has
1/   See Annex 2, para 12; "Padi gabah" is dry stalk paddy that has been
threshed but not hulled.



- 8 -
improved recently.  Surplus rice from Sadang is sent to North Sulawesi and
Anbon Island, mainly by large country boats, from the ports of Makassar
and Pare-Pare. The latter is the logical port, since it avoids a long
haul over bad roads, and Government has wisely announced that exports will
be permitted only through Pare-Pare in 1970/71. The present port facili-
ties have a capacity of 6,000 tons per month and sufficient storage to
accommodate the increased surplus production that is expected as a result
of the project.
Ecology
3.18      The effect of the project on the environment would be beneficial.
Control of erosion and run-off in the catchment areas would minimize the
loss of agricultural and forest land to the sea, and the effectiveness of
groundwater recharge would be improved. The control of flooding would
eliminate hazards to health and property. Indirectly, by provi4ing an en-
vironment more suitable to improved agricultural practices, the project
would bring about an increasing use of insecticides. These would be de-
voted almost entirely to the control of rice pests, and spraying programs
would be under close control. The toxic effect on fish and other forms of
wildlife of some of the insecticides used is well known to the research
workers in Indonesia, and research and extension staff are investigating
methods providing adequate pest control with the least possible danger to
fish stocks.
IV. THE PROJECT
Description
4.01      The project consists of the rehabilitation and the reintroduction
of an O&M organization on three irrigation systems at Tjiudjung, Pemali-
Tjomal and Sadang, covering over 200,000 ha; the provision of maintenance
equipment and facilities for the training of provincial staff who will take
over operation and maintenance after rehabilitation is completed; and the
provision of consultants, management assistance and a small amount of con-
struction equipment to PROSIDA.
Project Works
4.02      Project works, details of which are given in Annex 4, would in-
clude:
(a)  repair and rehabilitation of Pemarajan Barrage on Tjiudjung River,
Benteng Barrage on Sadang River and 37 weirs on the various rivers
in Pemali-Tjomal area; construction of four new weirs at Tjisadap,
Tjiawitali, Danawarih and Kaliwadas in Pemali-Tjomal; and repair
aad rehabilitation of structures in primary and secondary canals
and drains;



- 9 -
(b) desilting and cleaning of prinwary and secondary canals; repair to
canal side slopes and embankments, including sodding as erosion
protection; and construction of step-landings on canals to control
access to the water for domestic purposes wherever the canals pass
through villages;
(c) construction or, where they already exist, rehabilitation of the
first 50 m of tertiary canals, including structures throughout
the length of these canals;
(d) improvement and/or construction of drainage canals and structures
in the canals as needed;
(e) repair of existing, and construction of new, service roads along
primary canals and inspection paths along secondary canals; and
(f) construction of new canals, structures, drains and inspection paths
in the Sidenrang and Alitta extension areas of the Sadang sub-project.
The remaining length of tertiary canals, mentioned in (c) above, would be
constructed by farmers with guidance and direction from PROSIDA and the ap-
propriate local agencies. If farmers fail to do so then the Government would
complete the canals, or cause them to be completed within 12 months after
the completion of the construction of the first 50 m. Assurances to this
effect were obtained during negotiations.
Operation and Maintenance
4.03      PROSIDA would be responsible for the initial O&M work to be carried
out by Provincial staff (who would be partly paid by PROSIDA and partly by
the Province during the rehabilitation period) and farmers, including:
(a) elimination of illegal turnouts and buildings constructed on canals'
rights of way and the provision of gates to all ungated turnouts;
(b) establishment of staff gauges in the canals and other hydrological
equipment at appropriate places to achieve effective operation;
(c) maintenance by farmers of tertiary canals; and
(d) procurement of maintenance equipment, transport and radio telephones
for internal communications.
PROSIDA would be provided with funds to operate and maintain completed sections
until all works in a sub-project had been completed, at which time responsibi-
lity for maintenance would be handed over to the Provincial authorities.
Consultants' Services
4.04      During the period prior to approval and effectiveness of the propos-
ed credit, consultants (NEDECO, Netherlands) for detailed engineering of the



- 10 -
works to be undertaken during the 1971/72 construction season have been pro-
vided under the Rehab II credit. Consultants would now be required to assist
PROSIDA in the execution of the project during the construction period of
four years to 1974. A description of the services required for the detailed
engineering (part A) and for the period until 1974 (part B) is given in the
draft terms of reference in Annex 5. About 35 man-years would be required
under part B at a cost of about US$2 million. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that such consultants, acceptable to the Association,
will be appointed on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Water Supply and Demand
4.05      The project would not provide additional water in any of the sub-
projects. The rehabilitation of the systems would, however, enable the better
distribution and utilization of the existing supplies. Details of the water
requirements and supply in each of the sub-project areas are given in Annex 6.
Flood Control and Drainage
4.06      In Tjiudjung and Pemali-Tjomal, the areas that need drainage rehabil-
itation have been assessed at about 10%, located mainly near the coast. Sa-
dang needs drainage improvement on nearly the whole area. In all cases, drain-
age rehabilitation would include the enlargement and deepening of the existing
main drains, which in most cases are natural streams or creeks; rehabilitation
of secondary drains and excavation of many new ones; and construction of struc-
tures.
Construction Schedule
4.07      The detailed planning and design of the works for the project would
be started during 1970 and would be completed by PROSIDA, assisted by their
consulting engineers (para 4.04). The Schedule of Construction is given in
detail in Annex 7. Rehabilitation of Tjiudjung and Sadang are scheduled for
completion in 1973 and of Pemali-Tjomal in 1974. The present project includes
all works after April 1, 1971, by which time about Rp 1,470 million (US$3.9
million) or about 12% of the total program costs will have been expended.
Cost Estimates
4.08      The total program cost, commencing in 1968, is about Rp 12,500
million (US$33.0 million). The total cost of the proposed project would be
Rp 11,000 million (US$29.1 million equivalent). The cost of rehabilitation
works are generally difficult to estimate, as a large part of the canals and
structures are under water and it is impossible to obtain exact estimates
without complete surveys of the whole system. However, in this case, sample
surveys and investigations to estimate the volume of work and costs have
already been conducted by PROSIDA, with the assistance of their consulting
engineers financed under Rehab I. The cost estimates and scope of the project
works can therefore be considered as reasonably accurate and based on more
detailed information than was available for the appraisal of Rehab I. Detailed
estiriates are given in Annexes 8 and 9 and summarized below.



- 11 -
Rp (millions)          US$ (thousands)
Foreign                   Foreign           % of
Local  Exchange  Total   Local  Exchange  Total  Total
Civil Works
Barrages, weirs and
canal structures       2,078      109    2,187   5,497      289    5,786   19.9
Canal and drainage
earthworks             2,469       -     2,469   6,532       -      6,532   22.4
Roads                    713       -       713   1,886       -      1,886    6.5
Offices, buildings
and camps                 27       -        27       71      -         71    0.2
Sub-total           5,287     109    5,396  13,986       289   14,275   49.0
Construction and O&M
Equipment                  -        497      497      -     1,315    1,315    4.5
Consultants' Services        76     755      831      201   1,997    2,198    7.5
Training O&M Personnel      46       -        46      122      -        122    0.4
O&M during Rehabilitation 532        -       532   1,408       -      1,408    4.8
Management Assistance to
PROSIDA                      11     113       124      29      299      328    1.1
Administration and
Overhead                 1,085       -     1,085   2,870       -      2,870    9.9
Contingencies            2,137      369    2,586   5,634      975    6,629   22.8
Total Project Cost 9,174   1,843   11,017  24,270   4,875   29,145  100.0
4.09      The estimates include provision of 15% for contingencies for quan-
tity changes and unforeseen expenditures. In addition, an allowance of 5% at
simple rates per annum is included for price escalation. Inflation in Indonesia
has recently been brought under control and an inflation rate of about 5% per
annum is considered reasonable. A similar rate of price increase is also as-
sumed for foreign exchange expenditures. A sum of US$1 million has also been
included in the contingencies to cover the cost of establishing aided self
help programs by which the Government would ensure the construction of ter-
tiary canals by farmers in the event that it became necessary to do so (para
4.02).  This is about one third of the estimated total cost of construction
of tertiary canals.



- 12 -
Financing
4.10      The financing plan proposed for the project is shown below:
Rp Million US$ Million of Project
Equivalent  Equivalent        Cost
IDA Credit:
Foreign exchange, 100% of requirement    1,843           4.9            17
Local currency, approximately 66% of
civil works carried out by contract    3,637          9.6             33
Sub-total                          5,480       14.5            50
0OI Contribution:
Local currency, approximately 34% of
civil works carried out by contract
and 100% of all other local currency
requirements                             5,537       14.6             50
Total                        11,017       29.1           100
4.11      The proposed credit would contribute US$14.5 million equivalent or
approximately 50% of the total project cost. This would enable the Associa-
tion to bring about the organizational improvement deemed necessary. About
66% of the proposed credit would be for local currency expenditures.
Procurement and Contracts
4.12      All the equipment listed in Annex 9, totaling about US$1.3 million
(excluding contingencies), would be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding in accordance with normal IDA procedures. Appropriate
assurances were obtained during negotiations. The projects works, labor
intensive by nature, are spread over three non-contiguous areas, individually
small in size by international standards. For these reasons, they do not
lend themselves to international competitive bidding. It has been agreed
that all civil works contracts for the present project would be medium
(Rp 5-25 million) or large (over Rp 25 million) and that they would be
awarded on a competitive basis after bidding by pre-qualified contractors.
Negotiated contracts will continue to be used for work of a specialized
nature, in particular the manufacture of small steel sluice gates. These
gates are of various types and sizes and do not lend themselves to inter-
national competitive bidding. About 15% of civil works would be carried
out by PROSIDA force account (para 5.09).



- 13 -
Disbursement
4.13      Disbursement from the proposed credit would cover the c.i.f. cost
of the imported vehicles, equipment and spares listed in Annex 9 (about US$1.3
million) and the full foreign exchange cost of consultants and management
staff (about US$2.3 million). No preference margin would be given to do-
mestic assemblers of vehicles (the value added would be less than 20%).
Disbursement (about US$8.0 million) on civil works contracts, which would
include imported materials, would be at an agreed percentage (presently
estimated at 66%) against certified expenditures incurred after April 1,
1971.   An unallocated sum (about US$2.9 million) would be available to
meet unforeseen contingencies and price escalation in any category. Other
expenses would not be reimbursable. In the event of any savings under any
category, the disbursement percentage on civil works contracts would be
increased to permit PROSIDA to utilize the full amount of the credit.
4.14       Under the present construction schedule, expenditures, including
those under the IDA credit, are estimated to be approximately as follows:
1971/72    1972/73    1973/74    1974/75    Total
. ................. US$ million .
Government contribution         4.8         5.0         3.4         1.4       14.6
IDA credit                     5.2          4.4         3.6         1.3       14.5
Total                    10.0         9.4         7.0         2.7       29.1
4.15       There would be a time lag between expenditures and disbursements
(see Annex 8, page 5).
Auditing of Accounts
4.16      PROSIDA would maintain an account for each of the sub-projects and
carry out internal audits twice a year. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that copies of an independent audit of projects accounts would
be sent to the Association within four months after the closing of the fiscal
year.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Project Coordination and Supervision
5.01       The Executive body PROSIDA is considered administratively as a
"Project" within the Directorate General.  Its General Manager, known inter-
nally as the Project Director, is authorized to hire and fire staff and, in
special cases, to pay salaries in excess of the agreed government pay scales,



- 14 -
subject to approval by the Director General. The management is young and
keen, but needs strengthening. The proposed organization of PROSIDA is
shown in Figure I. A decree, the terms of which were agreed during nego-
tiations, has been published and the additional staff needed to form this
organization has now been appointed. In addition, assurances were obtained
during negotiations that the Association will be afforded an opportunity
to exchange views with GOI whenever it becomes necessary to make changes
in the post of General Manager of PROSIDA.
5.02      Due to the inexperience of some of the division chiefs within
PROSIDA, it has been agreed that three management assistance posts will be
provided under the credit for: construction and contract procedures; train-
ing and O&M, and accounting and administration. These posts will be filled
by expatriates, recruited directly by GOI under two-year contracts indi-
vidually approved by the Association. It is a condition of effectiveness
that experts have been retained to fill these posts.
5.03      Even with the reorganization and training included in the present
project, PROSIDA's capacity to implement and administer projects will in-
crease relatively slowly and some time must elapse before it is able to ac-
cept responsibility for works beyond its present commitment of 400,000 ha
(1 million ac). Therefore, assurances were obtained during negotiations
that GOI will not give PROSIDA any additional responsibility until it had
satisfied the Association that such a commitment will not adversely affect
the execution of the present project or of the Rehab I project.
5.04      At present PROSIDA headquarters costs are not identified and are
in the Tjisedane sub-project budget. GO! proposes that, with effect from
fiscal year 1971, a separate Head of Expenditure would be established for
the allocation of funds to headquarters. Sub-projects would continue to
be budgeted separately, and all funds for them would be provided to the
PROSIDA management as at present. Assurances that these procedures will
be carried out were obtained at negotiations.
5.05      PROSIDA's operations and organization in all areas, i.e. the sub-
projects of Rehab I as well as the present project, will be regulated by a
recent decree. The draft of this decree (Annex 11) was agreed during nego-
tiations. Inter alia, the decree:
-    clarifies the rights of the General Manager to enter into,
and make payments under, contracts and defines his power to
delegate these rights;
-    establishes the sub-project organization shown in Figure II,
which includes a full-time PROSIDA engineer to deputize for
the sub-project manager, who is usually a PWD official who
is also responsible for roads and power.



- 15 -
5.06      The Director General of Agriculture intends to post a graduate
agricultural officer to each of the sub-projects being rehabilitated by
PROSIDA, including the four Rehab I areas, and to commence increasing the
extension staff to about three times the average for Java immediately, i.e.,
to one worker per 1,000-1,600 farmers, and to complete the strengthening
of the staff before completion of rehabilitation. At the same time, BIMAS
or some equivalent input and credit package program, would be introduced
into each section in the wet season following completion of rehabilitation.
Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations.
Operation and Maintenance
5.07      Operations and Maintenance of irrigation systems in Indonesia
is the responsibility of the provincial governments. However, maintenance
operations would be necessary during the course of project rehabilitation
undertaken by PROSIDA. The need for rehabilitation is largely due to lack
of funds and total inadequacy of salaries for staff. The field distribu-
tion system of tertiary canals has deteriorated. The control of this sys-
tem by Ulu-Ulus 1/ has also fallen badly into disuse or misuse. The
"Golangan" system of rotating dry season water supplies has been discon-
tinued. The breakdown of operational control has resulted in illegal turn-
outs and cuts in canal banks; there has been encroachment on the rights of
way; canal banks have been planted with crops; and water buffaloes are
herded into the canals.
5.08      In order to regain control of rights of way and systems operations,
irrigation advisory sub-committees would be established in each irrigation
system, consisting of irrigation personnel, agricultural personnel, police
and Ulu-Ulus. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that such com-
mittees would be established, with satisfactory terms of reference, within
12 months of credit effectiveness.
Staff Trainin&
5.09      On-project training would be required on the larger systems for
training of subordinate personnel, and training centers, to be staffed
initially by PROSIDA, would be established. To assist training of perma-
nent employees, about 15% of the rehabilitation work would be carried out
by force account, mainly on secondary canals. The engineers in charge of
sub-project O&M and their staffs would be trained in O&M requirements at
the schools now established at Bandung and Surabaya. They would be chosen
with a view to continuing their work on O&M on the project permanently.
l/   An Ulu-Ulu is a farmers' representative who is in charge of the al-
location of irrigation water to farmers' fields from tertiary canals.



- 16 -
Roads and Communications
5.10      Details of the lengths of roads for construction and repair, to-
gether with other details of systems O&M and their costs, are given for in-
dividual sub-projects in Annex 10. A radio telephone system, which would
be cheaper to introduce than a telephone system of equal efficacy, would be
provided for all sub-projects. Figures III to V show the distribution of
base and mobile radio-telephones.
O&M Organization
5.11      In order to ensure that proper O&M measures are enforced, effi-
cient O&M organizations would be established and staffed in all systems.
Details are in Figures III to V and in Annex 10. Assurances on the timely
implementation of these points and those in paragraphs 5.09 and 5.10, as
laid out in Annex 11, were obtained at negotiations.
Water Charges
5.12      The full O&M cost on the rehabilitated projects will vary accord-
ing to the ratio of area served per kilometer of canal. It will be Rp 1,317
per ha per annum for Tjiudjung, Rp 1,129 for Pemali-Tjomal and Rp 1,050 for
Sadang (Annex 10). GOI intends that the amount necessary for O&M will be
raised as a water charge and collected annually on a per irrigated ha basis.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the Government, through the
Provinces concerned, will adopt and thereafter maintain and enforce appro-
priate legislation for the levy and collection of these water charges, to
commence within one year after each system is rehabilitated, and after two
years to fully cover the cost of O&M. Assurances were also obtained that
the Provincial Governments will apply revenues from the charges exclusively
to the O&M of the systems concerned, and that the Government will take neces-
sary measures to cover any shortfall.
Recovery of Project Expenditures
5.13      Farmers in Indonesia have never before paid water charges as now
recommended even when the irrigation systems were adequately maintained and
efficiently operated prior to World War II. Instead, as described in para-
graph 2.09, a land tax was imposed. Although no OM has been carried out
over the last 30 years or so, and little or no allocations have been made by
provincial governments for this purpose, farmers have continued to have these
taxes levied. In effect, therefore, they have been paying for a service that
has not been provided. As the need for rehabilitation is due entirely to the
lack of provision of these services by Government, farmers would be unwilling
and in many cases unable to contribute towards the capital cost of rehabil-
itation in addition to providing the funds necessary for full O&M and paying
land taxes, which are to be reassessed over the next few years.



- 17 -
Marketing and Storage
5.14      At full agricultural development, estimated at seven years after
the introduction of a regulated water supply, increased supplies of rice
will come on the market, especially in Sadang. Private storage facilities
will be able to cope with this increase, but in order to effectively operate
its price control scheme (para 6.04), the Government may also have to build
more storage in these areas in years to come. Studies to arrive at a more
precise estimate of storage, drying and processing requirements throughout
Indonesia are being undertaken by teams from the Netherlands, UK and USA,
and these should provide adequate information for the identification of a
future project, if further provision is found to be necessary.
Transportation
5.15      The increased requirements of transport vehicles will be met by
the private sector. A second Highway Project for Indonesia under considera-
tion by the Association will include a study of feeder roads, including
those within the Irrigation Rehabilitation project areas.
VI. PRODUCrION, MARKET PROSPECTS AND FARM INCOME
Production
6.01      The production of dry stalk paddy after rehabilitation has been
completed is estimated to increase from 497,000 tons to 761,000 tons for
the project area. Average yields will go up from an overall average of
2.1 tons per ha to an average of 2.9 tons per ha. Of the incremental yield
of 264,000 tons, 91,500 tons is due to new dry season cropping and 172,500
tons is from increment in yield. This increase would be due entirely to the
rehabilitation program. When the effect of BIMAS input programs combined
with rehabilitation is taken into account, production would rise to 1.22
uillion tons, an increase of nearly 145% over present production. Average
yields of stalk paddy are expected to go up to 4.6 tons per ha.
Estimated Production of Stalk Paddy
('000 tons)
Present            After Rehab         After Rehab & BIMAS
Production         Prod.  Increase       Prod.       Increase
Tjiudjung             57              83       26           133            76
Pemali-Tjomal        284             392      108           627           343
Sadang               156             286      130           457           301
Total     497              761     264         1,217           720
(53%)                      (145%)
Milled rice
equivalent         230             353      123           564           334



- 18 -
6.02      Production of other crops, especially sugar, will also increase
slightly but no benefits are attributed to them in evaluation of the project.
Cropping intensities will rise slightly in most areas and reach 188% in
Sadang, but further major increases in intensity of cultivation will not
be possible without river storage or the provision of groundwater supplies.
Further details of paddy production and yields are given in Annex 12. Fu-
ture cropping intensities are explained in Annex 6.
Market Prospects
6.03      At present, Indonesia has a net deficit of 900,000 tons of milled
rice annually, production in 1968/69 being 10.4 million tons. A realistic
effective demand projection would be 13.51 million tons by 1974/75, assum-
ing income elasticity of demand at 0.6, population growth at 3% per annum
and per capita income growth at 2% per annum. 1/ The project would con-
tribute an increased production of 123,000 tons of milled rice after reha-
bilitation even if BI4AS is not used, and 334,000 tons with its full utili-
zation.
Rice Prices
6.04      Government recently established a paddy price policy for the 1969/
70 wet season. The price for dry stalk paddy at the mill is now Rp 16 per
kg, which is equivalent to approximately Rp 14.5 per kg dry stalk paddy at
the roadside in the village (i.e., the "farm-gate price") 2/. This new
support price is equivalent to slightly less than current prices for im-
ported Burmese rice, and is considered satisfactory. It is the Government's
policy to ensure that the free market price of medium qualities of rice com-
monly used in each area will not exceed a ceiling, which, at present price
levels, is fixed at Rp 50.00/kg 3/. Government's purchases are a major
factor in controlling the rice market. It makes purchases of rice and
paddy to provide rations for government services and the armed forces, who
still receive a major portion of their wages in rice; to control farm and
consumer prices; and to maintain bufferstocks.
6.05      The present retail rice price of Rp 44 per kg is equivalent to
US$116 per ton. By 1975, world price is expected to fall to US$95 per ton
for 42% broken rice, f.o.b. Rangoon, which is of similar quality to the
rice consumed in Indonesia. This is equivalent to US$100 per ton, c.i.f.
1/   Economic Report of November 1969; EAP 10-A.
2/   The floor price is established in terms of milled rice ex-mill, which
is set at Rp 36 per kg. This is equivalent to Rp 13.2 per kg "desa
dry" (i.e., at harvest), or Rp 14.5 per kg "mill dry" at the farm-gate.
3/   GOI policy as stated in Side Letter, dated June 15, 1970, to Credit
No. 193-IND (PUSRI Fertilizer Project). Confirmation that this policy
remains unchanged was obtained during negotiations.



- 19 -
Djakarta. With unloading and warehousing costs, the price of imported rice
will be about US$110 per ton. At the present exchange rate, this is equiv-
alent to a retail rice price of Rp 41.6 per kg.
Farmer's Income
6.06      Wages and labor requirements are presented in Annex 13.  Farmers
cash incomes, representative of three typical farm sizes in the Java areas
and Sadang in South Sulawesi, are summarized below, and fully detailed farm
budgets are presented in Annex 14. Future cash incomes are based on re-
habilitation only - with the BIMAS/INMAS program inputs, future incomes
would be considerably higher. Cash income is the gross value of all crops
from the farm, less the following:
(a) management and family labor; these are not costed at the market wage
rates, but there is an imputed cost for family labor in the subsis-
tence allowance at 144 kg per annum per adult, assuming four-adult
equivalent per family; 1/
(b) seed and waste allowance (explained fully in Annex 14);
(c) other production costs; it is assumed that up to 1 ha of land can be
managed with family labor alone; hired labor is costed as in Annex
13; and
(d) 5% land tax.
1/   The current annual consumption of rice in Indonesia averages 85 kg per
head. Total foodgrain consumption, including corn, millets and cassava,
is estimated at 144 kg for Indonesia as a whole. As the farm budgets
assume that all the land area is planted to rice, a consumption of 144
kg of rice is considered appropriate. In fact, the smaller farmers
exist at present on less than 144 kg of rice per head per annum and
would probably continue to do so. They would also substitute cheaper
grains and root crops for rice, thus increasing their net cash income.



- 20 -
Farmers' Cash Incomes (Rp)
Java                            Sulawesi
Farm Size (Ha)                    Farm Size (Ha)
0.5      1.25       3.0           1.0       2.0        5.0
Present                 NIL   14,518   35,850          16,439   34,406    73,081
Future                1,172   27,796   68,142          45,348   76,717   168,326
Increment             1,172   13,278   32,292          28.909   42,311    95,245
Proposed O&M
dharoges              500    1,250    3,000           1,000     2,000      5,000
O&M as % of
Increment             43%     9.5%      9.3%           3.5%      4.8%       5.3%
6.07       The above table shows that the impact of O&M charges (estimated
at an average of Rp 1,000 per ha) would vary greatly, depending on the farm
size.  Despite the h4-h level of these charges, expected benefits to farmers
should provide them with adequate incentives to participate in the project,
with the possible exception of farmers with less than 1 ha in the Java sub-
projects.  These farmers would require BIMAS inputs to improve their repay-
ment capacity and provide the necessary incentive, and for this reason,
assurances were obtained at negotiations that these inputs will be supplied
(para 5.06).  Their olf-farm  income would not be reduced as a result of
the project.  It shouled be remembered that, although average farm sizes
are almost 1.0 ha in Java and about 2.0 ha in Sulawesi, well over half the
farmers in the Java sub-prOjects own less than 1 ha (Annex 2).
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01       The major benefit to be derived from the project would be the in-
creased production of rice, which would improve the presently deficient
food supply in Indonesia, and reduce imports. A large proportion of this
added output would be reflected in increased incomes of about 260,000 farm
families and, by setting up an efficient O&M organization and assuring funds
for its continued operation, the project would ensure such benefits on a
continuing basis. The increases in production and farm incomes would arise
from the more effective provision of irrigation water and drainage facil-
ities in the existing rehabilitated systems.
7.02      At full agricultural development of all the sub-projects, the
annual gross value of rice production, at the projected price of US$100 per
ton c.i.f. Djakarta for rice of equivalent grades in 1975, is estimated to
increase from the present annual level of US$24 million to about US$36 mil-
lion. With modern inputs, the gross value of production would increase to



- 21 -
about US$57 million annually. With benefits from rehabilitation only, the
saving of foreign exchange from imports of rice would be about US$12 mil-
lion and with modern inputs, the foreign exchange saving would be about
US$33 million annually.
7.03      Benefits accrue rapidly because the project consists of the re-
habilitation of an existing system. The farmers are familiar with irriga-
tion practices and would take quick advantage of an improved water distrib-
ution system. With a conservative project life of 30 years, beginning from
the first year of engineering work, 1968/69, the internal rate of return
for the project with rehabilitation only is 25%. The internal rates of
return with rehabilitation only for the individual sub-projects are 22%
for Tjiudjung, 17% for Pemali-Tjomal and 39% for Sadang. With BIMAS in-
puts, taking full account of the increased production costs, the rate of
return for the project as a whole is 37%. If "sunk" costs, expended be-
tween 1968 and April 1971 when the proposed credit will become effective,
are excluded, the rate of return as a result of rehabilitation alone rises
to 31% for the project as a whole. Further sensitivity tests have been
made with various assumptions. The results of these tests are given in
detail in Annex 15.
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During credit negotiations, agreement was reached on the follow-
ing principal points:
(a) The Government will ensure the completion of tertiary
canals by farmers (para 4.02);
(b) Civil works contracts which, because of their labor in-
tensive and scattered nature would not attract foreign
contractors, will be awarded on a competitive basis after
bidding by pre-qualified contractors (para 4.12);
(c) PROSIDA management has been strengthened and three inter-
nationally recruited experts to assist the management in
Engineering construction, operation and maintenance and
staff training, and finance and administration will be
appointed (paras 5.01 and 5.02);
(d) No further rehabilitation work will be undertaken by PROSIDA
until the Association is satisfied that the increased respon-
sibilities would not adversely affect the carrying out of
the Project or of Rehab I (para 5.03);
(e) Operation and Maintenance of the systems will be carried
out efficiently both during rehabilitation and on a con-
tinuing basis after rehabilitation has been completed
(paras 5.09-5.11);



- 22 -
(f) Water charges will be raised on beneficiaries of the
irrigation systems rehabilitated under the project, to
cover the full cost of O&M (para 5.12).
8.02      A decree, the terms of which have been agreed between the Asso-
ciation and the Government, enabling the strengthening of PROSIDA manage-
ment staff and giving clear right to the General Manager of PROSIDA to
sign and make payments on contracts, and to delegate his powers to sub-
project managers, has been issued by the Government.
8.03      A condition of effectiveness Gfi te credit is the retention of
the three management assistance experts by PROSIDA.
8.04      The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA
Credit of US$14.5 million on usual IDA terms.
Oct. 15, 1970



ANNEX 1
Page 1
I N D 0 N E S I A
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PkOJECT III
EXPERIENCE GAINED IN THE OPERATION OF IRRIGATION REhABILITATION PROJECT I
1.        The first irrigation rehabilitation project in Indonesia was
appraised in March 1968 without the benefit of any preparatory engineering
or feasibility studies.  IL was recognized that this entailed risk but it
was nevertheless decided to proceed to ensure that immediate attention
would be given to high priority rehabilitation tasks and to provide an
entree for an acceleraLed program of lending to Indonesia's agricultural
sector. 'llhe appraisal mission, in its back-to-office report, stated that:
"The Indonesians have not prepared a project as suchl; nor was
there time for the wission to do more than make a very rough
estimate of the overall need andl the kind of worlk required to
rehabilitate some of the largest and more important irrigation
systems. The mission is satisfied, however, that under the
existing conditions, a small amount of equipment could be used
effectively. The project would thus be an equipment financing
scheme with the use of the equipment for relhabilitation speci-
fied by regions rather than a well prepared and fully integrated
rehabilitation project.  Such an operation would enable the
Indonesians to begin some of the most urgent work in a few of
the most important irri.-ation areas.  This wotild be a first
phase and as such should be accompanied by the preparation of
detailed plans for carrying on the work in these areas as well
as by the preparation of proper rehabilitation projects for
future considerations."
2.        The President's Report and Recommendation drew the Executive
Directors' attention to the fact that this project was not based on the
usual engineering and feasibility studies; it stated:
1 aml presenting this Credit to you at this time even though the
necessary engineering study and the preparation of a detailed
plan for the execution of the project are still to be carried
out.  'lc Government has agreed to engage consultants acceptable
to the Association for this purpose, and in the meanwhile, the
Government can beyin ordering some of the needed eauipment and
machinerv on the basis of the estimates made by the appraisal
mission, and can put it to work immediately on the most urgent
and obvious tasks."



ANN EX 1
flage 2
3.        The purnose of thle- credit was thus not really to finance what was
called for want of a better name, an 'irrigation rehabilitation project,"
but rathier to provide the Indonesian s withi the equipment miost urgently and
obVioLusly needed for rehiabilitation of a speci.fied area, and with the en-
gineeritn capabili ty, in thle form of consultingz services, to prepare irri-
gation rehalbilitation projects in the usual sensc of the word.
4.         Subsequently, the Ministry of Public Works and Power created a
special organization - PROSIDA - for the execution of the project ancl
consultants (Garza-LSP) were engaged and charged with responsibility for
preparin- detailed work programs for proiect execution and1 also for the
selection of, and prenaratiotn of feasibility studies for, further rehahi]i-
tation projects.
5.         Once detailed surveys of the rehab,ilitation needs were initiated
by Pi-ZSIDA and its consultants, it became apparent that the scope of the
work origi-nally estimatec would need considerable revision.  Quantity
estimiates for excavation have been increased by only 5 percent, and unit
costs by 30 percent, but as a result of sample surveys, major increases
are now considered necessary in the repair and reconstruction of structures
in the canals, if tlhe full benefits proiected are to be obtained.  In addi-
tion, the scope of the proJect hias been increased to include repairs to
service roads and inspection patis, the provision of staff training andl
oneration camps, the provision of operation atnd maintenance services, and
the clearing and levelliv.g of lan4d in Way Seputib.  On this basis, relhabili-
tation costs would we icre.asei to about U34 villiorn as conpared with the
oricinal estimate of 1;0.6 mi.llion.
t).      In addition to the eniargenment of the scope of the project, the
rice price used ini tihe cri...iral appraisal was $17G per- ton.  ln the light
of miore recent projecthus., Dy tL-he Bank's Economics Lepartmeint, a price of
*lO per ton is now consiTerecL rmore realistic.  lThese factors combined re-
duce the rate of return of !ehab I from thie originally estirated 51 percent
to about 15 perceut witlh rehalbilitation only, or to 20 percent with other
agricultural inputs.
7.        The project vas visited by a Supervision mission. in iOarch/April
1970.  heavy equipment financed under -the Credit hlad been inmported and,
after some delays due to weather andc the lack. of trained'operators, was
then mobilized and on r  ite arnd ready to begin operations in the dry season.
A detailed work prograzm  providing a reasonable rate of utilization of all.
major equipment has Leen prepared for the next two years.  However, it is
now apparent that the equipment will not be fully depreciated during the
project life and some nay become available for other work on completion of
the project. In general, the heavier equipment is difficult to utilize to
the best advantage under Indonesian conditions due to problems of trans-
portation.  IKuch of the lighlter equipment serves its purpose well and al-



ANNEX 1
Page 3
lows rehabilitation to be carried out wliile the canals are full of water,
an impossible operation by hand labor. For future rehabilitation proj-
ects, therefore, some of the Rehab I equipment would be available by 1973,
and experience gained shows that further orders of machinery should be con-
fined to small pools of lighter maintenance equipment only.
8.         Apart from the experience gained as to the suitability of equlip-
ment for rehabilitation of irrigatiorn systems in Indonesia, it is now pos-
sible to draw from actual experience of quantities and unit prices when
estimating costs for future projects.  In additiosl, it is possible to mlake
an appraisal based on t'le feasibility studies carried outL by the consul-
tants engaged under lEehab 1, wltich) hlave taken into account experience
gaince, in tlhc preparation of detailed work program's for project execution.
These studies have identified the scope of works for future projects and
have established with greater precision the benefits to be derived iron
the provision of adequate and timely supplies of irrigation water.
9.        A more recent supervision mission (September/October 1970) has
reported thiat, in spite of delays in providing budgeted funds, good progress
'nas been made on all four sub-projects.  Machinery is being used effectively
and contracts are being awarded by comTpetitive bidding. Training of sur-
veyors and O&"1, workers is in progress. hlowever, progress in the construc-
tion of tertiaries by tlie farmers is lagging and efficient water management
has not yet been established in those areas where secondary canals htave
been rehabilitated.
10.       Almost half of the credit had been disbursed by Septemrber 30, 1970.
Disbuirsements were about 20%. less thian anticipatedl at appraisal.  T'hiis was
mainly because the equipment and related trainin2, contracts cost less than
expected.  The Association is considering a GOI request that these savings
slhould be ised to purchase supplementary equipment.






ANNEX 2
Page 1
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT III
AGRICULTURE
General
1.        The project areas lie on the coastal plains of Indonesia on allu-
vial soils well suited to the growing of rice. The climate of Indonesia is
of the wet tropical monsoon type. Day-lengths remain practically constant
throughout the year. The mean monthly temperatures vary a few degrees only
around an average of 270C. Two seasons can be distinguished: the wet north-
west monsoon from November through May during which 75% of the annual pre-
cipitation falls; and the drier south-east monsoon from June through October.
The mean maximum and minimum monthly precipitation values are given in
Table 1 of this Annex. The distribution of rain-fall is rather erratic and
rain falls mainly in high intensity storms of short duration, while the
onset of the rains is often delayed. These characteristics explain why
irrigation is necessary for successful rice growing in an area of between
1500 and 3000 umi of annual rainfall. The main rice-growing season is the
wet north-west monsoon season. A second crop of rice may be grown during
the drier south-east monsoon season. The dry season crop is dependent
on the availability of irrigation water from the dry-season flow of the.
rivers. In practice, the late onset of the wet-monsoon rains often delays
planting, and consequently harvesting of the main crop, so that the growing
of a second crop becomes impossible. The deteriorated state of the irri-
gation systems aggravates this problem. In spite of these adverse condi-
tions, farmers often attempt to grow a second rice crop and from one quarter
to one third of the main crop area may be planted. There is no regulation
of planting dates and fields at all stages of growth may be seen at any time
of year.
2.        Cropping intensities vary for each sub-project but average about
125%. Rice dominates the cropping pattern, accounting for 250,000 ha of
the 270,000 ha which are planted on the project during the year. The 20,000
ha of other crops are grown mainly in Pemali-Tjomal. Cropping intensities
will rise slightly after rehabilitation, as shown in Annex 14, due to more
efficient dry season distribution of water.
Rice
3.        The local varieties of rice grown in the three sub-project areas
are mostly non-awned, photo-insensitive, short-season and short-grain Indica
varieties.  The same local varieties are grown under many different names,
which vary from place to place and even in time. The names of the common



ANNEX 2
Page 2
local varieties in Tjiudjung are Sontog, Sikat and Segon, in Pemali-Tjomal,
Beton, Antijlok and Tjempa, in Sadang, Kretek, Rumu, Sipulut and Banda.
The Central Research Institute for Agriculture at Bogor carries out a
breeding program for rice to improve the local varieties. At the same
time, two new varieties released by the International Rice Research
Institute (IRRI) at Los Banos, Philippines, are being introduced in
Indonesia. The eating qualities of these PB varieties are not popular. Of
the improved local varieties, Syntha is generally preferred.
4.        Cultural practices are similar in all sub-project areas.  Rice
is sown in seedbeds which are about 1/10 to 1/20 the size of the field to
be planted. The seedlings are transplanted to the paddy field which has
been prepared by puddling the top layer of soil. Fertilization and pest
and disease control are carried out only by those farmers who participate
in BIMAS programs. Weeding is done by hand. Transplanting, weeding and
harvesting are mainly carried out by women while the men may assist in
taking the crop home after harvest.
5.        The nursery plot is hoed and levelled to obtain a uniform flat
fine mud seedbed. The seed is sometimes presoaked for a few days to
germinate and is then sown by broadcasting on the moist soil surface.
After a week, the nursery is flooded and transplanting should start 30-35
days after sowing for the local unimproved varieties or 20-25 days for
the improved varieties. For various reasons, however, the seedlings are
sometimes left in the nursery for periods up to two months. The sowing
rate for local varieties is 40 kg/ha and for the improved varieties 25 kg/
ha due to their better germination quality. Under the BIMAS program, the
seedbed receives 10 grams of urea per square meter and seedlings are
sprayed with endrin to control stemborer attacks.
6.        While the seedlings are in the nursery the land is being
prepared. Straw from the previous crop is cut by hand and the soil is
hoed or plowed and harrowed and levelled. Tillage is generally done with
the soil saturated. Plowing and harrowing are done with water buffaloes
as draft animals. Both plow and harrow are usually made completely of
wood. Prior to planting the rice fields are flooded to a depth of about
5 cm but much variation may occur due to the availability of irrigation
water and rainfall.
7.        For transplanting the seedlings are pulled out and tied in small
bundles to be transported to the rice field. The leaves sometimes are
cut to about half their length at this stage. The planting distance is
approximately 20 cm but varies from 15-30 cm. The seedlings are sometimes
dipped in an endrin solution as a plant protection measure.
8.        Weeding is mainly controlled by the presence of water in the
field, but where weed growth occurs due to lack of water, weeding is done
mostly by hand. No herbicides are used at present. Originally, the



ANNEX 2
Page 3
practice was to drain the water from the field prior to weeding but due
to the uncertainty of the water supply at present, this practice is often
abandoned. Two weedings may be carried out, the first one two weeks after
transplanting, the second one four weeks later.
9.        Fertilizers are applied under BIMAS and INMAS sponsored programs
when fertilizer-responsive varieties are grown. The BIMAS packets are
described in detail in Annex 3. These inputs are applied at uniform rates
throughout Indonesia, but the GOI is now coming to the conclusion that a
more diversified approach is needed and trials are being conducted to
assess the fertilizer needs in the different provinces. The effect of
fertilizer application is often minimal due to deterioration as a conse-
quence of poor storage conditions or late arrival on site. Fertilizer is
applied before transplanting and after weeding. Yield responses are only
economic under good conditions due to the rather high price of the present
input programs.
10.       The main pest affecting rice is stemborer.  Under the BIMAS
program, control is attempted by spraying by knapsack sprayer or by air.
Rats are a serious pest. Not only do they damage the crop but they also
undermine bunds and dikes. Under the BIMAS program control is attempted
with poisonous baits. Birds have to be scared away during the ripening
and pre-harvest period and this is usually the taslc of children and
various bird scaring devices. The most common disease is brown spot
(Helminthosporium, spp.). There is usually no attempt to control this
disease, but sometimes seeds are treated with fungicide.
11.       Harvesting is traditionally done by parties of women who cut
each head with a small implement, the ani-ani, or rice knife. A length
of about 15-20 cm of stalk is left attached to the head which explains
the name stalk paddy. The stalk paddy is tied into hand-size bundles and
carried from rice field in cloth slings on the back, or carrying poles
over the shoulder or on bicycles. Buffalo-drawn carts are used by buyers
for the transport of stalk paddy between villages or to markets or mills.
12.       Rice consumed at home is thrashed on a dirt, brick, concrete,
or wood floor by beating the stalk paddy with a stick. The straw is
picked out manually and the chaff is separated by winnowing. The rough
paddy, "gabah", is washed and spread out to dry on woven mats or on
floors. After drying, huilling is done by placing the paddy in a hollowed-
out log, the "lumpang", and beating it with a heavy stick, the "alu".  The
loosened hulls are separated from the grain by winnowing several times.
It is then returned to the hollowed-out log and polnded until the bran
is removed, followed again by winnowing. The bran is saved for feeding
livestock and poultry; the hulls are discarded, or sometimes burned as
fuel; and the straw is either left on the field, used for livestock feed



ANNEX 2
Page 4
and bedding or in many other ways such as making paper or baskets. Most
of the rice in the home is stored in small stacks under the house as dry
stalk paddy but some is stored as rough rice in bags or bamboo containers.
The relative weights of the various forms of rice are:
Wet Stalk Paddy            100%           -
Dry Stalk Paddy             80%         100%
"Paddy Gabah"               66.6%        83%
Milled Rice                  37%         46%
Sugar and Other Crops
13.       About 9,000 ha of sugar is grown in Pemali-Tjomal on a state-
operated estate basis. Land is rented by the factories from the farmers.
The rental terms are changeable every year which has been a detriment
to production. The rental system for the 1968-1969 year is: (1) the
renting period is set at 16 months for production of cane for sugar and
11 months for seed; (2) the rental cost for 16 months is fixed at
Rp 40,000 per ha; (3) in addition to the cost of renting the land, cash
premiums are given to farmers as follows:
(a) Rp 1,500 per ha if the land is available to the
factory before March,
(b) Rp 900 per ha if available before April, and
(c) Rp 750 per ha if available before May.
In addition, a premium of Rp 10 per ha is given if the yield of cane
exceeds 80 tons per ha. The terms of the rental agreement also provide
for compensation to the farmer if the land is not returned to his
control at the end of the contract period, amounting to Rp 900 per ha
if delayed one month, Rp 1,800 if delayed two months and Rp 3,000 if
delayed three months. All operations are carried out by the factory.
Yields at pre-war levels were about 18 tons of sugar per ha. Present
yields are 8 tons of sugar per ha. A study of sugar production is at
present being considered for financing by UNDP.
14.       In addition to sugar the Pemali-Tjomal area also produces about
10,000 tons each of maize, sweet potatoes and onions, and lesser amounts of
groundnuts, soya beans, chillies, cassava and vegetables. These crops
are grown mainly in the dry season with irrigation water, and are to be
seen in the greatest concentration in the lower lying areas near the sea
coast. Farm surveys show that in some instances farmers follow a wet
season rice crop with two consecutive dry crops. Onions are usually
cultivated extensively and yields are good. Yields of other crops are
mediocre.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
Livestock and Fisheries
15.       The number of livestock in 1968 in the sub-project areas is
given below:
Tjiudjung       Pemali-Tjomal         Sadang
Cattle                              -                40,300           29,100
Buffalo                            20,100           137,200           14,800
llorses                             1,300             6,400            7,100
Goats                              25,900           218,000            6,100
Sheep                              16,400           106,200            n.a.
Chickens                          154,200             n.a.           247,500
Ducks                              63,200             n.a.           102,100
Hogs                                7,600             2,200            n.a.
16.       Cattle and buffalos are rarely milked.  Meat is only available
when beasts are slaughtered because of old age, unproductivity or on
religious celebrations. The breed of cattle in Java is commonly the
Banteng type, very similar to the Brahma breed. In the Sadang Area,
cattle are widespread and form the basis of a considerable trade in live
cattle with Hong-Kong. Buffalo are mainly used for plowing and harrowing
and as a draft animals although occasionally cattle may be used for these
purposes, especially for drawing carts. Horses are used as pack animals
and for drawing light traps. Chickens and ducks are an additional source
of animal protein in the diet, the main source being fish. Grazing along
stream-banks and roadsides and fields after harvest is the major source
of livestock feed. The surrounding upland areas of the Sadang sub-project
provide for grazing. In the project areas no irrigated land is set apart
for producing forage. High losses and low livestock production rates are
caused by the prevalence of contagious diseases and parasitic infection,
but in general livestock numbers are not a constraint to production.
17.       Next to rice, fish is the most important food in the diet of
the local people. Fish are caught in rivers, canals, rice fields, fish
ponds, and swamps, with nets, traps and hooks and lines. Data for the
production of fresh and brackish-water fish are not available for the
Java sub-projects, but for Sadang, the surface area of brackish and
fresh water ponds and streams in the area is about 8,600 ha. Production
of wet fish in 1968 was estimated at about 2,600 tons, or 300 kg per
ha. The project would not adversely affect fish production providing
the use of insecticides is controlled as at present.
Farm Size
18.       The average farm size in Java is approximately 1.0 ha.  In Sadang,
farms are larger, averaging about 2.0 ha.  The average farmin. family is com-
posed of 2 adults and 3 children. The farm size distributioni, based on the
consultants surveys is shown below:



ANNEX .2
Page 6
Farm Size              Tjiudjung           Pemali-Tjomal           Sadang
ha.                No.      Area.        No.     Area.        No.    Area.
%   Z     %     %                Z        %
0-0.9                65        26          52        24          36      12
1.0-1.9              21        22          31        35         33       23
above 2.0            14        52          17        41          31      65
Land Tenure
19.       Essentially, all land in the sub-project areas is privately
owned. Leasing and renting of land, usually on a share-cropping basis,
is common and many units are fragmented by the laws of inheritance. In
the Java areas, 66% of the farm operators are owners of the land and 33%
are part owners, sharecroppers or tenants, while 1% are landless laborers.
In Sadang, the following situation exists:
Owners ..................... 30%
Owners-Renters ............... 21%
Owners-Leasors ...............  4%
Owners-Renters-Leasors ....... 22%
Sharecroppers ................ 23%
Various arrangements exist for the rental of land. The landowner may
either receive a 1/3 or 1/2 share of the crop or get a fixed quantity of
rice or a cash payment. When rentals are based on a fixed quantity of
rice, the agreements are usually between members of the land owner's
family. In Tjiudjung, the frequency of the different agreements was
as follows:
1/3 share of crop ..   11%
1/2 share of crop ..................   59%
Fixed quantity of rice  .                    20%
Cash payment ..                              10%
Farm Implements
20.       The universal implements used by farmers are the hoe, the plow,
the harrow, and the ani-ani or rice knife. In addition, machetes and
sickles are sometimes used, while a number of farmers also own hand-
operated portable sprayers.



ANNEX ?
I N D O N E S I A                                            Tfable I
IRRIGATION REABILITATION PROJECT III
RAJNFAU, DTISTRIBIUTION (MITT,T,MET9P .i)
Sub-      Available
Station  Project.   Records             Jan    Feb    Mar    Apr    May    June   July   Aug    Sept   Oct    Nov    Dec            Total
Slatri   Pemali-   1914-1968 Min        157      84    120      16       0        0      0      0        0     0      23     70
TJomal                Mean    396    296    315    175    136          79     52    32        32    80    150    271       2014
(Area A)              Max      672    585    624    433    399        256    270   236       194   298    449    468
Djedjeg  Pemali-   1896-1968 Min        223    123    207    123        11        0       0     0        0     0      77      88
Tjomal               Mean    764    583    528    363    227          144     99    63        72   167    294    422       3726
(East                 Max    1382   1271   1110    777    593         642    384   354       355   841    536    829
Catchment
Area)
ProtJot  Perrali-   1903-1968 Min       131    110      42      19       4       0       0      0       0      0      32     23
Tion,al               Mean    392    338    294    178    127          79     50    52        34    93    164    288       2089
(Area D)              Max      767    587    639    527    284        367    300   270       190   276    477    548
Tjipero  Pemali-   1896-1968 Min        131    114       98     33       6        0      0      0        0     0      39    119
Tjomal               Mean    462    407    325    198    140           90     63    50       47    94    173    296        2345
(Area E)              Max      888    897    808    727    404        254    246   262       227   309    619    535
Sokawati Pemali-   1896-1968 Min        168    111      57      52      16        0      0      0       0      0      50     82
Tjomal               Mean    488    437    328    203    148          107     74    53        57   106    185    316       2502
(Area r,)             Max    1242    986    693    551    453         325    305   387       247   306    452    588
Surabajan Yemali-  1095-196O  Mn        160    135       d1     66       0        0       0     0        0     0      33      93
TJomal              Mean    518    447    303    182    142         100      68    62       56    98    155    285        2416
(Area H)             Max    1326   1133    702    513    300         320    214   326       277   388    628    596
Lebakbarang          1896-1968 Min      338    173    383    147        21        0      0      0        0    26    193    228
Pemali-              Mean    846    862    688    524    379         250    167   157       165   376    538    587        5541
TJomal                Max    1753   2669   1471    873    880         912    666   645       704   825   1057    958
(West
Catchment
-Area)
Serang  (Tjiudjung) 1950-1967 Min        46      96      54      0      51        0      0      0        0     0      26    102
Mean   257    256    185    121    124          83     82    76       43    53    128    205        1614
r     Max    496    486    534    366    346         167    343   367       135   139    368    508
Pinrang (Sadanig)    1Y  -1968 ItLn      88      72      0      64       0      45       4      0       0      0       0      0
Mean   179    183    191    198    217         184    131    91        79   116    137    223       1934
Max    293    28(    536    392    436         367    263   246      200   309    291    444






ANNEX 3
Page 1
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT III
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES
1.        The Ministry of Agriculture in Indonesia is sub-divided into
five Directorates General: Agriculture, Forestry, Plantations, Animal
Husbandry and Fisheries. The Directorate General of Agriculture is
sub-divided into five directorates and three research organizations.
The five Directorates are the Directorates of Planning, Production
Development, Agricultural Engineering, Agricultural Economy, and
Agricultural Extension. The Directorate of Agricuiltural Extension has
six divisions: Extension Programming, Staff Training, Documentation
and Publications, Farmers Associations, Agricultural Education and
Administration. The three research organizations are those for Agricul-
tural Research, Horticultural Research and Soil Research. Research is
also carried out by the Agricultural University, which is responsible to
the Ministry of Education and Sciences; all research is coordinated by
the Agricultural Research Coordination Board which is directly responsible
to the Director General of Agriculture. All these are central government
organizations.
Extension Services and Seed Multiplication
2.        On the provincial level, the highest agricultural official is
the Inspector of Agriculture who is on the payroll of the Ministry of
the Interior but who technically belongs to the Ministry of Agriculture.
He directs the agricultural extension work with professional guidance
from the Central Directorate. At present, there are insufficient
agricultural extension workers in the field, averaging only about one
to five thousand hectares. The present staff are mainly concerned with
the gathering of statistics for reporting purposes. Under the next five
year plan arrangements are already under way to increase staff three-fold
in those areas projected to be served by BIMAS.
3.        Seed multiplication centers are also under the supervision of
the Director of Agricultural Extension. These are numerous and there are
many in the project area from which farmers can purchase improved seeds.
The Association is presently financing the preparation of a rice seeds
project in Indonesia under IDA Credit 135-IND.
Research
4.        Agricultural Research by the Ministry of Agriculture is carried
out by the Central Research Institute for Agriculture (CRIFA) at Bogor
which also manages some twenty experimental farms throughout Indonesia.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
In addition to the research activities going on in the departments of
Physiology, Pests and Diseases and Agronomy, the Institute organizes
training courses for seed inspectors and training courses in rice pro-
duiction for agricultural staff at provincial, district and village levels.
The Makassar Research Institute for agriculture research on Sulawesi
operates under the CRIFA. In general the Agricultural Research Services
in Indonesia require strengthening.
BIMAS Programs
5.        In addition to the agricultural extension services, government
operates the BIMAS and INMAS Programs under a separate Directorate. The
different BIMAS programs are known as BIMAS Nasional, BIMAS Baru (New
BIMAS), BIMAS Gotong Rojong (BIMAS Self-Help) and BIMAS Baru Gotong
Rojong. These programs provide for extension advice and a package of
inputs of improved seed, fertilizer, insecticides, rodenticides and spray-
ing equipment on credit and a cash advance for labor known as a cost of
living allowance. The contents of the different programs are described in
Table 1 of this Annex.
6.        After a year with BIMAS, farmers are able to participate in a
follow-up program, known as INMAS, in which the same package of subsidized
inputs is made available to them without credit or extension advice. In
practice however, many farmers participate year after year in the BIMAS
program. During the writing of this report news was received that GOI
intend to revise these programs radically by abolishing BIMAS Gotong
Rojong altogether. Full details of the new arrangements are not available
at present. The resident staff in Djakarta are currently making arrange-
ments for financing a study to review the past performance of the BIMAS pro-
grams in Indonesia, and to make recommendations for the future.
Agricultural Credit
7.        The Bank Rakjat Indonesia (BRI) is the principal source of
credit for the larger farmers but is still mainly concerned with business
and trade. The loans to big farmers are on the basis of land or houses as
collateral. Land is classified into nine grades and the loan per hectare
of each class varies from Rp 250,000 for Class I to Rp 75,000 for Class IX.
Whereas interest on business loans is 3.5% per month, it is 1% per month on
agricultural loans. Repayment is usually in 3 to 4 years with a grace period
of 6 to 12 months.
8.        BIMAS programs are now being financed through the Bank Rakjat
whose role has increased over the last three years. At present it has
teams of two or three persons who go out to the villages to work out the
BIMAS program with the farmers. The information is passed on to P.N.
Pertani 1/ for supply of fertilizer, pesticides and seed and to DOLOG for
1/   The Government-owned organization for the Supply of Agricultural Inputs.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
subsequent collection of paddy. After harvest, if farmers wish to pay
back the BIMAS package cost in cash they can do so at the Bank. The usual
method of repayment is in paddy to DOLOG. If the Bank were to open more
branches in small towns instead of being confined to district headquarters,
collection in cash may increase, as farmers would obtain better prices by
milling their paddy and selling rice.
9.        Apart from the BIMAS programs themselves that provide credit
tied to the input program supplied (see paras 5 and 6 above), the only
other institutional source of credit in the past has been the cooperatives.
As explained in para 3.19 of the report, these are now quite ineffective
and show no promise of being able to play any part in supplying agricul-
tural credit in the near future* For small farmers outside the BIMAS
programs, local village money lenders, traders, and relatives will
remain the main source of loan funds at high interest rates.






NDONESIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT III
CONTENT OF THE DIFFERENT BIMAS MROGRAMS
Itemns                        BIMAS BARU          BIMAS (NASIONAL)           BIMAS BARU         BIMAS GOTONG ROJONG
GOTONG ROJONG
(Package - A)        (Package - B)            (Package - A)           (Package - B)
Quantity/ha  Rp /ha   Quantity/ha  Rp /ha      Quantity/ha  Rp /ha   Quantity/ha    Rp /ha
Fertilizers
Urea                             200 kg    5,320       100 kg    2,660          200 kg    5,690        100 kg       2,846
Triple SuperphosDhate             45 kg    1,197        35 kg       931          45 kg    1,280          35 kg        996
Insecticides                                                                                 /                     /
Diazinon                           3 lbs   3,500          3 lbs   3,500       (3 liters)   3,852    3 liters)       3,852
Rodenticides                         100 gram     45        100 gram     45          100 gram     48        100 gram       48
Seed                                  25 kg    1,000                                 25 kg    1,070
Spran   Csts
Rent of Sprayer)                                                                              53-50
Maintenance    )                             700                    700                       53.50
Spraying        )                                                                            642
Admindistration Costs2J                                                                          107                       107
Technical Assistance2i                                                                           597                       295
SUB-TOTALS .......                        11,762                  7,836                   13,393                    8,144
Cost of Living Cash Credit..                   5,000                  5,000                    5,000                     5,000
TOTALS... ....                            16,762                 12,836                   18,393                   13,144
j/ In place of Diazinon, various other insecticides are also used as availability dictates.
2J  These are contractors costs which farmers are expected to pay as part of the "Gotong Rojong"  
package.       HIZ






ANNEX 4
Page 1
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT III
PROJECT WORKS
A.   Tjiudjung Sub-Project
1.        The project location is shown on Map 1 and details of the area
are shown in Map 2. Since the Pemarajan Barrage was completed in 1920,
it has not had sufficient maintenance. Gates numbers 1, 5 and 9 have been
inoperable and need repair. The roller and chain assemblies are badly
corroded. Many staunching rod seals are missing. Hoisting equipment for
gates 1 and 10 need new gears and two other units need repair. All metal
surfaces are in need of repainting. A few piers are damaged. The right
river bank upstream of the barrage has been badly eroded and so have both
banks immediately downstream. The river bed has silted-up badly at the
upstream left bank. The floor and upstream and downstream aprons of
the barrage need to be thoroughly inspected and repaired where damage is
found.
2.        All gates in the east and west primary canal headworks require
rehabilitation as do the sluice gates for both silting basins. The
conduit from the west primary headworks to the silting basins needs to be
unwatered, inspected and repaired.
3.        Many siphons in the canal system are leaking.  All siphons have
to be unwatered, thoroughly inspected and repaired. Most gates of
structures require replacement or major repairs. Many check structures
need replacement of stop logs. Bridges in the project area also suffer
from deferred maintenance. All require a thorough inspection and rehabi-
litation. Cross drainage structures need removal of silt to restore
capacity and repair of the masonry. A few of these structures are on
major drains provided with gated controls which are also in need of repairs
and painting. In general, most structures need repair to the downstream
aprons and banks. The total number of structures in primary and secondary
canals is 106.
4.        Drainage is not a serious problem in this sub-project.  In
total about 10 percent of the sub-project area needs drainage rehabilitation
and improvement. These areas, scattered over the sub-project, have to be
carefully studied and additional drainage canals and structures planned,
designed and constructed. Parallel drainage to protect service roads and
inspection paths is needed.
5.        To ensure effective operation and maintenance of the system,
access roads are necessary. The existing service roads along the primary



ANNEX 4
Page 2
canals, in length about 90 km, need rehabilitation. New service roads,
3.5 m wide with 25 cm thick compacted mixed stones would be constructed
along the remaining length of the primary canals. New inspection paths,
for motorcycles, 1.5 m wide with 10 cm stone paving, in total about 65
km, require to be built along the secondary canals.
B.   Pemali-Tiomal Sub-Project
6.        The Pemali-Tjomal irrigation sub-project has been in operation
for approximately 80 years. Starting from 7,500 ha in 1888, the irrigation
area gradually increased to 123,000 ha. The project location is shown on
Map 1. It consists of eight different irrigation service areas of which
a number are interconnected by canals (Map 3). The project area extends
for 120 km along the northern coast of Java. The towns of Brebes, Tegal,
Pemalang and Pekalongan are in the area, which has a population of about
1.6 million. A number of provincial roads and district roads traverse
the area as does a highway and two railways lines. The sub-project has
about 170 km of primary canals and about 690 km of secondary canals.
7.        The project has altogether 41 weirs to raise water levels and
divert the waters of 28 rivers for irrigation. There are also 5 small
reservoirsl/ to store water and regulate the flows at the headwaters of
3 rivers for three of the eight service areas. In recent years, due to
lack of maintenance 4 weirs have been destroyed by floods. These weirs
were Tjisadap on Pemali River, Tjawitali on Kumisik River, Danawarih on
Gung River and Kaliwadas on Genteng River. The new Tjisadap Weir, about
60 m in length, has been under construction by the government contractor
P.B.N. Pembangunan Perumahan since 1968. By the end of March 1970, about
65% of the work was completed. For the other three weirs, another govern-
ment contractor, P.B.N. Waskita Karya has the contracts for design and
reconstruction but so far little progress has been made. The design of
these four weirs needs to be critically reviewed and modified by the
project consulting engineers with respect to the volume of designed floods,
diversion during construction, sequence and schedule of construction in
relation to the river flows, downstream apron protection and other related
problems.
8.        The remaining weirs in the sub-project are in various stages of
deterioration, and all of them need rehabilitation to some degree. The
control structures in primary and secondary canals, totalling 621, also
need to be repaired. Most gates on weirs and structures in primary and
secondary canals are in deplorable condition. Many tertiary turnout gates
have entirely disappeared making regulated delivery impossible. These
1/   These reservoi s are:  Malahaju Reservoir on Kabujutan River,
capacity 69 Mm , Pendjalin Reservoir on Pemali River, capacity
10 Mm3, Bantarkawung Reservoir also on Pemali River, Tjatjaban
Reservoir on Tjatjaban River, capacity 90 Mm3, and Gegerbuntu
Tank on a tributary of Tjatjaban River.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
gates have to be repaired or new ones installed. Flumes, checks, waste-
ways, siphons, culverts and bridges have all deteriorated through years of
neglect. All must receive a thorough inspection and most will require
extensive rehabilitation. In general, most canal structures need repair
to the downstream banks and aprons.
9.        The levees along most rivers provide ample protection to most
of the irrigated areas. However, about 1,000 ha near the coast in the
Pemali area are submerged annually by the Pemali River. Some flooding is
also a frequent occurrence along the Tjomal, Sragi and Pekalongan Rivers.
Nevertheless the percentage of the area affected annually, and the drain-
age rehabilitation and improvement work needed, is small. In each of
the eight service areas, the percentage ranges from only 5 to no more
than 10 percent.
10.       New service roads of the same standard as those in Tjiudjung
sub-project would be built along the primary canals to a total length of
about 100 km. Also about 280 km of new inspection paths for motorcycles
would be constructed along the secondary canals.
C.   Sadang Sub-Project
11.       The Sadang irrigation sub-project has been in operation for
about 30 years. Its location is shown on Map 1 and details of the area in
Map 4. The Benteng Barrage on the Sadang River was completed in 1940.
The canal system to serve the presently commanded land has been only
partially completed since that time as a result of the Second World War,
and subsequent civil strife. The diversion works and the primary canals
had been planned to ultimately serve about 64,000 ha but they now serve
only 49,200 ha. 1/ The present sub-project includes 45 km of primary canals
and 175 km of secondary canals. Many structures, though completed, never
have had the gates installed. The drainage work is far from being
adequate. Moreover, due to the lack of maintenance and of operational
management for a prolonged period of over 30 years, the barrage, canal
structures and the canal systems have deteriorated to the extent that
proper irrigation is not possible on a large portion of the sub-project
area and rehabilitation is needed to restore the effectiveness of the
system.
12.       The gates and mechanical equipment at the Benteng Barrage are
generally in good condition but need minor repairs, cleaning and painting.
Some of the facilities for handling the stop logs and gates on the left
abutment were never completed. Equipment to operate the gates manually
was installed but is now out of order and needs major repairs. The down-
1/   Under the project they will serve 54,600 ha including the Sidenrang
extension area of 4,400 ha and the Alitta extension area of 1,000 ha.



ANNEX 4
Page 4
stream concrete apron of the barrage was severely damaged by erosion due to
faulty operation of gate, and by the use of dynamite for fishing. Investi-
gations are needed to establish the nature of the damage and the appropriate
design of a new apron before a major repair is executed. The seepage through
the earth embankment at the right abutment of the barrage at two places should
be investigated and halted. An extensive river training and protection work
program is required to protect the left bank immediately downstream of
the barrage as severe erosion is now taking place and threatening the
mouth of the settling basin. Repairs to other banks are also needed.
The head regulators at the barrage are also in need of repair.
13.       In general, canal structures, altogether 117 in number, are
in need of minor repairs to masonry, gates, lifting devices, downstream
aprons and banks. Steel gates need to be installed on those structures
which are temporarily fitted with stop logs.
14.       As earlier stated, drainage is a serious problem.  All of the
49,220 ha presently served by the sub-prolect are affected by inadequate
drainage to some extent. The area which is normally flooded and where
damage to crops is a normal occurrence covers about 29,000 ha or about 60
percent of the commanded area. The whole sub-project area has to be
thoroughly surveyed and drainage planned and constructed. Aerial photo-
graphs and topographic maps (scale 1:5,000 with 0.5 m contour in the plain
and 1 m contour in the hills) of the entire sub-project area are being
prepared by the Government. These maps will be completed in November or
December, 1970.
15.       New service roads, a total length of 33 km, and 130 km of
inspection paths for motorcycles would be built to the same standards
as in Tjiudjung, along the primary and secondary canals respectively.
16.       In the Sidenrang and Alitta extension areas, new works on canals,
structures, drains and inspection paths for a total of 5,400 ha will be con-
structed.
D.   Canal Works and Communications
17.       In addition to the above works for each sub-project, the works
which are common to all the three sub-projects would include: Primary
canals (including stilling basins), secondary and existing tertiary canals
to be cleaned and desilted and brought to designed capacity: wherever
erosion has taken place, the canal banks would be repaired and/or reshaped
but not necessarily restored to original design section, as in many cases
the bank slopes were too steep; the object should be to reduce unnecessary
bank erosion and silting and to maintain capacity: all canal embankments
need to be rehabilitated: sodding of canal bank slopes and embankments
as a means of erosion protection would be carried out after the completion



ANNEX 4
Page 5
of rehabilitation work to each stretch of a canal: also, to protect canal
banks, wherever they pass through villages, step-landings would be
constructed on primary and secondary canals for controlled access for
domestic purposes.
18.       The project works also include the construction of all new
tertiary canals including structures throughout the length of these canals.
For establishing the alignments of canals and as an indication of good
faith to the farmers, PROSIDA would construct the first 50 m of tertiaries
while the remaining lengths would be constructed by farmers under the
guidance and direction of PROSIDA and Provincial authorities. PROSIDA
would be responsible also for the construction of all structures on
tertiaries.
19.       All illegal turnouts, buildings and cultivation established
on canal rights-of-way would be eliminated. Gates would be provided to
all ungated turnouts.
20.       For effective operation of the sub-projects, staff gauges would
be installed at canal structures. Structures in the primary and secondary
canals would be rated. Meteorological stations for collecting information
on rainfall, temperature, humidity, evaporation, sunshine hours and wind-
speed would be established in all sub-project areas.
21.       For the efficient operation and maintenance of the sub-projects,
radio communications within each sub-project would be installed. During
rehabilitation, this would also contribute substantially to the efficient
implementation of the works.
E.  Operation and Maintenance and Staff Training
22.       The training of 0 & M personnel and management assistance to
PROSIDA are also included, in the project. During the project rehabilitation
period, PROSIDA would absorb the existing 0 & M force of the Provincial
PWD into its own organization and would use these men to perform about
15% of the rehabilitation works under the direction of PROSIDA engineers
and supervision of the consulting engineers, while 85% remaining works
would be awarded to contractors. This would provide on-the-job training
to these 0 & M personnel in order to ensure that they would handle 0 & M
works effectively afterwards. A pool of construction and 0 & M equipment,
as listed in Annex 9, would also be established to enable the execution
of this portion of the rehabilitation works by force account, especially
for efficient 0 & M work afterwards. 0 & M manuals would be prepared for
all major structures and for the systems. For the purpose of providing
training to personnel and for the preparation of manuals as well as for
assisting PROSIDA in the efficient management and implementation of the
work under this project, three experts would be engaged to assist in con-
struction and contract procedures; training, operations, and maintenance;
and accounting and administration.






ANNEX 5
Page 1
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT III
CONSULTANTS SERVICES
A. Detailed Engineering
1.        The agreed terms of reference for the consultants engaged for
detailed engineering with provision of funds from the Djatiluhur credit
are as follows:
2.        Objectives of Consulting Engineer's Services
Consulting Engineer's Services are needed to review the existing
irrigation and drainage systems with a view to establishing the canal
capacities and their adequacy; prepare detailed planning and design; and
supervise the implementation of the on-going rehabilitation works in the
Tjiudjung, Pemali-Tjomal and Sadang Sub-Projects.
3.        Scope of Services
In close collaboration with the staff of PROSIDA (Projek Irigasi
I.D.A.) and with the guidance of the Directorate General of Water Resources
Development and the management of PROSIDA, the work of the Consulting
Engineer to be carried out during the ten months from                    1970
through                 1971 on each of these sub-projects will be as
follows:
(a) as a top priority, the Consultant will review the present
design of the 4 major weirs in the Pemali-Tjomal Sub-
Project at Tjawitali, Kaliwadas, Danawarih and Tjisadap,
and will modify or redesign these weirs as may be deemed
necessary within the framework of the Pemali-TJomal
irrigation systems;
(b) make detailed investigations of all headwork structures
and prepare designs, specifications, cost estimates and
work schedules for the earliest possible repair of these
structures;
(c) inspect and investigate all canals and structures in the
canals while they are under operation and identify and
estimate the cost of immediate repairs necessary to enable
system testing and the works which are required for their
rehabilitation;



ANNEX 5
Page 2
(d) establish staff gauges in the rivers at all headworks
and in primary and secondary canals at various important
control structures and at other appropriate places, having
the gauges' datum based on mean sea level;
(e) review irrigation plans to establish the required capacities
of primary and secondary canals;
(f) to the extent necessary, locate places where tertiary
canals are to be taken off from secondary canals or if
necessary from primary canals, and mark these in project
maps as well as laying them out in the field;
(g) by current meter measurements, identify places where canal
capacities are constrained;
(h) to the extent possible, inspect again in more detail the
canals and structures when dry in support of the designs,
specifications and cost estimates for their rehabilitation
obtained under (b) above;
(i) prepare drawings, specifications and cost estimates of
structures and earthworks, including the disposal of wastes
necessary to restore canal banks and the required capacity of
existing canals;
(j) investigate and assess the drainage needs and prepare plans
and cost estimates of drainage systems in accordance with
these needs (this is of particular importance to Sadang
where the major part of project area needs drainage improve-
ment);
(k) survey and investigate the existing road systems in the
project areas and prepare plans, designs, specifications
and cost estimates for the rehabilitation of these roads
and for constructing new service roads in accordance with
criteria to be agreed upon with IDA and the Directorate
General of Water Resources Development;
(1) prepare construction schedules for all the rehabilitation
works with due regard to the requirements of systems
operation during the construction period on the one hand,
and the needs of an efficient program of rehabilitation
of the systems on the other.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
4.        It is realized that the Consulting Engineer may not be able to
complete the above works within the assigned period of 10 months. He
should attach first priorities to the design work on the four weirs at
Pemali-Tjomal and to the identification and design of those works that
will form the 1971-72 construction program.
5.        The Consultant will prepare draft tender documents for an
initial portion of the rehabilitation works schedules for implementation
prior to April 1, 1972. These tender documents would be prepared with the
aim of asking tenders on about March 1, 1971. The tender documents would
include final design drawings and construction contracts.
6.        In collaboration with PROSIDA Staff, the Consultant will carry
out the surveys, investigations, and data collection programs considered
necessary for the planning and design of the entire rehabilitation program
in these three project areas.
7.        If appropriate during the currency of this contract, the Con-
sultant will assist PROSIDA in the pre-qualification of tenderers, and
following receipt of tenders on or about April 1, 1971, the Consultant
will assist in the analysis and evaluation of these tenders.
8.        In the event that during the ten months period for which these
Consulting services are being sought the Government of Indonesia's request
for IDA Project Aid for the rehabilitation of Tjiudjung, Sadang and
Pemali-Tjomal Sub-Projects should result in project assistance, the
Consultant will be required also to assist in the preparation of tender
documents and the timely procurement and efficient deployment of goods
and services financed by such project aid.
9.        In all aspects of this work, the Consultant will make the
greatest possible effort to provide for on-the-job-training of Indonesian
counterpart personnel.
10.       The Consultant will also assist in the supervision of the already
on-going rehabilitation of these three porjects being carried out by
PROSIDA and their contractors.
11.       Organization and Deployment of Consulting Services
The above objective and scope of services may require the provision
by the Consultant of the following professional resident staff:
(a) One Senior Irrigation Engineer with experience in the
planning, design and construction of gravity irrigation
and drainage systems and with sufficient seniority to
function as team leader;



ANNEX 5
Page 4
(b) One Irrigation Engineer with experience in the planning,
design and operation and maintenance of gravity irrigation
and drainage systems designed mainly for rice cultivation;
(c) One Flood Control and Drainage Engineer with experience
in planning design and construction of flood control work
and drainage systems;
(d)  Three Design Engineers with experience in the design of
hydraulic structures for irrigation and drainage. Two of
these engineers will work on the design of the 4 major
weirs and all other structures in the Pemali-Tjomal Sub-
project and on the rehabilitation of the headworks of
Tjiudjung and Sadang Projects; the third engineer will
devote his attention to all other structures in the
Tjiudjung and Sadang Sub-projects;
(e) One Hydrologist
(f) Two Topographers
12.       The work of the resident team may or may not require the back-up
of the following visiting specialists, depending on the background and
experience of members of the resident team:
(a) One Agronomist (1-2 months) specialized in wet-rice
cultivation; and qualified to assist in the assessment
of field water requirements and in the solution of water
distribution and drainage problems in the tertiary unit;
(b) One Soil Mechanics Engineer (1-2 months) specialized in
foundation problems to study foundations especially of
4 major weirs in Pemali-Tjomal Project;
(c) Depending upon the results of other on-going efforts by
PROSIDA to obtain technical assistance to strengthen its
headquarter administration, the Consultant may be asked
to provide for a ten month period one Accountant experienced
in the engineering field to strengthen the organization's
central accounting system.
13.       To the extent that the project planning and design are centered
both in Djakarta and in the sub-project areas, it is envisaged that the
Consultants staff will be deployed as follows:
(a) Pemali-Tjomal: The size (123,000 ha) and complexity of
the rehabilitation work require the residence of at least
one engineer and possibly two in the project area to
carry out and direct the works under these T.O.R.;



ANNEX 5
Page 5
(b) Sadang: The size of the project (54,000 ha) and the
logistical and communications problems posed by the
project's location in Sulawesi require the residence
of one engineer in the project area (in Pare-Pare or
Pinrang);
(c)  Tjiudjung:  The size of the project (25,000 ha) and its
relative closeness to Djakarta allows the assistance
to this project to be rendered through frequent
scheduled visits by members from the Djakarta Team;
(d) Djakarta-PROSIDA Headquarters: A team consisting of the
remaining members will perform its work in the Djakarta
office of PROSIDA with visits to the project areas as
often as necessary. The two Topographers will spend
most of their time in the project areas.
14.       Reporting
The Engineering Consultant shall prepare and submit the follow-
ing reports with clear identification of the sources of information, data,
counterpart contribution and a full bibliography:
(a) An Inception Report summarizing the initial findings of
the Consultants together with detailed work programs and
supporting requirements within two months of the starting
date: (20 copies to the Government, 5 copies to IDA);
(b) A Progress Report at the end of December 1970, giving a
description of the team's activities during the reporting
period, a summary of interim findings, and a brief
indication concerning the planned employment of the
team during the subsequent reporting period. This
report should also provide a discussion of interim
findings and recommeadations for the project activities
during the 1970/71 wet-season; (20 copies to the
Government, 5 copies to IDA);
(c)  A Final Report which summarizes the major findings and
recommendations of the Consulting Engineer; (30 copies
to the Government, 10 copies to IDA).
15.       The metric system shall be exlusively applied in all design
works, drawings and calculations. Technical reports shall be edited
in English and in Indonesian versions. All descriptive lettering in
drawings, graphs, tables and calculations shall be printed or written,
both in the English and the Indonesian language.



ANNEX 5
Page 6
16.       The Consultant will be expected to provide all translation
services necessary to render the required engineering services.
b. CONSULTING ENGINEER'S SERVICES
17.       :'?ROSIDA would employ consultants to provide assistance through-
out the constructieni phase of the carrying out of the rehabilitation of
the three sub-projects of Tjiudjung, Pemali-Tjomal and Sadang. The draft
retima A reference are given below:
18.       Oblectives of Consulting Engineer's Services
Consulting Engineer's Services are needed to review the existing
irrigation and drainage systeas with a view to establishing the canal
capacities and their adequacy; prepare detailed planning and design; and
supervise, in close collaboration with PROSIDA staff and with the guidance
of the Director General and the management of PROSIDA, the implementation
of the on-going rehabil.itation works r& the Tjiudjung, Pemali-TJomal and
Sadang sub-projects.
19.       Scopeof Servies
The work of the Consulting Engineer to be carried out during
the period from April 1, 1971, through March 31, 1975, with direct res-
ponsibility to PROSIDA for the technical engineering adequacy and suffi-
ciency of the designs and estimates on the rehabilitation of each of
these sub-projects will be as follows:
(a) make detailed investigations of all headwork structures
aa6 piepare designs, specifications, cost estimates and
work schedules for the earliest possible repair of these
structures;
(b) inspect and investigate all canals and structures in the
canals while they are under operation and identify and
estimate the cost of the works which are required for
their rehabilitation; and the immediate repairs necessary
to enable system testing;4
(c) establish staff gauges in the rivers at all headworks
and in primary and secondary canals at various important
control structures and at other appropriate places,
having the gauges' datum based on mean sea level;



ANNEX 5
Page 7
(d) review irrigation plans to establish the required
capacities of primary and secondary canals;
(e) locate places where tertiary canals are to be taken
off from secondary canals, or if necessary from primary
canals and lay them out in the field;
(f) by current meter measurements, identify places where
canal capacities are constrained;
(g) to the extent possible, inspect again in more detail
the canals and structures when dry in support of the
designs, specifications and cost estimates for their
rehabilitation obtained under (a) and (b) above;
(h) prepare drawings, specifications and cost estimates
of earthworks, including the disposal of wastes, necessary
to restore canal banks and the required capacity of canals;
(i) prepare drawings and cost estimates of step-landings
for construction along canal banks, where canals pass
through villages, for people to bathe and wash clothes;
(j) investigate and assess the drainage needs and prepare
plans and cost estimates of drainage systems in accordance
with these needs (this is of particular importance to
Sadang Project where the major part of project area needs
drainage improvement);
(k) survey and investiage the existing road systems in the
project areas and prepare plans, designs, specifications
and cost estimates for the rehabilitation of these roads
and for constructing new service roads and inspection paths
in accordance with criteria to be agreed upon with IDA
and the Director General of Water Resources Development;
(1) prepare construction schedules for all the rehabilitation
works with due regard to the requirements of systems
operation during the construction period on the one
hand, and the needs of an efficient program of rehabili-
tation of the systems on the other.
20.       The Consultant will help PROSIDA prepare draft tender documents
for the rehabilitation works. The tender documents would include final
design drawings and construction contracts.



ANNEX 5
Page 8
21.       In collaboration with PROSIDA staff, the Consultant will carry
out the surveys, investigations and data collection programs considered
necessary for the planning and design of the entire rehabilitation program
in these three project areas.
22.       The Consultant will assist PROSIDA in the pre-qualification of
tenderers and following receipt of tenders, the Consultant will assist in
the analysis and evaluation of these tenders.
23.       The Consultant will assist PROSIDA in the overall as well as
day-to-day supervision of the rehabilitation works being carried out in
these sub-projects.
24.       To enable effective operation and maintenance to continue after
construction is completed, the Consultant will advise and assist PROSIDA
in preparing the infrastructure described below to a standard suitable
for handing over to the provincial authorities.
(a) prepare manual and rules for the efficient operation
and maintenance of structures, canals and the entire
irrigation system of each sub-project;
(b) establish staff gauges, discharges and sediment
measurement stations and procedures for carrying out
water level discharge and sediment observations as
well as the keeping of record books for these
observations;
(c) establish meteorological stations at appropriate places
in the sub-project areas for the collection of data on
rainfall, evaporation, temperature, wind speed, humidity
and sun-shine hours, and establish suitable recording
and analyzing procedures;
(d) establish program for periodic detailed checking of
structures and canals.
25.       The Consultant will also work closely with PROSIDA in establishing
an efficient operation and maintenance organization on each sub-project
area, and in advising and helping PROSIDA in building up its effectiveness
over the construction period so that an efficient and fully equipped and
operative operation and maintenance organization can be handed over to
the provincial authorities when PROSIDA has completed the rehabilitation
works.
26.       In all aspects of this work, the Consultant will make the
greatest possible effort to provide for on-the-job training of Indonesian
counterpart personnel.



ANNEX 5
Page 9
27.       Organization and Deployment of Consulting Services
The above objectives and scope of services will require the
provision by the Consultant of the equivalent of the following professional
resident staff:
(a)  One Senior Irrigation Engineer with experience in the
planning, design and construction of gravity irrigation
and drainage systems and with sufficient seniority and
administrative competence to function as team leader;
(b)  One Irrigation Engineer with experience in the design
and operation and maintenance of gravity irrigation
and drainage systems designed for rice and other crops;
(c)  One Flood Control and Drainage Engineer with experience
in planning, design and construction of flood control
work and drainage system;
(d)  Three Design Engineers with experience in the design
of hydraulic structures for irrigation and drainage and
in tendering and contract procedures. These engineers
will work in the sub-project areas;
(e)  One Agriculturist specialized in rice production and
qualified to assist in the assessment of field water
requirements and in the solution of water distribution
and drainage problems;
(f) One Topographer with experience in surveying related to
irrigation works.
28.       The work of the resident team may or may not require the back-up
of the following visiting specialists, depending on the baokground and
experience of members of the resident team:
(a)  One Hydrologist who should heve extensive experience
of dealing with rainfall-runoff correlation, extension
of stream flow records, and maximum flood and minimum
flow studies.
29.       To the extent that the project planning and design are centered
both in Djakarta and in the sub-project areas, it is envisaged that the
Consultants staff will be deployed as follows:
(a)  Pemali-TIomal:  The size (123,000 ha) and complexity
*-^rehabilitation work require the residence of at least
Jne engineer and possibly two in the project area to
carry out and direct the works under these T.O.R.



ANNEX 5
Page 10
(b) Sadang: The size of thie project (54,000 ha) and the
logistical and communications problems posed by the
project's location in Sulawesi require the residence
of one engineer in the project area (in Pare-Pare or
Pinrang).
(c) Tjiudjung: The size of the project (25,000 ha) and its
relative closeness to Djakarta allows the assistance to
this project to be rendered througlh frequent scheduled
visits by members from the Djakarta nucleus team.
(d) Djakarta-PROSIDA Headquarters: A nucleus team consisting
of the remaining, members will perform its work in the
Djakarta office of PROSIDA witlh visits to the project areas
as often as necessary. The Topographer will spend most
of his time in the project areas.
Possible staff requirements are summarized in Table 1.
30.       Reportl
The Engineeririg Coasultant shall prepare and submit the follow-
ing reports with clesr identification of the sources of information and
data, counterpart contribution and a full bibliography:
(a)  an Lnception Report summarizing the initial findings of
the consultants together with detailed work programs and
supporting requirements within two months of the starting
date: (15 copies to the Government, 5 copies to IDA);
(b) Progress Reports at six monthly intervals commencing six
months after submission of the inception report, giving a
description of the team's activities during the reporting
period, a summary of interim findings, and a brief
indication concerning the planned employment of the
team during the subsequent reporting period. These
reports should also provide discussion of interim
findings and recommendations (15 copies to the
Government, 5 copies to IDA);
(c)  a Final Report which summarizes the achievements and
recommendations of the Consulting Engineer; (30 copies
to the Government, 10 copies to IDA).
31.       The metric system shall be exclusively applied in all design
works, drawings and calculations. Technical reports shall be edited in
English and in Indonesian versions. All descriptive lettering in drawings,
graphs, tables and calculations shall be printed or written, both in the
English and Indonesian language.



ANNEX 5
Page 11
32.       The Consultant will be expected to provide all translation
services necessary to carry out this contract.
33.       Undertaking of the Government
Providing that established procedures are followed, the
Government shall:
(a)  exempt the Consultant and his personnel from or bear the
cost of, any taxes, duties, fees, levies and other im-
positions imposed under its laws and regulations or the
laws and regulations in effect in its territories or of
any political sub-division or agency thereof, on the
Consultant and his personnel (other than personnel who are
citizens or permanent residents of the territories of the
Government) in respect of:
(i) any payments made to the Consultant or to such
personnel in connection with the carrying out
of the services;
(ii)  any equipment, materials and supplies brought
into the territories of the Government for the
purpose of carrying out the services and which,
after having been brought into such territories,
will subsequently be withdrawn therefrom; and
(iii)  any property brought into such territories by the
personnel of the Consultant and their dependents
for their personal use and which, after having been
brought into such territories will subsequently
be withdrawn therefrom upon departure of such
personnel; however, to qualify for these exemptions,
shipment of such property will have to be arranged
by contract no later than 3 months after the arrival
of the staff member;
(b)  facilitate prompt clearance through customs of any
equipment, material and supplies required for the
Services and of the personal effects of the Consultant's
personnel;
(c)  ensure that the Consultant's personnel and their dependents
are promptly provided with any necessary entry and exit
visas, residence permits, exchange permits and travel
documents required for their stay in the territories of
-he Government;



ANNEX 5
Page 12
(d) issue all necessary permits and authorization for the
carrying out of the Services; and
(e) provide reasonable furnished family-living quarters
acceptable to the Consulting Firm selected;
(f) the Government will provide full-time professional or
technical personnel to act as counterparts and to work
with the Consultant's members in carrying out these
Services at a ratio of two counterparts to one Consultant's
member;
(g) the Government also agrees to make available to the
Consultant all existing aerial photographs, maps, drawings,
data, reports, and any other information pertinent to the
execution of this contract;
(h) the Government will also provide office space equipped
with necessary furniture and utilities such as water
supply and electricity in Djakarta and in the Pemali-
Tjomal and Sadang sub-project areas;
(i) the Government will provide all transport facilities and
equipment required by the Consultants.
34.       Estimated Costs are given in Table II.



ANNEX ..
Table 1 and 2
TABLE I
PE,stniaLed Staff ljeqiuirements
_171     1972      1972         T19o Total Man-Year
Resident Team
1.  Irrigation Engineer
Team Leader ...         1        1         1        1              4
2.  Drainage Engineer ...  1          1        1         -              3
3.  Design Enmgineer (.Cield)l        1        1         -              3
l.  Design Engineer (field)!          1        1         1              4
5.  Design Engineer (field)l          1        1         1              b
6.  Irrigation Ehgineer
(O0zm) ...   1       1         1         1. 
7'.  Topographer ...        1         1        1         -              3
U,.  firiculturist ...      1         1        1         I
TOTAL ...     8         8         8        5             29
r D Y
Specialists ...                                                         3
Home Office Supports                                                    3
GPA.D TOTAL ...                                       35
TABLE II
Estimated Costs
Average 3alary ...20,000/r.
Overhead charge            )
International travel       )
Settlemert                 )
Internal. travel, per diem ) factor 2.5
Office Equipment e& Suppiis)
Cormmunications            )
Heport publications, etc. )
Charge per man-year ..50,COV
35 man-year .4...$1,5o,0
Fee l4,' . 2O......O
$'1,997,000
Qve,rnenp jupport in Indonesia .n
tl.a1L; 0rfles, houses, per diemnandtransport $200,000
Say       $2,200,000






ANNEX 6
Page 1
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT III
WATER SUPPLY AND REQUIREMENTS
1.        Though Indonesia experiences annual rainfall varying from 1500
mm in the coastal plains to over 5000 mm in the mountains, the rains are
often delayed and unevenly distributed. During the wet North-westerly
monsoon, the rainfall is characterized by high intensity showers and
thunderstorms with considerable variation in frequenty of occurrence.
The intensity and unfavorable distribution of rainfall adversely affects
rice production. Furthermore, delay in the onset of the wet monsoon
frequently results in delayed planting of crops. Also, if the wet season
is short, crop yields are depressed by water shortages at the time the rice
grain is forming and maturing. During the dry South-easterly monsoon,
rainfall is more unreliable. Details of rainfall are given in Annex 2.
For optimum crop production, in both wet and dry seasons, supplemental
irrigation water is required.
2.        Except for the Sadang river which provides water to Sadang
sub-project, the rivers which supply the other sub-projects are compara-
tively short with steep slopes in the headwaters. Their runoff patterns
follow the rainfall quite closely. This explains why in these sub-projects,
in the absence of storage, irrigated areas during the dry season amount to
only 20% to 40% of the areas irrigated in the wet season. It would enhance
the benefits of these sub-projects a great deal if storage reservoirs
could be built in the headwaters to store surplus water during the wet
season for releasing during the dry season, or if groundwater supplies
could be fed into the canals at that time.  The Sadang river which is of
greater length provides relatively higher dry season flows per unit area
of its watershed than in the other sub-projects and could irrigate up to
88% of the commanded area. In the wet season, in all the sub-projects,
the river supplies are more than ample for the irrigation of the full
area under command.
3.        In arriving at the demand for irrigation water, the modified
Blaney-Criddle method was used. This method has proved to give good
results in countries of similar climatic conditions such as Burma, India
(in deltas), the Philippines and Thailand. Except for Pemali-Tjomal in
which some sugarcane and other crops such as onions, pulses, and vegetables
are grown, the area is planted almost entirely with rice in both the wet
and dry seasons. Hence in the calculation of water requirement for these
sub-projects, it was assumed that the whole irrigated area is cropped with
rice. In Pema].- ne-omal the existing cropping pattern was used to calculate
the water requi-2tment.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
4.        The amount of water required for irrigating seed beds and
preparing land for transplantation was estimated at 200 m.m at the begin-
ning of the wet season for the first crop and 150 mm at the beginning
of the dry season for the second crop. As the demand for water is heaviest
during these periods, the staggering of planting dates as in the old
established Indonesian "Golongan System" was assumed. The present practice
of closing off irrigation water 2 weeks before harvesting has also been
assumed in arriving at the water requirement.
5.        i'aie rainfall used was the effective rainfall in 8 out of 10
years or a probability of 80%.  The same percentage was applied to river
flows,
6.        Since in general records of the flows at the barrages or weirs
were not available, the flows were derived from the rainfall-runoff
correlation at other known sites. There were generally adequate rainfall
records in the sub-project areas.
7.        The field irrigation efficiency was estimated to be from 70%
to 75%, during the wet season, and 80, 4In the dry season. A conveyance
ef ficiency of 705?.' to 8C'C was also adowited.  The overall system efficiency
thmis ranges from t97' to 607 with an averat;e of around 55%.  To arrive at
chose efficiences, imanagement of water would have to be at a reasonably
good level. Indonesian farmers have known and practiced irrigation for
centuries and they are extremely good in water management. There is no
doubt that such efficiencies could be,reached.
8.        The water requirement computations for Tjiudjung, Pemali-Tjomal
and Sadang are shown in details in Tables 1-3 of this Annex. The table
below summarizes the results of the water supply and demand study, giving
the areas which could be irrigated during the wet and dry season:
Area which could be irrigated             Irrigated
with related crops                   Cropping
Area         Wet Season                 Dry Season       Intensity
Sub-project   ha               ha                         ha           Percent
Tjiudjung    24,300   Rice        24,300         Rice        9,000        137
Pemali-
Tjomal    123,000   Rice       110,900         Rice       19,700
Sugar-                    Sugar-
cane     8,400            cane     8,400
Mixed                     Mixed
crops    3,7U0            crops    4,200
TOTAL    123,000         TOTAL      32,300         126
Sadang        54,600   Rice       54,6001/       Rice       48,000        188
1/   There is sufficient water to irrigate the originally designed area
of 64,000 ha.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
Water Quality
9.        Before these sub-projects were built several decades ago, the
river waters which are the source of irrigation supply were tested and
found to be of excellent quality. No recent quality analyses are avail-
able, but from observation there seems to have been no change in quality
as water is utilized annually for irrigation and no salinity problems
have arisen. Measurements of the silt load in Indonesian rivers were
studied, but it was considered that the data presently available was not
reliable. The establishment of an efficient data collection program is
included in the terms of reference of the consultants.






INIO?)ESIA
IRTIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT III
EST4ATED FUTURZ WATER RUIi RMENT - TJUIWJUNG SUB-P JECT
Nov    Dec    Jan    Feb    Mar    Apr    May    Jun    Jul    Aug    Sep    Oct
Seedbed & Land prep.                        Harvest
Rice                                       ce
1st Block 25% of Cropped Area                                              Uw *m_ _minn-
Rice                                      Ric e
2nd Block 25% of Cropped Area           U a=                                    m        iE                             m -      1=
Rice                                      Rice
3rd Block 25% of Cropped Area                               *                               on m   m      e    mmRice
Rice                                      Rice
4th Block 25% of Cropped Area  _n  *            a mmmm                                               O * Rei
-Wet Season             -                          -Dry Season
Tem.p. at Serang to0              24.9    26.4    26.8    26.8  26.8  25.6   26.5   26.5   26.8   27.1   26.6   26.3
Kt = 0.0311 t + 0.24               1.01    1.06    1.07    1.07  1.07  1.04   1.06   1.06   1.07   1.08   1.07   1.06
Kc whole areaL/                    0.10    0.50    0.81    0.93  1.20  0.85   0.27   0.50   0.83   0.99   1.09   0.69
K = Kt x Kc                        0.10    0.53    0.87    1.00  1.28  0.88   0.29   0.53   0.89   1.07   1.17   0.73
p for 60 S latitude                8.38    8.74    8.71    7.81  8.50  8.12   8.30   8.00   8.19   8.37   8.15   8.59
U = Kxp(45.7t+813)                16.4    93.5   154.5   159.2 221.7 141.8   48.8   85.8  148.6  183.8  194.2  126.3
100
Seedbed & land prep.--            17      83       83      17      -      -     10      50     50      10      -       -
Water requirement-nm              33.4   176.5   237.5   176.2 221.7 1)41.8   58.8  135.8  198.6  193.8  194.2  124.3
Effective rainfall2/-mm           55     123      122     139    98    63       67      28      4       0      0       0
(8 in 10 yrs.)
Irr. req. at farm-mm               0      54      116       37   124    79       0    108    195    194    194    126
Overall irrigation eff. in %    53        49       56       49    60    56      49      56     60      60     60      56
Diversion req.-mr.                 C     110      207       76   207   141       0    193    325    323    323    225
Cropped area - ha                  -2       24,300                                   Old      9,000
Vol. of water - M m3               ,      26.7    50-3    18.5  50.3  34)3    0         17.4   29.3   29.1   29.1   20.3
Discharge req.-m3/sec              G      10       1E.8      7.6  18.8  13.2    0        6.7   10.9   10.9   11.2    7.6
Divertable flow2/-r'i3/sec        21      21       21       21    21    21      21      21     13      10      11     21
(8 in 10 yrs.)
1/ Taking into account the Golongan system or staggering of paddy planting dates and the stopage
of irrigation two weeks before harvest (during that period paddy utilizes the pOOl of water
stored in the paddy field).
2/ Effective rainfall 8 in 10 years at Serang during 1950-1967.
3/ Maximum divertable flow is limited to existing canal capacity of 21 m3/sec.






INDONESIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT ITI
ESTfL4ATED FUTURE WATER 5BUQEMIW  - PEMALI-TJORAL SUB-PROJECT
Nov    Dec    Jan    Feb    Mar    Apr    May    Jun    Jul                  Se     0Ct
Seedbec   Lanc- prep.                Harvest
4              ~~~~Rice                                     Rice
1 st Block 25% of Rice Area         *                                                inlinmJo *
Rice                                       ic
2nd Block 259 of Rice Area              emmm                      w *                           -      ice
Rice                                       Rice__________
3rd Block 25% of Rice Area    m                                                      a    *icinmm           Rice
4th Block 25% of Rice Area       *              m       i                              mm -* Ricem
Sugarcune
Sugarecane
Other mixed crops                                   mixed crops                                          d a ro.s 
0  go          Wet Season                             - * D   ry  Season                   8
Temp. at Tjirebon tC             29.0    27.6   26.9   27.0   27.3   28.0   28.2   27.9   27.2   28.2   28.6   29.6
Kt   0.0311 t + 0.24               1.14    1.10   1.08   1.0B   1.09   1.11   1.12   1.17   1.09   1.12   1.13   1.16
Kcp - paddy, whole area            0.10    0.50   0.81   0.93   1.20   0.85   0.27   0.50   0.83   0.99   1.09   0.69
Kcs - sugarcane                    0.8      0.8    0.8    0.8    0.8    0.8    0.8    0.8    0.8    0.8    0.8    0.8
Kcm - mixed crops                           0.4    0.8    0.8    0.8    0.4               0.4    0.8    0.8    0.8
K paddy (Kp) = Kt x Kcp            0.11    0.55   0.87   1.00   1.31   0.94   0.30   0.56   0.90   1.11   1.23   0.86
K sugarcane (Ks) = Kt x Kcs        0.91    o.88   o.86   o.86   0.87   0.89   0.90   o.89   0.87   0.90   0.90   0.93
K mixed crops (Km) a Kt x Kom    0          0.44   0.86   0.86   0.87   0.44   0          0.44   0.87   0.90   0.90   0
P for 60 S latitude                 8.38    8.74   8.71   7.81   8.50   8.12   8.30   8.0o   8.19   8.37   8.18   8.59
U paddy = Kpxp(457t+83)           20      100    155    160    230    160        52      94    152    195    213    160
100
Seedbed & land prep. - paddy-mm 17        83      83      17      -       -      10     50      50      10
Water req. - paddy, mm            37     183    238    177    230    160         62    1J4    202    205    213    160
Fff. rainfall/.- mm               86     150    150    150    150    121         53     25       4       0      0      19
(.8 in 10 yrs.)
Irr. req. at farm-paddy, mm        0       33      88     27      80     39       9    119    198    205    213    141
Cropped area - paddy, ha            - 1  10,900                                        4-       19,700
1/ Effective rainfall at Slatri, 8 in 10 years during 1914-1968,
up to the xnaximum 150 m-m
(D1



ESTIIATED FUTURE WATER  L_REU ENT- PEALI-TJOMAL SUB-PROJECT
(continued)
lio    L-c    Jan    Feb    Mar    Apr    jay    Jun    Jul          u      Sep    Oct
Vol. w ter req.-paddy,               0     37      98     30      89      43     10      21      39     40      42     28
M m5
Q req. at farm-paddy, m3/sec        0      16      37     12      33      17      4       8      15     15      16     10
U sugar = Ksxp(45.7t+813)         163    160    153    138    153    151    157    149    147    158    156    173
1 100
Eff. rainfall -        mm          86    150    150    150    150    121         53      25       4      0       0     19
(8 in 10 yrs.)
Irr. req. at farm-sugarcane,  mm 77        10       3      0       3      30    104    124    143    158    156    154
Cropped area - sugarcane, ha  I-          -                               8,400-
Vol. water req.-sugarcane, g m3   6.5    0.8    0.3    0           0.3    2.5    8.7   10.4   12.0   13.3   13.1   12.9
Q req. at farm-sugarcane, m3/bec  2.5    C.3    0.1    0           0.1    1.0    3.2    4.0    4.5    5.0    5.1    4.8
U mixed = Kmxp(45.7t+813)           0      80    153    138    153        75      0      74    147    158    156        0
crops           100
Eff. rainfal]!!        mm          86    150    150    150    150    121         53      25      4       0       0     19
(8 in 10 yrs.)
Irr. req. at farm-mixed crops, mm 0         0       3      0       3       0      0      49    143    158    156        0
Cropped area - mixed crops, had                      3,700                           b                  4,200              |
Vol. water req.-mixed crops, M m3 0         0       0.1    0       0.1    0       0       2.1    6.0    6.6    6.6    0
Q req. at farm-mixed crops, m3/seco         0       0      0       0       0      0       0.8    2.2    2.5    2.5    0
Total Q req. at farm, m3/sec        2.5   16.3   37.1   12.0   33.1   18.0    7.2   12.8   21.7   22.5   23.6   1h.8
Overall irr. eff. %                53      49      49     49      49      49     53      56      60     60      60     56
Overall diversion req.-m3/sec       5      33      76     24      68      37     14      23      36     38      39-    26
Total divertable flow-m3/sec       68    107    113    106    103         89     91      72     50      34      29     41
(8 in 10 yrs.)
1/ Effective rainfall at Slatri, 8 in 10 years during 1914-1968, up to the maximum 150 mm
2/ The diversion requirements exceed dependable flow 8 in 10 years by about 34% in September. This is
acceptable here as the rainfalls used in above calculation are at Slatri which are only about 65%
of the averages in the project area.  Rainfalls increase rapidly inland from the co2st and towards
the east.  Slatri is situated near the coast and on the west of the project area.  MIoreover, during                         Cs'
this deficient month, paddy can utilize the pool of water stored in the paddy fields to overcome the
deficiency.  Other crops than paddy should be given full irrigation.
CD



INID 'V'SLL
iB1GATION REHABILITATION PiROJJCT III
ESTIMATED FUTURE WATER REQUIREMENT - SADANG SUB-PROJECT
Dec    Jan    Feb    Mar    Apr    May    Jun    Jul    Aug    Sep    Oct    Nov
Seedbed & land prep.                         Harvest
1st Block 25% of Cropped Area meow *       *                            w *sm  *_
2nd Block 25% of Cropped Area   _ "mo.                                    mm    *_mm             *
3rd Block 25% of Cropped Area m *m          a _ m                             we         MMM_M
4th Block 25 ,% of Cropped Area  _m_m      mmmcm _ _
- Wet Season                             .          Drry Season
Temp. at Makassar tC             25.7    25.7  25.7   26.4   27.2   27.0   27.0   26.6   26.3   27.0   27.2   26.5
Kt = 0.0311 z + 0.24               1.04    1.04  1.04   1.06   1.09   1.08   1.08   1.07   1.06   1.08   1.09   1.06
Kc whole area-'/                   0.3G    0.70  0.85   1.06   1.13   0.52   0.10   0.50   0.83   0.99   1.25   0.69
K = Kt x Kc                        0.31    0.73  0.88   1.12   1.23   0.56   0.11   0.54   0.88   1.07   1.36   0.73
P for 6 s latitude                8.65    8.64  7.76   8.50   8.17   8.39   8.08   8.20   8.41   8.19   8.56   8.33
U = Kxp(45.7t+813)                51.7   125.4 135.7  192.2  206.6   96.2   18.2   89.9  149.1  179.3  239.3  123.1
1CO
Seedbed & land prep.-,mx          50      100    5C                             10     50      50     10
Water requirement - .arT         101.7   ?22.4 185.7  192.2  206.6   96.2   28.2  139.9  199.1  189.3  239.3  123.1
Effective rainfall1'- ,ru
(8 in 10 yrs.)             158      139   152    104    101       91      99      75     41      15     48    101
Irr. req. at farm - mm             0       86    34      88    106       5       0     65    158    174    191        22
Overall irr. eff. in ,            49       56    53      53     56      49      53     56      60     60      56      53
Diversion req. - mm                0      154    64    166    189       10       0    116    263    290    341        42
Cropped area - ha                            54,6c   -        -_ -                                         _ 48,ooo - 0j
Vol. of water -      m3            0      84.1   34.9   90.6  103.2   5.5        0     55.7  126.2  139.2  163.7   20.2
Discharge req. - m3/sec            0      31      14     34      40      2       0     21      47     5L4/   61        8
Divertable flow/'- m3/sec
(8 in 10 yrs.)              65       65    65      65      65     65      65      65     54      48      65     65
/ Taking into acc.,unt t'he Gclonzan system or staggering of paddy planting dates and the stopage
irrigatiAn t-o weeks before harvest (during which period padny utilizes the pool of water stored                 (D
'r. the paddy field).                                                                                                J
7' Efecti';e rainfil',  at ?nrang,, L in lC years,  Luring 1954-1569.
3/  7here is enouagh water so irrigate the originally desi,ed coiumandea area of 64,000 ha during the
wet season.
L/ ::'ij--r. olvertable' flow  S  aio'eJ to existing canal capacity oi 65 m3/sec.
,/ The remE re-ent r'^P1g  Tra (ivprt,Ahle flow b,- about 12' and for onlv one month; this is acceptable






INDONESIA                                                         ANNE): 7
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT m
CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE
CONSTRUCTION YEAR   1 I
WORKS                       1969    T      1970    1      1971           1972          11973    |       974
_ .. _ _________._____________._ _    DRY    W ET    DRY   WET    DRY   WET    DRY                  Y   WET      DRY   \ET
TJIUDJUNG SUB-PROJECT
PEMARAJAN BARRAGE
PRIMARY AND SECONDARY CANALS
STRUCTURES 2/                    ..i_.          _ .    __
EARTHWORK --"RIMARY CANALS       .IIIII.  gm 
EARTHWORK - SECONDARY CANALS   ,                  _ . _,     _
TERTIARY CANALS
STRUCTURES
EARTHWORK
DRAINAGE
STRUCTURES
EARTHWORK
OTHER FACILITIES
ROADS & PATHSm'-    %
OFFICES, BUILDINGS & CAMPS                          _,  1*
PEMALI-TJOMAL SUB-PROJECT
SERVICE AREA CONSTRUCTION
MALAHAJU, AREA A                              ._
PEMALI, AREA B                     m.          mu.m
KUMISIK, AREA C                 j   n.
GUNG, AREA D                       m
TJATJABAN, AREA E                 _    __e*
UPPEF: WALUH, AREA F             . . __
LOWER WALUH, AREA G
SRAG I , AREA H                       m            i*l       S -        -U
OTHER FACILITIES
ROADS & PATHS                                     *          _
OFFICES, BUILDINGS & CAMPS                       _,          _
SADANG SUB-PROJECT 4/
BENTENG BARRAGE                 _ _. _e re,    _n *_,  I *         _        v- 
PRIMARY AND SECONDARY CANALS
STRUCTURES (2)                       .  .      . ,._,,
EARTHWORK - PRIMARY CANALS             ,
EARTHWORK - SECONDARY CANALS         . _        t      a,
TERTIARY CANALS
STRUCTURES
EARTHWORK
DRA INAGE
STRUCTURES                                       _ _
EARTHWORK                                                     _ _
OTHER FACILITIES
ROADS & PATHS                                 _i _                                          M*..
OFFICES, BUILDINGS & CAMPS   _       -     -              - *            - .            -  -           -        -
I/ CONSTRUCTION YEAR IS SAME AS FISCAL YEAR, APRIL I TO MARCH 31.                              LEGEND
T/ INCLUDING STEP-LANDINGS ON CANAL BANKS.                                -.masme..WORKS CARRIED OUT PRIOR TO APRIL 1971
INCLUDING WORKS IN 19b Ir-uR PEMALI-TJOMAL ONLY.
INCLUDING SIDENRENG AND ALITIA EXTENSION AREAS.                               1971 - 74 WORKS
IBRD -50c1






nttRoAr!OM NuiasrrAz'ON  oJ' U?
Cost Lstimates - riiudjung Sub-Project (24,300 Ha)
:;stinated            pcpenditure3         4xpenditure3   Project Cost 3st. 1971 to Completion l/  Project Cost gst. 1971 to Complition 1/
Progra.n Cost          in 1969               for 1970                   in Million Rp                            n Thousand U6* 2/
No.        Item                                 M;llion Rp           Million Rp            Million Fp            Local      Forsizn       Total            Local      Foreijn      Total
1.  ?Eoaraean _arrage                             2)                              -                                19          1           20               50           3           53
Pri-.iry a-.d 33c2ary Canals
2.  S.jctures 3.-                                lLD                   5                     30                   100          5          105              265         13           278
3.   arthwork - Frin3ry Canals                   lLl                  20                     -                    121          -          121              320           -          320
l,,  Lar'ihwork - 5.zondary Canals                55                   -                     30                    25          -           25               66           -           66
Terttar\     als lP
=sU        -  -                               12                                         -                     11          1           12               29          3            32
6.  .ar-  ::  (first 5Ci r only)                    9                  _                     _                      9          -            9                24          -           24
7.r   33
7.  a'>;-.:3u                                       1                  _                     _                      1          _            1                3           -            3
8.   arcnsro-k                                     35                  _                                           35          _           35                93          _           93
Other Fa-ilit'es
9.  Roads 5       -                               125                                        15                   110          -          110              291                      291
10.  Offi:es, BIiidinr,s and  .a-s                  15                  -                     15                     0          0            0                 0          0            0
SUF-TOCA.L Civil .iorks                     553                   25                    90                  431           7          1438           1,140         19        1,159
11.  Sonstruction and O&M 3quipment                39                   -                     -                     -          58           58               -          1 3          15
12.  Consultants' s3rvices                         98                                         23                     7         68           75                18        1 0          19a
13.  rraining of Y.1 ?ersonnel                       5                  -                                            5          -            5                13          *           13
1L.  0CO  during Fen-ibilitation                    a9                  9                     14                    66          ,           66               175                     175
15.  Managsernt A,s-. to PRO33A                     11                   _                                           1         10           11                 3         26           29
16.  Adnintstration & Overhead, 15% 6/             111                                        15                    96          _           96               254          -          254
17.  Contingencies:
(a) Quantity Cnaneus & Un-o.seen, 15% 7/ 127                                             18                   91                   .                                            298
(b) Price :s3ala:ion, 454 per aLrum 3, -       4                   -                     .                     61          475                          11         38           299
33% of S:rtn.:rks on terti3r. c.xals
in the e-.ent 'hat farnerE fail to
complete t56n.                            56                   _                                                      -            56               148         _           1148
TOTAL Sub-Fr-oect Cost                     1,153                   34                   160                  8114 79                 993             2,153        473        2,626
s=v=s           ~~as.                 S...                   S..       5=                                         U.         US=
,1 bon3struc.ticn y-ir is sas eas fis-al year, April 1 to March 31.
2/ Inconsistenzies duse to rounding.
3/ Including s9ep-landinFs lo be built on canal banks wherever primary and secondary canals pass through villages for controlling access.
Each landing will be about 3n wide.  Spacing between land1ngs estimated about 1Om.  Sstisated cost of landings Rp 14 million (350 units).
L/ The proj:at includes all t3reiary carsls.  PROSIDA wrill construct only the first 50m of each tertiarr canal but will build all structures
in the canal. Farners will -onstruct ttie remaining length of canals.
5/ Roads include: (a) rehabilitation to 9g kce of existing service roads at Rp 700,000/Ice
(b) construction of 10 km of naw service roads at Rp 2 million/Jk, sni                                                                                                      I3
(c) construction of new inspection paths  (for motorcycle) of 65 ks at Rp 650,000/ke.l
6/ 15 percent of cost excluding 1969, all in local currency.
7/ 15 percent of cost excluding 1969.
8/ 5 percent simple rate per annum, starting from April 1, 1971



;_st^ oess L-2 y.w,1 .9jb-Pro1ect 4'23 O0 Ha)
"ot    in 1P69                for 1977                   nl'U,,                                   in Thovea.-d11*
No.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~r Itet                                in l99fo   92.                           Pro  or t   L s   rt. 197  t  ~owe Io          Pro3ect Cot 1st. 19t71t.ZorWnletlon  1t
No.    Itsm                                      xi :-1~'l ipn _q,       -11n Rq               lIlx I-, R, to                   F, -al  .-C rct.             I'cal       Foreign       7otal
1.  .Nain Weirs (L1 wetra)                          1,089                295                    86                    673          35         1'03               1,780       93           1,873
Pritmary and S^onda-  2a
2.  Structurei 3                                       3L                 -                     53                    702         3?                             1,963      133          2,066
3.  1srthwork - Frimry Canalsn                         793                !Z7                   31                    S35                     635                1,680       -            1,680
4.  1srthwork - S-condary Canals                                          -                     -                     S13         -            6b3               1,701       _            1,701
Terti*ry CanaLs 1'
5.  Structure                                           '2                                     4- 19                                3           52                 130        8             138
6.  &arthwork  (ffrst 5.Je a m)                         b^                _                     _                      L2         -             42                 111       -              111
Drainage
7.  Structures                                          6                -                      -                       6                        6                  16       -               16
3.  Earthwork                                           53                                                             53                       53                 140       -              14.0
Other Facilitits
9. Roads 5T                                           176                 -                      8                    L68         -           L68                1,233                    1,238
10.  Offices, Buildinis and CaVs                        35                _                       3                     27         _          _27                    71       -               71
SUB-POrAL civil Works                          L,G23                422                  186                  3,33a          77        3,415               8,830      20b           9,031
11.  Construction and O&'4 Auipen.t                     180               -                       4                    -          289          239               -           764             7E4
12.  Lonsultants, sarvices                             654                 -                   115                      4s9       490          539                  130   1 296           1,L26
13.  Training of 0&  Parsonal                            26                -                     -                      26                      26                   69       -              69
14.  O&,4 during Fonabilitation                        478                  50                   61                    367                     367                   71                      971
15.  Kanagament Az;st. *0 PCSLA                          80               -                      -                       7         73           30                   19      193             212
16.  Administration & Overhead, 15  6'                 728                -                      37                    691         -           691               1,328        -           1,628
17.  Contingencles:
(a) Quantity 'h.e',gs & UJr.:oesern,n  1 J1       8 37                                     L L3                   671        139          810               1,775       369.         7214.
(b) Price _^alJation, 05  per an-:i 3/            Sf6                                      .-                                 93          541               1,115      246           i -.31
(c) FOvlsi^-  f- FASJIZA to C-rr- jT,
33% of i_t-t,     on t'::           l
in the cvao-t that far-trs f-1 to
CeO,leIs t.lAr..                             221                -                                            221        _            221                 585
TOTAL Sub-Fr;'ect Cost                          7,793                472                  ..,6                 5,818      1,161         6,979              15,39a   3,072           l8,464
Constructicn year is sa.ae as fiscall year, April 1 to March 31,
2/  InconJistencies due to rounaO
I/   Including step-landings to be ouilt on canal banks wherever priPsory and 3econdary canals pees  through villagee for controlling access.
Sach landing will be about 3, Uidd.   Sptrtng between landtings estimated about 10k.  lrstizLted cost of landirns Rp 61 nilUion  (1,600  units).
l/  The pro.9:: includes all ter1Iari car.alc.  PROSIDA will construct only the first 5t% of each tertiAry oanal bat  iUl bUild aul th
Structuras in the canal.  farners w-ll construct the remaining length of canals.
5/   Roads incljcic   j (a) constriction of 1M0 In of now service roads at Rp 2 maillion/I.
(b) Cnnstmruc.ion of 2'$ km or new inspoction pAths (tar r.otorcycle) at R  650,00/kn
6/   15 pertent of cost sexludirg 1061, all in local currency.
7/   15 pereanl of cost scjin;g 16.a
3/ 5 pereant siPple rate par  n         starting frr  April 1, 1971



VaGTr(6 222UIXrT?A?IOM PROJ~ZC? III
WST  u?unog.  - uA0Lrr M   is-rPoi  r      A&m
btl,Sl.d               tW_            up.a    W            Plo20    5eJt Ibt._ 197t to C     .tocfl V/ tproject Cost ,,ts V%71 _    Co,,1oe:lo
fr~su 5CJt             IA I                 tOt 1970                       ID 11=0  RA  hol 0i wO~   Ua2
Is.       It7                                 1aeli As                                    M 1.bkW                            ?Or.o'o    1t2AI.             Local       Forut.  *c-j
-1.  :31Ll  or7;  ':                                 29                  8~234                                                   12          216              617          32         651
2.t->y X S .J-nn-r  t. rzt                        191                  *                    3                   172            9           181              L55         26          4To
3.        or-.~-,yCnsal                             141)                0-78                                                                   826                                     3
3.  iartowrA-ooon.lrJ cacit                         1046                                      A il                  82           _            82               217         _          217
h t.,    Cork:*andol 6/15  
5.  a:r w.ures      -                                25                                                                           1           25                63          3          66
6.   ar-hwork (I'r.t 50  only)                       17
7.    -          ~       ~                           23                  -22                                                      1           23                53          2           60
8.  _,rthork                                        63                                                            653            -           653             1,728         -        1,723
71        _        i                    19                                  1            9                21          3           24
10.  rthwork                                          63hJ               ti                   19                      77                                         t
rer-tirr a  nx1 4/                           '                        '                                           2           .              2                 5                      5
12.   . ar. lrk  (rf!rst, So a ss_')                   2
13.     tosoi                                         12                 _                    _                      12          -             12                32        _,
13.   ~                                                                                                                                                                             5
,L.  - rthvr'4,,..6 ,,
A,oZr  .-.,
15.   LMC3.M3-A 12                                                                                                   n            1            12                29          2
AI        h.or k IAoos                                12                                                             12                        12                32        *
17.  3L1LUt                                                                                   -                                                                   3
---k (n--& 50    ~         ~         2.-                                                           1                           13
^3.     to.or ls                                      ID                 _                                          10                          10               26        -              26
221 5tf. cXa, 3uXtfir;s & Cap                        150                                      15                   135                         1.35            357         -            'i7
22. ~tie.s. 11ol61go~  & Cou p
Sm.-or*L civil Works                        ),199                                      us                  1.518           25         1,543            4,u16        66          4,t6t*
23.    ,Orctloo r.d OD7  oquipamot                    78                 _                    _                     -           151            151               -                       3
25.  TroA.ltg of '-f      s    l                      1                                                             20          197            217                53      521           571
25.  oe.,~~~~~~ 0! ~~~l P,sooosl  15      -                     - ~~~~~~~~15                      -15                              I0                      4D6
26.    4d duriag i.erai1ltation                      133                 19                                                                     99               262                    z6z
27.  Ktng*eo.t A-SL. to POSIDa                                                                                      J            30             3 W             2         _
i,69  Ad.,i--t- L^_, & Dverhao  151 6/               31o                                      _                     2                          23                788      -             788
29.  Ccotiog ...ios-
(a) Qnti;ty a-8g.s6   nforsee., 21  7/ 363                         _21                                         03           61            394              775     1l0             9JD
(b) frice                  54 p_,cs  *  r uuar a      -                                  _                    15            4            235              516      lDo
l:t  t-t-^          b            , 1% "     catrz
339 of i    ---' cn             c,rcmr C  s
in th. .t' t ,t far.erx fWil 0o
9plot  tic..                               127                 _                     _                    101           _            101               267       -
TO.AL d&-?rJ.et Cot                          _2 ]L. 212                                                   Z               503             3             6,725      1,3p   e       .5
*   OMAtrctis  Year Ins sM  do ria     p..,, Apir  I to Ibrb 3J.
2J ll on  i'st   1s oo  to rond5na.
2/ lus dIo.  st.p-1lodris.s 1. bt  bo111i  _  coal bnks whoreor prl-A   M   s_Oo                 easals pwg throup  v12.acs for controllirW  accss.
Eeb           ciii  o .bout )s -I1. SpanIng bhL-.n 1asdip   oasset *s.st 10                    tM.toid aos.t of landingo Rp 19  illionS (503 anits).
L7 Th. pro3sai Anolds all tortiory Cools.  PRMO30   will coa_ tl  op oft   t           Ig nn   5t of *Seah tlrtiary coma but sil  bld a11 strosiurse
ID tIA  cl.  fars  will sIaowt t6  rolalr4 Lowther se e
I? Xd, to bo  on.eructed inat   33 k0 of oorwics  rosd  at l I   U1mI   per km _  1P30  of ilupocim  patm. (for motorcycle)
at fip 6<3.030 por 30.
6/ 15 poroot of coost *cludiog 126, all La local curroaTy.
l  15 porcoat af sot JCl0l.dio   1*9.
5/   p src.ast  Lpl.  tA pr _.. .    .   *t.ti   tfr  AprL3 1, IM.



I N DpN  8 N S 1A
IRR2nATICtl REHABILITATION PROJMT III
S3UORY COST ESTIMATES
Estimated Program   Expeiturea    xpenditres    Pro,,ect Cost h;stimates 1971 to Completion  Project Cost Estimates 1971 to Completicn
Sub-Project               Cost             in 1969         in 1970       ............. im Rp Mlic n .    ......i......  ...................n ..S.. Thousand .
Million  Mp Million Rp          Million rP      Local              Foreign           Total  Local             Foreign             Total
TjiudJungu........        1,153               34            l6 0           1A                 179             993   2,153                473              2,626
Penal--Tjcalal             7,793             472  1/        i1 L6        5,818               1,161           6,979  15,392              3,072             18,464
Sadag.                     3327              1-48                        2,542                 503            3,o45   6,725             1,330              8,ff5
Total   ..        12,273              654            518          9,174               1,843          11,017  24,270              4,875             29,145
I/ Ianuding expetdiiires ia 1968.



ANNEX 8
Page 5
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT III
ESTIKATES OF DISBURSEMENTS
Est. Disbursements           Est. Balance Undisbursed
Quarter Ending                in the Quarter              at end of the Quarter
..............  ... US $    '000 
March 31, 1971                      -                             1h,500
June 30, 1971                     300                             14I,200
September 30, 1971                600                             13,600
December 31, 1971               1,300                             12,300
March 31, 1972                  1,400                             10,900
June 30, 1972                   1,100                              9,800
September 30, 1972                800                              9,000
December 31, 1972                 900                              8,100
March 31, 1973                  1,100                              7,000
June 30, 1973                   1,100                              5,900
September 30, 1973                700                              5,200
December 31, 1973                 700                              4X500
March 31, 1974                    900                              3,600
June 30, 1974                     900                              2,700
September 30, 1974                600                              2,100
December 31, 1974                 600                              1,500
March 31, 1975                    500                              1,000
June 30, 1975                     500                                500
September 30, 1975                500                                  0






7 U I OM F.: IA
1:1:11:71 W -I1,PII'8  I',J0' til
'Iri Iol   P ' AIIiuIO4rur  mn1.ll-.h.i          '00mw         Al  2
CI' 1' ior ,rtsC ( : t                                                             0,.O,
ih,0 I02ln    _ _    __   _                     r Ih      USti       10.    IIN $ o.     .       2        11,.      00$
L     :A1n1  tr,cck3, 5 ton                                         6r,/10      3        i8,0or    12    72,000        6      36,;0J           1c   ,, 30
2  r1'.'_   truckar.  ton W/winch e.cd boom                   ;,nOO       1        65,50      4    1'6,(Ori     2       13,000      7      45,50'
9     4 X 4 inspection Vehicles                                     3,iO0       6       lB,000      16    48,ooD       9      27,000      31      93,000
4     lbtor cycles                                                    k0       12        4,800    40    16,000    17           6,800    69        27,600
5     Lralln' 1 cu. yd. w/70 It. boom aod crane
,ttechmtnt                                                   4o,0oo       -          -        1    40,O0f        -         -         1      40,000
6     .vr Aii, 53/4 cu. yl. w/bcvm  exten3ion and
-rnne artacheen1                                             35,00')      -           -        1    35,000       _         .         1      35,000
7     1rmvrine, j eC. yd. w/crmne  ttschsnt                        30,000       -           -                 -         1      30,'00      1      30.000
8     Crwuler dozer, 120 hp v/towing  rinch snd
sheepfoot rollers                                            38,000       -          ,        2    76,000        -         -         2      76,000
9     Crawler dozer, 60 hp W/towing Winch sod
nheepfoot rollern                                           22,0D0        2       44,000      2    44,000        2      44,o000      6    132,0o0
tO    Front-end loaders, 3/4-1 cu. yd.                             35,CO       -           -        2    70,000                  -        2      70,000
lt    Notor rollers, 8-10 tot                                       7,000       1         7,000      2    14,000       1        7,200      4      28,000
12    MOblle troek crwn, 10 ton                                    25,000        -                   -        -        1      25,.,00      1      25,000
13    Fuctlon dredger (portable), 6"-8" cap.                       60,000                   _        -        -         1      60,2oo      1      60,000
14    25 ton lo, bed trailer w/diesl, truck tractor                25,000                            2 _  1    25,0X0  -                   1      25,000
15    15 ton low bed trailer w/diesel truck tractor                20,000                                     -         1      20,000      1      20,000
I6    ' 2bratory pile driver v/accessories                         20,000        _          _        1    20,000        .                  1      20,000
L7    ste,l sneet pile., 600 pcs - 10 .      nd 400 pc  8m          lot         -           _        1    70,000                           I -  1  70,000
le    Mechanical taupers.gasoline engine                            1,000       2        2,000       6      6,SJ0      4        4,000     12      12,000
'9    '>neraO'ne tett, diesel, 3 r./1                                1,000       2        2,0C0      6      6,000       3       3,220      -I    11,OD0
20    G op sets, diesel, 4' die.                                     1,000       1        1,000      3      3,000       2       2,000       6      6,0OO
21    Poop -eos, gasoline, 2V-3' dia,                                  400       2          80o      6      2,400       4       1,800     12        4,800
22    concrete mixers, 7 cu. rt.                                     2,000       1        2,000      2      4,000       1       2,300       4       8,000
23    Air compressors, 250 cft, on wheels                            3,000       1        3,000      3      9,000       2       6,0oo      6      18,000
24     ecLting machine, 251 AMp, portable on wheel                  1,100        1        1,100      3      3,300       2       2,'00      6       6,60o
25   O(x-Ace:?lene welding & cutting equipment                         300       2          600      6      1,0O0       3          00    11         3,300
2o    R-shct c      nl,o v,olst, 3-toa                                 200       2          400      6      1,200       3         o00      11       2,200
27    iachet cnaLin hoist, 14-ton                                      150       2          300      6         900      3         450      11       1,650
28    Jaek, Journal type, 25-ton                                       100       2          200      6        600       3         300    ii         1,100
2     . i0(0k, Journsl typo, 15-ton                                     75       1          150      6         450      3          225     11         825
0                 laols - ,ack haz-srs, tapers, viblrnore, ct,.     I ,          1                                              3000  1  601N  3.2i('    lot    l1,Oro
1     2,0 QUoc. tIok                                                  COl) orcesories  2.220  1  2020  j                       2, '20      5     10,00o
P -,,r c-min  sw. sa    ',                                             4                    Ioo               BoO       1         %')       4       1,6oo
3 3    :5  1,ioory vorkshop eq4ipeAet                               lot         -           -        -        -         1      :0'00        i     20,von
-4    1. .1 o  lr,-                                                  ct         2          14 O            2,4iD       3       1,2)    I1         4,40)
37    !.4r'IlO"ica.l ecui)Pr-l,Ot - Italf Rs,res, rai gn oes,
,,ter rvel recurlers, current meters, sediment,
rrr, otc                                                     lot         1        3,500       1      9,0rJ0     1        5.200     lot    17,500
3o    10,,), r'n,n,immotion eluipment - SI , rt range
1' 00,") VIrVy 11,5,  requeooy, 6N. Iv", rl(le1                                                                                      2
Vj                                                                            7.1tlI)Jr   ,qcc1        5 ,)    7";    33"1, 'I     i,>      1 ,zt
,    1.,''(, ira%n re..lv.r 'llpr-nt _ , cOj,r  r I-,, I 4,, Lr       .,       -          -        I      too         -         -         I _O,'))
3o    hnh),, transreceiver e3ulpmrent - mediun rne,g, 200 krA    3,",))          -               -                              6,ooo               t o,0oo
3"    V ,'ctmo%neous  O0uiprment & tool                             lot          1        449';')    1      7,2        -       5,075      lot    17,'115
1'pmono, 15%                                                I~~~~~~~~~   ~    ~~~~~~~~     ~     ~~~~ 4,1,0K),  &.L,4000  3.46,000  1.1143,000
'i.1en,  15 >)  01O1 000                10            1/ 
a.  { 1 1 ,1,, k s ) T;e _ I, , _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Y-0-0






ANNEX 10
Page 1
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PRDJECT III
SYSTEMS OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
General
1.        Each system's Operations and Maintenance (O & M) requirements
are described separately below, but there are some points common to all
projects:
(a) In order that effective control of operation and maintenance can
be obtained it is essential that service roads and inspection paths are
available. The rehabilitation budgets allow for bringing construction of
such roads and paths up to standard where necessary, and the maintenance
budget includes annual repairs for the inspection paths.  The service
roads would be handed over to PWD after construction and PWD would be
responsible for their maintenance.
(b) Reliable communications are essential for good operation and
control. The initial supply of VHF radio telephones has been allowed under
the rehabilitation budget. It is considered that good control can be
obtained by means of centralized stationery 60 W. VHF sets with mobile VHF
sets installed in the supervisor's vehicles. The proposed layout of sets
is indicated in the Organization Charts for each system (Figure III, IV and
V) and numbers of sets are given in the Equipment Lists attached to this
annex.
(c) Inspection of all areas showed a conspicuous lack of 0 & M
personnel; as stated in the Report, this is largely due to totally un-
realistic salaries for staff. Proposed adequate staffing and salary scales
are also indicated in figures III, IV and V of this report.
(d) The barrage at Benteng (Sadang) is presently being incorrectly
operated. It is being used as a weir with the water over-topping the gates.
The method of operation of all barrages and canal systems needs to be
reviewed and detailed operating procedures and criteria for each system
should be prepared and issued in manual form.
Tjiudjung Sub-Project
2.        This project covers an area of 24,300 ha.  As a result of the
long narrow shape of the command area, it is served by primary and second-
ary canals cov_.-ing only 138 ha per kilometer of system, whereas in Sadang
220 ha are covered by a kilometer of canal system. The Tjiudjung system
is therefore less efficient in its operation and will require greater
maintenance per ha.



ANNEX 10
Page 2
3.        The system is close to Djakarta and therefore heavy equipment, if
required, can be obtained from headquarters.  Estimated equipment require-
ments for the Tjiudjung Sub-project are given in Table 1 attached to this
Annex. The proposed organization for operation and maintenance is attached
at Figure IV. The estimated annual costs of operation and maintenance
based on Figure IV are as follows:
Estimated Annual Costs of Operstion & Maintenance: Tjiudjung
a.  Personnel Services (Figure IV)                  11,551,000
b.  Equipment Depreciation (See table 1 of           6,272,000
this Annex)
c.  Materials only                                   7,881,000
Gas 70,000 liters @ 40          2,800,000
Oil 1,050 liters @ 80             840,000
Lubricants lump sum   3           280,000
Masonry Materials 500M3 @ 1,500 750,000
Rip Rap materials 560M  @ 1,000 560,000
Timber Stop logs 14M3 (, c  0o0    70,000
Reinforced conc. 20M3 @15,000   300,000
Unreinforced conc. 70M3
@ 5,000           350,000
Steel for gates - L.S.             750,000
Vehicle repair @ 5% of
cost (labor)        1,047,364
Radio repalr                      133,250
7,880,614
d.  Office Sttrp].ies                                2,000,000
e.  Building Maintenance @ 5%                          750,000
f. Inspection paths maintenance
65 Kms @ 20,000                             1,300,000
g.  Contingency 10% of a, c, d above                 2,244,000
Total 0 & M Estimate       31,998,000
Command Area               24,300 ha
0 & M cost per ha          Rp  1,317
Pemali-Tjomal Sub-Project
4.        This system covers 123,000 ha.  The area is supplied from 41
separate weirs and is virtually therefore 41 separate syawtems. Four of
the major weirs have been washed out by floods and are -currently under



ANNEX 10
Page 3
construction. In order that the system can be properly maintained, the
estimated equipment requirements considered necessary are listed in Table
2 of this Annex.
5.        The suggested organization for the operation and maintenance
of the sub-project is given in Figure V. Based on this organization the
following is the estimated cost of annual operation and maintenance.
Estimated Annual Cost of Operation and Maintenance: Pemali:Tjomal
a. Personnel Services
(1) Administrative, Supervisory
& General Services                    5,040,000
(2)  Field Services (Figure V)             37,891,000
b.  Equipment Depreciation (See table 2
of this Annex)       20,918,000
c.  Materials only                              45,672,000
Gas                       8,000,000
Diesel Fuel D-6-C
- 1200 @ 40               480,000
Oil 4000 liters @ 80        320,000
Lubricants, Lump Sum        700,000
Masonry Materials
3000M3 @ 1,500          4,500,000
Rip Rap Materials
300OM3 @ 1,000          3,000,000
Timber Stop Logs
180M3 @ 5,000             900,000
Reinforced conc.
500M3 @ 15,000          7,500,000
Unreinforced conc.
80OM3 @ 5,000           4,000,000
Steel for gates L.S.      5,858,000
Vehicle repair, 5%        5,024,000
Radio repair                390,000
Misc. materials           5,000,000
45,672,000
d.  Office Supplies, Utilities, etc.             5,000,000
e.  Building Maintenance @ 5%                    1,750.000
f. Inspection paths
276 Kms @ 20,000                      5,520,000



ANNEX 10
Page 4
h. Contingencies, 10% of items
a, c and d.                9,600,000
Total 0 & M Estimate            Rp  138,891,000
Command area                            123,00n ha
0 & M cost per ha                  Rp 1,129
Sadan Sub-Project
6.        The area covers a total of 54,600 ha, of which 5,380 ha is
extension work. The area is neat and compact and would offer good prospects
for efficient maintenance. The equipment requirements for the operation and
maintenance of this sab-project are given in Table 3 following this Annex.
7.        The suggested organization for operation and maintenance for
Sadang sub-project is attached in Figure III. Based on this chart the
annual costs of operation and maintenance are as follows:
Estimated Annual Cost of Operation & Maintenance: Sadang
a.  Personnel services as shoJw- in Figure III       16,666,000
b. Equipment depreciation (See table 3 of
this Annex)          15,838,000
c. Materials only                                    10,882,000
Gas 100,000 liters @ 40    4,000,000
Oil 1,650 liters @ 80         132,000
Lubricants Lump Sum           440,000
Masonry materials 800M
@ 1,500    1,200,000
Rip Rap materials 900M3
@ 1,000      900,000
Timber Stop Logs  30M3
@ 5,000      150,000
Reinforced conc.  40M3
@ 15,000     600,000
Unreinforced conc.
lOOM3    @  5,000      500,000
Steel for gates L.S.        1,100,000
Vehicle repair 5% (labor)  1,660,000
Radio repair                  200,000
10,882,000
d.  Office Supplies                                   3,000,000
e.  Building Maintenance @ 5%                           750,000



ANNEX 10
Page 5
f. Inspection paths
130 Kms @ 20,000                           2,600.000
g.  Extra Silt removal 20,OOOM  @ 150                 3,000,000
h.  Contingencies 10% of a, c and d                   3,500,000
Total 0 & M Estimate        Rp.56,236,000
Command area                   54,600 ha
0 & M Cost per ha              Rp  1,030






ANNEX 10
Table 1
EQUIPMTNT REQUIREMENTS FOR OPERATIN AND MAINTE-TANCE OF TJIUDJUNG SUB-PROJECT
Itemn                                                Unit Cost CIF       Total Cost Annual Depre-  iotal Annual
No.                             Item                 Djakarta/US$  No.      us$        ciation in %  Depreciation
1   Dunp trucks, 5 ton                                    6,ooo     3     18,000          17.0          3,060
2   Flat-bed trucks, 5 ton with winch and boom            6,500     1      6,500          17.0          1,105
3   4 x 4 ir.npectlon vehicles                            3,000     6     1i,000          17.0          3,060
4   Motor cyclec                                            400    12      4,800          20.0            960
5   Dragline, 3/4 cu. yd. with boom extension
and crane attach-ment                             35,000     -           -          12.5
6   iDregline, A- cu. yd. with crane attachment          30,000     -           _         12.5
Crawler -iozer, 120 hp with towing winch
and sheepfoot rollers                             38,000      -                     15.0              -
8   Crawler dozer, 60 hp with towing winch
and .sheepfoot rollers                            22,000     1      22,000          15.0         3,300
9   Motor rollers, 8-10 ton                               7,000     1       7,000         12.5            875
10   Mobile truck crane, 10 ton                           25,000     -           -          12.5              -
11   Suction dredger (portable) 6"-8" cap.                60,ooo                 -          10.0             -
12   25 ton lowbed trailer with diesel truck
tractor                                           25,000      -          -          15.0              -
13   15 ton lowbed trailer with diesel truck
tractor                                           20,000      -          -          15.0              -
14   Mechanical tampers - gasoline engine                  1,000     2       2,000          15.0           300
15   Generating sets, diesel, 3 KVA                        1,000     1       1,000          15.0           150
16   Pump sets, diesel, 4" dia.                            1,000     1       1,000          15.0           150
17   Pump sets, gasoline, 2"-3" dia.                         400     2         800          15.0           120
18   Concrete mixers, 7 cu. ft.                            2,000     1       2,000          10.0           200
19   Ur  couoressors, 250 ei-m, oa wiheels                 3,000     1       3,000          12.5           375
20   Welding machine, 250 amp, portable on wheels          1,100     1       1,100          10.0            110
21   O-xy-acetylene welding & cutting equipment              300     1         300          10.0            30
22   Kachet chain hoist, 3 ton                               200     2         400          10.0             4o
23   Rachet chain hoist, 1  ton                             150     2         300          10.0             30
24   Jack, journal type, 25 ton                              100     2         200           5.0            10
25   Jack, journal type, 15 ton                               75     2         150           5.0              8
26   Air tools - Jack hammers, tampers,
vibrators, etc.                                      lot   lot       2,000          15.0            300
27   Sandblast tank with accessories                       2,000     1       2,000          15.0           300
28   Power chain saw, 42"                                    400     1         400          15.0             60
29   Stationary workshop equipment                        20,000     -           -          10.0              -
30   Hand tools                                              400  2 sets       800          10.0             80
31   Hydrological equipment                                  lot   lot       3,500          10.0            350
32   Radio coummnication equipment - short
range (100 km), VHF, 60W, 12V                      1,250      6      7,500          15.0          1,125
33   Radio transceiver equipment - medium
range, 400 km                                      3,500      -          -          15.0              -
34   Radio transceiver equipment - medium
range, 200 km                                      3,000      -          -          15.0              -
35   Miscellaweous equipment and tools                       lot   lot       4,950          10.0           495
Total                                                     _     -1   109,700                    US$16,593
or
Rp.6,272,000



ANNEX 10
Iable 2
EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS FOR OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE OF PEMALI TJOMAL SUB-PROJECT
Item                                                     Unit Cost CIF           Total Cost  Annual Depre-  Total Annuaar
No.                        Item                          Djakarta Us$    No.        Us$        ciation in %  Depreciation
1   Dump trucks, 5 ton                                     6,ooo       10       60,000         17.0          10,200
2   Fl.at-bed truck.s, 5 ton with winch mnd boom           6,500        3       19,500         17.0           3,315
3   4 x 4 inspection vehicles                               3,000      16       48,ooo         17.0           8,160
4   Flotor cycles                                             400      40       16,000         20.0           3,200
5   Dragline, 3/4 cu. yd. with boom extension
ard crane attachment                                35,000        1      35,000         12.5           4,375
6   Dragline, j cu. yd. with crane attachment             30,000        -            -         12.5               _
7   Crawler dozer, 120 hp with towing winch
and sheepfoot rollers                               38,000        1       38,000        15.0           5,700
8   Crawler dozer, 60 hp with towing winch
and sheepfoot rollers                               22,000        1      22,000         15.0           3,300
9   Fbtor rollers, 8-10 ton                                7,000        1        7,000         12.5             875
10   Mobile truck crane, 10 ton                             25,000        -           -         12.5
11   Suction dredger (portable) 6"-8" cap.                 60,000        -            -         10.0               _
12   25 ton lowbed trailer with diesel truck
tractor                                             25,000        1       25,000         15.0           3,750
13   15 ton loubed trailer with diesel truck
tractor                                             20.000        -            -         15.0               _
14   Mechanical tampers - gasoline engtne                    1,0j0        4       4,000         15.0             600
15   Geuerat'ng sets, d-scl, 3 K'.A                          .,00O        3       3,000         15.0             450
16   Pump sets, diesel, 4" dia.                              1,000        3       3,000         15.0             450
17   Pump sets, gasoline, 2"-3" dia.                           400       4        1,600         15.0             240
18   Concrete mixers, 7 cu. ft.                              2,000       2        4,ooo         10.0             400
19   Air compressors, 250 cfM, on wheels                     3,000       2        6,ooo         12.5             750
20   Welding machine, 250 amp, portable on wheels            1,100        2       2,200         10.0             220
21   Oxy-acetylene welding & cuttiag equipment                 300        4       1,200         10.0             120
22   Rachet chain hoist, 3 ton                                 200        4         800         10.0              80
23   Rachet chain hoist, 14 ton                                150        4         600         10.0              60
24   Jack, journal type, 25 ton                                100       4          40O          5.0              20
25   Jack, journal type, 15 ton                                 75       4          300          5.0              15
26 Air tools - Jack hammers, tampers,
vibrators, etc.                                        lot      lot        6,ooo         15.0             900
27   Sandblast tank with accessories                         2,000        2       4,000         15.0             600
28   Power chain saw, 42"                                      400       2          800         15.0             120
29   Stationary workshop equipment                         20,000        -            -         10.0               _
30   Hand tools                                                400    4 sets      1,600         10.0             160
31   Hydrological equipment                                    lot     lot        9,000         10.0             900
32 Radio communication equipment - short
range (100 km), VHF, 60W, 12V                        1,250       27       33,750         15.0          5,063
33 Radio transceiver equipment - medilu
range, 400 km                                        3,500        1        3,500         15.0             525
34 Radio transceiver equipment - medium
range, 200 km                                        3,000        -            -         15.0               _
35   Miscellaneous equipment and tools                         lot     lot        7,900         10.0             790
Total                                                      -        -     364,150                    US$55,338
or
Rp.20,918,000



ANNEX 10
Table 3.
E UIPMENT REQUIREMENT FOR OP1tATION AND MAINTENANCE OF SADANG SUB-PROJECT
Item                                                     Unit Cost CIF          Total Cost  Annual Depre-           Total Annual
No.                       Item                                            Noa      US$        ciation in       %    Depreciation
1   aimp trucks, 5 ton                                      6,ooo        5      30,000          17.0                 5,100
2   Flat-bed trucks, 5 ton with winch and boom              6,500        2      13,000          17.0                 2,210
3   4 x 4 inspection vehicles                               3,D00        9      27,000          17.0                 4,590
4   Motor cycles                                              400       17       6,800          20.0                 1,360
5   Dragline, 3/4 cu. yd. with boom extenaion
and cr ne attachment                                 35,00D        -           -         12.5                      -
6   Dragline, i cu. yd. with crane attachment              30,000        1      30,000          12.5                 3,750
7 Crawler dozer, 120 bp vith towing winch
and sheeproot rollers                                38,000        _           -         15.0
8 Crawler dozer, 60 lip with towing winch
and sheeptoot rollers                               22,000         1     22,000           15.0                 3,300
9   Motor rollers, 8-10 ton                                 7,000        1       7,000          12.5                    175
10   Mobile truck crane, 10 ton                             25,000        1      25,000          12.5                 3,125
11   Suction dredger (portable) 6"-8' cap.                  60,ooo        1      60,000          10.0                 6,000
12   25 ton lowbed trailer with diesel truck
tractor                                             25,000         -           -          15.0
13   15 ton lowbed trailer with diesel truck
tractor                                              20,000        1     20,000           15.0                 3,000
14   Mechanical tampers - gasoline engine                    1,000        3       3,000          15.0                    450
15   Generatina sets. diesel, 3 FVA                          1,000        2       2,000          15.0                   300
16   Pump sets, diesel, 4" dia.                              1,000        2       2,0n0          15.0                    300
17   Pump sets, gasoline, 2"-3" dia.                           400        3       1,200          15.0                    180
18   Concrete mixers, 7 cu. ft.                              2,000        1       2,000          10.0                    200
19   Air compressors, 250 cfi, on wheels                     3,Do         1       3,000          12.5                    375
20   Welding machine, 250 ap, portable on wheels             1,100        1       1,100          10.0                    110
21   Oxy-acetylene welding & cutting equipment                  300       2         600          10.0                     60
22   Rachet chain hoist, 3 ton                                 200        2         400          lo0                     40
23   kachet chain hoist, lj ton                                 150       2         300          10.0                     30
24   Jack, Journal type, 25 ton                                100        2         200           5.0                     1D
25   Jack, journal type, 15 ton                                  75       2         150           5.0                      8
26   Air tools - Jack hammers, tampers,
vibrators, etc.                                         lot      lot       3,000          15.0                   450
27   OPndblast tank with accessories                         2,000        1       2,000          15.0                    300
28   Power chain saw, 42"                                      400         1        400          15.0                     60
29   Stationary workshop equipment                             lot      lot      20,000          10.0                  2,000
30   Hand tools                                                400    3 sets    1,200            10.0                    120
31  1iydrological equipment                                    lot      lot       5,000          10.0                    500
32   Radio cormruication equipment - short
range (100 ka), VHF, 60W, 12V                         1,250        9      11,250          15.0                 1,688
33   Radio transceiver equipment - medium
range, 400 km                                         3,500        -           -          15.0
34   Radio transceiver equipment - medium
range, 200 km                                         3,000        2      6,0o0           15.0                   900
35   Miscellaneous equipment and tools                         lot      lot       5,075          10.0                   508
Total                                                       -        -    310,675                            t $41,899
or
Rp.15,838,Oo






ANNEX 11
Page 1
I N D O N E S I A
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT III
ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT OF PROSIDA
The following draft decree was agreed during negotiations and
will be issued prior to presentation of the proposed credit.
DECREE OF THE MINISTER OF PUBLIC WORKS AND POWER
NO.    /KPTS/1970
RE-STRUCTURING AND IMPROVEMENT OF ORGANIZATION OF TIIE
IMPLEMENTAL BODY FOR IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT IDA
(PROSIDA)
The Minister of Public Works & Power
Considering:         a.   That in view of the anticipated increase of
credits extended by the World Bank (IBRD/
IDA) to the Government of Indonesia and the
extensification of "PROSIDA" responsibilities,
i.e. the rehabilitation of irrigation-systems
in areas included in PROSIDA Series-B projects;
as designated by PWP Ministerial Decree No. 95/
KPTS/1970; it is deemed necessary to improve
the structural organization of "PROSIDA", as
resolved by PWP Ministerial Decree No. 79/KPTS/
1969 Juncto 95/KPTS/1970 juncto 134/KPTS/1970,
to increase the efficiency and effectiveness
of PROSIDA, so that optimum results may be
achieved.
b.   That to achieve the above a decree is required.
Taking into          1.   Presidential Decree No. 183 Jo. 184-1968
account
2.   PWP Ministerial Stipulation No. 3/PRT/1968 Jo.
0 3/PRT/1969
3.   PWP Ministerial Decree No. 79/KPTS/1969 Jo.
186/KPTS/1969
4.   PWP Ministerial Decree No. 95/KPTS/1970
5.   PW? Ministerial Decree No. 134/KPTS/1970



ANNEX 11
Page 2
RESOLVES:
Decrees:                   Restructuring and improvement of Organization
of the Implemental Body for Irrigation Rteha-
bilitation Project IDA (PROSIDA), as resolved
by PWP Ministerial Decree No. 79/KPTS/1.969 jo.
186/KPTS/1969 jo. 95/KPTS/1970 jo. 134/KPTS/1970.



ANNEX 11
Page 3
CHAPTER I
ORGANIZATION STRUCTURE
Article 1
1.   To the Organization of the Implemental Body for the Irrigation Re-
habilitation Project IDA (PROSIDA), as specified by PWP Ministerial
Decree No. 79/KPTS/1969, shall be added Assistant Management. So
that this organization now contains the following elements:
a.   Management
b.   Assistant Management
c.   Management Staff
d.   Sub-projects
e.   Consultant Team
2.   To promote continuity of Project-implementation, an advisory group
is also instituted.
MANAGEMENT
Article 2
1.   The Project shall be managed by a General-Manager who shall be
responsible to the Director General of Water Resources Development.
2.   The General-Manager shall conduct general management, issue instruc-
tions, supervise and perform other duties necessary to achieve con-
tinuity and the Project goals.
3.   In the performance of his duties the General-Manager is assisted by
an advisory group, appointed by the Minister of Public Works & Power
on recommendations of the Director General of Water Resources Devel-
opment in the formation as specified under Chapter III Art. 5 of
PWP Ministerial Decree No. 79/KPTS/1969.
ASSISTANT MANAGEMENT STAFF
Article 3
1.   In the performance of his general manageiral duties, the General
Manager is assisted by an Assistant Management Staff consisting of:



ANNEX 11
Page 4
a.   Two Chiefs of Staff
b.   Two Assistant Chief Engineers
c.   The following Assistants:
1.   Assistant    I : Planning and Design
2.   Assistant   II :  Construction
3.   Assistant  III : 0 & M and Staff Training
4.   Assistant   IV : Logistics
5.   Assistant    V : Finance
6.   Assistant   VI : General Affairs
2.   To each Assistant may be assigned a number of aids, to be determined
by the General Manager.
Article 4
1.   The Chiefs of Staff are:
1.1.      Chief Engineering Staff, who will implement and
coordinate staff activities pertaining To Engineering.
1.2.      Chief Administration Staff, who will implement and
coordinate staff activities pertaining,to administra-
tion.
2.   The Chief Engineering Staff and the Chief Administration Staff as
per sub 1 above shall be responsible to the General Manager on their
respective duties.
3.   The Chief Engineerirng Staff and the Chief Administration Staff shall
be appointed and discharged by the PWP Minister an the recommendation
of the Director General of Water Resources Development.
4.   If so required, the Director General of Water Resources Development
on the approval of the PWP Minister may assign foreign experts to
aid Prosida Assistants through Chiefs of Staff, in the performance
of their particular duties.
Article 5
1.   The Assistant Chief Engineers are:
1.1.      Assistant Chief Engineer for the Series A-projects
who shall assist the Chief Engineering Staff spe-
cially with the implementation of Prosida Series
A-projects.



ANNEX 11
Page 5
1.2.      Assistant Chief Engineer for the Series B-projects
who shall assist the Chief Engineering Staff spe-
fically with the implementation of Prosida Series
B-projects.
2.   The Assistant Chief Engineers in the execution of their duties shall
be responsible to the Chief Engineering Staff.
3.   The Assistant Chief Engineers as per sub 1 above shall be appointed
and discharged by the PWP Minister on the recommendation of the
Director General of Water Resources Development.
Article 6
1.   The Chief Engineering Staff will be assisted by the Assistants (Engi-
neering) in the performance of duties, i.e. by:
a.   Assistant   I : Planning             Arrange and implement matters
and Design:         pertaining to survey, investi-
gation and design.
b.   Assistant  II : Construction:        Arrange, plan and implement
matters pertaining to execu-
tion, planning of operations,
programming, time-schedules,
progress-reports and supervi-
sion of execution.
c.   Assistant III : 0 & M and Staff
Training:           Arrange, plan and supervise
the execution pertaining to
0 & M of Irrigation and staff
training and make concepts
concerning the establishment
and reestablishment of 0 & M
procedures.
2.   The Chief Administration Staff, will in the performance of his duties,
be assisted by assistants (administrative) i.e. by:
a.   Assistant  IV : Logistics:           Implement procurement, admin-
istration and distribution
pertaining to equipments and
supplies.
b.   Assc  iant   V : Finance:            Administer and implement matters
pertaining to financial admin-
istration.



ANNEX 11
Page 6
c.   Assistant  VI : General Affairs:   Administer and implement ad-
minstrative-, internal-,
secretarial-, personnel matters
etc..
SUB-PROJECTS
Article 7
1.   The Project has Sub-projects as follows:
1.1.      Sub-projects belonging to Series A-Project implementation:
a.   Sub-project Glapan-Sedadi
b.   Sub-project Rentang
C.   Sub-project Tjisedane
d.   Sub-project Way Seputih
1.2.      Sub-projects belonging to Series B-Project implementation:
a.   Sub-project Tjiudjuuig
b.   Sub-project Pemali-TjomaI
c.   Sub-project Sadang
2.   This structural organization and duties of the Sub-projects as per
sub 1 above has been specified in PWP Ministerial Decree No. 79/KPTS/
1969 Jo. 186/KPTS/1969 Jo. 95/KPTS/1970 jo. 134/KPTS/1970.
3.   In the event the Sub-project Manager is unable to perform his duties,
the Deputv Sub-project Manager (Engineering) shall be authorized to
manage and coordinate the work of the Sub-project and in such event
the Sub-project Manager shall, promptly as required, issue all neces-
sary authorizations to said Deputy to act on his behalf.
4.   In performance of their routine activities, the Sub-projects Deputy
Managers are allowed direct contacts with the Assistant Managers,
Chiefs of Staff and Assistants of PROSIDA Head-Office in accordance
with their individual fields and with prior notification of the Sub-
project Manager.
TASK-UNITS
Article 8
In conformance with the stipulations under Chapter III article
11 of PWP Ministerial Decree No. 79/KPTS/1969 matters pertaining to task
units shall be arranged as follows:



ANNEX 11
Page 7
1.   To promote continuity in work implementation (both design
and execution), the Sub-project Manager, with the approval
and instruction of the General Manager, is allowed to es-
tablish task-units.
2.   For each task as per sub 1 above the Task-Unit and/or/
Government/Private enterprise shall appoint one person
in charge of and responsible for the work concerned.
THE CONSULTANT TEAM
Article 9
1.   In conformance with the IDA credit-agreements, for the implementation
of the Projects, Consultant Teams of Consulting Engineering Firms
shall be engaged which will be assigned duties as specified under the
contracts specifically entered into for the purpose.
2.   The Consultant Teams above are:
2.1.      Consultant Team for the series A-Projects for the
Sub-projects Glapan Sedadi, Tentang, Tjisedane and
Way Seputih.
2.2.      Consultant Team for the series B-Projects for the
Sub-projects Tjiudjung, Pemali-Tjomal and Sadang.
3.   Work methods and other matters concerning said Consultant Teams shall
be further regulated by the General Manager, taking into account the
stipulations under the contract concerned.
CHAPTER II
OTHER MATTERS
Article 10
Pursuant to PWP Ministerial Decree No. 79/KPTS/1969, the author-
ity of the executive body PROSIDA includes the authority and responsibility
of the General/Sub-project Managers to enter into contracts in the Projects
and Sub-proje-L., interest, and to effect payments on the basis of said con-
tracts, in accordance with current regulations which conform to the annual
Presidential Decree on the implementation of Government budget and PWP
Ministerial Stipulations.



ANNEX 11
Page 8
CHAPTER IV
CONCLUSION
Article 11
1.   Stisulations contained under the articles of PWP Ministerial Decree
No. 79/KPTS/1969 jo. 186/KPTS/1969 Jo. 95/KPTS/1970 Jo. 134/KPTS/
19'70 shall retain validity insofar said stipulations are not con-
tradictory to this, decree.
2.   A diagram of the Restructurin7  & Improvement of Prosida Organization
is attached to this decree. a/
3.   Matters not arranged under this decree shall be regulated by the
Director General of Water Resources Development.
4.   This decree shall become valid from the date of issuance, with the
note that corrections and modifications, wherever required may be
affected.
ISSUED IN: DJAKARTA
ON        : SEPTEMBER 1970
THE MINISTER OF PUBLIC WORKS
AND POWER
IR. SUTAMI
Copies submitted to:
1. State Min. for Operational Control of Development
2.  Min. of Finance
3. State Secretariat/Secretariat for Operational Control of Development
4. Secretary of the Cabinet
5.  Secr. -Gen./Insp. -Gen./and Dir. Gen. within the Dept. of PWP
6. Directors within the Dir. Gen. of Water Resources Development
7. Bureau heads/Inspectors within the Dept. of PWP
8. Prosida General Manager, Djakarta
9. Prosida Sub-Project Managers
10. Archives
a/ See Figures I & II



INDONESIA
IRRTI'.ATION REHABILITATION IIT
DRY STkLK PADDY PRODUCTTOI
(Yield in tons/ha; Production in tons)
TJIUDJUNG
1)      (2)        (3)   (4)      (5)        (6)   (7)     (8)          (9)      (10)  (11)      (12)          (13)
Present Condition      After Rehabilitation  Increase in  After Rehab. & BIMAS    Increase in
Season  Land Status   Ha  Yield  Production   He  Yield  Production  Production   He  YieId  PFroduction   Production
I/                            2
Wet   Irrigated   20,000  2.0    40,000   24,300  2.5-   60,750         15,590   24,300  t.Cv   97,200         5?,040
Rainfed      4,300  1.2      5,160       -     -        -            -        -      -        -             -
Dry   Irrigated    6,000  2.0    12,000    9,000  2.5    22,500         10,500    9,000  h.0    36,0o0         24,000
Total     -       30,300   -      57,160   33,300   -      83,250       26,090   33,300         133,200        76,o40
PEMALI - TJOMAL
Wet   Irrigated   83,000  2.5   207,500  110,900  3.0    332,700        83,350  110,900  4.8   532,320        282,970
11   Rainfed     27,900  1.5    41,850      __      _        __          __        _
Dry   Irrigated   10,800  2.0    21,600   19,700  3.0       59,100      24,150   19,700  4.8    94,560         59,61o
it   Wild Irri-
gation  3/ 8,900  1.5    13,350      __--                                  --      - __  __
Total            130,600   -   284,300  130,600   -    391,800    107,500  130,600   -    626,880             342,580
=.====   ======  =====      =====    ============       =======                ===
1/ Assuming that the existing varieties will be grown after rehabilitation.
2/ These yields assume that 50% of the rehabilitated area would be planted to the new PB. varieties, and 50% to
improved local varieties.  The assumed yields are 4.25 tons/ha and 3.75 tons/ha respectively at Tjiudjung,
and 5 tons/ha, and 4.5 tons/ha at Pemali-Tjomal and Sadang.                                                                 (D
3/ Land within the Droject area which is at present irrigated directly from minor rivers and streams where water               H
is not available from the systems canals.



IND ONES IA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION III
DRY STALK PADDY PRODTJCTION
(Yield 1n tonsi~ 71? Fi'bfc~tTi-nT tons)
SADANG
(1)      (2)         (3)    (h)       (5)       (6)   (7)       (8)          (9)        (10)   (11)    (12)          (13)
Present Condition         After Rehabilitation   Increpse in    After Rehab. & BIMAS   Increase in
Season  Land Status   Ha    Yield  Production lie   Yield  Prodcution  'Production Proucio7-ud`idcton  Production
Wet     Irrigated   h9j000   2.5       122,500  54i400  3.0      163,200      32,600    54,h400    .8    261,120       130,520
It     Rainfed       5,h00   1.5        8,100            -         -           -           -      -         -
Dry     Irrigated   12,800   2.0        25,600  40,800  3.0      122,O00      96,800    4o, 800   4.8    195,8h0      170,240
Total:               67,200    -       156,200  95,200   -       285,600    129,h00    95,200    -        456,960     300,760



ANNEX 13
Page 1
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT III
WAGES AND LABOR REQUIREMENTS
1.        Wages paid for farm work are usually in kind, on the basis of a
portion or percentage of the crop production. The equivalent values for
the portion paid in kind were computed at Rp 150 per day, without food, for
a mature man, Rp 75 per day for women, and Rp 50 per day for children doing
equivalent farm work.
2.        Estimates of labor requirements for crop production vary consi-
derably, depending upon differences in cultural practices, land and soil
conditions, equipment and farm power available, and many other factors.
Data on typical farms obtained from field surveys in 1969 are summarized in
Table 1.
3.        About 300 man-days per ha of family labor are required without
BIMAS and 325 man-days with BIMAS inputs. This difference with BIMAS is
due to additional time required to fertilize, spray and harvest the in-
creased production. The amount of rice paid for performing farming opera-
tions that are frequently custom hired are as follows:
BIMAS Gotong Rojong Inputs
(fertilizers, insecticides, etc.)             1/6 of total yield
Harvesting                                      1/5 of total yield
Hulling and milling                             1/10 of dry stalk
paddy processed
Bird protection                                 1/12 of total yield
Transport from village to rice mill             Rp 15 per 100 kg dry
stalk paddy per 1 km






MNNEX 13
Table 1
I N D O N E S I A
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT III
LABOUR REQUIREMENTS FOR RICE PRODUCTION
(Man days perha)
2per ation                          Without BIMAS Inputs       With BIMAS lpluts
Preparation and Planting Nursery                   10                      10
Preparation of Paddy Field                         40                      40
Transplanting                                      18                      18
Weeding (Twice)                                    30                      30
Fertilizing:
Nursery                              --                       1
Paddy Field                          __                       5
Spraying (twice)                                   --                       6
Bird and Animal Protection                         20                      20
Irrigating                                         50                     50
Harvesting                                         25                      30
Hulling                                            20                      20
Transporting to Farm                                2                       3
215                    233






ANNEX 14
Page 1
I N D O N E S I A
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT III
FARM BUDGETS
1.        Tables 1 to 9 following, give representative farm budgets for
three sizes of farms in the sub-project areas. The farm size distribution
varies in the different areas, Tjiudjung having the smallest and Sadang the
largest holdings. (Annex 2 para 18). The opportunity cost of family labor
is close to zero and has been assumed as such in the report. It has there-
fore not been costed at the market wage rate, but the farm family's consump-
tion of rice has been deducted from gross returns to arrive at net returns,
thereby inputing a cost of family labor to that extent. The terms used in
the farm budgets are explained below.
2.        Gross Return:  This has been calculated for each farm size assum-
ing a uniform pattern of cropping for farms of all sizes. This is a fair
assumption inasmuch as rice is very dominant in all the cropping patterns.
For Pemali-Tjomal returns from other crops and the rent for leasing land to
sugarcane factories have been included in the gross return. Since the
computation of gross returns is fairly complicated, an example is given to
illustrate the method. In Tjiudjung, at present, the irrigated area in the
wet season is 82.3 percent of the total cultivated area. The remaining 17.7
percent is rainfed. In the dry season 24.7 percent is irrigated. The
average yields are 2,000 kg of mill dry stalk paddy/ha rainfed. The price of
mil1 dry stalk paddy is Rp 14.5 per kg. The gross return from an average
half hectare farm is therefore computed as follows:
Area
Culti-       Farm
vated        Size       Yield            Price   Gross Return
(%)        (ha)         (kg)             (Rp.)       (Kp)
0.823   x    0.5   x   2,000       x    14.5  =   11,933
0.177   x    0.5   x   1,200       x    14.5  =    1,540
0.247   x    0.5   x   2,000       x    14.5  =    3,581
1.247                Total Gross Return        =Rp 17,054
3.        Production Costs:
(a)  Hired Labor: An average family of two adults and three children
is capable of firming up to one hectare of land without hired labor, except
during harvests Therefore, hired labor costs are zero up to one hectare,
since family labor has been costed at zero. Average labor cost thereafter



A NNEIX 14
is estimated at Rp 19,000 per hectare per crop. Hired labor usually bring
their own equipment and so this amount includes the uise of implements on
farms in excess of one ha size.
(b)  Harvest: One-tenth of the rice crop is  ;iven in pavment when
harvesting is done by hired labor.  On haIF-Thectare farms harvesting costs
may be lower than those shown since the farmers family can do most of it
themselves.  However, the general practice is to let the poorer women of
the village assist in the harvest.
(c) Equipment Depreciation: Farmers with a hectare or less land
generallv do slot use ploughs.  Hoeing is the common practice on small farms.
Equipment depreciation is therefore lower on smaller farms than on bigger
farms. Depreciation figures in the tables are for the one hectare cultivated
by Eamily labor onlv. The equipment hiring cost for areas larger than one
hectare has been accounted in the cost of hired labor (see (a) above). When
BTMAS/INMAS inputs are applied, the depreciation on spraving equipment is
estimated to average Rp. 200 per annum after the first vear (when it is
included in BIMAS costs). On larger farms, it hlas been assumed that the
programs would lead to increased utilization of farm equipment also.
(d)  BTMAS/IN AS: These terns have been explained earlier.  For
BIMAS/INMAS with local imnroved rice the Input package is estimated at
Rp. 9,000/ha, and with PB varieties at 9tT. 13,500/ha.  lt was assumed that
half the rice area could be farmed with l-cal imrroved varieties, and the other
half with PB (IRRI) varieties.  An averagc cost of RP 11,250/ha was there-
fore used. Only the rice area was assumed to have received fertilizer,
olant protection etc.  The cost-of-living payment of un to Rp 5,000/ha
was disregarded as It is actually a transfer payment and would be accounted
for in the budgets under Consumption,
4.        Tax: Land tax varies with the class of land.  As in practice, it
has often been pegged at five percent of gross value of production, that
percentage has been used.
5.        Seed and Waste: Average rice seed cost is Rp 1,000/ha.  It has
been assumed that the farmer will keep all his seed and consumption require-
ments and sell the rest. Waste has therefore been calculated as one-tenth
of seed and consumption combined. On half hectare farms however, the
present seed and waste has been calculated at 10% of total production minus
harvest payment since the rest of the total harvest is kept at home for
consumption.
6.        Consumption The average farm family size is 2 adults and three
children. For purposes of rice consumption, the total adult equivalent
unit per family has been estimated at four. With an average adult intake
of 144 kg of rice per annum, the family consumption of rice was valued at
Rp 17,873, based on 144 kg of rice being equivalent to 308 kg of mill dry



ANNEX 14
Page 3
stalk paddy (conversion ratio - 2.14), which is worth Rp 14.5 per kg at
farm gate. The farm gate price is used since the obvious alternative to
consumption is sale at farm gate.
7.        Cash Income: This is the value of farm products available to the
farmer for sale in the market. It is net of existing taxes, but not of the
water charges to be levied under the project.
8.        Off-Farm Work: The poorer farmers usually try to get some off-farm
employment in the slack periods. They cannot earn much from such employment
however as labor is in over-abundance. It is estimated that the average
annual earning from off-farm employment is about RD 5,900 per family. The
primary sources of off-farm employment are fishing and working as common
laborers or peddlars in nearby towns.



INDONESIA                           ANNEX 14
Page 4~
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT III
FARM BUDGETS
(All                     cropping intensities are in Rupiahs)
TABLE I
0.5 ha farm in Tji_#Lung
Present          After Rehab.        With BIMAS/INMAS
Cropping Intensity               12-                137T                     137
Gross Returns                   17,054             24,831                 39,730
Production Costs
Hired labor                       -                   -                     -
Harvest                          1,705              2,483                  3,973
Equipment depreciation             300                 300                   500
BIMAS/INMAS                       -                                        7,706
Tax (5%)                           852              1,242                  1,987
Seed & Waste                     2,035              2,539                  1,852
Consumption                     17 873             17 873                 17 873
____                         .__                      ._i_.
Cash_In'come-571+345,9
Off Farm Income                 +5,900             +5,900                 +5,900
TABLE 2
1.25 ha f n iudjn
Present          After Rehab.        With BIMAS/INMAS
Cropping Intensity                                  137T                    137%
Gross Returns                   42,637             62,077                 99,325
Production Costs
HiFeTTia^bor                     4,750              4,750                  4,750
Harvest                          .4,264             6,208                  9,933
Equipment depreciation             600                600                    900
BIMAS/INMAS                       -                                       19,265
Ta-x7,M----                     [2,132              3,104                  4,966
Seed & waste                    '3,501.             3,670                  1,958
Co6nsurtion                     17A73              17 873                 17 873
Cash Incomie                   1,873t   72                                39 680
TABLE 3
3.0 ha farm in Tuji_jung
I                 II                     III
Present          After Rehab.        With BDMAS/INMAS
Cropping Inte nsiti              125                137%1
Gross Returns                  102,330            148,987                238.380
Production Costs
Hired labor                     38,000             40,090                 40,090
Harvest                         10233             14,899                 23,838
Equipment depreciation             600                600                    900
BIMAS/INMAS                       -                                       46,237
Tax (5%)                         5,116              7,449                 11,919
Seed & Waste                     5,902              6,308                  2,198
Consumption                     17 873             17 873                 17,873
Cash Income                     2606                                      95,325



ANNEX 14
TABLE                             ?Page 5
0.5 ha farm in Pemali-TDomal
I               II                        III
Present         After Rehab.        With BIMAS/INMAS
CropPing IntensitY            -T 1       1267                126A
Gross Returns                 20,429            26,462                 40,295
Production Costs
Hired labor                   _                  _                     _
Harvest                      2,043              2,646                 4,080
Equipment depreciation          300               300                   500
BIMAS/INMAS                    _                 _                    6,373
Tax (5%)                     1,022             1,323                  2,015
Seed & Waste                    2,454             2,h45                 1,888
_onstion                       17,873            17873                 17 873
uasn income            -3,               + l,M6                +7,5
Off-Farm Income               +5,900             +5,900                +5,900
TABLE 5
1.25 ha farm in Pemali-Tjomal
r     rr   ---                ~~~~~~III
Present        After Rehab.         With BIMAS/INMAS
Cropping Intensity
Gross Returns                 51,076             64,156               100,738
Production Costs
Hired labor                   3,040             3.040                 3,040
Harvest                       5,108             6,416                10,074
Equipment depreciation          600               600                   900
BIMAS/INMAS                    -                -                    15,933
Tax (5%)                     2,554              3,208                 5,037
Seed & Waste                    3,454             3,454                 2,038
Consumption                    17,873            17,873                17 873
Cash Income                  18,447             29,,565
TABLE 6
3.0 ha farm in Pemali-Tjomal
I                II                        III
Present         After Rehab.        With BIMAS/INMAS
Cropp4ng     p it                121'. -7. 63.-                   -    --206
Gross Returns                122,585            155,778               241,776
Production_Costs
Hired Labor                  34,010            34,010                34,010
Harvest                     12,259             15,878                24,178
Equipment. depreciation        600                600                   900
B DAS/ENI S                    _                _                    38,239
Tax (5%)                     6,130              7,939                12,089
Sees i Waste                   5,787             5,787                  2,388
Cons-,. Fion                  17 873             17 873                17p873
Cash Income                    5,92     g                             112,099



TABLE  7                             ANNEX 14
Page 6
1.0 ha farm in Sadanp
IT                 Trn
Present              After  t'hab.           W-th B DAS/TNMAS
Cropping Intensity                  -I I                     7 _ _8
Gross Return                        L4,921                 79,605              125, 384
Production Costs
Hired labor                           _
Harvest                            ]14j,92               7,961                12,5R
Equipment Depreciation                600                  600                   900
BIKAS/INMA.S                          _                    _                  119,732
Tax (51)                           2,246                 3,998                 6,269
Seed & Waste                          ?,271                3 B42                 2,088
Consumption                          17z971                 7f73                17,137T
Cash Income                          Th,Y39                   61,98L
TABLLE 8
2.0 ha frr,-:rin  din
I                      T. I                 III
Cronping Inrenit y                   135                    188%                  188%
Gross         Costs                  89,8L2              159,210               250,768
Produc,T-o: __osts
T ired I,bo r                     19,000                34,238                34,238
Harvest                            8t984                15,921                25,077
Ea,uipmnent Depreciation              60:0 600                                   900
BThYAS/INMAS                          .                                       39,L64
eax &  ) st4?92                                          7,960                12,538
.Seed & W:.ast2e 4,487                                     5,901                 2,161
on s tmp- L on                     17,873               17,873                17,873
Cash Inco,^ie                       3.ao6                 KI76,717             118,517
TABLE  9
he in f..rm -1n Sadang
1                1~~~~TI              III
Croppin:.7 Intensit,                 I35                     188,d               188%
G.ross !teturn                       E,60f              39P,'2                626,920
Production ';osts
Hired Labor                       90,155              1i9,L160               139,h60
Harvest                           22,460                39,803                62,692
Equiprnent Depreciation              600                   600                   900
BIffA 5SINMAS                        _                     _                  98,662
Tax (5w)                          11,230                19,902                31,34i6
Seed & 'iJaste                        9,206               12,061                 3,291
Consum-ption                         17,873               17,873                17,873
Cash Income                         77,Ui                16r,326               272,696



ANNEX 15
Page 1
I N D O N E S I A
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT III
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
1.        The economic rate of return has been calculated on the assumption
that (a) the Project will have a life of 30 years from the beginning of the
rehabilitation (1968/69); (b) effective 0 & M will be carried out during this
period; and (c) the coarse rice price, cif Djakarta, will be $100 per metric
ton in the late 1970's. All costs are net of import duties. Costs incurred
or to be incurred by the Government of Indonesia for rehabilitation and 0 & M
during 1969/70 and 1970/71 have been included, even though the proposed
credit would begin from 1971/72 (year 3 in the calculations). This is be-
cause 1969/70 was the first year of significant expenditure by GOI on re-
habilitation.
2.        The opportunity cost of family labor has been taken as zero in all
the calculations except in those where family labor has been costed for
testing sensitivity. Benefits after rehabilitation are net of incremental
production costs and the benefit derived from the BIMAS/INMAS programs are
also net of the BIMAS/INMAS input package cost. In areas where a new crop
can be grown due to increased availability of water, the entire cost of
production has been deducted to arrive at net benefits.
3.        With the expected costs and timing, and benefits assumed from re-
habilitation only, the rate of return of the project as a whole is 25% (Col.
2 in Table IA). With the same cost stream but with benefits from BIMAS
inputs, the rate of return increases to 37% (Col. 3).  if "Sunk" costs
expended between 1968 and April 1971, when the proposed credit may become
effective are excluded, the rate of return rises to 31% for the project
as a whole.
4.        The rates of return for the sub-projects are given in Tables 2, 3
and 4. With rehabilitation only these are 22% for Tjiudjung, 17% for Pemali-
Tjomal and 39% for Sadang. With BIMAS inputs, the rates of return are 42% for
Tjiudjung, 29% for Pemali-Tjomal and 48% for Sadang. These rates are compara-
ble to 25% without BIMAS and 37% with BIMAS (Columns 2 and 3 of Table IA) for
the project as a whole, since they have been calculated without costing farm
family labor and therefore do not impute any cost for digging of tertiary
canals by farmers.
5.        Sensitivity tests were made with various assumptions.  Tle results
of these tests are as follows:



ANNEX 15
Page 2
Rate of Return
Family farm-labor costed at the daily wage rate,
without BIMAS (Table IA, Col. 4)                                 19%
Family farm-labor costed at the daily wage rate, with
BIMAS (Table IA, Col. 5)                                         31%
ConstA-,ction costs overrun of 15% over 2 years and a
beneft.  slip of 2 years (without BIMAS) (Table 1B)              21%
Ric;c  ririce reduced 10% to $90 per ton cif Djakarta
(without B3MAS) (Table 1A, Col. 6)                               24%
Rice price reduced 25% to $75 per ton cif Djakarta
(without BIMAS) (Table 1A, Col. 7)                               19%
OM cost overrun of 20% (without BIMAS) Table IC)                25%
Increase of constructisn cost by 295, with benefits
only from reha!-iltatlon (TLatI L,}D)                            20%



ANNEX 15
Page 3
I N D O N E S I A
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT III
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
(All Amounts in Million US $)
table 1A
Incremental Net Value of Production (INVP)
Under Different Assumptions
Project
Year      Costs            2           3           4          5          6          7
1         1.7                   -           -          -           -               -
2         2.2                         ---
3        10.0            1.3         1.9        0.5         1.1        1.5       1.2
4         9.4            2.6         3.8        1.1         2.2        3.1        2.4
7.0           4.5-        6.3         2.7        14.4        4.6       3.6
6         2.7            6.5         8.7         5.3        7.5        6.1        4.9
7         0.5            8.4        11.2        6.9         9.6        7.7       6.1
8                       10.3        13.7         8.5       11.8        9.2        7.3
9                                   16.2                   13.9
10                                  18.2                   16.1
11          t             1         20.9                   18.0
4-~~~~~~~
30        0.5           10.3        20.9         8.5       18.0        9.2        7.3
Rates of Return:         25%        37%         19%         31%        24%        19%



Page l
Table 1B                     Table 1C                       Table 1D
Project                      Project                        Project
Year      Costs (8)      INVP (9)      Costs (10)      INVP (1X*       Costs (12)    INVP (13)
1          1.7            -             1.7                             2.1            _
2          2.2            -             2.2              -              2.8             -
3         10.           1.3             10.0            1.3            12$5           1.3
J4         9.4           2.6            9.4             2.6            118            2.6
5          7.0           4.5            7.0             4.5             8 7           4.5
6          2.7           6.5            2.7             6.5             3:14.         6.5
7          2.3           2.8-           o.6             8.4            0.5            R.4
9          2.3           5.6              I            10.3                          10.1
9          0.5           8.14,
10                      10.3
IV 
30         0.5         10.3             0.6            [0.3            0,A           10.3
Rates of Return:- 21%                                  25%                    20%
Tj iudjung
Table 2
Project
Year      Costs           Benefits after Rehab.            Benefits withiBINUS/INMAS
1          0.1
2          0.4
3          1.1                   0.1                          0.3
4          0.9                   0.2                          0.5
o.6                            0,4hL                        0 8
6          0.1                   07.i16F                      1.1
7j                               0.8                          1.3
5           |                    1.0                          1.6
9                                                             1.9
I                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~2.2
30         0.1                   1                            2.2
Rates of Return:                 22%                           42%



'ANN-Ex 157
Page5
Pemali - TJomal
Table 3
Year            Costs          Benefits after Rehab.           Benefits with  BIMAS/INMAS
1               1.2
,,            11.2
3              6.o                      0.7                           1.0
4              5.5                      1.4                           2.1
5              4.3                      2.1                           3.1
6               2.                      2.8                           h.2
7              0.3                      3.5                           5.2
8                                       Lz.2                          6.2
9                                                                     7.3
10                                                                    8.3
30             0.3                      4.2                           9.4
Rates of Return                         17%                           29%
Sadang
Table h
Year            Costs           Benefits after Reheb.           Benefits with BrMAS/INMAS
1               0.1h                     _                             _
2               0.6                      -                             -
3               3.0                     0.5                           0.6
4               3.0                     1.0                           1.2
5              2.0                      2.0                           2.3
6               0.1                     3.1                           3.6
7                                       4.1                           4.7
8                                       5.1                           5.8
9                                                                     7.0
10                                                                    8.2
11                                                                    9.3
30               .1                     5.1                           9.c7
Rates of Return                         39%                           48%






I N D O N E S I A
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT III
PROPOSED  PROSIDA  MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION
GENERAL MANAGER                                              ORY GROUP
PROSIDA                                1ADVIS
CONSULTANTS A                             1
CONSULTANTS B    1------UE *                                                                                                                                                          U
_~~~ :
...       As-                             CHIEF ENGINEER                                                                         Ma-Mnreet Assstnce
|  2.M.nr.e:nent Assishnce..  | -   (DEPUTY GENERAL MANAGER                                  CHIEF,ADM INSTRATION               Fin_nce & Adnia'stration
ASST. CHIEF ENG NEER    E                         ASST. CHIEF ENGINEER
A SEESR_                              _B SERiES
ASJEa   ANNI~NG  AC TE                                                   AASTSTLO AIRST.OEN.AIFRD
lEERD-5296






IN DONESIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT mI
PROSIDA SUB-PROJECT ORGANIZATION
SUB-PROJECT                                        PROVINCIAL
MANAGER.. ADVISORY GROUPI
III 
I CSON S U LRT AN T FTIREOLD                                                                       N          C
r    I                              |DEPUT~~~~~~~~~Y SUB-PROJECT|                            DEPUTYI
DESIGN                            UNIT MANAGERADMINISTRATION
ENGINEERING
|CHIEF O&M  III
SUVE  &         COSRCI 3        |MCAIA ||ADMINISTRATION|    FINANC                  COMPTROLLER|
-n
m
IBRD-5297






INDONESI A
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT  ml
SADANG SUB-PROJECT OPERATION 8i MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATION
DATA
54,600 H.
|I EARRAG E        
S     PROVINCIAL P.W.D.              FIAC45 KA  PROMARY CANAL
SIADANG PROJ, HQS. PINRANG
COMMITTEE                WHMMGMDMMM           PROJECT MANAGER
-  -                        1  ~~4x4   M   S        E-l
S VOPERATION SUPERVISOR A    LMAINTENANCE SUPERVISOR                                                          ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT S OPOWER PLANT SUPERVISPRSO
HYDRAULIC ENGINEER                      CIVIL ENGINEER BACKGROUND                                         BUSINESS ADM. BACKGROUNDl                    ELECTRICAL ENGINEER
_ 4x4  M  E3  2         M      .x      4 E   4x4    S      E   2       M
PRIMARY| SE    ARITSYSTEM  PR APPANG  SYSTEM     |BENTENG  HEADWORKS GE            CHARNTER          PTEMEN   &                  ASTNRFINANC                                  E ACC OUNTINGR APOWER PLANT OPERATOR|
GATOPERASORSO SUPERVISOR                      AND  SLUICEWAY         R        SRUCTURE SUPERVISOR    CANAL SECTION            SUPERVISOR (W    I)              SUPERVISOR
2-3 DIVISION  2-3 DIVISION~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                               E3                                                          33
4x4~~~~~~~~~.              m EE 3  x           E 3 4x                        E 3                  1                                                        E 3 SUEVSR E. ,E3E331 
GATE OPERATORS AN               FOREMAN AND                                                    NT                 TIME KEEPER
MAlNTENANCE MEN         |       CON CSETE                                                                   O  SMECHANIC
6\                E     |      |TECHNCA                                        |E4                                                 E E4
PRIMARY   SE 'ONDARY     PRM     i ili i 7EONDARY       |SADANG RIVR GAGE              NT                                        -ASSISTANT AUTO &          STORiE INVENTORYI  |ISi'E GAHERI
GATE OPERAORS               GATE OPERATORS   |          |STATION OPERATOR   I  SOE MAO   |  |SOEMON  ||EQUIPMENT MECHANIC |    & RECORD KEEPING|                                      
2-3 DIVISION        I   2-3 DIVISION         I          I        W||1-1II IIII
11&         ~~~~~ES I 5                 5             ES | E                  |          ES l                IS                                 E E5    |E||   E                             S|
|GGATE OPERATORS   O     GATE OPER ATOS     |                                         | TRUCK DRIVERS
} 3S\     6 |   3SK              E6 |                                         |6\    6 TUCKS    6S|A                                       SUMMARY OF STAFF REQUIREMENTS
*    GATE OPERATORS                                                                           PRIMARY ANrii D      I          | GRADE NO. SALARY/MO (Rp) TOTAL ANNUAL COST (Rp)
j    BASED ON I FOR     m                                                                           SECONDARY CANAL                     El    1    15,000                180,000
P/SCANAL  *                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                  ~      ~ ~~~~~~~MAINTENANCE ME  E2    000  8,0
P / S CANAL                                                                                 11 5\Ej                               E3   10    8,000                960,000                           SYMBOLS
-                                                                                                               E4    9     7,000                756,000
TERTIARY                TERTIARY                                                  LABORERS                                                  ES   28     6,000              2,060,000                     W
SYTEM                   SYSTEM                                                                                                              E3   76     4,500                150,                             STATIONARY RADIO
ULU-ULU                 ULU-ULU                                                                                                             E7150    4,200                 7.600.000                     5 SAINR   AI
IN,                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~E0   10    4,000       4800,000                    W   MBL   AI
N OTE:                                                                                  |          8200                    16,666,00C|                   4x4 4 WHEEL DRIVE VEHICLE
MAINTENANCE MEN BASED ON I FOR EVERY 1.5 KM OF PRIMARY/SECONDARY CANAL,                                                                               M   MOTORBIKE
NOT NECESSARILY EVENLY SPACED BUT IN WORK CREWS OF 10-30 MEN. PERFORM                                                                                                               o
WEED CONTROL, CANAL MAINTENANCE AND SILT REMOVAL.                                                                                                      6\  NUMBER OF MEN IN         c
THIS PERMANENT CREW SHOULD REMOVE 39,000 M3 OF SIlI ANNUALLY.                                                                                              POSITION
ADDITIONAL HELP FOR SILT REMOVAL ESTIMATED 20,000 M @ Rp 150.
IBRD-5018(2R)






INDONESI A
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT mI
TJIUDJUNG SUB-PROJECT OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATION
DATA
24,300 H.
PROVINCIAL PWD                                                I BARRAGE
95 K. PRIMARY CANALS
TI KJ SECONDARY CANALS
IRRIGATION ADVISOR   T*MbMMDb        PROJECTMAGE
COMMITTEE                       PRJC MAAE
_4x4      TM          E I
OPERATION SUPERVISOR                    MAINTENANCE SUPERVISOR                                ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT
HYDRAULIC ENGINEER                      CIVIL ENGINEER BACKGROUND                              USINESS ADMINISTRATIVE
W                                      W                                             sACKGROUND
4G4                E2 4E4    M                                  E 2                                               E 2
PRIMARY - SECONDBARY      PERMARAJAN BARRAG      I  MECHANICAL AND STRUCTUREC   PRIMARY - SECONDARY DRHEP S        ITO                 INANCE - ACCCUNTiNG
VR           AND HEADWORKS SUPVR,    SUPERVISOR                      CANAL SECTION SUJPVR.     (WORKING)         
4X4~~~~~ M      3    4x4      T        E 3     M                      E 3    ME: EE                                                                    E 31
GATE OPERATORS AND BFORSMAN - CONCRETE                                           AUTO - EQUIGAE   NO.    ARMO KEPER    T
MAINTENANCE MEN              EHCAN                                               MCNI||                                           4|
IPRIMARY - SECONDARY    |                     wCARPNE - STONE |    STEELMAN - TN                            ASSISTANT AUTO b        |STR   NETORY &            |      ISEORPER
|GATE OPERATORS        |                       MASON             |    MASON              |                  EQUIPMENT MECHANIC    ||RECOR  KEEPER|                       
12-3 DlVtSIONIII*IIIIII                                                                                                                                               I 
i- M            ESI                      X       ~ESS||Es                                                                   E||E5                                I                  El 
|PRIMARY - SECONDARY    |                                  TRUCK DRIVERS 
GATE OPERATORS                             
4i\                E 6                                   1 4\           E6
1                                                -                                                                SUMMARY OF STAFF REQUIREMENTS
GATE OPERATORS BASED ON I FOR EVERY                |              PRIMARY - SECONDARY CANAL|     GRADE   NO.   SALARY/MCO, (RID)  TOTAL AwNNUAL COST(RF) 
*    3 K M OF PRIMARY - SECONDARY CANAL                             MMAINTENANCE  EN
|   l >                    ~~~~~~~~E 7 | | El     I        1 2I000                3474 oco
U                                                                             E2     ~    ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3 9,000  324,000
ITERTIARYSUYSTEM                                            LABORERS                                                   E3      6         8,000                 576 050
SYSTEMUL                                                                                                          E4      4         7,000                 336 000
-IULU  -ULUI                                                                                                 |    Es      15        6,0i0                1,080 o00
7\7  E81                                 ~      ~~~~~~~~~~ES    5Ii2  4,500        2, ROB SOS
E7    118        44200                5 947 200              SYMBOLS
NOTE:                                                                    EB      7         4,000                 336,000              w
MAINTENANCE MEN BASED ON I FOR EVERY                                        206                            11,551,200                  STATIONARY RADIO
1.5 KM OF PRIMARY - SECONDARY CANAL.                                                                                               w
NOT NECESSARILY EVENLY SPACED BUT IN                                                                                               M   MOBILE RADIO
WORK CREWS OF 10- 30 MEN,
THIS PERMANENT CREW SHOULD MOVE 32,000 M                                                                                           4.4 4 WHEEL DRIVE VEHICLE
OF SILT ANNUALLY.
M   MOTORBIKE
N  NUMBER OF MEN IN
POSITION
DIDTlo    I






INDONESIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT TTT
PEMALI -TJOMAL SUB- PROJECT OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATION
Fng      r   F   F   esgn  5u  *-1  |  mbnEs |I |J erelenf As |43 3 WAl CmW slV . A -D  FI 7, O ..... |.U... .....GH.I..... N
1EA   ES eAN   ST                 N AS 55 1\SSTFT  F\   FT  iN  ES            ST       ST                              |MAT MET  NAMES  lEEDS   TIE,   ED  C~\  FT SEE  FT  ST  ED SEADDED lASTS  ST              EI    I  S   FT F    I I    I
X~~~~~~~~~~~I.I I11 ;1-1   TwwTw% I-
I  +~~~~~~sII,I    I1- I-I                                                                             $m D     IIp@t                                                                                                           1 . 
1z1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A   TA1 ST1   TTMR CFN   ESLF REA U5 SFTI  FT  N    ES  5E   ST1                                                                        TA   ES1                       lD   TT SE    D' F
ENGINTEERINC DES ON MD DADA.N SERVED GES            SEpS SAAFR    CALFNARY COS .(E                                         1    TA1    0                                                                                                                |[
SUI4MFRY CF hIAFF Rl vU F[MENISr                                                                                           n                                                        E     Y     E             '2F 
SET'     - T               TSEEA            ESCS                         iA ,.1IS,A,    S-C.-                                                       Li
FT S  I  M0, 0W     DD F4 ME                    'S FF      555 SAT, F, D
EEIDD 1 I 0C0   1;2,SOT  E  AT S3 F     DS'' SASS3o008
FT  SE   A DOO   F555,0                TOTA                                                           NIFFNC FTN FDAE SNM4 O EEY20
FT6   S2  SAD9    FF550W                                                                            OF CAN8L, NO__N2C2_____V  2VENLY SF_ED, 1___IN SD  MTFHAELAETFEMSDFDO
89,0A0DE MSATF SI-S ANCYASOV.                                                                                                                                  . NUADER OF MEA N IhOD DMON
I  I'l - LI ID I






MAP I
I0S'E                                   IIO'E     ~~~~~~INDONESIA                                  iEI2E
Irrigation Rehabilitation Project III
LOCATION MAP                                                         Mqkaqss ur
Irrigation Rehabilitation Project I   Executd b
lrgaqtion Rehabilitation Project M   Executda~                             ri                                  V     
Irrigation Rehabilitation Project U1 -Exeojted by Prosidjat                                          S L W               
BANGKA                                                          e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-,-Railways                                   I(CELEBES)
Paleirbana  BELITUNG                            n                               ~~~~~K A L IM AN TAN  (BORNEO)
S UMATRA                                                                                                                                         013-djurnrosin                                            SAAN
tiPOECT 
4O WAY SEPUTIH                                                                                                                                                                                            4~0h-                         '
2-5000L haJ C                                                                                                                                                                                                    Perepe
005 -PROJECT
Teiakbeteng     ~24,200 ha   T0.ID  E       DATtLUHIUR PRO1JECT
$~BPROJECT    253,000 ho
PEMALI-TJOMAL  47 400 ha~BAI                                                    LMBO                                                      FLRE
ta/n Oe hn    N                                              123N000 he
F                      T  I    okolo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I IO
Towk pol.eution  n ung ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~BO   96






MAP 2
To MerrJ                                 t o.5
Bodjonegara
Ir /ato  Rehabilitatin Project-\
t:~~~~ao
Rivnrs~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
A V A
-6105)('sR                                                                                                        4/                              6.l0 S-
INDONESIA                                         !, V-Js   
Irrigation  Rehabilita tioneProject I I
TJIUDJUNG IRRIGATION SUB-PROJECT                                      /        A                :        \      
24,300 ha                                                                 -        -1 - 
_ Primary irrigcition canals                                                         -U.
* Secondary irrigation cqnals                                   s                    l                                     t
= Rivers                                                          <t1                                                      = 
_ Barrage                                                         A.1                                                         4
Highway
Provincial and district roads
. Inspection roads
Roqds needing repairs
Project area
E   Town
0   Villages                               -RAPEMARMM RAGE
,i--i.Railway
O   1   2   5   4   5   6   7   8   9   10
KILOMETERS
MILES
10i eloE                                                                        I i06l2OE
JUINE 1970                                                                                                                                        18RD 2997






-.AP '
o  ta   09' E.                           ' -s.n 315   INDONESIA                                          I1        0
IrrigatiordRehabilitation   Project I=                                                  4        Pa"arIirritlork volds
'r '  =   '   ,';''  .Ci:    |'\:     '  :   f':   f        :   i     Scoiy rrlQnb             '   ' r               f q -   y  ,
PEMALI-TJOMAL iRr GATION SUB-PROJECT                                                                 R vers             :
5  - ht t4;SlffAt; L    I          E        g         13   >R~~ esgrvvoirs                       =           
Jav.                      Sea                                                         . l - ^vvv FRa                         :                       .        .  Xelts           f E               :123 000 ho    ;
i;:  t0    J  ol  ~v  a       S e    cy -, dsi :;                                                                           E        W-                           's    iPreXtr            3                ;      \'t;
;   ' H*<-'t'*' Service Qrecs    '
A,Eik-MA\LAH4mAJU         '        13-PEMALI SERVICE AREA                                    ,,         :                                                    2 j  t   <>    VillXes       0                      M 
16    Wate, our    iometer
49 \ 7   t*        rlO                          D :093EV 'Ie S                                                                                                           C  AREA
JULY  970                                                                                                                                                                                                                IBRO 29985ERVICE QREA,   ,=   0   :  SERVICE a2EA 0 0 Xti  1_   : SI-SRAGCSEVICE A  GtL    R W
ERI.                                       
~~EgG!42tSG7zUn#\ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~RE                    ig V/                                 C E    I AI
{y.servovr  y  X  X          ' g   =   X    _t J             oLN        V          8                                                                    i~~~~~~~~~~
_                                                                                                          o          s         o         fAi      ZO#;ABN S
q~~Pnbo//                                                                                                                                                                   ioitr
w aeservoir~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'I
T~~~ ip.r0
-7~0                                                                                                                                              09,0                                    le
JOLY  1970                                                                                                                                                                                                      IBRD 2998R k






MAP 4
u$ t0'E    \n1140'E                                                                   11950'E              INDONESIA            1200oo'E
Irrigation Rehabilitation Project III
SADANG IRRIGATION SUB-PROJECT
54,600 ha
- 0 _       Primary irrigation canals
-..--- Secondary irrigation canals
/  >-~--   Extension canals
- ---Proposed moin drains
Rivers
M  Barrage
3'46S  Pekabato  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-Highways                                                                                   3040'S
+04S            lPekabato                                                      ,                                    Provincial and district roads
Kbere               0-0~ Roads needing repairs
Parie                                                                                                                Project area
\ BENTENG                                /,/ . . . Extension areas
ER   Towns
F?,Ver                                  ~~~~~~~~~EPP  PYDROELECTRIC                       0    Villages
A    Teppo hydroelectric plant
(   /  v     G      :   6  zcZ   ,9.    \~~~~~~~~~Mli p ung               \
\   ,               ADf t 0 \l    \                                    M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aroong
0  I 1            5  67  8  9  10
KILOMETERS
MILES
-3                      '        5051S Lon                                                                                                               350'os
t $kPPA-      /                  -  - - I -: /                J   .RAPPA
40Q5                                                                                                                    4000P ENE
ld~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r                                                                                     4 OO-S -
P90 30E                                   119 404E                                    119 50E                                    120dOO'E
JUNE 1970                                                                                                                                               IBRD 2999



