CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 220 IND
Development Credit
Agreement
(Third Irrigation Rehabilitation Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED NOVEMBER 6, 1970


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 220 IND
Development Credit
Agreement
(Third Irrigation Rehabilitation Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED NOVEMBER 6, 1970


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 6, 1970, between REPUBLIC OF
INDONESIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Section 5.01 thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "PROSIDA" means Projek Irigasi IDA, an executive body within the
Directorate General of Water Resources Development of the Borrower's
Ministry of Public Works and Electric Power;
(b)   "First Development Credit Agreement" means the Development Credit
Agreement      (Irrigation   Rehabilitation   Project)    dated
September 6, 1968 between the Borrower and the Association; and
(c)   "Irrigation System" means any of the irrigation systems as described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, if the context so requires, such
term shall include any of the irrigation systems as described in Schedule
2 to the First Development Credit Agreement, such term being
synonomous with the term "sub-project" as presently employed by
PROSIDA.


﻿4
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to fourteen million five hundred thousand
dollars ($14,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed under the Development Credit Agreement; provided,
however, that, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall
be made on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is
not a member of the Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods produced in,
or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree: (i) the civil
works contracts required for the Project shall be procured under procedures
consistent with the Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits, published by the Bank in August 1969, and in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and (ii) other goods
and services (other than consultants' services) to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be procured on the basis of international competition under
the same procedures.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1975 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on June 1 and
December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account in semi-annual installments payable on each
June I   and   December 1    commencing   December 1, 1980    and  ending


﻿5
June 1, 2020, each installment to and including the installment payable on
June 1, 1990 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount,
and each installment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such
principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project through PROSIDA
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound agricultural,
engineering, economic and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   The Borrower shall through PROSIDA       and its appropriate local
agencies guide and direct farmers in completing the construction of -ach tertiary
canal included in the Project and shall complete each such canal or cause each
such canal to be completed within twelve months after the first fifty meters thereof
have been constructed by the Borrower.
(c)   Without limitation on the obligations of the Borrower under paragraph
(a) of this Section, the Borrower shall ensure that sufficient liquid funds to cover
the budgeted expenditures estimated by PROSIDA to be made during each quarter
for the Project shall be available to PROSIDA not later than the fifteenth day
of such quarter.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in the detailed planning,
design and construction supervision of the works included in the Project, the
Borrower shall employ engineering consultants acceptable to the Association upon
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
(b)   In order to assist the Borrower in strengthening the staff of PROSIDA,
the Borrower shall employ under two-year contracts satisfactory to the Association
three internationally recruited experts acceptable to the Association and specialized
in construction and contract procedures, training, operations and maintenance, and
accounting and administration, respectively.
Section 3.03. Until the Project shall have been completed:


﻿6
(a)   The Borrower shall cause PROSIDA to be at all times adequately
staffed with qualified and competent personnel under the supervision of a
competent and experienced General Manager, and, to that end, the Borrower shall
promptly take such measures to strengthen PROSIDA's staff as shall be agreed
upon between the Borrower and the Association;
(b)   Before making any new appointment to the position of General
Manager of PROSIDA, the Borrower shall inform the Association of the names,
qualifications and experience of the persons considered for such appointment and
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the
Borrower on the qualifications and experience of such persons; and
(c)   Without limitation on the obligations of the Borrower under paragraph
(a) of this Section, the Borrower shall, from a date before April 1, 1971 onwards,
employ for each of the Irrigation Systems then entrusted to PROSIDA a qualified
competent Sub-project Manager and in PROSIDA on a full-time basis a qualified
and competent Deputy Sub-project Manager (Engineering), shall cause such officials
to be vested with all necessary powers and authorities, and shall charge each such
Sub-project Manager, and in his absence his Deputy Sub-project Manager
(Engineering), with full responsibility for the rehabilitation and development, and
the operation and maintenance during construction, of the Irrigation System to
which he is assigned.
Section 3.04. (a) In carrying out Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall
employ qualified and experienced contractors upon terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.
(b)   Civil works included in Part A of the Project may be carried out by
force account, provided, however, that at no time the then estimated aggregate
cost of such civil works carried out by force account shall exceed fifteen per cent
(15%) of the then estimated aggregate cost of all civil works required for the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against marine, transit and other hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation,
and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable
by the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.


﻿7
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications and construction and wor'k
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications or additions thereto, in
such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's representatives to inspect the
Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information
as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
(c)   PROSIDA's accounts to be kept pursuant to paragraph (b) of this
Section shall be audited each fiscal year, in accordance with sound auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association, and as soon as available, but in any case not later than four months
after the end of each such year, the Association shall be furnished with certified
copies of such accounts for such year as so audited and the report of such audit
*        by said auditors of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested.
(d)   From  April 1, 1971 onwards, the expenditures of PROSIDA for its
headquarters shall be budgeted and accounted for separately from the budgets or
accounts of any of its sub-projects.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall ensure that PROSIDA shall not be engaged
in  new  rehabilitation  projects unless the Association is satisfied that such
engagement would not adversely affect the carrying out of the Project or the project
described in Schedule 2 to the First Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations and financial condition, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.


﻿8
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause all canals, structures, roads,
equipment and other facilities of any Irrigation System included in the Project
to be operated and maintained by the Province in whose territory such system
is situated, and all necessary repairs and renewals thereof to be made from time
to time, all in accordance with sound agricultural, engineering and financial policies
and practices, and shall cause such action to be taken as shall be reasonably required
to ensure the economic use of the water made available by such systems for
agricultural development and operations. To that end, the Borrower shall promptly
take or cause to be taken such measures to increase the effectiveness of the
operation and maintenance of the Irrigation Systems included in the Project as
shall be agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association.
(b)   Within twelve months after the Development Credit Agreement shall
have come into force and effect, the Borrower shall cause an irrigation advisory
sub-committee to be established for each sub-district in each of the Irrigation
Systems included in the Project and the project described in Schedule 2 to the
First Development Credit Agreement, for the purpose of advising and assisting the
existing regency irrigation committees in respect of the operation and maintenance
of the Irrigation System in such area. Such sub-committees shall consist of the
head of the sub-district in question, irrigation personnel, agricultural personnel,
police and ulu-ulu's, and shall function Linder satisfactory terms of reference.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall take such action as shall be necessary
to provide adequate agricultural supporting services in each area benefiting from
any of the Irrigation Systems, including provision of agricultural extension services
and agricultural inputs (improved seed, fertilizers, pesticides and agricultural credit)
in order to encourage the optimum use ol irrigation water for agricultural
production.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause adequate programs to be established and
maintained for monitoring the economic benefits of the Project and determining
the effectiveness of the supporting services provided pursuant to paragraph (a) of
this Section.
Section 4.04. (a) As each of the Irrigation Systems included in the Project
is rehabilitated, the Borrower, through the Province of West Java, the Province
of Central Java and the Province of South Sulawesi, shall adopt and thereafter
maintain and enforce appropriate legislation for the levy and collection of charges
on irrigable agricultural land served by such Irrigation System, or on the users
of such land, and shall commence to collect such charges within one year after
each such system is rehabilitated. Within two years after each such Irrigation System
is rehabilitated such charges shall have reached, and thereafter such charges shall


﻿9
be maintained at, levels adequate to provide the Province operating such Irrigation
System with revenues sufficient to cover the operating and maintenance costs of
that Province attributable to such Irrigation System, shall cause all such charges
to be paid to that Province, and shall cause that Province to apply the funds so
received exclusively to the operation and maintenance of such system.
(b)   In the event and to the extent that the funds available to the Province
of West Java, the Province of Central Java or the Province of South Sulawesi from
its own resources are insufficient to cover the expenditures estimated to be required
for operation and maintenance in accordance with paragraph (a) of Section 4.02
hereof, the Borrower shall, promptly as needed, take such measures as shall be
required to cover such expenditures.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
.party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the administration, operations and financial condition of PROSIDA
and, in respect of the Project, of the other departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof, and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the operations and financial condition of PROSIDA and, in respect
of the Project, of the other departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.


﻿10
(b)   The Borrower shall promptly inform the Association of any condition
which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service thereof or the performance
by the Borrower of its other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to inspect all sites, works, property
and equipment entrusted to PROSIDA and to visit any part of the territories of
the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein set forth, then at
any subsequent time during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its option,
may by notice to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding
to be due and payable immediately together with the service charges thereon and
upon any such declaration such principal and service charges shall become due
and payable immediately, anything to the contrary in the Development Credit
Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 7.02. The Borrower and the Association agree that any event of
default under the First Development Credit Agreement or this Development Credit


﻿0                                 11
Agreement shall be deemed to be an event of default under said other Development
Credit Agreement; provided, however, that such event of default shall continue
for the period, i! any, set forth in the First Development Credit Agreement or
this Development Credit Agreement after notice thereof shall have been given by
the Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
Three experts have been retained by the Borrower in accordance with
the provisions of Section 3.02 (b) of this Agreement.
Section 8.02. The date of April 1, 1971 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Article IV of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty-five years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Post Office Box 21
Djakarta, Indonesia


﻿12
Cable address:
Ministry Finance
Djakarta
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By /s / Abdul Moeis
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ J. Burke Knapp
Vice President


﻿13
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
(Expressed in            % of Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)           to be Financed
I.    Civil Works                    8,000,000         66% of total expendi-
Contracts                                         tures
Il.   Equipment and                  1,000,000          100% of foreign
Spare Parts                                       expenditures
III.  Vehicles and                    300,000           100% of foreign
Spare Parts                                       expenditures and 100%
of local expenditures
ex-factory
IV.   Technical and                  2,300,000          100% of foreign
Management                                        expenditures
Assistance
V.    Unallocated                    2,900,000
TOTAL         14,500,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term  "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any member of the Bank (other than the Borrower) or of Switzerland;


﻿14
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower, or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territories
of the Borrower; and
(c)   the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign and local
expenditures.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures under Category I, and on account of technical assistance
under Category IV, prior to April 1, 1971 and other expenditures under Categories
II, III and IV prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply of such goods (including their imported components) or
services. To the extent that the amount represented by the percentage applicable
to such goods or services as set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph
I above would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes, such percentage
shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will be withdrawn on
account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)  if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)  if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above:


﻿*                                   15
GI)         whenever the unallocated amount of the Credit, or any part
thereof, will not be required for contingencies, as determined
by the Association, in respect of any expenditures, the
Association, at the request of the Borrower, will allocate such
amount    or  part  thereof   to  Category   I  and  increase
correspondingly (up to a maximum of 100%) the percentage
applicable to Category I;
(ii)        if the estimate of total expenditures under Category I shall
increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available for
reallocation to such Category, the Association may, by notice
to the Borrower, adjust the percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A.     The rehabilitation and improvement of existing, and the engineering
and construction of new, irrigation and drainage canals and structures
as well as service roads and inspection paths for the sustained operation
of irrigated agriculture in the irrigation systems known as Tjiudjung
in West Java (comprising about 24,000 ha), Pemali - Tjomal in Central
Java (comprising about 123,000 ha) and Sadang in South Sulawesi
(comprising about 55,000 ha). Part A of the Project includes:
(1)   rehabilitation of the Pemarajan Barrage on the Tjiudjung River,
the Benteng Barrage on the Sadang River and various weirs on
rivers in the Pemali-Tjomal area, and engineering and
construction of new weirs at Tjisadap, Tjiawitali, Danawarih and
Kaliwadas in said area;
(2)   rehabilitation of existing structures on, and canal side slopes and
embankments of, primary and secondary canals, desilting and
cleaning of such canals, and construction of step-landings on such
canals in villages;
(3)   rehabilitation of existing, and engineering and construction of
new, tertiary canals (the first fifty meters thereof by the
Borrower and the remainder by farmers) and all new structures
on such canals;
(4)   improvement of existing, and engineering and construction of
new, drainage canals and structures as required within said
irrigation systems;
(5)   rehabilitation of existing, and engineering and construction of
new, service roads along primary canals and inspection paths
along secondary canals;
(6)   engineering and construction of new canals, structures, drains
and inspection paths in the Sidenreng and Alitta extension areas
of the Sadang system; and


﻿17
(7)   operation and maintenance of each of the irrigation systems
included in the Project until the completion of its rehabilitation
under the Project.
Part B.    The procurement and installation of hydrological, construction,
maintenance and communications equipment, housing and supplies for
the operation and maintenance of the irrigation systems included in
the Project.
Part C     Detailed planning, design and construction supervision of the works
included in the Project, and strengthening of the staff of PROSIDA.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1974.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1.    Grouping of Contracts
Civil works contracts shall be grouped in sufficiently large-sized contracts
(with a value of at least $15,000 equivalent) to attract interest from experienced
contractors. Contracts for equipment, vehicles and spare parts shall be grouped
in amounts sufficient to attract international competition.
2.    Large Civil Works Contracts and Contracts for Equipment, Vehicles and Spare
Parts
With respect to any contract for civil works estimated to cost $75,000
equivalent or more and for equipment, vehicles and spare parts:
(a)   Bidders for civil works contracts shall be required to pre-qualify. Only
experienced civilian (government or privately owned) contractors shall be
prequalified. The Borrower shall, before qualification is invited, inform the
Association in detail of the procedure to be followed and shall introduce such
modifications in said procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. The
list of pre-qualified bidders, together with a statement of their qualifications and
of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for pre-qualification, shall be
furnished by the Borrower to the Association for its comments before the applicants
are notified and the Borrower shall make such additions or deletions from the
said list as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedure
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification or addition to the bidding documents shall require the Association's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report by the Borrower's
engineering consultants on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received,
together with the recommendations for award of said consultants, and the reasons


﻿*                                            19
for the intended award. The Association shall promptly inform the Borrower
whether it has any objection to the intended award on the ground that it would
be inconsistent with any of the procedures set forth or referred to in Section
2.03 of the Development Credit Agreement and shall state the reasons for any
objection it may have.
(d)   If a contract for equipment, vehicles or spare parts shall be awarded
according to procedures inconsistent with those set forth or referred to in Section
2.03 of the Development Credit Agreement or over the Association's reasonable
objection on the ground of inconsistency with such procedures or if the terms
and conditions shall, without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked, no expenditures thereunder shall be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
(e)   Copy of the contract shall be furnished to the Association promptly
after its execution.
3.    Other Civil Works Contracts
With respect to any other contract for civil works, the Borrower shall,
promptly after the contract is awarded, furnish to the Associatio-* a copy of the
contract as well as a copy of the record of public opening of .ne bids, the bid
evaluation report and recommendations for award of the Bc.rower's engineering
consultants and a statement of the reasons for any departure from such
recommendations. The Association shall promptly inform the Borrower if it finds
that the award of the contract is not consistent with any of said procedures.
4.    Exceptions to Guidelines for Procurement
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 2.03 of the Development Credit
Agreement and the Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits:
(a)   Bid invitations for  civil works contracts may    be limited   to
advertisements in newspapers of general circulation in the Borrower's country; and
(b)   Contracts for the manufacturing of steel sluice gates need not be
procured on the basis of international competition but may be negotiated with
selected manufacturers.


﻿20
5.    Evaluation of Foreign and Local Bids for Vehicles and Spare Parts
With respect to all contracts for vehicles and spare parts, for the purpose
of evaluating bids, bid prices shall be determined in accordance with the following
rules:
(a)   The term   Local Bid means a bid submitted by a manufacturer,
established in the territories of the Borrower, for such goods manufactured or
processed in the territories of the Borrower; any other bid shall be deemed to
be a Foreign Bid.
(b)   The bid price under a Local Bid shall be the sum of the following
amounts:
(i)         the ex-factory price of such goods excluding any taxes imposed
under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories
on the importation of components of such goods; and
(ii)        domestic freight, insurance and other costs of delivery of such
goods to the place of their use or installation.
(c)   For the purpose of comparing any Foreign Bid with any Local Bid
the bid price under a Foreign Bid shall be the sum of the following amounts:
(i)         the c.i.f. landed price of such goods net of any taxes on their
importation; and
(ii)        domestic freight, insurance and other costs of delivery of such
goods to the place of their use or installation.


