Docmt of
The World Bank
FOR oFCmAL USE ONLY
Repo No. 12589
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHILE
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
(LOAN 2606-CH)
AND
SECOND INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 3053-CH)
DECEM    7, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No:        12589
Type: PCR
Trade, Finance and Private Sector Development
Country Department IV
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
ther ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be dbiosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCLY EQ1ALESM
Currency Unit = Chilean Peso (Ch $)
Average Exchange Rates (per US dollars)
1985            CL$ 161.08 =    US$1
1986            Ch$ 193.02 =    US$1
1987            Ch$ 219.41 =    US$1
1988            Ch$ 245.01 =    US$1
1989            Ch$ 266.95 =    US$1
1990            Ch$ 304.90 =    US$1
1991            Ch$ 349.22 =    US$1
GOVERNMENT OF CHI-E FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - Decemoer 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BECH                  -    Banco del Estado de Chile
(State-owned Bank of Chile)
BHC                   -    Banco Hipotecario de Chile
(Mortgage Bank of Chile)
BHIF                  -    Banco Hipotecario Internacional Financiero
(National Mortgage Development Bank)
BCCH                  -    Banco Central de Chile
(Central Bank of Chile)
CNV                   -    Colocadora Nacional de Valores
(National Securities Underwriter, a private bank)
CORFO                 -    Corporaci6n de Fomento de la Produccidn
(National Development Corporation)
CPI                   -    Consumer Price Index
GDP                   -    Gross Domestic Product
IDB                   -    Interamecan Development Bank
IFC                   -    Inernational Finance Corporation
LAFTA                 -    Latin American Free Trade Area
LIBOR                 -    London Interbank Offered Rate
PROCHILE              -    Export promotion agency
SUPERINTENDENCIA  -    Superintendencia de Bancos (Superintendency of Banks
and Financial InstitUtions)
SOFOFA                -    Sociedad de Fomento Fabril C(rade Association of
Industriists)
TIP                   -    Tasa de Interes Promedio (Average Deposit Rate-
Interest Reference Rate)
TU                    -    Technical Unit of the Central Bank
UF                    -    Unidad de Fomento (unit of account which reflects the
fluctuations of the Consumer Price Index)



FOR OFFICJ4L USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.SA
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
December 7,1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTV DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Chile - Industrial Fnance Restructuring Project
(Loan 2606-CH) and Second Industrial Finance Proictt (Loan 3053-CH
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Chile - Industrial Fmance Restructuriag
Project (Loan 2606 CH) and Second Industrial Fnance Project (Loan 3053-CH) prepared by the
Latin American and the Canbbean Regional Office, with Part Il prepared by the Borrower.
Loan 2606-CH was conceived in early 1985 as a pilot project to facilitate the restructuring
of viable industrial corporations which were burdened by an unmanageable debt. The loan would
provide foreign exchange financing for these firms and technical assistance for the establishment
of an institutional framework for the corporate workouts. However, by the time the loan was
approved, Chile's economic recovery had begun, the firms' financial situation was improving and
demand for the financing of workouts had shrunk. The Bank responded in early 1987 by amending
the loan to permit re-lending to sound corporations in need of long-term financing rather than
fiuancial restructuring.
After this change, loan disbursements accelerated, and two years later there was enough
demand to justify a second operation, Loan 3053-CR Using the institutional channels established
under the earlier project, this loan was disbursed well ahead of schedule without major problems.
Although Loan 2606-CH did not achieve its goal of becoming a pilot project for financial
restructurings owing to the rapid improvement in Chile's economic conditions, the two operations
together were helpful in providing needed long-term financing for private industrial investment and
in easing the burden of the country's external debt at a critical time. These were objectives of the
Bank's country assistance strategy for Chile, consistent with SAL I and other lending operations.
For these reasons, the outcomes of both Loan 2606-CH and Loan 3053-CH are rated as satisfactory,
and their sustainability as likely. The institutional development impact of Loan 2606-CH is rated
as substantial, while that of Loan 3053-CH is rated as partial because this operation's institutional
development objectives-which were fully achieved-were more modest, since it utilized the
institutional channels that had beeu established under the preceding loan.
Generally, the PCR is of very good quality and provides a good description of the cbjectives
and outcomes of both operations. The quality of Part II is particularly high. It would have been
useful, however, to include a review of the experience with the technical assistance component of
Loan 2606-CR. Because the lessons of this experience may be relevant to other countries in need
of corporate financial restructurings, OED plans to audit the loans.
Attachment
This document has a resuicted distLibution and may be used by recipients only ini the perfotmanc of their official duties Its
contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OMCAuL USE ONLY
mROJEC ICXMPLEUION REPORT
INDUS'TRhAL FINADNCE                        PRSORUCURBCNG JECr (LOAN 2606CR)
AND SECOND INDUSImAX FINANCE PROJECr (LOAN 3053014)
TABLE OF CQE 
Preface  ................. i
Evaluation Summary                                  .                                  i
L  MAIN FINDINGS AND LESSONS LEARNED BY THE BANK                           .I
A. ProjectIdenddies .
B. Background ..............                                                      1
C    Project Objectives and Description ........................... i
D.   Project Costs ............................                                  5
E Bank Terms.                                                                    6
F.  Identifications Preparation and Appraisa.                                    6
G. Project Issues .11
H. Project Implementation .14
L Disbursements and Audits.                                                      16
J.   Project Results ...........................                                 16
K. Bank Performance .18
L Borrower Performance .19
M. Technical Assistance .19
N. Lessons to be Learned .19
IL  PROJECI REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ..22
Loan 2606-CH ......................... 22
A. Background .22
B. Institutional Framework .22
C. Loan Amendments .23
D. Project Results .25
E. Status of Subloans .28
F. Lessons Learned .28
G. Relations with the World Bank .29
Loan 3053I                  ............. 30
A. Background .30
B.   Institutional Framework .....................................30
C.   Project Results ................................................... 31
D.   Lessons Leamed ............................................34
E.   Relations with the World Bank .....35.........                             35
IIL   TABLES
3.1   Related Bank Loans ............................................... 36
3.2  Project Timetables ............ .................................... 36
3.3   Cumulative Estimated Disbursements ..................................  37
3.4   Project Estimated Costs                                                   37
3.5 Project Estimated Fmancing .38
3.6   Allocation of Loan Proceeds: Original and Actual .38
3.7  Project Results ................................................... 39
3.8  Status of Covenants and Conditions - Loan 2606-CH R..                      40
3.9  Status of Covenants and Conditions - Loan 3053-CH ..........   ............ 43
3.10  Use of Bank Resources ....................................                44
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dank authorization.



INDUSIXTA  FWBANCE RESIEUJ511EGM PR.ELQ            T  "LAN 260£1
Key Project Data
uSs million
Total Project Cost                                        300.0
Investment Sub-Projects                            (29S.0)
Technical Assistance to Technical Unit               (5.0)
Basic Project Costs (Bank plus Government
or Centa Bank)                                            200.0                167.0
Bank Loan Amount                                          100.0                100.0
Terms:  Interest Rate                            Standard Variable Rate
Maturity                               15 years
Grace                                  3 years
Commiment Fee                          3/4 of 1% per annum
Central Bank's Relending Terms:
To Commercia Banks
Interest Rate (percentage):                     a)  US dollar-denominated loans at
Bank's variable interest rae plus
a spread,
b)  Peso loans at rates equivalent tO
those of dollar-denominated sub-
loansz,
ToSub-borrowers
Interest Rate (percentage):                      Central Bank's interest rate plus a
three percent spread
Maturity:                                       Up to 15 years
Grace:                                          Up to 3 years
Currency:                                        Chilean pa    or US dollar-
denominated
Time Overrun:   None
Borrower:        Republic of Chile
ExecuiCng
Agencies:        Cenftra Bank of Chile (BCCH) through the TecIUIca Unit U.



Insdtutional Development:       A tecncal unit (fl)) to be established in BCCH to evwuate
private sector's restructuring projects and later on private
Investment projects.
Timetable of Key Events:
(a)    Time to prepare the operation:              21 months
(b)    Project prepared by:                        Central Bank with Bank assistance
(c)    First presentadon to the Bank:              June 1983
(d)    Departure of Appraisal Mission:             October 24, 1984
(e)    Conpletion of Negoations:                   Apri 19, 1985
(M    Board Approval:                              July 16, 1985
(g)    Loan and Project Agreements signed on:      October 10, t985
Oh)    Pland Date of Effecdveness:                 Open
(i)    Actu  Date of Effectiveness:                February 20, 1986
3)    First subloan approved:                      August 1986
(k)   lnitial Closing Date:                        December 31, 1991
0)    Actud Closing Date:                          December 31, 1991
(im)   Last Disbursement Date:                     July 19, 1990
I     Mmhe spread would cover the Bank's commitmt fee plus the costs of operating the Tenical
Unit (TU) in the Central Baok (BCCH).
I Peso rates would be computed in real terms using a principal expressed in Unidades de
Fomento (UP) by deflating the dollar rates by the US Consumer Price Index (CPI).



CmLE
PILQIEC COMPLnON BREP
SECOND NDMUSIRAIL FU"CE EROQaC (SAMN 3053&MH
(lJS$ Millions}
ApgrAjisal           Ata
Total Project Cost                                     280.0
Basic Project Cost (Bank plus CBCH)                     125.0                113.4
Bank Loan Amount                                        75.0                  75.0
Terms: Interest Rate                      Standard Variable Rate
Maurity:                                  17 years
Grace:                                    5 years
Relendirzg Terms:
To commercial banks
Interest rate:                            a)  US dollar-denominated loans at Bank's
interest rate plus a margin of 0.6% p.a.
b) peso-denominated loans at the published
deposit rate.
To sub:o£Wer
Interest rate:                            Discretionary spread over the rate charged by
the Central Bank, reflecting market conditions.
Miaturty:                                 Up to 10 years
Grace:                                    Up to 3 years
Time Overrun:                             None
Currency:                                 Chilean pso. or US-dollar denominated
Borrower:             Republic of Chile
Executing Agency:     Central Bank X Chile (BCCH) through the technical unit (flJ).
Insftional development:         Improvements in the TU created under Loan 2606-CH.
Timetable of Key Events:
a)  Time to prepare project:              9 months
b)  Project prepared by:                  Central Bank with Bank assistance
c)  First Mission:                        August 1988
d)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:       November 1, 1988
e)  Completion of Negodations:            April 5-7, 1989
f)   Board Approval:                      May 11, 1989
g)  Loan and Project Agreements signed on:  May 12, 1989
h)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:        May 1989
i)   Actual Date of Effectiveness:        August 31, 1989
j)  Initial Closing Date:                 December 31, 1994
k)  Actual Closing Date:                  June 30, 1992
1)   Last Disbursement Date:              January 6, 1992



PROlECT COMPLETnm REPORTS
CHILE
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE RESTRUCTURING PROJECT (LOAN 260'-CH)
AND SECOND INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT (LOAN 3053-CH)
Preface
1.    These are the Project Completion Reports (PCRs) for the Industrial Finance Restructuring
Project, which was financed by the proceeds of the Bank Loan 2606-CH, and for the Second
Industrial Finance Project, which was financed by the proceeds of the Bank Loan 3053-CH.
2.    Loan 2606CH for US$100 million was approved on July 16, 1985, signed on October 10,
1985, and became effective on February 20, 1986. The project provided for financial and technical
assistance to support the establishment of an institutional framework through which corporate
restructurings and financing would be devised, negotiated, and implemented as well as financial
assistance provided for the purchase of the capital goods and working capital necessary to maintain
and increase the production of restructured firms. Initially, there were few sub-borrowers. The first
sub-loan was approved in August 1986 and total commitments, as of December 31, 1986, reached
only US$6.6 million, of which US$5.0 million had been disbursed. In view of the low loan demand
at end-1986 and of the significant progress achieved, at that time, in completing financial workouts
for most of the technically viable enterprises through other arrangements, the loan was amended in
early 1987. The original focus was expanded to permit the financing of sound conventional
investment projects of viable companies without restructuring features. Other amendments to the
Project Agreement were implemented in 1987, particularly those concerned with the formula for the
computation of real interest rates in pe, the removal of the constraints to the participation of
commercial banks participating in the ownership of firms to be restructured under the project, the
elimination of the requirement that each sub-loan would be fnanced by at least two financial
institutions, and the change in eligibility conditions for financing the restructuring of finns with actual
or contingent liabilities with third parties. The operational policies of the technical unit (CU) also
were changed in 1987. With these changes in operating procedures and conditions, disbursements
increased and the number of financial institutions using the facility rose significantly. At end-1989,
loan 2606-CH was 96.5 percent committed and 71.9 percent disbursed. By end-1991, the loan was
filly disbursed and the BCCH counterpart funds were 95 percent disbursed, with US$3.5 million
remaining -unutilized.
3.    Loan 3053CH for US$75 million was approved on May 11, 1989, signed on May 12, 1989,
and became effective on August 31, 1989. The main project objective was to help maintain the
investment drive to modernize and expand Chile's industrial sector by financing the credit needs of
medium-size firms, whose investments were constrained by lack of appropriate bank financing.
Limitations on suppliers' credit and on stock and bond issues for medium-size firms furither
constrained access to long-term finance. This loan was to be the last transitional Bank lending
operation before shifting to the operations focusing on direct support to capital markets development.
The basic objective of the loan has been accomplished. It supported new investment by providing
term financing, which was scarce when the project was approved. The project also accomplished a
second objective: that of contributing to maintain a favorable private investment climate despite
macroeconomic uncertainties. As a result of the investment climate and of institutional developments
in the capital markets, by mid-1990, alternative sources of financing began to take hold: pension



- I -
funds, leasing fim, and insurance companies. In view of the favorable developments that took place
In the capital market, Bank lending to Chile shifted to direct support of this market.
4.    lhe project has been problem free. Loan commitments and disbursements proceeded well
ahead of the original schedule. Reflecting BCCH preference for exiting the area of direct lending and
reducing the substntial costs originating in the operation of the special unit (TU) controlling the
quality of projects in this operation, the Government requested two changes to the Loan and Project
Agreements. An amendment in July 1991 eliminatect the requirement that BCCH should utilize, for
lending with the same purposes, the proceeds from the repayment of principal, interest, and other
charges on subsidiary loans that exceeded the repayment obligations of the Bank loan (paragraph (c)
of Secton 2.02 of the Project Agreement). A second amendment waived the requirement that BCCH
shoud provide, out of its own funds, loans to participating banks in an amount equivalent to US$50
milion during the execution of the project (Section 2.01 (d) of the Project Agreement).
5.    The PCRs of loans 2606-CH and 3053-CH were prepared by the Trade, Finance and Private
Sector Developmnt Division, Department IV of the Latin America and the Caribbean Regioral
Office (LA4TP) and are based, Lnter "i, on the President's Reports and Appraisal Reports; the Loan
and Project Agreements; supervision reports; correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower;
final project analyses prepared by the Borrower; and internal Bank memoranda.
6.    The Government of Chile submitted reports on the progress and difficulties encountered in
disbursing the Loans. Final reports were submitted to the Bank on April 28, 1992 (Loan 2606-CH)
and June 25, 1992 (Loan 3053-CR).



. i t.
INUSTRlAL FINANCE REStUCURNG PROJECT (LOAN 2606&C  AND
SECOND INDUSrRIAL FINANCE PROJECT (LOAN 3053-0
LYALUA= QSMMARY
1.    The major objective of the Industrial Finance Restructuring Project (Loan 2606CH) was to
assist the Goverment in the undertaking of financial restucrdngs of private industrial corporations
through assine in: i) establishing and financing an institutional framework for corporate wokouts,
and II) financng the purchase of intermediate and capital goods necessary to maintain and increase the
productio of restructured firms. From the original focus on corporate workouts, the objecdve of the
loan was substr*ntially broadened in 1987 to include also the financing of conventional investment
projects of viable companies. This set the framework for the Second Industial Finance Project (Lo
3053C), which had the major objective of susaining the investment climate and the  rizatn
and expansion of medium-size industrial firms.
2.    Ihe total project costs of Loan 2606-CH were estmated at US$300 million, of which the
Bank loan covered US$100 million. The project costs covered by the Bank loan and the Government
contribution totalled US$200 million (these wil be called basic project cost from now on ir these
PCRs). The remainder, US$100 million, was expected to be provided by other sources. The foeign
exhage componet was estimad at US$150 miJlion. The project's tecnical assistance compont
amounted to US$5 million, with the Bank fiacing US$2.6 million to help finance the consultancy
cost of the Technical Unit (IV), caed by the Central Bank to appraise workout proposals. The
actual basic project costs (Bank and BCCH fumds) amoued to only US$167 milion, which were
alm  flly disbursed on December 31, 1991.
3.    The total project costs of Loan 3053-CH were estad at US$280 milion, of which the
Bank loan covered US$75 million. The remainder of foreign costs were to be provided by the
Cental Ban's matching fumds (US$50 million), the IDB (US$37 million) and miscellaneous sources
(US$6 milion). The US$112 million of loal costs were expected to be financed by the firmes own
funds (US$66 million), commercial banks (US$15 million), and miscellaneous sources (US$31
million). 'Ihe estimated basic project costs (Bank and BCCH fnds) amouted to US$125 million, of
which US$113.4 mfillion were actually disbursed.
4.    The Bank loan intended to support a broader financial restucng program for industri
corporations, which was to be replicated in other restructuing efforts caried out in Chile. Me Bank
project was conceived as a pilot project which shoud have led to the establishment of an hstituiona
firawork for finmcing corporate workouts. Ihe implementation experience reflects the impac of
changing economic circumstances. The project's first presentation to the Bank took place in mid-



- iv -
1983 when the country was still experiencing the recession of 1982-83, a financial crisis of the maor
ban, and the bankruptcy of many manufacturng firms which had borrowed heavily in dollars before
the June 1982 devaluation. Large capital losses took place and claims on assets exceeded their market
values. Given the magnitude of the losses and the complex relationship between debtors and
creditors, including foreign creditor banks, which, if forced to absorb losses, had the power to conutrol
eterna credit to Chile, a deadlock developed in Chile's financl markets. This forced the
Govenmen to take action to alleviate the financial crisis guaranteeing banking deposits, providing
liquidity support to commercial banks and intervening several of them, and devising a refinancing
scheme to ea  the financial pressure on the private sector. This situation justified Bank financing to
provide much needed forelgn exchange and to support workouts of viable firms. However, by the
time the loan was approved, the recession had bottomed and recovery began in 1984, which continued
in the next few years. In addition, BCCH initiated in 1984 the financing of domestic debt
trswhedulings and the rescue or bank debts under other arrangements. Tho debt-conversion scheme
permitted exchanging some external debts for pQ debts or equity, which contnbuted to allev}ate the
finmcial burden of firms, while the Government prevented the bankruptcy of large frms by defining
financial workouts under special commissions, which included the shareholders and the creditors.
Thus, at loan approval in June 1985, the financial workouts in the industrial sector were fily well
advanced. As a result, by end-1986, or eleven months after loan effectiveness, only two sub4oans
had been approved, and the pipeline was rather thin. This led the Bank to change the project's main
objective. On February 12, 1987, an amendment to the loan agreement was proposed to the Board.
The amendment maintined the original focus of the loan, but broadened the access to the proceeds of
the loan to include sound conventonal investment projects of viable companies which did not need
reswucturg.
S.    This basic change in the main objective of the loan, together with other operational changes
(on the formula used for the computation of peso interest rates and spreads, the required eligibility
critea to be met for financing the restructuring of firms with actul or contingent liabilities with
tird parties, consaints on access to the financig of restructuings for firms with commercial banks'
partcipation on their ownership scture, and the requirement that two or more banks financed each
subprojectP) r ade it possible to speed up the commitment of the project funds. By December 31,
1988, US$161 million were committed and US$120 million already disbursed.
Loan I= l
6.    Ihe Bank loan Wended to provide credit to medium-size industries for investment in new
plant, plant expansion and perma-.nt working capital. The project was expected to maintain the
investment climate in the private sector and stimulate a strong development of the capital market and,
thus, to make unnecessary Bank financing for this purpose in the future. This project was to be the
last of its kind and to be committed quickly during 1989-90. The objective was to support the
modernization and expansion of the industrial sector, which was hampered by lack of commercial
bank term credit; limited access to suppliers' credits; and the minimal role played by corporate bond
placements in industria financing for medium-size firms. The situation justified the provision of
Bank financing in support of medium-size exporters and the country's efforts to expand exports. To
ensure the targeting of the project funds to medium-size firms with no access to the capital market,
firms were not considered eligible to borrow from the program if tiey: (i) had issued shares or debt
1J    Se pm. 17.



ouligations for public subscription up to three years before requesng financing with the project
fxds; (ii) had shares or debt instimments quoted in the stock exchange during tfie twelve-month
period preceding the request for financing; and (ill) had assets or debt insments assessed for rsk.
7.    Ihe project was successfuly carried out. The loan was filly disbursed wel ahead of the
original closing date of December 31, 1994. As of February 28, 1992, US$106.6 million of the
US$125 million project had been committed and also US$99.3 million disbursed. The US$75 million
Bank loan was fully committed; US$43.5 million of BCCH counterpart funds were also committed.
With respect to the remainder US$11.6 million to be committed by BCCH, this institution requested a
waiver, which was approved, of the requireme  to provide the fill US$50 million equivalent in
coterpart funds. This request reflected BCCH decision to step out of direct lending and to phase
out the TU.
Rtesults
Loan 2606-CH
S.    The major objective of assistng the Government to increase the domestic savings/GDP atio
and to maintain a highly positive trade balance for a long period in order to service the extern debt,
led the Bank to support a solution to the private debt problem through loan 2606-CH. This loan
coplemented the Bank saegy of supporting the Governmen's medium-term policy program
through a structural adjustment loan (SAL 1), which focussed on improving: (i) extal trade
policies; (ii) public sector management and fiscal policies to reactivate the economy; (iii) financi
policies to stimulate domestic savings; and (iv) incentives for employment geneation. Loan 2606-CH
assisted the Goverament in undertalkng a financial restruturing of indust  firms on a selecdve basis
which was to be used as a pilot effort to be replicated In restuctring efforts carried outside the
project (ort No. P4042-C, but this was not accomplished. The project had a rter lmitd
impact on the restrucwtings that took place and thus could not be used as a pilot project to set
replicative examples to be exended to other economically viable, but financially troubled, firms in
other sectors of the economy, which were not covered by the project. Loan 2606-CH achieved
meager results in the restrt    of private fims through corporate workouts. As noted earlier,
during the time taken to process, approve and make effective the loan, both economic conditions in
Chile and the need to complete workouts had changed drmatically. By 1986, the purpose for which
the loan was approved no longer had the same importance as during the inital stages of preparaton
(mid-1983). For this reason, it was amended. Nevertheless, the project, once amended, proved to be
a useful source of long-term financing permitting industrial investments to rise. The peformance of
prvate fixed investment to which the support of the Bank loan and other sources of long-term
financig contributed, reached very high levels during 198688 compared to those of 198S.' Project
disbursemens at end-1988 represented about one-eighth of the yearly investment increments measured
agaist the 1985 level.
9.    Writh respect to the balance of payments, which was constained by limitations imposed by the
service of the external debt, the project accomplished the intended resu of helping close the foreig
exchange gap. Under the Special Action Program of the Baker Plan this project helped to ease the
11    USS366 mllo in 19M5; US$473 nillion in 1986; US$667 million in 1987; and US$8 million in 198.



- vi-
burden of the external debt, which in June 1984, was estimated at US$18.5 billion, of which US$10.5
billion were owed by the private sector, including US$6.5 billion owed by the financial
intermediaries. This service had been curtailing economic growth and investment. The project
contributed to the expansion of export industries, which generated needed foreign exchange as well as
provided for the foreign exchange cost of the project financed by the Bank loan.
Loan 3053A a
10.   Loan 3053-CHs main objective was to sustain the investment momentum and recovery of
economic activity. This loan achieved its purposes. It provided long-term financing to medium-term
enterprises for industrial investments, preferably with an export orientation to strengthen the balance
of payments, and helped ease the macroeconomic uncertainties associated with the political transition
to democracy in Chile. As noted earlier, medium-size firms had limited access to medium- and long-
term financing as well as to the capital market.
11.   The loan provided the opportunity for these firms to establish a track record with the banks,
which was very useful because, once this record was established, firms were in a position to have
access to other sources of long-term financing (pension funds, insurance companies, leasing firms),
thus making it possible to discontinue BCCH's active participation in the provision of medium and
long-term credit under this type of opetation.
12.   In brief, both projects (2606-CH and 3053-CH) helped considerably the financing of industrial
investments in Chile, created conditions for the development of credit and capital markets, contributed
to the significant recovery of the Chilean economy, to the growth of exports and, thus, to a stronger
balance of payments during te 1980s. These positive results were accomplished despite the fact that
loan 2606-CH had to be substantially reformulated because the Bank bad underestimated the capacity
of the Chilean industry to overcome its financial difficulties through corporate workouts. Thus, Loan
2606-CH, which was designed initiaWly as an industrial restructuring project, was transformed into an
industrial development operation.
Projct DiabzsMents
13.   Bank financing (US$100 million) under loan 2606-CH was f&lly committed and disbursed on
July 1990 ahead of the original loan closing date (December 31, 1991). Of the BCCH funds, only
US$3.5 million remained unutilized by the sub-borrowers. This performance took place despite the
initial low disbursements.
14.   Bank funds (US$75 million) under loan 3053-CH were fully committed and disbursed on
January 6, 1992, ahead of the original closing date, December 31, 1994. Of the BCCH funding
(IJS$50 million), as noted earlier, US$11.6 million were not committed and a waiver was granted by
the Bank.
Technical Assistance
15.   Loan 2606-CH included a small technical assistance component (US$2.6 million) for the
establishment of a technical unit CM U) within BCCH to manage the corporate restructurings and the
financing of eligible firms. BCCH provided counterpan funding for US$2.4 million.



-vii -
16.   The technical assistance funds were not fully disbursed at end-1990 (US$1.78 million
remaned undisbursed) and BCCH transferred these funds to the credit component by the third-quarter
of 1991, once the remainder of the loan bad been disbursed.
Eroje Risks
17.   At appraisal, project risks were judged to be significant. The factors leading to commitments
falling short of expectations were identified as: i) external factors, such as copper prices remaining
low or higher international interest rates; iV) the TU failure in promoting restructurings or proving
incapable of analyzing properly the restructurings; iii) individual restructurings requiring more time to
be completed than the loan's commitment period; and iv) restructured firms overcoming their troubles
and obtaining credit from other sources. Clearly, the main source of risk was not foreseen: the
project design did not anticipate a quick economic recovery from the 1982-83 recession not the
financial workouts arranged under debt conversion schemes, debt renegotiations, and special
Government-sponsored arrangements for large firms that took place during the time required for
preparation, appraisal, negotiations and effectiveness of the project. As a result, the scope of the
project had to be significantly reformulated in 1987 to accommodate the new situation. 'Te
alternative would have been to cancel the loan, but the Bank considered that financing industrial
expansion merited support through the loan, in order to help sustain the recovery of the Chilean
industry.
18.   To counteract the project's risks noted above, the Bank requested the following conditions: i)
intervened banks would not be eligible to participate in the project; ii) at least two banks would
participate jointly in the financing of each subloan, each with full responsibility for carrying out to
completion the project; and iii) all financial restructurings were to be appraised by TU under detailed
operating policies and administrative procedures. Conditions i) and ii) were amendad during project
implementation, so that a bank acting alone could finance a subloan and to allow intervened banks to
be eligible to participate in the project. On the other hand, TU was staffed properly and had
operating policies and administrative procedures approved by the Bank. Furthermore, when the basic
objective of the loan was amended in early 1987 to permit financing of sound conventional investment
projects of viable companies without restructuring features, the TU's operating policies were adapted
to conform to the new approach.
Lesson to be Learnd
19.   The first lesso concerns the time it takes for the Bank to process loans addressing special
credit needs. The first project under review illustrates the importance of reducing the processing time
of credit operations although the long time in processing this loan had to do with unexpected
difficulties due to the innovative character of the project. Loan 2606-CH was designed to take care of
the indebtedness problems of private finns, which originated in the devaluation of June 1982 and the
subsequent severe economic depression of 1982-83. The mid-1983 diagnosis of the problem provided
the rationale for the focus of the project. However, the time for processing and subsequent
declaration of loan effectiveness took close to three years. By 1986, the situation had changed
completely from that of 1983 and the major objective of the loan, to assist, on a-case-by-case
approach, financial restructurings of industrial firms which was diagnosed as one of the main
obstacles to Chile's future economic growth, was not so relevant as before. An additional factor that
contributed to the initial delay in disbursements was the reluctance of private firms to provide
information to the government or BCCH. The economy had recovered with GDP growing 4.8



- viii -
percent a year in 1984-86 and most of the distressed, but technically viable firms had made workout
arrangements by the end of 1986 through debt conversion schemes, debt renegotiations, and
Government-sponsored arrangements for large firms. These developments were noted in the
President's Memorandum of February 12, 1987 to the Board of Directors: "as a result of these
improvements, during eleven months since loan effectiveness, only two sub-loans were approved, and
the pipeline of pending projects with restructuring features is rather thin". They provided the
rationale for redefining the loan's main objective to include the investment demand from viable
companies which did not need restructuring, which was approved. With the new formula, the loan
disbursed quickly.
20.   On the other hand, loan 3053-CH was identified, approved and made effective in less than a
year. This rapid processing time maintained current the focus of the loan. This was helped by the
supplementary character of loan 3053-CH in relation to loan 2606-CH. Loan 3053-CH utilized the
already well established institutional channels of loan 2606-CH, which had performed in a competent
and effective manner, once the main project objective was redefined in early 1987. These factors led
to an outstanding disbursement performance. The loan was fully disbursed well ahead of its original
closing date without any problems.
21.   The second lesson to be learned reenforces current Bank policies in support of the free play of
market fcrces, particularly with respect to interest rates to sub-borrowers, which should reflect market
rates. These policies did not fully influence the design of loan 2606-CH. Restrictions were placed
with respect to the determination of interest rates for peso subloans, the commercial bank's lending
practices and their participation in the project. During the disbursement period, most of these
restrictions proved inoperative and had to be amended. The constraint introduced to the role of
market forces was particularly important. It required detailed formulas to compute interest rates on
es subloans, which had to be equal to the rate of interest applicable to dollar-denominated subloans
adjusted for the inflation rate in the United States plus a 3 percent spread. The application of this
formula yielded rates which, before the application of the spread, were significantly above market
rates in Chile. This affected adversely the demand for funds from this loan. An amendment
recognized this problem and permitted gms rates for subloans to be computed using the weighted
average of UF-denominated commercial bank deposits with maturities running from 90 to 365 days
(TIP) plus a spread not higher than 3 percent. For the follow-up loan 3053-CH, the lesson had been
learned. Interest rates were based on the previously agreed formula MIP) under loan 2606-CH, with
the added feature that the commercial banks were f-.te to establish the spread in both dollar- and peso-
denominated subloans in step with market conditions. The Bank decision to permit market
determination of the commercial bank's spread was considered quite carefully, however, before being
accepted.
22.   The third lesson concerns the need to appraise carefully the introduction of detailed rules and
covenants to mitigate a project's risks. Project 2606-CH provides an example although this was
justified by the nature of the financial crisis. To reduce the project risks because many commercial
banks were bankrupt and there were risks of bailing out other creditors (moral hazard), the Project
Agreement provided that: (i) intervened banks would not be allowed to participate in the project; (ii)
two or more commercial banks would participate in the financing of each subloan, jointly assuming
the responsibility for carrying out the respective subproject to completion; and (iii) financial
intermediaries would not own, directly or indirectly, sub-borrowers. These minor project deficiencies
were quickly canceled; the first two through amendments to the Project Agreement; and the third was
modified to permit this participation but with a time limit of three years to transfer ownership



-lx -
according to an aition program. The design of loan 30S3-CH profited from this experience. It did
not include this type of rules and covenants. The lesson is that it would be to the Bank's advantage,
as well as in line with the role of market forces, to reduce this type of minor detailed conditions to a
minimum, focussing on those with a clearly established useful purpose. Unnecessary restrictions
delay project execution, create irritants in the relations with local authorities, and utilize unnecessarily
staff time in the design and discussions and, later on, in the preparation of amendment documents.
23.   The furh lesson is that this type of project, to be successful, requires a well staffed technical
unit with adequate expertise, as was the case of both loans. Although Central Banks may be potential
second tier banks, the tendency in some countries is to discontinue Central Bank non-monetary
functions, as was the case towards the end of the second loan. Thus, other institutions may be needed
to act as second tier banks.
24.   The fifth les  is that financial intermediation loans, if well designed and properly managed,
can be effective tools for channeling credit to private entrepreneuts. The performance of both loans
support this conclusion. After loan 2606-CH was redefined, it performed well disbursing in fill
before the original closing date. Loan 3053-CH was disbursed in full well ahead of its closing time
too. Furthermore, project effects of revitalizing private investment, increasing the value of Chile's
industrial exports, easing the recovery of the corporate sector and the commercial banks, and
providing a vehicle for helping medium-size manufacturing firms, all of these without introducing
system distortions, are evidence of the usefilness of this type of credit lines.
Bank Gro  Assistance  il
25.   Bank loans to Chile as of December 31, 1991 totalled (net of cancellations) US$2,958
millions, of which outstanding and disbursed loans (net of repayments) amounted to US$1,702
millions. The borrower's obligation was US$2,047 millions owing to currency fluctuations in the
currency basket. Lending was concentrated in structural adjustment (SAL's), US$750 million;
ransport and urban infrastructure, US$574 million; power, US$280 million; housing, US$284
million; agriculture and livestock, US$256 million; industry, US$235 million; education, US$180
million; water supply, US$148 million; and financial markets, US$90 million. The remainder was
allocated to hospitals, technical assistance and public sector management.
26.   Undisbursed funds in the existing pipeline totalled US$542 millions at end-september, 1992,
with nine projects under execution absorbing almost the total of the undisbursed funds. These are:
primary education, US$162 millions; small farmers services, US$95 millions; second road sector,
US$68 million; transport infrastructure, US$63 million; water and sanitation, US$50 million; urban
streets and transport, US$31 million; urban sanitation works, US$29 million; technical assistance and
rehabilitation of hospitals, US$25 million; and public sector management, US$16 million.



PIROJCT CDAHONQ REOT
CIULE
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE RESTRUCTURNG PROJECT (Loan 2606-C), AND
SECOND INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT (Loan 3053-CR
PART I: MAIN FINDINGS AND LESSONS LEARNED BY THE BANK
A. Project Identities
1.1   Project Name: Industrial Finance Restructuring Project
Loan Number: 2606-CH
RVP Unit:   LA4TF
Country:     Chile
Sector: Industry
1.2   Project Name: Second Industrial Finance Project
Loan Number: 3053-CH
RVP Unit:   LA4TF
Country:     Chile
Sector: Industry
B.    BackgroQnd
1.3   The Chilean economy experienced major reforms during the 1970s. First, a socialist
Government came to power in 1971, which undertook a major agrarian reform, expropriated a large
segment of the financial, industrial, and mining sectors, and pursued expansionary wage, fiscal and
monetary policies. The economy experienced severe difficulties and acute shortages, GDP stagnated,
inflation accelerated to about 500 percent a year, and the balance of payments deteriorated. In late
1973, a change in Government took place. The military Government took steps to arrest the
economic deterioration brought about by the policies of the previous administration as well as to
reduce the role of the State in the economy and restore private initiative.
1.4   The econnmy responded positively to the reforms until, in mid-1979, the pre-announced
currency devaluation schedule was abandoned and the exchange rate was fixed. With lowered
restrictions on external capital flows and the public sector overall budget in surplus, the Government
expected that the domestic inflation rate would converge quicldy to international levels. Massive
inflows of foreign borrowings took place that fueled an unsustainable boom. Chile's external debt
tripled.
1.5   The consequences of the rapid build up of the foreign debt stock and the policy
inconsistencies did not take long to develop into a major crisis. The appreciation of the gm and
domestic inflation took a toll on Chilean export earnings. By the end of 1981, the economy entered
in a depression while foreign capital inflows dropped. GDP fell 14 percent in 1982, with all sectors
showing dramatic drops and open unemployment soaring to 19 percent. The financial position of
firms and banks began to deteriorate. The Government devalued in June 1982, and subsequently



followed a crawling peg exchange rate policy. Massive bank insolvencies and large capital outflows
followed.
1.6   The depression bottomed in late 1983. GDP rebounded strongly in 1984 and unemployment
dropped sharply. However, depressed external markets resulted in lower foreign exchange earnings
despite the increased volume exported of copper and non-copper exports. Faced with higher imports
owing to expansionary policies, and with the negative impact on the fiscal accounts of lower copper
prices, the Government increased the import tariff rate to a uniform 35 percent rate, while devaluing
by 23 percent in September 1984.
1.7   The crisis of the early 1980s forced the Government to assume responsibility for the day-to-
day operation of insolvent banks. Tne Chilean banking system had losses equivalent to more than
three times its equity capital and survived only because of the support of the Central Bank. The
losses were concentrated in banks cortrolled by large conglomerates, especially in five banks, which
accounted for 41 percent of the credit and 66 percent of the non-perforning portfolios of the banking
system. The Superintendencia took over the administration of these banks.
1.8   Ihe Government implemented in early 1984 a scheme to regularize the financial support
provided to the non-intervened banks. A joint program of the Superintendency of Banks and the
Central Bank to recapitalize and rescue the banks in distress was implemented. Major reforms in the
structure of business groups were also undertaken and ownership conflicts taclded.
1.9   Since growth was constrained by severe foreign exchange limitations because of the extrnal
debt burden, increased exports of non-copper products received strong incentives, including an
attractive exchange rate. Growth in the industrial sector was a key element of this strategy. Two
major factors were identified in the appraisal report as hindering recovery of the industrial sector: O)
the sector's debt burden, and (ii) the legal uncertainties created by the financial collapse of holding
companies. Reschedulings undertaken by the Central Bank for debtors owing less than US$3 million
equivalent were deemed insufficient. The report also concluded that extending loan mrities and
reducing interest rates only delayed the longer-run solution of allocating losses among creditors. For
large firms, the appraisal report also concluded that the renegotiations had reached unrealistic
agreements, with debtors unable to meet their new contractual obligations and severely constrained in
their growth potential.
1.10  On the other hand, the project's diagnosis was that Chilean banks faced bankruptcy if a
thorough financial restructuring of private firms was undertaken. Thus, both creditors and debtors
were awaiting for a Government bail out. Given the Govermnent's lack of financial resources to bail
out the entire private sector, the appraisal favored a case-by-case restructuring to relieve debt ridden,
but efficient, firms using fmancing provided by suppliers and by multilateral lending institutions (1DB
and the Bank).
1.11   The 1982-83 recession was followed by a strong economic recovery in 1984. After a
slowdown in 1985, GDP continued to grow rapidly in the four-year period 1986-89. Ite 1984
recovery had been based on short-term expansionary policies which were insufficient to sustain rapid
growth in 1985. Thus, the Government embarked on a major program of structuri reforms during
1985-88, which was successfully implemented. The success of the program was facilitated in 1988 by
a sharp improvement in the terms of trade, with average copper prices rising 54 percent. The goals
of the program-the acceleration in economic growth, increasing savings and investment, and the



-3 -
strengthening of the financial system were met. The adjustment program was supported during 1985-
88 by the Bank with three SALs.
1.12  The Government's structural adjustments included: (i) currency devaluations to enhance the
competitiveness of Chilean exports, (ii) reductions of the uniform import tariff rate from the level of
35 percent introduced in September 1984 to 20 percent in June 1985 and to 15 percent in January
1988; (iii) legislative actions to promote exports by small-scale producers; Civ) a 10 percent drawback
for new exports at a level below US$5 million; and (v) a reform of the tax system which reduced the
corporate tax rate from 38 percent to 10 percent, eliminated the 40 percent tax on foreign export
credit insurance, and lowered the tax on profit remittances.
1.13 The 1988 improvement in copper prices provided the public sector with significant additional
resources because of its ownership of CODELCO, the Government-owned copper company. The
export boom was reinforced by an expansionary monetary policy as growth of the money supply
accelerated. 'This combination led to a 7.4 percent expansion of GDP in 1988. This trend was
reinforced in 1989 by changing the collection of corporate taxes from an accrued to a distributed basis
and by reducing the value-added tax (VAT) rate from 20 percent to 16 percent. GDP grew by 10
percent in 1989.
1.14 Industrial output kept in step with GDP growth with large gains in 1984 and 1986-89. All
sub-sectors producing for the local market rebounded and recovered the early 1980s production levels
in response to the increase in domestic demand. At the same time, the value of industrial exports
increased rapidly refleting large volume increases in 1987-88 but also a reversal of the downward
international price trend of Chile's resource-based exports. Fish and seafood products, and lumber
and cellulose comprised about two-thirds of industrial exports. The favorable export development
was supported by medium-scale manufacturers entering the export market with new export items.
Non-traditional exports were favored with Government support through PROCHILE, which assisted
the medium size producers to enter the export market. PROCHILE organized about 70 export
consortia comprising about 600 enterprises; it divided large export orders among its members or
helped them buy materials in bulk.
1.15 As production expanded, industrial investment increased from about US$350 million in 1985
to US$670 million in 1988, in spite of the idle capacity that existed after the 1982-83 recession. The
rapid recovery exhausted this excess capacity by 1986 and new investments were insufficient to avoid
botdenecks in some sub-sectors.
1.16 The rebounding of industrial production improved also the financial situation of manufacturing
firms and helped stabilize the banking sector. This recovery was also helped by Government
measures to increase profitability (the suspension of taxes on retained earnings) and promote
investments, and by the arrangements for debt restructuring. Most of the restructuring had been
completed by 1986 and thus the recovery of economic activity contributed to further strengthen the
financial position of manufacturing enterprises.
1.17 The overheating of the economy in 1989 and speculative purchases of foreign goods in
anticipation of future policy changes led to a large increase in imports (34 percent growth rate), thus
reducing the trade surplus, and to an acceleration of inflation (from 12.7 percent in 1988 to 21.4
percent in 1989). The Government that took office in March 1990 faced two challenges: the
imbalances resulting from the 1989 overheating of the economy and the external shock of higher



-4 -
international oil prices. Economic policies were geared to controlling inflation which abated in the
first half of 1991 to 8.1 percent. Restraining aggregate demand led to a deceleration of GDP growti
to 2.1 percent in 1990 but investment remained at satisfactory levels increasing about 7 percent in real
terms. Imports of goods and non-factor services slowed down growing at about 8 percent in 1990
over the US$8.7 billion level of 1989, which was about 30 percent higher than that of 1988. Exports
of goods and non-factor services grew by only 5.5 percent and, thus, despite lower net factor
payments, the current account deficit increased from US$164 million in 1988 to US$767 million in
1989 and US$824 million in 1990. Both the 1989 and 1990 current account balance of payments
deficits represented close to a five-fold increase with respect to that of 1988.
1.18  The new Government undertook additional strucural reforms, but given the fluidity of the
political and economic situation during the transition to a democratically-elected Administration in
over sixteen years and the need to ensure stability, it made the decision that all important economic
changes would be adopted during its first year in power. Two important areas for reform were taxes
and labor relations. The tax reform increased the value-added tax from 16 percent to 18 percent and
changed corporate taxes from 10 percent on a distributed basis to 15 percent on an accrued basis.
The labor reform improved the bargaining power of labor.
1.19 Summing.up, the implementation of the two Bank projects took place under very different
circumstances. The Restructuring Project (Loan 2606-CH) encountered a set of ecorr nic conditions
completely different from those under which the project was prepared. It had been designed to help
the country come out of a deep recession and to help with the restructuring of manua     debts.
The loan became effective in 1986, a year of high GDP growth and also when all major restrucurmngs
bad been completed through other means. Thus, the loan's economic objectives were no longer vaid
and it had to be amended to satisfy the financing needs of new investments in the industrial sector.
1.20  In contrast, the Second Industrial Finance Project supported the financing of medium-sized
industrial firms, which became important in the export drive of the late 1980s in conjunction with
PROCHILE and other efforts to develop exports and reduce the external debt burden. Economic
conditions and incentives urned out to be right for the speedy disbursement of the loan in fulfillment
of its original objectives despite the uncertainties associated with the elections and the political
transition.
C.    Eaj    OWetives and Description
Loan 2606 CH:
1.21 The project's major objective was to assist the Government to undertake a financial
restructuring of industrial firms on a selective basis. Ihe project was conceptualized as a pilot effort
that would be replicated in other restructuring efforts carried outside the project. The project
included two main components: (i) medium and long-term subloans to eligible industrial companies to
finance the foreign exchange costs of machine,y, equipment, buildings and related civil works,
permanent working capital, and technical assistance services needed by industries; and (Hi) technical
assistance for the establishment of a Technical Unit CMU) within BCCH to manage the corporate
restructurings and financing of eligible firms.



Loan 3053iH
1.22   The project objectives were: (i) to assist the Borrower in the modernization and expansion of
productive enterprises in the private sector, including those enterprises exporting abroad, through the
provisions of subloans in the financing of private investment projects; (ii) to help maintain the
investment momentum by providing for the credit needs of medium-size firms, which were
constrained in their modernization and expansion efforts by lack of medium and long-term funding to
finance export-oriented investments in Chile's resource-based exports, which faced attractive
international prices; and (iii) to help maintain a favorable investment climate during a period of
macro-economic uncertainties in view of potential political changes and contribute to the economic
and social development of the country.
D.    Priectr   t.
Loan
1.23   At appraisal, the total project cost was estimated at US$ 300 million, of which US$5 million
were allocated for technical assistance. This estimate of investments that were expected to be
financed with proceeds of the loan took into account other potential resources of financing, such as a
possible US$ 128 million IDB loan for free-standing working capital and suppliers' credit. The
US$100 million Bank loan was proposed to help fill the manufacturing sector's foreign exchange gap.
This amount also justified the creation of the technical unit (CU) to manage the restructuring loans,
which would also become the key Governmene agency in the replication of the restructuring process
outside the Bank project's scope.
1.24 The proposed US$100 million was to be allocated as follows: (i) US$97.4 million for the
credit component; and (ii) US$2.6 million to finance the costs of the TU created to appraise the
workout proposals. The loan would finance about one-third of the total project costs and about 67
percent of the foreign exchange costs (see Table I-1).
Table I-1 - Project Estimated Cost and Financing
(US$ millions?
Govem            Other
items     ment    Bank   Sout3i    Toal   Looal  Foreig
ilvestment
Sub4prqOectb  97.6    97.4   100.0   295.0   147.6   147.4
Technical
Asidstance     2.4     2.6        -     5.0    2.4    2.6
Totl         100.0   100.0   100.0   300.0   150.0   150.0
Peret         33.3    33.3    33.3   100.0   50.0    50.0
Loan 3053CH
1.25 At appraisal, the total project cost was estimated at US$280 million with no allowance for
technical assistance. This estimate was based on investment proposals already submitted to the banks.



-6-
The Bank Loan proceeds were expected to be supplemented with other sources of financing, including
funds from an IDB loan for US$37 million. The loan provided credit for medium-size industries for
investment in new plant, plant expansion and permanent working capital.
1.26 The proposed US$75 million was all allocated to funancing about 27 percent of the total costs
and about 45 percent of the foreign exchange cost (see Table 1-2).
Table 1-2 - Project Estimated Costs and Financing
(US$ millions)
Govcrnta        Oher    Owncrs'con-
Itemli               or BCCH    Bak  Sources  tribution    Toal   Local  Foreign
Industrial plant and  50.0       75.0   89.0      66.0     280.0  112.0  168.0
permanent woring capital
Puwcentages           17.9       26.8   31.8      23.5     100.0  40.0   S0.0
E.    Banlc Terins
1.27   Loan 2606-CH was approved at the standard variable interest rate, with a maturity of 15
years, including 3 years of grace. It was expected to be committed in three years. The loan proceeds
were to be used by BCCH for on-lending to commercial banks in US dollars or in pesio. Loan 3053-
ClH was also approved at the standard variable interest rate, but with a maturity of 17 years including
a grace period of 5 years.
F.    Identification. Prenaration and Appraisal
Loan 26CH
1.28  The project was first presented to the Bank in June 1983. It was prepared by BCCH and
Bank staff missions that visited Chile during June-November 1984. In 1982-83, the Chilean economy
experienced a serious depression from which it began to recover in the first semester of 1984 but with
precarious prospects due to the financial sector crisis and the foreign exchange constraints imposed by
the large external debt. Bank financing was expected to help remove the financial deadlock that
hindered the recovery of manufacturing production through the development of an institutional
framework for negotiating and implementing corporate workouts. The project was also expected to
provide needed foreign exchange. Thus, the project was designed in line with the perceived needs of
the economy at that time. The appraisal mission took place in October 1984 with negotiations in
Washington on April 15-19, 1985 and Board approval on July 16, 1985. Between the first
presentation and Bank approval there was a time lapse of about two years. During this period, the
economic situation changed significandy as analyzed in other parts of the report.
1.29   The role and responsibilities of BCCH and the lending institutions in charge of project
execution were well-defined. However, since the project objectives changed, their supervisory
functions shifted from corporate workouts to the evaluation of subloans. Their institutional roles,
however, formally remained unchanged. BCCH, through TU, was in charge of approving and
supervising the financial restructurings of eligible companies and of appraising and approving subloan



-7 -
requests, with final approval resting on BCCH management. TU operated in the framework provided
by the Statement of Operating Policies and Procedures approved by the Bank.
1.30 On-lending Arrangements. Proceeds of the Bank loan were to be onlent by BCCH, as a fiscal
agent for the Government, to participating commercial banks under subsidiary loan arrangements.
Loan effectiveness required, as condition, that BCCH had entered into subsidiary loan agreements
with at least two commercial banks(Section 5.01(b) of the Loan Agreement).
1.31  BCCH would onlend Bank funds on US dollars and chilean peo. Interest rates on dollar-
denominated financing provided to commercial banks would equal the Bank's interest rate plus a
spread to cover the Bank's commitment fees and BCCH's operating costs of the TU. The commercial
banks would add a standard three percent spread to subloans granted to private investors (Section I
(5) of Schedule 1 of the Loan Agreement). Under this arrangement, the commercial bank's spread
was not market-determined.
1.32 BCCH's onlending in peogs were defined under the same principles of those for dollar-
denominated subloans. The payment of principal and interest in pesos required: (i) a principal
adjusted for local inflation in line with the evolution of the Unidad de Fomento (UF), which reflected
daily changes in Chile's CPI; and (ii) a rate of interest to determine interest payments in UF
computed by deflating the dollar interest rate by the CPI in the United States. This computation was
to be reviewed semi-annually with the Bank and, if necessary, the formula was to be revised in a
manner satisfactory to the Bank to ensure positive real interest rates for subloans (Section 2.06 of the
Project Agreement).
1.33  The subloans for both fixed investment and working capital had a maturity of up to 15 years,
including grace periods of up to three-years. Since the Bank financing was provided to facilitate the
restructuring of private firms, the loan required the subloans to rank pari-pass with all the senior
obligations of the restructured firms for both debt service and repayment in case of bankruptcy
(Section II (3) of the Schedule 1 of the Project Agreement).
1.34 Subproject Appraisal and Supervision. TU was in charge of a detailed analysis of each
relevant workout proposal, which required that: (i) the firm will become economically and financially
viable under reasonable assumptions for future performance under the arranged workout; (ii) the
restructiring will be legally binding with no further claims against the firm at the time of the
restructuring; (iii) the ownership of the firm will be clearly established; and (iv) the proceeds of the
loan will be used for fixed investment and associated permanent working capital, not for repaying
existing obligations.
1.35 The first two subloans approved by BCCH and, subsequently, those requiring financing from
the proceeds of the loan which exceeded US$5 million were to be submitted for Bank approval
(Section 2.02 (b) of the loan Agreement). A lending ceiling per firm of US$15 million equivalent
with not more than US$10 million equivalent for working capital was established (Section 2.02 (c) (v)
of the Loan Agreement). In addition, loans in excess of US$10 million but below the US$15 million
ceiling would be processed only after ensuring that cofinancing with IFC, other multilateral agencies
and/or commercial banks was not available.
1.36 Ihe work-out proposals were required to have a certain coverage: (i) a marketing plan to
increase revenues; (ii) a production plan dealing with curtailments of productive capacity, expansions,



-8 -
or better utilization of existing capacity; and (iii) a financial workout plan. The workout plan was to
provide for: streamlining of management and administration; the sale of unnecessary assets; a
reduction of the firms financial burden; and issuance of new shares to inject new capital. Subloan
agreements were also to require an independent legal opinion confirming the legality of the
restructing arrangement and a covenant limiting any future loans.
1.37  Projects to be fianced with the proceeds of the Bank's loan were to have. real rates of return
exceeding 11 percent. The evaluation criteria were incorporated into TU's Statement of Operating
Policies and Procedures.
1.38  Participating Comnercial Bafks. All commercial banks satisfying the eligibility criteria were
considered eligible to participate, after signing a subsidiary loan agreement satisfactory to the Bank
(Sections 1.02 (g) and O) of the Loan Agreement). Intervened banks would not meet the eligibility
criteria while they remained intervened.
1.39   Amendments to the Loan A,reement. The most important amendment, made to,accelerate the
use of the loan, was approved in February 1987 with the purpose of broadening the scope of the Bank
fiancing to sound investment projects of viable firms which were not subject to a workout
arrangement. Other amendments covered the eligibility criteria of firms and the liabilities twlbird
parties, constraints in the number of participating banks, and restraints on the participation of
commercial banks which partially owned the restuctred firms. These are covered in other sectiod-n
of this report. The amendment that broadened the scope of the loan was an important step in view of
the changing economic environment. Apart from expediting the use of the loan proceeds, it created
the basic framework and the orientation for the subsequent operation (see paragraphs 47 to 59).
1.40 On March 17, 1986, another amendment was made to broaden the use of the loan and thus
accelerate its use; it eliminated the joint responsibility of all participating commercial banks for WIl
of each subloan and allowed the participation of the National Development Corporation
(CORFO) and Banco del Estado de Chile.
1.41  On September 8, 1986, an amendment provided that ps interest rates charged by BCCH to
the commercial banks be computed on the basis of the weighted average rate paid by the banks for
UF - denominated commercial banks' deposits with maturities of 90 to 365 days (TIP) plus a spread
no higher than 3 percent (see para. 1.85). The commercial banks' Mg rates would no longer be
regulated but were to be determined in both dollar - and p.o denominated loans by market
conditions. This change was maintained for the follow-up operation, but, in addition, banks were
free to set the spread. In May 1987, other amendments eliminated the requirement that each subloan
be granted by at least two financial institutions, relaxed the restrictions on beneficiary firms owned
directly or indirecdy by a financial institution, and eased access to subloans for firms with eligibility
restrictions. On September 4, 1987, additional amendments were introduced to the operating policies
of TU, which reduced the minimum acid test ratio from 1.2 to 1 and raised the long-term debt to
maximum equity ratio from 1.2 to 3. These amendments also restricted the payment of dividends and
the repayment of other long-term obligations.
1.42 Loan Coverave and Limitations: The subloans were expected to cover estimated foreign
exchange costs of: fixed assets, permanent working capital (initial stocks or increases in stocks of
imported raw materials, spare plants and components), and technical assistance services. Section 2.02
(C) (iv) of the Loan Agreement limited fincing of subloans for subprojects requiring working capital



-9.
finmcing in excess of 70 percent of the subloan; in addition, flancing should not exceed 50 percent
of the Bank loan.
1.43  Loan documents placed restrictions on: (i) stateowned firms, by limiting Government
participation in eligible firms to less than 50 percent of the equity capital unless satisfactory plans
were presented to reduce this participation below 50 percent in a ftve-year period (Section I, para (6)
of Schedule 1 of the Project Agreement); (ii) firms controlled by commercial banks, which were not
eligible unless specific plans were submitted to reduce this controlling ownership through sales to
private entrepreneurs in a three-year period; and (iii) firms related to the major Chilean groups, which
were deemed to be eligible if these firms were no longer responsible for any of their former holding
companies' obligations. Firms in need of restructuring were to be the only ones eligible as projec
beneficiaries.
1.44  Speial Aocoun: A special account in the Central Bank in US$ dollars was required to cover
estimated expenditures for four months (Section 2.02 (d) of the Loan Agreement). The Bank made an
initial deposit of US$10 million with reimbursements to be made upon presentation of documented
withdrawal applications. BCCH was to submit each month a certified statement on the Special
Account covering the previous month transactions (Section 3.02 (a) (iii) of the Project Agreement).
1.45  Procurement and Disbursement: Procurement was to conform to the standard practice under
the Industrial Development and Finance loans, with TU to monitor procurement. Loan proceeds were
to be disbursed against 60 percent of the fixed investment and permanent working capital
requirements of approved subprojects. The 60 percent reflects the estimated average foreign
exchange costs. Technical assistace was to be acceptable to TU and in accordance with the Bank's
standard guidelines. Expenditures made no more than 180 days prior to the date of the receipt by the
Bank of the financing request were eligible under the loan. Retroactive financing of up to US$10
million or ten percent of the loan amount was provided for financing provided under the loan before
loan signing and after February 1, 1985 (Section 2.02 (c) (i) of the Loan Agreement).
1.46 Auditing Requirements: Commercial banks were required to maintain adequate records of the
finacing granted with loan funds and to submit annual statements audited by external auditors in a
mnnner satisfactory to the TU. BCCH was to maintain adequate records concerning the operations
and financial transactions of the loan, including the Special Account; these accounts were to be
audited by external auditors satisfactory to the Bank (Section 3.02 (a) (0) of the Project Agreement).
Ls2an 3053CH
1.47 The project followed 'oan 2606-CH which, after the 1987 restructring, was quicldy
committd; disbursements were expected to be completed by early 1989. In view of this situation,
and taking into account the needs of the  facturing sector, BCCH, with Bank assistance; prepared
a new project. The appraisal mission visited Chile in November 1988 and negotiations took p lace in
April 1989. From the Banl's first mission in August 1988 to Board approval in May 1989 the time
lapse was only nine months, during which the economic background justifying the project's objectives
did not change much.
1.48 Loan 3053-CH was a follow up operation of Loan 2606-CH. Therefore, the role and
responsibilities of the institutions and agencies involved in financing private sector operations were
akeady well defined. BCCH continued to be a second-tier institution and the commercial banks the



- 10-
first-tier institutions. In contrast with Loan 2606-CH, no restrictions were placed in the participation
of any Bank in good standing. TU (BCCH) continued appraising and supervising the subloans. Each
commercial bank was also expected to supervise subprojects regularly and to report on performance
progress, while the TU had the right to visit both the conunercial banks and the enterprises, to
determine the project's progress.
1.49    On ling Arrag ,e: Proceeds of the Bank loan were to be onlent by BCCH to
commercial banks. The funds continued to be provided to commercial banks in US dollars and
Chilean gesos.
1.50  lnterates gn dollar-denominated Su,bloans: BCCH financing terms to commercial banks
were equal to the Bank's interest rate plus 0.6% p.a. to cover the Bank's commitment fee and the
costs of the TU. Interest rates on pg   loans, including those made with BCCH's matching finds,
were adjusted with the reference rate (IMP), which was defined as the re weighted average rate paid
by the banks for 90-365 days UP-denominated deposits. To avoid sharp fluctuations, the average
value of TIP was the rate prevailing during the three-month period preceding the change date
(February 1 or August 1). The TIP had been already introduced under the amendments to loan 2606-
CH.
1.51   The interest rate charged by financial intermediaries to sub-borrowers was freely determined
based on the interest rate charged by BCCH plus a spread freely determined by the commercial
banks. Competition was expected to limit the size of the banks' spreads.
1.52 PeM-denominated loans were reviewed during the last quarter of each year to determine if
BCCH earned a spread adequate to cover administrative, financial charges and the dollar risk. 'Te
appraisal report concluded that given Chile's policies of open capital markets and market determined
interest rates, the rates charged for subloans included an allowance for he anticipated exchange risk,
mainly the dollar risk.
1.53 Terms for subloans for fixed investment and associated working capital were: maturities of up
to 10 years, including 3 years of grace. Terms for subloans granted for working capital were:
maturities of up to 36 months, including 12 months of grace.
1.54  Insitutional Arrangements: TU managed the loan and the related administrative tasks. The
minim_m loan size was set at US$500,000 to avoid overlapping in lending with the Bank's Small and
Medium Scale Industries Project (Loan 2613-CH). Bank fimds financed up to 100 percent of the
subloan amount, provided this funding did not exceed 60 percent of the investment costs and/or the
estimated foreign exchange cost component of the project.
1.55 Commercial banks were authorized to grant loans for up to US$ 1 million without prior
authorization of the TU. This approach was supported by the banks since they were bearing the fidl
credit risk. Nevertheless, TU was expected to carry out ex-post evaluations of compliance; Bank
review was limited to an ex-post evaluation of a representative sample of projects during supervision.
1.56  P     eent and Disbursement: Commercial banks were required to solicit from borrowers
quotations from at least three suppliers for procuemmnt packages exceeding US$400,000. Consulting
services were opened to international recruitment.



- I1 -
1.57   &ig Acc        A special account was established with US$10 million to cover estimated
expenditures for four months and ensure timely reimbursement payments.
1.58 Retroactive Financing: The loan provided for retroactive financing of up to US$7.5 million
or 10 percent of the loan amount for expenditures incurred up to 179 days prior to receipt of the
request for loan approval.
1.59  auditor: Records of commercial banks and beneficiaries were to be audited by auditors
satisfactory to the TU. Pro.ject accounts were subject to external audits. In addition, TU was
required to prepare semi-annual financial statements to reflect the net cashflow of the funding
provided by the Bank and BCCH. The cashflow was to include interest charged by BCCH, the cost
of operating the TU, and the cost of funding, including debt service payments to the Bank.
G.    EMoject Issues
Loan 2606-CH
1.60   During preparation, appraisal and negotiation, several issues were of concern: the potential
beneficiaries, the institutional setting, credit components, amount of the subloans, eligibility of
companies in trouble, and intermediaries. These are analyzed below.
a. Potential Beneficiaries: The Project Brief suggested limiting the benefits of the project tc
industrial exporters needing working capital and/or fLxed investment financing. The appraisal mission
recommended: (i) extending the loan's scope to efficient industrial firms producing for the domestic
market; and (ii) establishing a minimum economic rate of return for the eligibility of subprojects
producing goods for exports markets or substituting imports. The argument supporting this position
was that limiting potential beneficiaries to those identified in the Project Brief would most likely
restrict the project scope to a small group of enterprises with severe problems (being managed by
creditors' commissions, facing complex ownership problems or having financial needs that exceeded
those provided for by traditional industrial subloans). Based on these facts, and at the suggestion of
the Government, the appraisal mission studied the possibility of including, among the potential
beneficiaries, firms producing for the domestic market which faced depressed markets at home but
wish good prospects of selling their output in foreign markets. The recommendation of the appraisal
mission was approved at the decision meeting and the scope of the project broadened.
b. Institutional Setting: After deliberation, the Bank agreed that the Government be the
Borrower and BCCH the executing agency. BCCH was to provide the funds to commercial banks for
onlending to private industrial firms. Other recommendations of the meeting were: to establish a
technical unit (TU) in BCCH and put it in charge of the appraisal of restructuring proposals; and that
the board of directors of TU should have representatives of BCCH (President of TU), the Ministries
of Economy and Finance, and the Superintendency of Banks and Cooperatives. To strengthen TU's
technical capabilities, the meeting supported a technical assistance program to be set up with financing
provided either through the Bank's Public Sector Management Technical Assistance Program or the
Project. This technical assistance, at the end, was included in the Project.
c. C eitQ ne: This issue concerned the components of both the workout proposals
(marketing plan, production plan and financial workout plan) and the financial plan. The decision



- 12 -
was to help the restructuring process by financing fixed invesrtlents and permanent working capital,
with a global ceiling on the financing of penmanent working capital of 50 percent of the proceeds of
the loan.
d. Amount of the Subloans: The potential demand for large loans originating from some
important subprojects, particularly in the fishing, wood and pulp and paper subsectors, was analyzed.
Given their potential for substantially exceeding IDF's traditional subloan amounts and also fbr
concentrating in fnancing a small number of large-scale operations absorbing a substantial share of
the Bank loan, a subloan ceiling of US$15 million equivalent was proposed, with exceptions to permit
cofinancing of subloans to large exporting firms for up to US$30 million, provided their plan included
a fixed investment component. Subprojects requiring financing for more than US$10 million were to
be appraised with support from the Bank's industry department or IFC. The meeting accepted this
proposal, which was introduced in the Loan Agreement as follows: no enterprise, including its
subsidiaries, would obtain financing exceeding US$15 million equivalent, and not more than US$10
million equivalent would be used to finance working capital in any subloan (Section 2.02 (c) (v) of
the loan Agreement). Regarding the role of the Bank in the evaluation of subloans, the requirement
was: the first two subloans approved under the project were to be submitted to the Bank for approval
(Section 2.02 () of the Loan Agreement) and, subsequently, all those requiring Bank financing in
excess of US$5 million equivalent were to be submitted to the Bank for approval.
e. Eligibility of Companies Belongint to the Groups that Col1apsed: The issue concerned the
financing of large exporting companies owned by two large groups (Progressa and BHC) that
confronted serious difficulties. Banco de Chile's groups had virtually been dismantled and the
dismembered components of the group, if properly restructured, were perceived as eligible because, it
was argued during the issues meeting, they were on their way to becoming independent, free-standing
companies. The situation was less clear with the Progressa group, which still had connections with
the holding companies through creditors' committees, and showed, as well, uncertainties about their
rightful owners. In this case, the meeting suggested that, if these firms could be separated from the
Progressa Group and ownership problems solved, they should be eligible. The Project reflected this
position stating that firms related to the major Chilean Groups (Progressa and BHC) would be eligible
as beneficiaries if they were no longer responsible for any of their former holding companies'
obligations, and needed restructuring.
f. Finanal Intermediaries: The issues meeting discussed two related problems: debt
reduction of the commercial banks' claims through conversion into equity or quasi-equity, and the
need to increase these banks' exposure in the restructured firms to finance their normal operations and
even their expansion. Two difficulties were identified. One was legal and concerned the provisions
in the Banking Law which limited both a bank's investments in bonds and shares, as well as, a bank's
overall exposure in any firm or economic group. This obstacle was taken care by the
Superintendency granting an exception in the case of bonds and shares received by the banks in
payment of their claims. The other was economic: whether the banks would increase or not the
exposure on restructured fims. This was disposed of at the meeting with two arguments: (i) a
restructured firm, if effectively restructured, represented a good credit risk and thus the banks would
increase their exposure to recover their previous losses; and fii) good credit risks firms were scarce in
Chile at that time. A second important and serious consideration was the weak financial situation of
the Chilean banks. Non-intervened banks despite the Government's recapitalization scheme, had a
large proportion of doubtful loans in their portfolios. Intervened banks were in a much worse
situation. The meeting decided to permit only the participation of non-intervened banks, because they



- 13 -
were not in danger of going bankrupt and to forbid the participation of intervened banks. All
commercial banks eligible to participate were required to sign a subsidiary loan agreement satisfactory
to the Bank (Section 1.02 (g) and (h) of the loan Agreement.)
g. Lgd Issues: One issue was the appropriateness of Chilean law to provide an adequate
framework for restructurings. Local legal experts and the Bank Legal Department finally concurred
that the legislation was adequate.
h. Cds and Services Eligible for Financing: The meeting settled this question on the basis
of the CPP recommendation that a minimum of 50 percent of each subproject's financial needs be
covered with the proceeds of the loan, even if the imported component was lower.
i. Currency Denomination and Subloan Conditions: A Government proposal on the currency
denomination and subloan terms was analyzed. The decision was to accept loan denomination in
Chilean Mm or dollars. Interest rates in dollar-denominated operations were in the range LlBOR +
2.5 or LIBOR + 3. Interest rates on gzg-denominated subloans were tied to the Unidad de Fomento
(UF), which was adjusted daily with the CPI. This was incarporated into the Project Agreement
(Section H (2) (3) (5) and (6) of the Schedule).
j. Credit Demand and Loan Amount: Credit demand for case-by-case restructurings was
estimated at about US$700 million with a foreign exchange component close to 60 percent (US$420
million). Given the availability of other sources of financing, the demand for the Bank loan was
esimated at US$100 - 120 million. The meeting recommended a US$100 million loan, which was
the amount submitted to the Bank Board for approval.
1.61  RMitulation: Despite all the conditions introduced in the legal documents in response to the
above-noted issues, subsequent supervision missions suggested important changes, which gradually
removed the legal constraints imposed. The lifting of the restriction on the participation of intervened
banks was formally requested on January 15, 1986. On June 5, 1986 a change in the formula for
computing pg   interest rate was also formally requested and the TIP formula introduced. Most
important, an amendment to the Loan Agreement circulated to the Board on February 26, 1987,
broadened the scope of the Project to finance investment projects of viable firms without restructuring
needs. With these and other less important changes, some of the decisions reached at the issues
meeting were in effect nullified. With the approval of the amendments, however the project's
feasibility improved significantly. TU implemented the amended project with its broadened coverage
and, in processing conventional loans, commercial banks were responsible for identifying subloan
beneficiaries, appraising subloan applications, and supervising subproject performance. TU was
responsible for monitoring and reviewing subprojects on a selective basis.
Proect 30QCH
1.62 During the preparation, appraisal and negotiation, there was a general consensus that no major
issues existed, in part because the project was supplementary in character to Loan 2606-CH.
Nonetheless some issues were raised at the different stages of preparation concerning the initial
negative experience under Loan 2606-CH, the relationship of the project with recent developments in
the capital market, the extent of the participation of commercial banks, the eligibility of industries,
interest rates and spreads, maximum amount of subloans and time limitations on retroactive financing
of expenditures made before loan approval. These are analyzed below.



-14 -
a. Experience under the previous loan 2606-H: This was taken care by the task team,
which pointed out that, after the 1987 Amendment allowing the financing of regular investment
projects, funds were committed rapidly and that the institutional arrangement (BCCH acting as second
tier and commercial banks as first tier lenders) had proven effective. TU also proved to be a
competent manager for loan 2606-CH.
b. The impact of recent financial market developments: Because of the buoyant recovery of
financial markets, the Bank decided that this Project should be the last of its kind, unless capital
markets expanded at a slower pace than expected.
c. Participation of commercial banks: The number of commercial banks participating in the
financing was initially considered low. However, the Bank rejected establishing a minimum number
of participating commercial banks since it wished to avoid 2 mismatch between subloan maturities and
those of deposits; the Bank was also uncertain of the contiiued effect of the crisis of the early eighties
on the solvency of the banking system.
d. Eligibility of industries: To avoid the perception of targeting specific subsectors, the
meeting decided to declare a broad range of industries and industry-supporting services eligible for
financing.
e. Interest rates and spreads: The staff also decided to follow market forces and depart from
the practices of Loan 2606-CE letting the banks set freely their spreads.
f. Maximum amount of financing per subloan: Since in Loan 2606-CH some groups
monopolized a significant proportion of loan funds, a US$5 million ceiling was set for financing
under Loan 3053-CH. This also precluded competing with the bond market because the project was
aimed at medium-size firms without access to alternate funding sources. This led to a secondary
issue: the determination of which firms were considered "primes finns and had access to the
securities market. Criteria were established at negotiations to make this determination; in essence,
firms with quoted shares or bonds on the stock market firms which had recently issued shares on
bonds, and those which had taken steps to do so were precluded from borrowing from the project.
g. Time limit on retoactive financing of expenditures: Loan 2606-CH had set a time limit
of 180 days. While this had been exceptional, remembering the delays inherent to the-two tier system
and the need to support the momentum of investments, the Bank, at negotiations, agreed to maintain
the 180 days time limit for retroactive financing of expenditures.
H.    Project Implementation
Loan 2606CH
1.63   At loan approval, disbursements of all funds were projected to take place by December 31,
1991. The US$10 million disbursement for establishing the special account took place in 1986. This
disbursement exceeded the estimated disbursement for 1986 but was unrelated to actual financing of
subloans. In late 1986, only three subprojects had been approved by TU and reviewed by the Bank.
Seventeen subprojects were in the pipeline but less than half were considered with a chance of
materializing because of ownership or management problems, unwillingness of the commercial banks
to assume the credit risk, or for lack of a restructuring plan. As noted earlier, the project was



- 15-
amended frequently in response to changing circumstances. With the amendments, disbursements
sped up, particularly in 1988-89, and the original closing date target was met (see Table 1-3).
Table I-3 - Cumulative Disbursement and Actual Disbursement
(in US millions by FY)
1986     1987       1988       1989     1990         1991       1992
Er nt          1.7      119       31.3       61.7       79.7       95.4      Acb
Actual      IQ        13.6      66.8 193              98.7       98.8      tOO.O
. simt     ,I .113                      6     .7                
Source: Bank staff.
Disbursement only for establishing the special account.
1.64  Project implementation was initially well below expectations for several reasons. First, the
economic crisis which led to the development of the program, particularly the problem of debtor
firms and creditor banks, had been solved to a large extent when the Bank completed processing the
operation. Second, the Bank project introduced several constraints on the access by firms to
financing. Third, the project initially restricted the participation of some commercial bar.ks, oy
requiring that two or more banks participate on each refinancing operation, and limiting the access by
intervened banks to the program.
1.65 The operational policies of TU changed in 1987. The minimum ratio of current assets to
current liabilities was lowered, the maximum ratio of long-term debt to net worth was increased, and
the payments of dividends and the prepayment of long-term credits during the life of subloans were
restricted, except when authorized by BCCH.
1.66 With the amendments, on one hand, broadening the scope of the project, changing the interest
rate formula, and easing the participation of commercial banks, and with the changes in operating
procedures on the other hand, disbursements increased rapidly and the number of participating
intermediaries increased. The loan was fully disbursed by December 31, 1991.
Loan 3053-CH
1.67   At loan approval, commitments of all funds was projected to take place by December 31,
1991 and full disbursement of the Bank financing by December 31, 1994. Actual disbursements took
place at a faster rate; the program committed US$113.4 million between August 1989 and June 1992,
with US$104.6 million disbursed at that time. The Bank loan was fully disbursed by January 1992.
1.68   The project was very successful. An indicator of this success is that it required only two
amendments, none of which concerned the efficiency of the operation. The first released BCCH of
its obligation to use repayments for new lending. The second eliminated the obligation (Section 2.01
(d) of the Project Agreement) of BCCH to provide the full US$50 million, agreed at negotiations, for
the local counterpart financing.



- 16 -
Table 14 - Cumulative Estimated and Actual =isbursements by FY
(in US$ million)
1990          1991           1992           1993           1994
l       Estinvoc          7.5           20.0           39.0           55.0           75.0
l~ource:  AclaI          43.2           69.2           75.0              -
ource: B3ank stanf
1.69   Project iniplementation was well above expectations. Several factors helped to achieve this
result. Filst, 3he loan was a follow-up operation to Loan 2606-CH, utilizing the same mechanism
(TU) and also benefiting from the experience gained with that operation. Second, interest rates were
market rates. Third, Loan 3053-CH was designed to take care of a simpler problem (financing new
investmonts for medium-size enterprises) while Loan 2606-CH was designed initialy to tackle a much
more difficult problem: that of financing debt restructurings.
I.    Disburseients and Audits
1.70   The USSIO million Special Account proved to be low for the financing required by the
subloans granted under both loans 2606-CH and 3053-CH. Close relations with the Bank's
disbursement staff helped to expedite reimbursements and avoid slowing down the investments.
Nevertheless the experience under Loan 3053-CH showed an increase in the time lapsed between
disbursement requests and actual receipt of funds from an average of 18 days under Loan 2606-CR to
25 days under lotan 3053-CH.
1.71   The B.nk exerted an adequate control of the documentation supporting each subloan and
realized field visits to check implementation of sub-projects financed under both Bank loans.
Improvements on su'oloan documentation requested by the Bank were carried out. External auditors
certified that. under accepted accounting principles and the norms of the Superintendency of Banks,
the commercial banks met loan conditions for subloans. However, an audit report for FY49 on
another subborrower, CORFO, prepared by Contralorfa General de la Reptblica (CGR), raised
questions about the quality of the Contraloria's work. CORFO's equity had not been adjusted for
portfolio and oUier kisses and, thus, the audit report prepared by CGR did not reflect the true
financial situation of CORFO nor met the requirements of the Bank.
J.    Trojs cj Results
Loans. 2006-CH and_3053-CH
1.72   The main accomplishments of the Industrial Finance Restructuring Project (Loan 2606-CH)
and the Second tnduwtrial Finance Project (Loan 3053-CH) were:
a o W ding long-term financing of viable investment projects for which no other significant
alternativc SurC of finanicing existed until 1989. Thereafter, the development of the capitl markets
(pension fuJs'. Ica,sing and insurance companies) permitted firms, particularly prime firms, access to
other alternaiix\ sources of funding. Further progress in the development of the capital markets



- 17-
allowed the Central Bank to terminate long-tm lending through TU for industial production. lhis
required an amendment deleting paragraph (c) of Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement which
concerned relending loan coUections, which the Bank accepted;
b. helping sustain the investment momentum in the private sector after a limited recovery of
economic activity in 1984 slowed down in 1985. The loans helped revitalize investment demand and
sustain the growth of the economy in the following years;
c. facilkating the extraordinary increase in the value of Chile's industrial exports, and
supporting the export diversification process. New important exports generated by the projects were
reported in the apparel, texties and yarns, ceramic and glass products, shoes, and furmiture industries.
Resource-based exports with a higher degree of value-added (manufactured wood products, processed
foods, fruits and vegetables, and non-petroleum chemicals) also increased. This is documented in the
Government reports;
d. orienting credit to export and import substitution activities, which led to a significant
increase in exports and a reduction of imports, which added together represented US$349 million
yearly within a framework of economic efficiency. This represented a significant contribution to the
economic and social development of the country.
e. helping medium-size manufcturing firms enter into the export market (a specific objective
of Loan 3053-CH). These firms had limited access when Loan 3053-CH was being designed. The
objective was accomplished; it reinforced the PROCHILE's (the export promotion agency) effort
directed at assisting medium-size firms in entering the export market. PROCHILE helped apportion
large foreign orders among its members as well as procured materials in bulk. It also acted as an
information center and provider of marketing and technical assistance;
f. easing the recovery of the corporate sector and the commercial banks from the heavy
indebtedness which resulted from the 1982-8, crisis. This crisis led to high and unstable real interest
rates as the baniks tried to increase operating income from performing loans in good standing to
compensate for non-performing loans. Since mid-1985, the two Bank loans helped to expand the
volume of performing loans resulting in a gradual decline in real interest rates, which reached
historically low levels and remained stable;
g. incentivating the participation of banks in long-term credit. Both loans sought to increase
the number of participating banks with limited success. Under loan 2606-CH eleven banks
participated and allocated US$ 162 million in credits to 41 subprojects; three banks (de Chile, Osorno
y la Union, and de Santiago) represented about three-fifths of the total credit granted. The number of
participating banks was not considered satisfactory at the time loan 3053-CH was prepared; although
fourteen banks participated in allocating credits against eleven in Loan 2606-CH, there was the same
heavy concentration of credit in a few banks (de Chile, Osorno y la Unidn, de Santiago, y de Credito
e Inversiones represented about four fifths of the total credit granted); and
h. maintaning existng indurtial employment and creating new jobs. BCCH estimates that
both loans together created over 6,800 jobs.



- 18-
1.73 Lean 3053-CH aimed at providing financing to industry-supporting services. This was
paally accomplished and was concentrated mostly in services connected to the same productive
areas covered by the first project (manufacturing, forestry, mining, fishing and agroindustries).
K.  B  Egfta=
Loan 2606-CH
1.74 The Bank took too long in processing this operation, which accounts for the implementation
difficulties encountered later on. Identification took place in September, 1983. A Bank mission
analyzed several approaches to providing financial assistance and supported Bank disbursements
linked to a case - by - case restructuing of firms. Loan financing was destined to cover the import
needs (equipment and imported production imports) and a portion of the local financing needs
stemming from restruchring. Loan conditionality focussed on critical aspects linked to restrumcring
of firms. Preparation missions followed in November 1983 and April 1984. A Project Brief was
ready In May 1984 for a US$100 million loan and the appraisal mission took place in October-
November 1984. The Yellow Cover SAR was issued in June 1985 and the Loan approved in July
1985. The Loan became effective in February 1986.
1.75   Given the nature of the operation and its complex objectives, the time span of this operation
from identification to effectiveness was close to three years, which helps explain the initial poor
subloan financing performance. Workout restructurings were already under way supported by other
schemes. The first subloan was approved almost a year after signing of the Project Agreement.
However, the Bank reacted quickly to the changed circumstances amending the operation. After the
1987 amendment, which widened the scope of the Project to finance investment subprojects of firms
that did not need restructring, the pace of disbursements quickened.
1.76 The loan performance raises questions about the quality of the Bank's assessment on the
nature of the manufacturing sector's financial needs and whether loan 2606-CH as originally designed
was the appropriate response to those needs. In hindsight, the answer is negative because
restructurings undeway were not accurately assessed. However, the Bank recognized the need to
finance the manufacturing sector under other arrangemens. This modified objective was successfilly
accomplished.
1.77  The project absorbed a total of 133.7 staff weeks of which 52.9 were allocated to project
development, appraisal and negotiation. The number of supervision missions appears to be adequate
with good coverage. Supervision was carried out by the IDF division and, after the 1987
reorganization, by the Trade and Finance Division (LA4TF). Bank missions recognized promptly the
need for amending the project in response to the change in circumstances.
Lon 3I05
1.78  Bank missions collaborated in project preparation. Identification took place in early 1988
with the first Bank mission visiting Chile in August 1988. The appraisal mission followed in
November 1988 and Board approval in May 1989. The concept of the operation and the institutional
framework were the same used for the amended Loan 2606-CH. This helped to expedite the approval
process as well as facilitated implementation. No major problems developed.



- 19-
1.79 The project absorbed a total of 46.9 staff-weeks, a significant reduction from those employed
in Loan 2606-CH. About 33.3 staff weeks were utilized for project preparation; appraisal and
supervision required only 13.7 staff weeks, partly because of good performance of the operation and
pardy because the missions simultaneously supervised Loans 2606-CH and 3053-CH. Supervision
was carried out by the Trade, Finance and Private Sector Development Division (LA4TF).
L.    Borrower Performange
1.80  The Government was fully committed .o the execution of these projects. BCCH instumented
the staffing of TU and the installation of its Executive Committee, and designed the credit norms.
TU effectively promoted and administered both loans. Evaluations of subprojects were carried out
initially with the support of the technical assistance component of loan 2606-CH, and those exceeding
US$5 million were submitted to the Bank for approval. Supervision and follow-up were effective
with respect to disbursement conditions, inspection of capital expenditures funded, and compliance
with other subloans conditions. Commercial banks were audited by independent auditors and
subloans monitored, In brief, the performance of BCCH and, particularly TU, was excellent.
M.   Technical Assistance
1.81  At closing (December 31, 1991), US$1 mfllion of the technical assistance funds of Loan
2606-CH had been utilized for technical assistance expenditures. The remainder US$1.6 million were
reallocated to subloans. Loan 3053-CH did not finance technical assistance.
N.    Lessons to be learned
1.82  A first In concerns the processing time of loans and the close connection between timely
approval and efficacy of the operation to tackde a specific problem. Loan 2606-CH was specifically
designed to help solve the indebtedness problems of private firms as a consequence of the June 1982
devaluation's impact on the networth of private firms and the economic conditions prevailing in Chile
in 1983. While the operation was processed in the Bank, major changes took place concerning both
Chile's economic situation and the indebtedness of private firms. The economy recovered and most
of the distressed but viable firms took advantage of other existing mechanisms, such as debt
conversion schemes, debt renegotiations, and special Government-appointed commissions to produce
workouts for large firms. Thus, the original purpose for which the loan was approved, was no longer
relevant. An additional fcor that initially contributed to the disbursement delays was the reluctance
of private firms to provide what they considered to be confidential information to the Government or
BCCH. The Bank recognized this and amended the project in early 1987 to cater to a broader group
of firms which needed investment financing but not restructuring.
1.83  On the other hand, loan 3053-CH illustrates the Importance of a well-defined focus and dmely
approval of a project. The character of loan 3053-CH as a supplementary loan to loan 2606-CH,
rapid processing, and the utilization of the same institutional mechanism of loan 2606-H, which had
performed competently and efficiently once the project was redefined, led to quick utilization of the
proceeds of the loan and basically a problem- free performance. The loan was disbursed quicldy and
weli ahead of its closing date.
1.84  A scond I    concerns the role of free market forces in the setting of interest rates or other
particular aspects of the operation. Again both projects present contrasting examples. Loan 2606-CM



-20 -
constrained the role of market forces in the determination of interest rates and in the operating
procedures of commercial banks, both in lending practices and in the participation of conmnercial
banks. Most of the restrictions placed under Loan 2606-CH proved inoperative and were amended;
the interest rate formula was also changed to reflect better market conditions (but rates to sub-
borrowersi remained constrained by computational rules). Loan 3053-CH did not introduce the same
restrictions on commercial bancs' operations and freed their spreads.
1.85 The mecbanism to establish interest rates under Loan 2606-CH deserves analysis. Interest
rates in either US dollars or Chilean peso for outanding subsidiary loan and subloans were to be
based on the Bank's standard variable rate of interest adjusted semi-annually with the Govnment
assuming the exchange risk between tde Baek's currency pool and the US dollar. Interest rates on
dollar denominated subsidiary loans were to be equal to the Bank's interest rate plus a spread
covering the Bank's conmmitment fee and BCCH's cost of operating the technical unit. Interest rates
on doUar-denombiaed subloans were to be equal to the interest rate charged on dollar-denominated
subsidiary loans plus a 3 percent spread. As stipulated in the Project Agreement and tie Statement of
Operating Policies and Procedures of the TU of BCCH, the pQ real interest rates on peso-
denominated subsidiary loans and subloans had to be equal to the rate of interest applicable to dolar-
denominated subloa;s deflated by the imfation rate in the United States. The application of this
formula yielded rates which, before the application of the spread, were significantly above market
raes in Chile. An amendment introduced on September 8, 1986 to section 2.06 of the Project
Agreement and to paragraph b of Section I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement recognized this
problem and permitted gm rates for subsidiary loans withdrawn and outstanding to be computed
semi-annually using the weighted average rate of UF-denominated commercial bank deposits with
maturities running from 90 to 365 days (F!?) plus or minus one percentage point (1 %) per annum.
Peso-denominated subloaos were to pay the interest rate charge to subsidiary loans plus a spread not
higher than 3 percent. For the follow-up ?oan 3053-CH, the lesson had been learned. Interest rates
to commercial bans were based on the formula agreed on the 1986 amendment to loan 2606-CH, but
the commercial banis were free to establish the spread in both dollar- and peso-denominated subloans
in step with market conditions. This feature of the loan was the subject of extensive internal
discussions before it was approved.
1.86  A thirdlsn concerns the need to appraise carefully the introduction of rules and covenants
to mitigate a project's risks. Ihe Project Agreemen of Loan 2606-CH required that: (i) intervened
banks were not allowed to participate in the project; (ii) two or more commercial banks were to
participate in the financing of each subloan and be responsible for carrying the project to completion;
and Cdi) financial intermediaries would not own, directly or indirecty, sub-borrowers. Ihese minor
deficiencies were quicldy cancelled. The first two through amendments to the Project Agreement; the
third one through a modification to permit such participation but limited to a three-year period. 'Te
design of project 3053-CH took fidl advantage of this experience; it did not require these types of
mles and covenants. The lesson is that it would be to the Bank's advantage, and in line with the role
of market forces, to reduce this type of conditionality, which does not deal with major policy issues,
to a minimum, focussing on those that serve very useful purposes. Unnecessary restrictions delay
project execution, create irritants with local authorities and utilize unnecessarily staff time in the
design and discussions and, later on, in the preparation of loan amendments.
1.87   The bulbi    is that this type of projects, to be successful, require a well staffed technical
unit with adequate expertise, as was the case of both loans. Although Central Banks may be potential
second tier banks, the tendency in some countries is to discontinue Central Bank non monetary



-21 -
unctlons, as was the case towards the end of the second loan. Thus, other institutions may be needed
to act as second tier banms.
1.88  AlIflesson is that financial intermediation loans, if well conceived and properly managed,
can be very effective tools for channeling credit to the private sector. The performances of loans
2606-CH, after it was modified, and 3053-CH provides clear evidence to support this conclusion.
Project results in both cases were beneficial in contributing to revitalize Chile's economy and private
investment, increase Chile's industrial exports, ease the recovery of the corporate sector and the
commercial banks, and support medium-size manufactring firms. Furthermore, both loans provided
scarce foreign exchange at a time when Chile confionted a serious external debt problem.



- 22 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NUSTRIAL FINANCE RESTRUCTURING PROJECT (LOAN 2606-CH) AND
SECOND INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT (LOAN 3053-CH)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM TlHE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Devel1pment and Impiementation
LQMQ2i06
A.   Background
2.1   The Government of Chile jointly with the World Bank designed the Industrial Finance
Restuctring Ptoject to assist in the financial recovery of private productive companies in the
industrial, mining and agri-industrial sectors in view of the crisis suffered by those sectors at the
beginning of the decade which resulted in falling sales and high indebtedness. The crisis referred to
had iLs most devastating effects on the country's economy during 1982, during which time the terms
of trade fell significantly and the Gross Domestic Product fell about 14 percent. On the basis of the
above, the Project attempted to reactivate or rehabilitate those companies by diminishing their
financial burden and instilling a renewed investment capacity to contribute to the national social and
economic development.
2.2    On October 10, 1985, the Government and its Central Bank signed the Loan and Project
Agreements, respectively, with the World Bank where it was established that the Central Bank would
be the Executing Agency and would be advised by the Project's Technical Unit in carrying out the
Project.
B.    Institutional Framework
2.3   The Central Bank, in accordance with its objective of promoting the orderly development of
the domestic economy, was in charge of managing and implementing the Project. In this regard, the
work carried out by the Central Bank consisted of the following:
(a)    Creation of the Technical Unit's Executive Secretariat, whose objective was to review
and propose the approval of investment projects for the corresponding refinancing
applications to the Board of Directors.
(b)   Constitution of the Board of Directors, formed by representatives of the Central Bank
of Chile, the Ministry of the Treasury, the Ministry of Economy, the Superintendency
of Stocks and Insurance and the Superintendency of Banks and Financial Institutions.
Its objective was to advise the Central Bank on the approval of each of the
refinancings requested.
(c)    Development of the Project's Credit Regulations, establishing the Central Bank's
Credit Regulations that governed the Project and regulated its operations.
(d)   Invitation to all Intermediary Financial Institutions (IFIS) to participate in the Project.



- 23 -
(e)    Review of about 230 investment projects from eligible companies choosing to use the
Project's resources.
(f)    Follow-up and supervision of investment projects financed with Project resources,
ascertaining that all had been implemented in accordance with the corresponding
regulations.
C.    Loan Amendments
2.4    The first subloan approved was in August 1986, i.e. almost one year after signing the Project
Agreement with the World Bank. This delay was caused by a series of problems in project
implementation that required a number of amendments to the original Project Agreement, as indicated
in the following paragraphs.
2.5    Arm ndment dated March 17, 1986, which: (i) eliminated the paragraph establishing joint
responsibility of all participating Banks for compliance with all ensuing commitments each time a
subloan was made by more than one participating bank; thus, each participating bank would be
individually responsible for the subsidiary loans received and the comnmitments entered into when
granting a subloan, even if more than one bank participated in refmnancing the investment project; and
(ii) included Corporacidn de Fomento de la Producci6n (CORFO - the National Development
Corporation) and Banco del Estado de Chile (the State-owned Bank of Chile) as Intermediary
Financial Institutions.
2.6    Amer.dment dated September 8, 1986: Interest rates for Subsidiary Loans, expressed in
"Unidades de Fomento' (UF), had been originally computed by deflating the World Bank's interest
rate in US$ by the CPI of the United States, thus considering this index as reflecting the level of
international inflation rate relevant for Chile. The resulting rate from this methodology did not reflect
the real interest rate in the local market for long-term operations, since the rates for subsidiary loans
expressed in UF ended up not being competitive vis-a-vis other interest rates charged by local banks.
Because of this, the interest rates for Subsidiary Loans expressed in UF was modified at that time,
considering the Average Deposit Rate (TIP) for deposits in the local financial system between 90 and
365 days plus/minus (+1-) 1%, adjusted every semester on January 1 and July 1.
2.7    Amendment dated May 5, 1987: In spite of the above-mentioned amendments, project
implementation had many problems that made it impossible to approve subloans at a fast rate. Thus,
on December 31, 1986, only US$6.6 million had been committed (4 percent of total resources)
corresponding to only one beneficiary company. As a result, during the second semester of 1986 and
the first semester of 1987, new amendments to the Agreement were agreed with the World Bank,
establishing the following substantial changes: (i) the Project's objectives were broadened, allowing
the refinancing of loans for companies not requiring financial restructuring. This change was very
significant since local financial institudons preferred to finance those companies without financial
troubles rather than those that had problems. This was due to the fact that the IFIS assumed the
credit risks of each operation; (ii) the existing restriction in the Agreements that each subloan should
be granted by at least two financial institutions irrespective of the subloan amount, was eliminated;
(iii) beneficiary firms could not be owned either directy or indirecdy by a financial instittion, unless
that company had previously been transferred to the private sector. The amendment established a
three-year deadline for financial institutions owning part of the owned equity stock in the beneficiary
company to transfer it to the private sector through the development of an action program; and (iv)



- 24 -
eligility restrictions for compWanies with current or contngent commitments derived from third
parties were eliminated to ease access to Project's resources by companies with financial problems.
2.8   With the above amendments, the Project's development improved substantially, since the
Project's Technical Unit had received, by September 1, 1987, more than 100 investment projects to
be financed with Project's resources. TMe positive development on the use of Project resources, was
based both in greater interest by financial institutions as in the existence of more feasible projects
generated by the country's enhanced economic situation. Also, during 1986 and 1987, the Project's
Technical Unit developed a comprehensive program to promote the Credit Line in finacial
institutions and potential beneficiary companies, either individually with bank and companies'
executives, as well as through their representative bodies (Banks and Financial Institutions
Association, Manufacturing Development Society, Prochile, National Mining Society, etc.).
However, it was necessary to introduce new amendments.
2.9   Amendment dated September 4, 1987: On September 4, 1987, the following amendments
intoduced to the Statte of Operational Policies of the Project's Technical Unit were relevant and
Important for the Project's success: (i) the current minimum acid ratio (current assets divided by the
current liabilities) to be maintained by beneficiary firms during loan effectiveness was reduced from
1.2 to 1; (i) the long-term debt to maximum equity stock ratio the beneficiary firm could keep was
increased from 1.2 to 3, considering the disbursement and during the entire effectiveness of the
subloan; (iii) beneficiary firms could declare or pay dividends exceeding the minimum establishld by
Article 79 of Law 18,046 only when, after taking into account those dividends, the financial indices
agreed on the corresponding subloan agreement are honored; and (iv) beneficiary firms could not
prepay during the entire life of the subloan other long-term loans, unless authorized to do so by the
Bank.
2.10 The amendments in para. 2.9 were introduced at the request cf the Project Technical Unit,
ting ito account specific situations that hampered the signing of the corresponding Subloan
Agrements. These amendments granted the Project's Technical Unit a larger negotiation edge on the
clse established in the Policy Statute and allowed it to analyze different situations to weigh when
assessing an investment project.
2.11 Since then, use of the credit line began to increase substantially. By December 31, 1987, 140
projects had been received, eight banks had participated from a total of 21 signatories of Participation
Agreements, and US$95.7 million had been committed (57.5% of the Credit Line). From the total
committed resources, US$30.4 million had been disbursed (18.3% of the Credit Line) and, stil
pending for disbursement were US$65.3 million (39.2% of the Credit Line). The greatest advance
was reached in 1988, since by the end of that year almost all the resources of the Credit Line had
been committed, with only US$5.8 million remaiing. Thus, by December 31, 1988, total committed
resources reached US$160.9 million (96.5% of the Credit Line) and US$119.9 had been disbursed
(71.9% of the Credit Line). During 1989, only two projects were approved for a total of US$3.7
million. From that time and up to closing of the loan on December 31, 1991, one US$2 million
Project was approved, using part of the committed resources which were not used by the original
beneficiaries. In some cases, those companies had obtained better outcomes than expected without the
use of the requested resources, releasing the funds that hae , aen committed and naking it necessary
to reassign said funds to new investment projects.



- 25 -
2.12   Amendment dated July 11, 1991: This last amendment to the Project Agreement consisted of
eliminating the condition that the Central Bank of Chile had to place new resources charged to the
Line of Credit from resources derived f:om capital returns, interests and other charges from
subsidiary loans.
D.    Prodect Results
2.13   Project Performance. The Project came to a slow start in 1986 given the restrictions on tue
Agreement entered into with the World Bank. In 1987, the Project was expanded to include loan
refinancing for investment projects in companies under normal financing conditions. Thus, by
December 31, 1988, US$160.9 million were committed, corresponding to 97% of the funds. By
December 31, 1991, the Project closed with US$163.1 million disbursed, corresponding to 98% of
funds, of which US$162.1 million were placed on 41 investment projects trough 1 1 financW
institutions and US$1.0 million was used on Technical Unit expenses.
2.14 The development in Project resource allocation from 1986 to 1991 (cumulative in millions of
dollars) was as follows:
DATE BY  ALLOCATED FUNDS   DISBURSED FUNDS   UNDISBURSED FUNDS
12/31/86                6.6                5.0                   1.6
12/31/87               95.7               30.4                  65.3
12/31/88              160.9              119.9                  41.0
12/31/89              164.7              148.9                  15.8
12/31/90              163.1              160.9                  2.2
12/3119!              163.1              162.1                   0.0
2. 15 On the other hand, since disbursements from Project proceeds started in 1986, at Project
closing (12/31/91), repayments had been made for a total of US$72.4 million, with a balance of
US$89.7 millions to be repaid by 1999. Of 41 subloans originally approved, only 33 are current
(US$89.7 million), since 8 subloans were totally canceled at the Project's closing date.
2.16 Commercial Banks ParticiDation: All 41 Projects refinanced through with the Project's
proceeds were funded through 11 financial institutions (IOS) as shown in detail in Table 11-1.
Table II-I - PROJECTS FINANCED BY FINANCIAL INTERMEDIARY
I E-                       OF PROJECTS   TOTAL PARTICIPATION (USS MILLION)       %
BDa  do Chile                  14                        40,4                    24.90
Banco de Santiago               Ii                       30,3                    18.71
Banco Osomo y LA Union          12                       29,3                    18.07
CORFO                           2                        15,9                     9.77
1anoo BHIF                      7                        12,9                     7.98
Bunco del Egtado de Chile       2                        10,4                     6.42
Citibank                        2                        9,5                      5.87
Banco O'Higgins                 2                        8,2                      5.05
Banco do Cmdito aIaveiiions     2                        3,0                      1.90
Banco Concapcon                 2                        1,4                      0.86
Banco do A. Edwards             I                        0,8                      0.47
57*                      162,1                   100.00
e to  number of project arrange by tinajcia inStitutions exceeds 41 because I I pirojew
fnanced by more than one financial institution.



- 26 -
2.17   Dtail of Financed Operations: All 41 projects fnanced, disaggregated by local and IBRD
fuiding, are shown in Table lI-2.
Table Il-2 - COMPANIES FINANCED UNDER THE PROJECT
(in US$ thousands)
COMPANY                                                   PROJECT              IBRD           LOCAL
RESOURCES        RESOURCES        RESOURCES
Empma Calet El Cobn                                        6,842.66         3,900.00         2,942.66
SBA Appis S.A.                                             2,072.85         1,560.00          512.85
Cella Aumo y Cowatucin (MOPA)                             14,003.62        13,000.00         1.003.62
Cowa, S.A.                                                 5,532.45         5,028.00           504.4S
CIa Pesquain San Pcdro S.A.IC.                             4,995.39         3,791.40         1.203.99
Soprocl S.A.                                               2,014.44         1,983.00            31.44
Aserradera Andins S.A.                                     7,999.95         6,943.90         1.056.0S
Exoitabdm Aonsagua Lt&d.                                   1,025.55         1,000.00            25.55
Staduad Trading                                            6,332.32         4,075.80         2.256.52
Sociaad LgalP Mkinzr La Flonda                             1523.36          1,517.46             5.90
Frauta Son Fernando Ld...                                  1,837.69         1,800.00            37.69
Mand*ctur de Fibmpanslo Chle S.A.                         12,856.90        12,700.00           156.90
Agims Clums S.A.                                           2,434.10         2,237.00           197.10
Sonacol S.A.                                               4,501.32         2,590.00         1,911.32
Socioad Contracnul Min= Gusnaco                            9,007.21         2,400.00         6,607.21
Refinadom do Metal. Refunet Ld.                            4,540.10         3,720.00           820.10
EmbotebAdoin Iquique S.A.                                  1,026.57         1,026.57             0.00
Canesur S.A.                                               1,360.94         1,226.45           134.49
Apiaola Naciond S.A.C. o 1. (ANASAC)                      1,105.79             0.00         1,105.79
Cokihoms Roso S.A.I.C.                                     1,133.07         1,126.30             6.77
Paqua Iuique S.A.                                         18,303.67        12,534.00         5.769.67
Peawqau San Miguel LtdW.                                   1,543.99         1,500.00           43.99
Peaquara OB 9Io Lda.                                       2,740.27         =200.00            540.27
hndutia Folbmdon de Madem. S.A.                            1,854.00         1,848.86             5.14
Celuoaa Azauco y Conatitucidn (AMP(XCO)                   15,831.60             0.00        15,831.60
Bata S.A.                                                   516.97            390.00           126.97
Aidkdoma Caaabknca                                         1,05425          1,000.o0            54.25
Lazuinndoius do Madam S.A.                                 1,131.94             0.00         1,131.94
LAfema Aminccs S.A.                                        1,076.10         1,000.00            76.10
Pqpeks CamUs9a                                             1,145.37             0.00         1,145.37
CQaicam IndusiEtdja  S.A.                                  4,166.40         2,023.20         2,143.20
Standud Trading                                            3,680.98         3.318.06           362.92
Fatrn San Pernando (FRUSAN)                                 805.79              0.00           805.79
PanAustal Lwtd.                                             287.63              0.00           287.63
Peaquon El Golo S.A.                                       2,000.00         1,630.28           369.72
Peaop=ue  San lJ.. dd Sur S.A.                             5,000.00             0.00         5,000.00
Viia Smft Rita S.A.                                        1,043.96             0.00         1,043.96
A. Molira Florm S.A.                                       1,066.48             0.00         1,066.48
Pibrnce.toaxot Pudahuel S.A.                               1,564.47             0.00         1,564.47
Pmodina                                                    1,250.68             0.00         1,250.68
Tuti Vim S.A.                                              3.950.92             0.00         3,950.92
TOTAL PROJECTS                                           162,161.75        99,070.28        63,091.47



- 27 -
2.18    Mban Ganted: By December 31, 1991, the total subloans made to the different
production sectors were:
SECTOR        # OF PROJECTS   AMOUNT (USS MILLION)    %
Fosaty              6                  53.7            33.10
Fisla               9                  38.4            23.67
Mining              6                  29.4            18.17
Industial           12                 22.7            14.02
Agmindustrial       8                  17.9            11.04
41                162.1           100.00
2.19   Summary by Region: The resources were allocated throughout the country according to the
distribution shown in Table II-3.
Table 11-3 - REGIONAL DISTRIBUTION OF CREDIT UNDER THE PROJECT (in US$ thousands)
REGION              LOAN AMOUNT       =
1Sr REGION                 1,026.S7    0.63
2ND REGION                20,389.97    12.57
3RD REGION                 1,523.36    0.94
4TH REGION                 1,025.55    0.63
5TH REGION                 3,950.92    2.44
6TH REGION                 12,086.14    7.45
7TH REGION                18,475.08    11.39
8TH REGION                73,945.11    45.60
9TH REGION                 1,133.07    0.70
IOT} REGION                8,144.71    5.02
12TH REGION                5,532.45    3.41
MEMROPOLITAN               14,928.81   9.2
Tatal                     162,161.75    100.00
2.20   Incrae  of         Total projects financed with Project resources generated an increase of
domestic exports and a decrease of imports by a total annual amount of US$239.3 million.
2.21 Employment Generation: Originally, the Project was designed for troubled firms, to make
production units progressively sustnable and thus atain employment stability for many workers; this
objective was achieved. In addition to the jobs that were preserved, the Project generated an increase
of 3,231 new direct jobs throughout the country.
2.22   Follow-u: Each subloan financed with Project resources was subjected to a strict follow-up
plan, which basically consisted of the following aspects: (i) approval of a Subloan Agreement, case
by case, regulating credit operations between EFI and the beneficiary company; (ii) compliance with
disbursement conditions, especially with respect to justification of resources invested with Project
fiuds; (iii) inspection of goods financed with Project resources; (iv) follow-up on compliance, by the
beneficiary company, of each clause in the Subloan Agreement signed with the Intermediary Financial
Institution; (v) performance of follow-ups, controls and audits on those companies financed with
Project resources.



-28 -
E.       u ofSub0an
2.23  By Project completion, the status of subloans was as follows:
(a)    Companies that did not experience problems with the implementation
of Investment Projects                                                29
(b)   Companies that had slight differences in the investment project development,
but did not have problems                                              7
(c)    Companies that had differences in the implementation of investment
projects, but that honored the term limits                             3
(d)    Companies that had partially complied with the Subloan Agreement,
but did not present problems                                           2
(e)    Companies that had difficulties and are not in compliance             Q
TOTAL                                                                        41
F.    lsns Lerd
2.24  In accordance with the implementation and the evolution of the Project, the following lessons
are drawn:
(a)    Fmancing projects implemented in the country should be responsive to the changes
and evolution of the national economy. (See amendments under (2.7) and (2.9)).
Project design should be flexible enough to allow for improvements and/or
modifications permitting them to successfully pursue their initidal objectives. Such
flexibility should be left to the judgment of the Executing Unit 2nd of World Bank
senior officials.
(b)   The design of credit lines should take into account:
(i) Financing of all domestic economic sectors, so that all efficient commercial
activities may have access to long-term funding.
(i)  The individual circumstances of each firm in order to provide financial
solutions tailored to their needs and requirements depending on each particular
situation.
(c)    The number of effectiveness conditions to be established in the Agreements should be
reduced and, if possible, said conditions should be complied with before signing of
the loan documens in order to minimize the cost of the commitment fees.
(d)   It is necessary to have an Executing Agency experienced in the analysis and
evaluation for loan granting and foUow-up.
(e)    The Executing Agency should be independent and autonomous in its decisions.
(t)    Long-term interest rates charged to users of Project funds should be those prevalent in
the market, both for foreign and local currency lending. Also, the methodology to



- 29 -
determine the long-term interest rates should be clear so that fluctuai'oIns are known to
everybody and not arbitrarily set.
(g)    To successfully implement this type of Project with a long-ternm hori.-.u ('5 lo 6
years), it is necessary that both institutions (the World Bank and the seewid-tier
institution) keep as long as possible, the same staff of senior officiak; .-, I twera1 staff
so that the evolution and development of the Project is sustainable
(h)    A methodology for the analysis, evaluation and follow-tip useful  n1the lI ',nd die
beneficiary frms should be established.
(i)    All the positive aspects developed within the Industrial Finance Re:. -, rt it h 0se;<
should be taken into account.
G.     Relations with the World Bank
2.25   Relations between the World Bank and the Central Bank of Chile (BCCH; w)ee Lirdi:d arnd
adequate, and there were no problems or inconveniences.
2.26   At the beginning, the World Bank changed frequently the staff in charge (' ii. .1985-
1987), but this situation was eventually settled in mid-term which resulted in a         nu,ia1x:;   Led
ageeable relationship.
2.27   The initial deposit of US$10 million in the special account was tight for Prjei ( -h.plient,
especially since the amounts of the loans that were to be funded were rather high. for,nf a ;I se
cooperation with the World Bank staff in charge of disbursements so that funds wNee rcrJeil \hed
almost immediately, in order for resources to be disbursed on a timely basis and 1x, i    Jue2dlaving the
development and implementation of the subprojects.
2.28   The World Bank controlled adequately the supporting documentation for ea ' ,.bh in in OIe
Central Bank files, and additionally made adequate supervision missions tO mo,nit( r 0'c ;ti;1,W tald
implementation of projects.
Table 11-4 - PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING - (US$ mniu l.
1. COSTS                                                 Breakdown                 1I
a)     Inveatent Ptojct.I
Fiiod AssetB                                          346.40
Working Capita                                         42.30
Miscellaneoua                                          13.10
b)     Tech,n   Aasitanc to the Piojct Techriial Unk            1.0
Total Financin
2. SOURCES OP FINANCING
a)     World BOanl                                                                  1(; 0
b)      Dvenumt                                                                     e 
c)     Shan Subs o by Partners                                                     1.5. u0
d)     Other Fininwg Source. (Bankisg lan,)                                                       l
Total



- 30 -
Lon303C
A.    Background
2.29 The Government of Chile jointly with the World Bank designed the Second Industrial Finance
Project with the objective of financing investment projects for private sector production firms, thus
contributing to the country's social and economic development. The Project constituted, therefore, an
expansion of the Industrial Finance Restructuring Project (FRP), providing resources to the same FRP
sectors (industrial, forestry, mining, fishery and agro-industrial). Service firms related to one or
more of the above-mentioned sectors were added.
2.30 The deadline for submission of subsidiary loan applications was June 30, 1992, and the
deadline to disburse Project funds is December 31, 1994. On May 12, 1989, the Loan Agreement
between the Republic of Chile and the World Bank was signed and also the Project Agreement
between the Central Bank of Chile (BCCH) and the World Bank which established that BCCH would
be the Executing Agency in charge of administering the Project and ensuring that the resources were
assigned in accordance with the objectives pursued.
2.31   Total Project funds amounted to US$125 million, of which 60 percent, i.e. US$75 million
came from the Bank Loan with a 17-year maturity and 40 percent were to be provided by the
Govermnent of Chile, i.e. US$50 million.
2.32 Contrary to the first Project, the following firms did not qualify for Project financing:
(a)    Those that had issued publicly offered securities in the three years prior to applying
for financing; or
(b)   Those with marketable stocks or securities traded at the Stock Exchange during the 12
months immediately before applying for a subloan; or
(c)    Those whose stocks or securities had been classified for purposes of determining
investment risks.
2.33   Ihis restriction was intended to deny access to Project proceeds to those companies that were
able to borrow in the local market, since a new era was expected to be started in investment project
financing through the issuance of stocks and/or bonds.
B.    Institutional Framework
2.34   As Executing Agency for the Project, the Chilean Central Bank worked through the Financing
Programs Directorate which was advised by the five member Advisory Committee, consisting of
representative from the Chilean Central Bank, the Ministry of the Treasury, the Ministry of
Economy, Promotion and Reconstruction, the Superintendency of Banks and Financial Institutions and
the Superintendency of Stocks and Insurance. This Advisory Committee along with the Financing
Programs Directorate constitute the Project's Technical Unit.
2.35 The Project's Advisory Committee was in charge of recommending the approval to the
Central Bank's Council of the financing requested for amnounts equal to or exceeding US$1 million.
Subloans under US$1 million were reviewed and approved by the Financing Programs Directorate
and did not require the Advisory Committee's approval.



- 31 -
C.    Project Result
2.36   The Project began operations in August 1989, with great acceptance in the market. Thus, on
December 31, 1991, US$107.3 million (86 percent) of funds were committed. About 130 projects
were reviewed, 61 loan applications were approved amounting to US$113.4 million, of which,
US$104.6 million were disbursed on June 30, 1992.
2.37   From 1989 to date, Project execution has been as follows (in millions of US$ dollars):
DATE BY   COMIrr ED   DISBURSED   UNDISBURSED   UNCOMMITTED
RESOURCES    RESOURCES  RESOURCES         RESOURCES
12/31/89          33.7         14.9           18.8            91.3
12/31(90          97.3        68.2            29.1            27.7
12/31191         107.3        99.3             8.0            17.7
06/30/92         113.4        104.6            8.8             11.6
2.38 By June 30, 1992, reimbursements had been made amounting to US$26.6 million by
prepayments of loans and payments due in accordance with the agreed schedule, with a balance of
US$78.0 million remaining outstanding, which will be repaid by 1999. Loan 3053-CH for US$75
million was totally disbursed in January 1992.
2.39   The success of the Project is supported by the fact that it was unnecessary to introduce
amendments to the Project and Loan Agreements. Only on July 11, 1991, was the Project Agreement
amended to eliminate the requirement that the Central Bank of Chile make new loans with the funds
derived from loan repayments and interest payments from subsidiary loans. Also, on June 16, 1992,
the World Bank accepted abrogation of the clause of Section 2.01 (d) of the Project Agreement,
requiring the Central Bank to provide the US$50 million corresponding to the domestic counterpart
funds for the Project's Line. In practice, this meant that the Central Bank would not need to lend the
uncommitted resources amounting to US$11.6 million.
2.40   Participation of Commercial Banking. The 61 Projects approved through the Project's Line
amounting to US$113.4 million, were distributed among 14 financial institutions as shown in the
following list:
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS     # OF PROJECTS   TOTAL PARTICIPATION (USS MILUONS)    %
Banco de Chile                   18                               37.0           32.7
Banco Osorno y La Unidn          11                               27.7           24.4
Banco de Santiago                12                               17.6           15.5
Banco de Crddito e Iwersiona     5                                10.8            9.5
Banco BHIP                       5                                 5.1            4.5
Banco Concepci6n                 4                                 4.3            3.8
Chicago Contntl Bank             1                                 3.2            2.8
Banco Sudamencano                1                                 1.7            1.5
Banco Exterior S.A.              1                                 *.6            1.4
Banco de A. Edwards              2                                 1.4            1.2
Banco O'H uins                   1                                 1.3            1.2
Banco del Desanollo              1                                 0.6            0.5
Republic National Bank           1                                 0.7            0.6
Banco del Pacifico               1                                 0.4            0.4
Total                            64                               113.4         100.0
OT aE:      The number of projects exceeds 6  because 2 projects were financed by more
one financial institution.



- 32 -
2.41   Subloans Granted. Subloans by sectors: In total, as of June 30, 1992, 61 subloans had been
conmnitted in the different sectors allowed in the Project, according to the following list:
SECTOR                               NO. OF    AMOU'NT (US$             %
l____________________  PROJECTS                     MILLION)
Industrial                               9               24.7          21.8
Fishery                                 11               30.3          26.7
Agribusiness                            10               20.5           18.1
Manufacting                             18               15.3           13.5
Services associated with production     6                10.4           9.2
Forestry                                 5                6.2           5.5
Miming                                   1                5.0           4.4
Textile                                  1                1.0           0.8
Total                                   61              113.4         100.0
2.42 By June 30, 1992, 53 of the total subloans we e current, amounting to US$105.2 million, and
8 subloans amounting to US$13.4 million had been tc ally canceled.
2.43   Summary by Region. The resources were allocated throughout the country and their
distribution is shown in Table 11-5.
Table 1I-5 - REGIONAL DISTRIBUTION OF CREDIT UNDER THE PROJECT
(in US$ thousands)
REGION         CRDWrr AMOUNT %
IST REGION             9,215.72    8.13
2ND REGION             8,500.00    7.50
3RD REGION              365.37    0.32
STH REGION             6,240.58    5.50
6TH REGION            13,245.78   11.68
l7T REGION             1,630.00    1.44
8TH REGION            21,333.56   18.82
9TH REGION             2,201.66    1.94
10TH REGION            2,592.52    2.29
11TH REGION            5,776.00    5.10
Mebopolitin          42,269.69   37.28
ToWi                 113,370.87   100.00
2.44 Increase of Exports. Total projects financed with Project resources generated an increase of
domestic exports and a decrease of imports by a total annual amount of US$110. 1 million.
2.45   Employment Generation. Employment sources created and maintained by the Project reached
3,614 new direct jobs throughout the country.
2.46 Detau of Financed Operations. The 61 projects financed are disaggregated by local and
World Bank funding C(able 11-6).



- 33 -
Table l-6 - COMPANIES FINANCED UNDER THE PROJECT
(US$ thousands)
i COMPANY                                                    LIN8 RfOURRL             ID RlUOURMCS          IACAL RESOUR
1. ASBRRADERO LOS ALMS                                                 D                     56oao                   0.
2. C84ETM  ELLB N  .A.                                              9943                     776                   216.38
3. OlOTEC sL..                                                      730                      730.11                  0.00
4. INDURA SJ.A                                                    t23W6                     t123856                  0.00
S. PESQUBRA INDO $A.                                               00.                     3,000                  200
0. PESQVUA MARLA LTDIL                                             3,6L48                   1.381.92              1,70
7. COO)RCIAL ELPRJMA4                                              1.51033                  1.510.33                 0.00
B. MNEA CELLO DO5SSM                                               ,0.0                    3,.                    1.700
9. MRIOWQRT 8A                                                      419.36                   41936                   0.0
1O.PESQUBRA FRIOSUR                                               2500.                    200                       0.00
1I.SA,MONES ANTARTICAS ALA                                        3,2600                   '3.2760                   0.00)
12.1NDUSTRIAL SUD ANDINA SJL                                      4,787.19                 3.11119                175.00
13.DRIUCO TOLL S.A                                                  010                      60.70                   0.00
14.FRIOORIFUCOS O'IUGO1NS JL.                                                              1.44208                   0.m
1V.COLCHONBS ROSEN .A.CL                                            0016                     901A.6                  0.00
I6&MOLErrO HNOS .A                                                1,041.45                   97.01                    44
17.NDtJA                                                          G"SA4                       3. 3,47A4
18.PBSQUHRA QUINTJRO 8LA                                          o,,W                     3,-la00                200
9J.3MR8S IA UNION 8L.                                               965AI0                   7.65.0                  000
20.DERIVADOS tOR*2TALES L A                                         920.00                   980.11D                 0 00
21.PANICHBM CHQIE L.                                                  9x                     9O.                     0.40
22±CHUXTAACOS S.A.                                                 4,20.74                  50.00                 12.74
23.ZTERSOL L                                                       17,4816                  1.47.16                  0.0
24.ATEILA s.A.                                                     1,07.35                  1,0735                   0
25.SONESA LTDAl                                                      647                       .47                   o.00
26.FIBROCEM1NTOS PUDtAUWL                                           741.7                    741.                    0.00
27.ITOGRAFIA MARINEUM   L                                           71W                      71.53                   .OA
24.BOSTEC S.A.                                                      6.09                      65.09                  0.00
29.T1C HAtSWM  S.A.                                                 518.2                    SI582                   0o.
3Q.CENTOS 30.310UO  .A.                                            7,481.20                 3,0.00                3,981.2D
3I.CIMTSNDELEN  .A                                                 1,4.2                    t1,                    361.12
32.PESQUHRA EL GOLFO S.A.                                           61.0                     57.40                  220
33.DVRATEC SAL                                                      953.02                   953.0                   0.00
34.COMEICIAL HUSH PUtFElP S CHIUt LDA.                              635.                      25.14                1152
35.tABORATORIOS DURANDIN LA.                                        9".88                     ".88                   0.0
36AOROINDUSflIAL   UE S.A                                           9.00                     950.0                   0.00
37.PORTUJARIA PUIOCO LA                                            30.0                     3.00                     0.00
3S.VERA Y GLANNDII LA.                                             1.297                    1991                     0.00
39.1ND. FOLADORA DE MADA LA.                                       1-7.52                   1.314.61               11301
40.PECIALWADBLS ORA  MAMA CE L.A.                                  500.00                   49.0                   430.30
41.1NDUSTRAZ DBACBRO L.A                                            9D.OD                   950.00                  0.00
42.MULT1EXPORT L.A.                                                 410.40                   457.01                 1339
43.1ND. Y CIALB MADBA LEasU  LiDu                                  1,1,.0                                            0.D
44.FRU1ERA SAN FERNANDO LTDh                                         mOD                     900.00                 jD.00
45.IMPRHNTA AILREDO  MOUS" Y FWRES LA.                              517.98                   30                    145.98
46.AWICOA TAWAACA LSDA.                                             55.4                     509.W                  44.24
47.SOCIEDAD PESQUERA B10 10 LTD                                      5DOO                    95.00                   0.00
48.PORMAR SLA.                                                      740                      68.00                  9.8
49.SOQCHAD AGRICOIA IGLEA COLORADA LTDA.                            365.3                    365.37                 O0
5O.PESQUERA PUNTA AJAUM  LA.                                       10OD                     I60.0                    0.00
SI.AORMCOLA SAN CL8MEN1B L1DAL                                      540.00                  M3.                      OD
S2.CALZAD   tAlMI LT"                                               33900                      0.00                539.00
53.BRONCERTAL NIBSA L.A                                             983.71                   9.71                   OOD
54.W(TRALCO  .A.                                                    60.00                    5M.00                 100.00
55AUTORENTA DEL PACM   LA.                                         180                         0.D                1,SO
56.MACKENA Y MACENA  LA.                                            672.93                     0O.                 678.0
7.INOENIER   CVIL VICIB  .A                                        3,500                    1,38D.26              2119.74
58.MADERAS IAOUNA AZVL SA.                                          600                        0.OD       0        68.
59WAOROINDVUSTRAL EL PAICO LA.                                     S404.7t                     0.00.              5,4471
A.NDULTRIA P?LQUEA TDN3. LA.                                       6,25.                       OOD                6,.00
61.HERESMANN Y CIA LD"                                              55S"                       0.00                 259
.~~~~~~~~13301                                        15_00                  8308



- 34 -
D.    Lesons Leaned
2.47   Mm experience gained in the development and implementation of the FRP facilitated the
Proje's scees and th following lessor were leared:
(a)    Long-tm  interest rates charged to resource users should be market rites. During or
the last year of the Project, the dollar rates in the line were less competitive due to the
fall of LIBOR, which originated an increase in the financial burden of the Project's
beneficiay firms. Even so, this source of finance was selected because of the long
repayment tems.
(b)   In the development of credit lines, the following should be considered:
(i)  Fiancing of all the domestic economic sectors, so that all the commercial
activity may have access to long-term funding.
CiH) The individual circumstances of each firm should be taken into account to be
able to provide financial solutions for their needs and requirements depending
on the particular situation.
(c)    Effectiveness conditions in the Agreements should be reduced and, if possible, said
conditions should be complied before signing of loan documents in order to minimize
the cost of commitment fees.
(d)   It is necessary to have an Executing Agency experienced in the analysis and
emluation for loan granting and follow-up.
(e)    The Executing Agency should be independent and autonomous in its decisions.
(f)    Long-term interest rates charged to users of Project fuids should be market rates,
both in foreign and local currency. Also, the methodology to determine the long-term
interest rate should be clear so that fluctuations are known to everybody and not
aritrarily set.
(g)   To successfy implement this type of long-term (S to 6 years) project, it is necessary
that both institutions (the World Bank and the second-ter institution) keep, as long as
possible, the same staff of senior officials and general staff so that the evolution and
development of the Project is sustainable.
(h)    A methodology for the analysis, evaluation and follow-up useful to the IFIS and the
beneficiary companies should be established.
(I)    All the positive aspects developed within the Industrial Finance Project should be
taken into account.



- 35 -
E.    Relations with the World Bank
2.48 Relations between the World Bank and the Central Bank of Chile were cordial and adequate,
and there were no problems or inconveniences.
2.49 The initial deposit of US$10 million in the special account was especially tight for Project
development, especially since the amounts of the loans that were to be funded were rather high,
forcing a close relationship with the World Bank staff in charge of disbursements so tdat funds were
replenished immediately in order for resources to be disbursed on a timely basis and to avoid delaying
the development and impIementation of the Beneficiary Companies' Implementation Ptojects.
2.50 The World Bank controlled adequately the supporting documentation for each subloan in the
Central Bank files, and additionally made adequate supervision missions to monitor operations and
implementation of projects financed with World Bank resources.
Table 11-7 - PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
(US$ million)
1. COSIS                                     Brakdown                  Total
a)    Jaycemt Project
Fud Ases                                    209.2
Waorig Capital                               26.2
Miscl lane ous                                9.4       _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Toal Requid Fnancing                                                  244.8
2. SOURCES OP FINANCING
a1)   Wodd Bank                                     75.0
b)     Government                                   38.4
^.)    Shwr Subaription by Paries                  114.9
4)     Olher Faing Soures                           16.5      _
Total                                                                 244.8



{|  l    | t  \  M    1  Ui     If
sew,...            I| I. 
W;N~~~
it~~ ~ ~ _,II!         l 



- 37 -
3.3    Cumulative Estimated Disbursement, (USS millions)
Fiscal Year       FY86      FY87    FY88    FY89    FY0   FYI91    FY92    FY93   FY94
Lan 260e-CH
Appraisal Estimtwe    1.7   11.9    31.3    61.7    79.7   95.4    100.0
Actual            10.0      13.6    66.8    96.3    98.7   100.0    -
Actal as % of loan  10.0    13.6    66.8    96.3    98.7   100.0   --
Loan 3053-CH
Appraisal Esirmate   -              -        -        7.5    20.0    39.0    55.0   76.0
Aotual                      -       -                 43.2   69.2    75.0
Actual as % of loanw                                  67.6   92.3    100.0     -
Loan 2606-CH                    Loan 30S3-CH
Date of First Disbursement    February 26, 1986                September 22, 1989
Initial Loan Closing Date     December 31, 1991                December 31. 1994
Atual Loan Closing Date        Dec. 31. 1901                   June 30, 1992
Data of Last Disbursement     July 19, 1990                    January 6. 1992
3.4    Project Estimated Costs
(US$ millons)
Government                               Other
Item             or SCCH              Bank              Sources             Total
Loan 2608-CH                 100.0              100.0               100.0             300.0
Loan 3053-CH                  50.0               75.0               155.0             280.0



- 38 -
3.5    Prolect Estimateg Financina iL
IUS* millions)
Institutions        Local   Foreign     US        %
Cost     Cost     million
L ani 2606-CH
Government           50.0      50.0    100.0       33.3
Bank                    -    100.0    100.0        33.3
Other Sources        50.0      50.0    100.0       33.3
Total               100.0    200.0    300.0    100.0
Loan 3053-CH
BCCH                    -      50.0      S0.0      17.9
Bank                           75.0      75.0      26.8
IDB                            37.0      37.0      13.2
Commercial banks     15.0          *     15 0       5.3
Owner's              66.0         -      66.0      23.6
contribution
Aiscellaneous        31.0       6.0      37.0      13.2
Sources
Total               112.0    168.0    280.0    100.0
As presented in the Appraisal and President Reports of both loans. Basic project costs amounted to
US$167 rmllion for Loan 2606-CH and USS 126 nillion for Loan 3053-CH. Of the USS50 million of
BCCH counterpart funds for Loan 3063-CH, only USS38.4 nillion were committed; the Bank approved
BCCH's request for a waiver of the requirement to provide the total of US*50 million in counterpart
funds.
3.6    Allocation of Loan Proceeds: Qriginal and Actual
I                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Actual Allocatio.i: Basic Project
_  Originl Allocatlon             Actual Allocation                  Costs      _
Source of                  Tochnical                         Technical                          Technical
Finncing        Sublosns    Asistance  Total     Subloans    Assistance    Total    Subloens    Assistance   Total
Loan 260C6-CM              _ ==
Bank                  97.4        2.86   100.0          99.0           1.0   100.0        99.0          1.0  100.0
Governent             97.6        2.4    100.0          63.1                  63.1        63.1                63.1
Other Sources        100.0          .    100.0         239.7             .   239.7           -
TOl                  295.0        5.0    300.0         401.8           1.0   402.8       162.1          1.0  163.1
Loan 3053C2_
Bank                  75.0                 75.0         75.0             -    75.0        76.0            -  75.0
BCCH_                   50                 50.0         38.4             -    38.4        38.4 _              38.4
Other Sources        155.0            -155.0           131.4             -   131.4
Total                280.0                280.0        244.8             -   244.8       113.4               113.4
Source: Dank files. BCCI, Desarrollo e Implnmentc6n del Proyecto 2606-CH
SCCH, Oesarrollo a Lrplementacion del Proyecto 3053-CH



- 39 -
3.7    Proiect Results
A.     Distribution of Subloans by Industrial Subsectors
Sectors                T      Number of           Percentage             Credit            Percentage
Operations                              US$ million
Loan 2606-CH
Forestry                          6                  14.6                63.7                 33.1
Fishing                           9                  22.0                38.4                 23.7
Industry                         12                  29.3                22.7                 14.0
Agroindustries                   8                   19.5                17.9                 11.0
Mining                            6                  14.6                29.4                 18.2
Total                            41                 100.0                162.1               100.0
Loan 3053-CH
Forestry                          5                  8.2                  6.2                 5.6
Fishing                          11                  18.0                30.3                 26.7
Industry                         28                  45.9                41.0                 36.1
Agroindustries                   10                  16.4                20.5                 18.1
Mining                            1                  1.6                  6.0                 4.4
Services linked                  6                   9.9                 10.4                 9.2
to production
Total                   61                 100.0                113.4               100.0



-40 -
3.8    Status of Covenants and Conditions
Loan 2606 CH
' -Pr*4    6 Az: ^meMescrption|                                                   Stuane of Copine
LOAN ALOEEMENT SECTiON
1.02 (gI and (h)                 Intervened banks would not be allowed to      Complied with
participate in the project while they remain
intervened. AU other commetcial banks
participating in the project would have to sign
subsidiary loan agreements.
1.02 In)                         Oetailing requirements for a workout.         Complied with
2.02 (aiv)                       Not more than US$50 million of the loan could be    Complied with
used to finance subprojeots with a working ceapital
requirement exceeding 70 percent of the subloan.
2.02 (c) Iv)                     Lending ririts: total financing not to exceed  Complied vith
US$1 i5 million and not more of US$10 million
would be allocated for working capital in any given
subloan.
2.02 Id)                         A special Account to be established to ensure  Complied with
timely payments of reimbursement claims and
Governrment to assume the cross-currency risk.
2.03 Ia) (bl                     Requirements of a workout.                    Complied with
3.05                             The Government would not provide subsidized   Complied with
credit for financial reatructurings In terms and
conditions that could undermine the loan.
4.01 a)                          The Technical Unit to be managed in accordance  Compled with. Statement amended later
with a Statement of Operating Policies and   on with respect to: i) reducing the ratios of
Procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Changes  current assets to current liabilties and
would be approved by the Bank.               debtinet worth; ii) restrictions an the
payment of dividends and lir) lmiting
I prepayments of other long-term labilities
5.01 lb)                          On lending arangements between 8CCH and banks   Compled with
to be covered by Subsidiary Loan Agreements.
PROJEC AGREEAENT SECTION
2.01 (a)                         8CCH to carry out the Project In accordance with    Complied with
sound financial practices.
2.01 Ibl                         BCCH to perform as fiscal agent of the Borrower.    Complied with
2.01 (c) Id)                     BCCH to employ consultents. provide competent  Compled with
staff end supervise the Technicel Unit.
2.02 la)                         8CCH to utilize proceeds accrued from the     Complied with
repayment of principal, interest and other charges    Amended on July 11, 1991 to oliminate
on the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, which are not    the obligation of BCCH to telend proceeds
required for the repayment of the loan or cover  of loan recoveries
administretive expenses of the Technhcal Urit.
exclusively for making loans for sane purposes.
2.02 (b                          BCCH to relend proceeds of the loan to        Compled with
participating banks under Subsidiary Loan
Agreements.



-41 -
~.... ...C.   _......... ,.......5...-''' ^'''"
2.0X (a)                          BCCH to cause the patidipating banks to make  Complied with
available the proceeds of the Subsidiary loans to
the sub-borrowers in the terms and conditions set
forth in the Schedule of the Agreement.
2.03 (b) Icl) n idl                CCH to protect the interest of the Swak, the  Complid with
iorrower and 8CCH, comply with Its obligation
under the Agreement. and chieve the project's
objectives; take actien to ensure the performance
of each of the participting banks; and should not.
without the Bank agreement, suspend or terminate
a partcipating bank from  ccessing the proceeds of
the loan or declare the pincipal amount of the
Subsidiary Loan due and payable.
2.04 (a)                          B DCCH to furnish the Bank at regular intemvals  Complied with
Information requested and exchange views on the
particpating banks, subsidiary loan agreements,
xpenditure of the proceeds of the loan,
restructuring and Investment subprojects, end
sublons.
2.04 (a)                          BCCH to carry out the obligation of Section 8.07 of  Complied with
the General conditions.
2.06                              BCCH to inforn the bank of any conditon which  Complied with
Interferes with the pregress of the Project.
2.06                              BCCH to review semi-annually the formul for the  Complied with. On September 8. 1986
determination and adjustments of interest rates on   the Interest rate fomua for subsiiry
Subsidiary loans and sublone and exchange views   loans in DMeS  was changed to Toss de
with the Bank and, if necessary, revise such  Interis Promedo plus Central Bank
foermula                                      charges.
3.01                              BCCH shall maintain seperate accounts and records   Complied with
adequate to reflect the operations, resources nd
e expenditures of 8CCH in respect of the Project      _
3.02   ) 01) (iiDi) aNd lv)     |CCH to have accounts raferred to In Section 3.01    Complied with
and the Special Account for each fiscal year
audited by Independent auditors and furnish to the
Sanki i) certified copis of such records four
months after the and of ech year, ii} the report of
the audits, i) certified monthly statements of the
Special Account, and lv) other information
concerning such records, accounts and audits thtl
the Bank reasonably requests.
3.02W 0) il) ( ii) and (l)        BCCH, for eii expenditures for withdrawals to the  Complied with
loan account, to maintain and retain for one year
after the closing date, separate records and
accounts evidencing such expenditures: onabe
Bank representatives to examine such records; and
ensure such separate accounts are Included In thie
annual audit of 3.02 (0).
3.03                              BCCH to enable Sank representatives to Inspect the   Complied with
records referred to In Section 3.01.
SeftIon I (b) ef Schedule 1       Eligible firms should not have more than 60 percent  Complied with
Government participation.



-42 -
T <,.7    S                .                                  .... .
Sftdon 1 (3) of Schedul 1        Terms for sub-l0ans for fixed investents end  Compned with
assolawd permenent worldng capital: maximum
matudities of 15 years and grace periods of up to 3
years. Terms for sutloans granted exdusively for
permanent working capital: naturdties from 18
months to 5 years and grace period of up to 1 year.
Subloans would rank par,.passu with al other
senior obligations of the restructured flrms in terms
both of debt service and repaymnt in case of
bankruptcyV.
Section U (5) of Schedule 1      Interest rates on dollar-denominated subsidiary  Complied with
loans would be equal to the Bank's interest rate
plus a spread covedng the Bank commitment fee
and the costs of operating the TU. Interest rates
on dollar denominated subloans would be
calculated by edding a spread of three percentage
points to the Interest rate on subsidiary loans.
Section l (6) of Schedule 1      Estblihing formula for the computation of real  Compiled with. Amendment of September
peso interest rates based on a principal adjusted for  8. 1 988, changed the fomula for uga
inflation using the Unded de Fomento (UF) and by    operatons to reflect the tase do intem
deflating the dollar rates used for doDlar-  promedio (TIP) plus Central Bank charges
denominated operations using the CPI of the U.S.    and the three-percent spread of the banks.
Section IV (s) of Schedule 1     Loans nmade by more than one partidipating bank to   Complied initially with but eliminsted on
stipulate that they are jintly iable for the  March 17, 1980
performance of all obilgations.                                                   I
AMIENDOUT TO LOAN DOCUIMWTS
Making the funds available for sound investment  Loan Agreement amendment on May 5.
projects of reliable companies without restructuring   1987
features.                                                          _



.43 -
3.9     Status of Covenants and Conditions
Loan 3053-oQ
Agreemen      -              JOescuiption                                  Statue of Compriano; 
LOAN AGREEMENT SECTION
2.02 (b)                       Establishes free limit of US$5 million on subloans  Complied with
for investment projects.
2.02 (c)                       No withdrawal shall be made except with Bank    Complied with
exeept (c) lil                 Agreement_.
2.02 (c) ii                    No withdrawal, except with Bank Agreement.  Complied with
until evidence satisfactory to the Bank Is
provided that participsling banks have entered
into the oorresponding Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
2.02 Cd)                       Borrower to maintain Special Account in dollars    Account established.
_In the Central Bank (BCCH).                Complied with
2.03 (d)                       Commitment date is December 31. 1991.      Compried with
2.04                           Closing date is December 31, 1994.         Complied with
3.01                           The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all   Complied with
actlons,including the provision of funds, faciities
and services necessary to enable BCCH to
perform project objectives.
3.02                           The Borrower to designate BCCH as its fiscal  Complied with
agent and make proceeds of the loan available to
it
3.05                           Borrower's altemative credit facilities for samo  Complied with
purpose should not be more favorable to
borrowers then those of subloans.
PROJECT AGREEMENT SECTION
2.01 Id)                       BCCH to provide at least US$50 million      BCCH provided US$38.4 milion. Bank waoi
equivalent as counterpart funds.           the counterpart requiremrient on June 15, 1992.
2.02 (a)                       BCCH to relend proceeds of the loan to     Complied with
particpating banks under Subsidiary Loan
.___ ___ ____ ___ ____ ___ _ .Agreements.
2.02 Cc)                       i3CCH to utilize proceeds accrued from     Amended en July 11, 1991 to deinate the
repayment of principal and other payments not    obligation of BCCH to relend proeedst eof ln
required for Ioan rspayment. exclusively for  recoveries.
meldng loans or earnse purposes end under
sinilir terms and conditions as those of the loan.



-44-
3.t10   Use of Baok Resources
Loans 2606-CH and 3053-CH
A.     Staff Inputs aStaff-weaks)
-               STAGE OF PROJECT CYCLE                                 LOAN 2606-CH                 LOAN 3053-CH
Through Appraisal                                                              21.1                         18.5
Apprabd - Board Approval                                                       52.8                         16.7
Board Approval - Effectivefns                                                    .1                          1.3
| Supervison                                                                   59.7                         12.3
|TYotal                                  _                                     , .                          .,133.7  46.9
B.     Missions
ACTIVITY                      FISCAL YEAR    NUMIER Of PERSONS       SPECIAUZATIONZ            NUMBER OF WEEKS
.Lan 2608t-C|
Idetfication                       1983                 1            EC_                                     0.6
Preappralsal                      1984                 5             CHf, LOF, ECN, C. F                    21.1
App-frsal                         1985                  6            MSP. ETR. INV, C, LOF,                 37.0
Negotation                        198S                 2             LEG, LOf                                3.1
Board Approval E-ffetinenes        1985f               4             ECN, MSP. LOP, SP                      12.7
SupervAion                        1086                 6             CHf, LOf. ECN, 2SP, POF                 8.4
Suporvsion                        1987                 8             CHF, LOF, 3POf, 3SP                    27.3
SuponAdon                          19s8                 6            3 POP 2 SP                             15.1
Superviuon                        1989                  2            2SP                                      1.9
SupWvIsIon                         1990                3             POF, 2SP                                4.6
Supervision                        1991                 2            POF, ECN                                 1.8
Preapprala                        1988                  1            SP                                       1.2
Appraisal                         1989                 4             POF. 2ECN. C                           1E.3
Negotftton                        1989                  3            POF. ECN. C                             3.4
Board approval - Effectiveness    1989                 4             POF. ECN, C. SP                         13.3
Supervision                        1989                 1            POF                                      1.34
Supervision                        1990                 I2           POFP 5F SS P|
SupervIion                         1991                 2            POF, ECN                                3.2
Code:  ECN - EconrmIst; CHF * ODiaon Chief; LOF m Loan Oftlesr; C - Consultant; F a FInandal Analyst; LEG   Lawyer; SP - Sector
SpodeOst; POF - Project OtfNo
Number nex to spIalItIdon Indicates nmre than one ison.



