Document or
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4042-CH
REPORI AND
OF THE
PRESIDEIT OF THE
TRTION     BNK FOR  AECOISUCION MiD DEVELOPMENT
TO TM.
EXECUrIVE DIRECORS
ON A
PROPOSED WAN
IN AN MOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$100.0 NIELION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF CHIL
FOR AN
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE REs cURl    PROJECT
June 27, 1985
.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CUREIC  EQUIALR!
(Currency Unit: Chilean P0so (Ch$))
Calendar 1984
Currency Unit           Average           Dec. 31, 1984       May 31, 1985
US$1                Ch$98.478             Ch$128.5          Ch$153.76
Ch$1                US$ 0.010             US$  0.008        US$  0.0065
Ch$1,000            US$10.127             US$  7.782        US$  6.504
FISCA.L TMAR
January 1 to December 31
AB RTATIONS
BHC              - Banco Hipotecario de Chile
(Mortgage Bank of Chile)
BHIF             - Banco Hipotecario de Fomento Nacional
(National Mortgage Development Bank)
CB               - Banco Central de Chile
(Central Bank of Chile)
Colocadora        - Colocadora Nacional de Valores
Nacional         (National Securities Underwriter, a private bank)
CPI              - Consumer Price Index
IDB              - Inter-American Development Bank
IFC              - International Finance Corporation
LIBOR            - London Interbank Offered Rate
Superintendencia - Superintendencia de Bancos
(Superintendency of Banks and Financial Institutions)
UF               - Unidad de Fomento
(Financial Unit of Account which reflects the
movements in the Country's Consumer Price Index)



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
- i.-
REPUBLIC OF CHILE
I3DS YRIAL  INACE RE UCTURIG PROJEC
LOAN AND PROJBCT SUNNAY
Borrower:      Republic of Chile
a~a
Executing
Agency:        Central Bank of Chile (CB)
Anonut:        US$100.0 million equivalent
Terms:         Repayment in 15 years, including three years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Relending
Terms:         The Central Bank as fiscal agent for the Government would on-
lend loan funds to commercial banks in US dollars or in
Chilean pesos. US dollar-denominated loans to commercial
banks would have rates equal to the Bank's interest rate plus
a spread to compensate the Central Bank for the Bank's com-
mitment fees and for the cost of operating the Technical Unit
(TU). Commercial banks would onlend these funds charging a
three percent spread. Interest rates on peso-denominated
loans to commercial banks and subloans to beneficiary enter-
prises would be equivalent to those of dollar-denominated
subloans and would be expressed in real terms calculated upon
a principal expressed in UF, by deflating the respective dol-
lar rates by the United States Consumer Price Index (CPI).
This would ensure that real interest rates would be the same
tor both dollar- and peso-denominated loans and subloans.
The repayment terms for subloans would be up to 15 years, in-
cluding a grace period of up to three years.
Project
Objectives:    The proposed project would help the Government to undertake a
financial restructuring program of industrial corporations on
a selective basis. The project is conceived as a pilot ef-
fort that would be replicative in restructuring efforts car-
ried on outside of the project.
Project
Description:   The project would include assistance for: (a) establishing
and financing the institutional framework through which cor-
porate restructurings would be devised, negotiated, and im-
plemented; and (b) financing the purchase of capital goods
and working capital necessary to maintain and increase pro-
duction.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be 11sca! by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its oDntents may not othewse be dislosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Project
Benefits:      The proposed project would help to remove the finmncial dead-
lock that is hindering the recovery of industrial production
in Chile through the establishment of an institutional frame-
work geared to promote the financial restructuring of selec-
ted industrial companies and the provision of foreign ex-
change financing needed by the restructured companies to
carry out required investments.
Projeet Risks: Credit demand could be curtailed if: (a) the economic
situation deteriorates further; (b) the Technical Unit fails
to promote restructurings or proves incapable of analyzing
them properly; (c) individual restructurings prove too dif-
ficult to be completed within the proposed loan's commitment
period; or (d) after being restructured, the firms obtain
credit from other sources. To mitigate these risks, the
Technical Unit would: (i) have detailed Operating Policies
and Administrative Procedures in line with the project's ob-
jectives; ard (ii) be staffed by high-level professionals
with experience in corporate restructurings. The benefits to
Chile would be substantial, and the experience gained in this
operation would be useful in the design of programs to sup-
port firms in financial distress. Therefore, the overall
benefits of the project are expected to outweigh the risks
significantly.
Estimated Costs:                                 Local    Foreign    Total
TUS$M4illion Equivalent)
Investment Sub-Projects                      147.6     147.4     295.0
Technical Assistance to
Technical Unit                               2.4        2.6       5.0
Total Financing Required                     150.0     150.0     300.0
Financing Plan:
Government                                  100.0        0.0     100.0
Other Sources                                 50.0      50.0     100.0
Bank                                          0.0      100.0     100.0
Total                       150.0     150.0      300.0



- iii -
Ustimated
DisbUzints:   Bank PY:         .,  198   t9B    199  l99    199         1992
Annual         1.7  10.2  19.4  30.4  18.0  15.7    4.6
Cumulative     1.7  11.9  31.3  61.7  79.7  95.4  100.0
Rate of Return: Not Applicable
Staff ADpraimal Report: Report No. 5433-CH, dated May 20, 1985



REPORT AND RECONNEEDATION OF TEE PRESIDENT OF THE IBID
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE REPUBLIC OF CHILE FOR
AN INDUSTRIAL FINANCE RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Chile for the equivalent of US$100.0 million to help fi-
nance an Industrial Finance Restructuring Project. The proposed loan would
have a term of 15 years, including three years of grace, at the standard var-
iable interest rate. The Central Bank of Chile, as Bxecuting Agency, would
onlend the loan proceeds to participating commercial banks in US dollar-de-
nominated or Chilean peso loans.  US dollar-denominated loans to commercial
banks would have rates equal to the Bank's interest rate plus a spread to
compensate the Central Bank for the Bank's commitment fees and for the cost
of operating the Technical Unit (TU). Commercial banks would onlend these
funds charging a three percent spread. Interest rates on peso-denominated
loans to commercial banks and subloans to beneficiary enterprises would be
equivalent to those of dollar-denominated subloans; they would be expressed
in real terms calculated upon a principal expressed in UF, by deflating the
respective dollar rates by the United States Consumer Price Index (CPI).
This would ensure that real interest rates would be the same for both dollar-
and peso-denominated loans and subloans. The repayment terms for subloans
would be up to 15 years, including a grace period of up to three years.
PART I - TE  CONONI
2.        An economic memorandum on Chile (Report No. 5099-CH) was circulated
to the Board on September 24, 1984. The following paragraphs are based on
the conclusions contained in that memorandum and on information gathered by
subsequent missions that visited Chile in November 1984 and January 1985.
Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Evolution of the Economy to the end of 1983 11
3.        In the four decades following the Great Depression, successive
Governments sought to reduce Chile's vulnerability to world market fluctua-
tions, accelerate economic development and achieve a more equitable distribu-
tion of income. With the aim of reducing the country's dependence on im-
ports, these Governments intervened in the determination of prices, erected
high protective barriers against foreign competition, offered special tax and
other incentives to investment and entered directly into production and dis-
tribution activities while controlling the allocation of credit and foreign
exchange. During 1971-73, the Government undertook a major agrarian reform,
expropriated a large part of the private industrial and mining sectors, and
followed highly expansionary fiscal, monetary, and wage policies. In 1973,
the public sector deficit exceeded one-fifth of GDP and stagnation, rapid in-
flation and balance of payments problems became acute. Inflation exceeded
500 percent and net international reserves were negative by more than US$300
million.
1/ Substantially the same as Part I of the President's Report of the Road
Sector Project presented to the Executive Directors on June 20, 1985.



-2 -
4.        After 1973 the structure of the Chilean economy underwent pro-
nounced change. The new Government, which came to power in late 1973,
promoted private initiative and significantly reduced the role of the State
in the economic sphere. The public sector deficit was eliminated. All
prices, including interest rates, were progressively freed and most distor-
tionse to relative prices were removed. Foreign investment was encouraged and
trade barriers were virtually eliminated. Major reforms were introduced in
the tax structure, in the budgetary process and in banking legislation.
Finally, most of the enterprises taken over by the previous Government were
returned to the private sector. To reduce the hyperinflation anbd in response
to a major drop in copper prices, the Government initially undertook a severe
austerity program; strong fiscal revenue and expenditure actions were imple-
mented, the currency was massively devalued and, after 1975, a crawling peg
regime was adopted which stimulated export-led growth. A depression, which
developed in 1975, bottomed out during the first quarter of 1976 and, with
its first current account surplus in twenty years, Chile was able to service
its debt and increase substantially its net official reserves.
5.        The economy responded well to the reforms.  Between 1976-1980 real
economic growth averaged 8.5 percent per year; by 1977, real GDP had returned
to 1971-1972 levels; by 1980 annual inflation was reduced to 30 percent. The
balance-of-payments position improved markedly; the value of agricultural and
manufactured exports grew more than sevenfold between 1973 and 197B. Copper
revenues -- traditionally over 80 percent of export receipts -- had been re-
duced to half of total export earnings. Net foreign reserves during the
1973-78 period averaged over US$1.5 billion. By 1978, real wages and sala-
ries had recovered to their 1970 levels and rose further as worker productiv-
ity increased. The efficiency of the State enterprises improved significant-
ly, and the public sector had an overall surplus by the late 1970s. But since
these positive developments were accompanied by more efficient labor use, the
unemployment rate fell slowly despite a major emergency employment program.
6.        While the Government was eager to reduce the economic role of the
State, it was equally determined to improve the quality of, and access to,
social services to the poor. Previous income distribution policies and pro-
grams -- such as price controls, public housing, cheap credit, factor sub-
sidies, tax exemptions and broadly-based social expenditure programs -- not
only had had perverse growth effects, but often had been of equal or, in some
cases, greater benefit to the urban middle class than to the poor. From the
mid-seventies on, although the Government spent less on the social sectors
than predecessor governments (public social outlays only reached 1972 levels
in real per capita terms in 1980), it carefully targeted its spending on the
extreme poor through a series of reforms in health and education that lowered
substantially Chile's rates of infant mortality and child malnutrition.
7.        After 1980, economic conditions changed with a major shift in
macroeconomic policy and the later world recession. On July 1, 1979 the
Government ended its pre-announced crawling peg policy and fixed the Chilean
peso at Ch$39:US$1. This, combined with greatly lessened restrictions on ex-
ternal capital flows and public sector surpluses, was expected to adjust
domestic inflation quickly to international levels.  Uafortulnately, the time
lag in the adjustment of inflation, combined with the subsequent appreciation
of the U.S. dollar and 1981-83 world recession, produced an unsustainable
boom, financed by massive inflows of foreign borrowings. Between end-1979
and end-1981, Chile's private external debt tripled.



- 3 -
8.        The appreciation of the peso -- combined with the growing world re-
cession -- finally had an overwhelming effect, as Chile's export earnings and
inflows of foreign savings both dropped. By the end of 1981, the economy en-
tered a recession. The lag in foreign exchange policy response led the
economy from recession into depression. In 1982 GDP fell 14 percent. Real
value-added dropped in construction, which had boomed in 1980/81, by almost
22 percent; in commerce by 15 percent; in transport by 10 percent; and in
manufacturing by 22 percent. Real fixed investment fell almost 37 percent, a
drop which was all the more discouraging because the country had only begun
to improve its infrastructure, which had deteriorated greatly during the
1970s.
9.        Unemployment soared to 19 percent by 1982 as the economy entered
the depression. The financial situation of many firms and banks deterior-
ated. As early as November 1981, the Government assumed responsibility for
day-to-day management of a few insolvent banks, but the situation worsened
considerably in 1982, with a series of bankruptcies. The crisis finally
forced the Government to devalue in June 1982, and subsequently follow a
crawling peg exchange rate policy. In January 1983, after the IMF agreed to
an SDR 795 million Stand-by, a financial crisis was triggered by massive
banking insolvencies and a huge capital outflow. The Government liquidated
some banks and intervened 2/ in others, providing immediate liquidity to
avoid collapse of the financial system. A "shadow program" -- by which the
original targets could be met by September -- was then drawn up. By end-
July, agreement was reached with foreign banks, providing Chile with much-
needed financial support.
10.       By following severe deflationary policies, Chile complied with its
original September 1983 IMF targets; a feat that reflects favorably on the
country's determination to meet its external obligations. A reduction in the
rate of inflation to 23 percent and a current account deficit of only US$1.5
billion were achieved. External balance, however, was achieved at the cost
of a one percent drop in real GDP. Private consumption fell seven percent.
The unemployment rate dropped to 16 percent, but only because the emergency
employment programs were employing ten percent of the work force.
Recent Economic Developments
11.       The depression bottomed out in late 1983. A growing public invest-
ment program and Central Bank financing of domestic debt reschedulings sup-
ported strong increases in demand and production in the first semester of
1984. Furthermore, a March agreement with its international creditors pro-
vided Chile with $780 million in fresh medium-term capital and a major in-
crease in short-term debt followed. As a result, GDP grew 6.3 percent. In-
dustrial, agricultural and fishing output all grew faster than GDP.   Employ-
ment increased sharply; 250,000 more productive jobs were created -- a 9.2
percent increase -- allowing the Government to reduce its emergency-work pro-
grams by 137,000 jobs, while unemployment dropped to a 13.3 percent rate --
its lowest since 1981.
12.       Despite an almost ten percent volume increase in noncopper exports,
Chile's export earnings -- denominated in US dollars -- dropped five per-
cent. Copper prices dropped 12 percent to the lowest real level since the
1930s, so that Chile's record volume of copper exports did not lead to in-
2/ "Intervention," in the Chilean context, means the taking over, by the
Superintendencia, of the day-to-day management of financial institutions,
without affecting the institutions' ownership structure.



- 4 -
creased copper receipts. Noncopper exports also suffered price drops -- 4.5
percent -- reducing the earnings from the volume expansion of agricultural
and industrial export products which increased by 31 and 7.7 percent, respec-
tively. After two years of heavy import compression, the 1984 recovery led
to imports of $3.3 billion, an 18 percent increase over 1983. Capital im-
ports grew fastest -- 44 percent. To cope with the growing foreign trade im-
balance and to ameliorate the reduction in copper tax revenues, the Govern-
ment increased import tariffs to a 35 percent uniform rate, while devaluing
by 23 percent in September 1984.
13.       A new three-year Extended Fund Facility (EFF) program has been
agreed with the IMF. To sustain the recovery, a three-year public investment
program places emphasis on export promotion and job generation. The conclu-
sions of a Bank public investment review mission, which visited the country
in November/December of 1964, are that the program's goals are effectively
supported by the projects included in the program. Corporate and individual
taxes are now being reformed to stimulate investment and savings and a gener-
al financial program was defined by the Superintendency of Banks and the
Central Bank to capitalize intervened banks. Major reforms in the structure
of large business groups continue, and ownership conflicts -- which have
caused investment delays -- are being resolved, so that currently-restricted
export-oriented firms may soon increase production.
Prospects
14.       In spite of these actions, the Chilean recovery remains precar-
ious. A severe earthquake, which struck the country on March 3, 1985, caus-
ing in excess of US$500 million in damage, has made economic recovery even
more arduous. Growth is severely constrained by foreign exchange limita-
tions. The external debt -- including short-term debt -- nearly equalled
1984 GDP; interest payments on it were over 45 percent of the country's ex-
ports. Increased export earnings depend, in part, on a rapid expansion of
noncopper exports. The Government, recognizing this, has taken action and
has established an attractive exchange rate policy. It is also taking other
actions to stimulate exports, including import tariff reductions. Even with
strong gains in export volumes, Chile's prospects are linked to its terms of
trade and -- given its high debt burden -- world interest rates. Chile's
terms of trade are expected to improve by about five percent in 1985, based
on current Bank commodity price projections. Near-term interest payments are
currently being decided during ongoing meetings with international creditor
banks.
15.       For moderate GDP growth of about 2.5 to 3 percent to continue over
the medium term, Chile would not only need to increase domestic savings and
accelerate exports, it would also need further substantial net inflows of
capital. So far, the country has made determined efforts to comply with its
foreign obligations. A realistic exchange rate policy should stimulate a
strong volume expansion of noncopper exports, and most of these exports have
better market prospects than copper. The public investment program is now
oriented to support more strongly a productive recovery. Private incentives
are also being oriented to export expansion or efficient import-substitution
as well as to employment and savings generation. Despite these efforts,
Chile's continuing recovery and creditworthiness will depend on how much sup-
port can be obtained from creditors for its three-year progra1. Thus far,
the country has addressed its medium-term constraints with sound policies,
which strengthen prospects for obtaining the necessary external financing.



- 5 -
Even so, to improve its creditworthiness, Chile will not only need to comply
with its EFF and reach agreement with its commercial creditors, but it will
also need to define and implement a recovery program which the Bank can sup-
port. The proposed project would be part of such a program; it would make a
major contribution to stimulating corporate financial restructurings, in-
creasing investment and production in the private sector. Thus, it would
represent an important element in the country's economic and financial re-
covery. Therefore, because the country has so far complied with its external
obligations, and provided it successfully completes its negotiations with its
external creditors, it is considered creditworthy for this loan.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS 3/
16.       By March 31, 1985 the Bank had made 32 loans to Chile, amounting to
US$711.6 million (net of cancellations) of which six were not yet fully dis-
bursed. IDA had also extended a US$22.9 million credit to the country for a
road project in FY81. IFC gross commitments in Chile an of the same date
stood at US$56.4 million. Annex II has further details on IBRD and IFC oper-
ations as at March 31, 1985.
17.       Of total Bank and IDA lending to Chile, 27 percent has been for
roads, 23 percent for power, 22 percent for agriculture (including irriga-
tion), 11 percent for housing, seven percent for mining, five percent for
water supply, and the balance (five percent) for industry, education and
technical assistance.
18.       Historically, the volume of Bank lending to Chile has fluctuated
substantially in accordance, inter alia, with the country's economic per-
formance and the availability of suitable projects. In the FY75-77 period,
the Bank made four loans totalling US$107.8 million to help finance projects
in the agriculture, copper mining and power sectors. The Bank did not lend
to Chile in FY78-79, but in FY60 it approved a US$38 million loan for a water
supply project and, in FY81, two loans in the amounts of US$36 million and
US$42 million for a Second Agricultural Credit Project and a Highway Recon-
struction Project, respectively. During FY82-84, only one Bank loan, a
US$128 million Second Highway Reconstruction Loan, was made to the country.
In FY85 four loans were approved -- a US$56 million loan for Agricultural
Services and Credit, a US$80 million loan for Public Sector Housing, a US$11
million loan for a Public Sector Management Technical As3istance Project, and
a US$140 million Road Sector loan. The Bank has also modified existing oper-
ations to permit almost US$25 million in proceeds to be used for earthquake-
related emergency repairs and reconstruction, principally in the transport
sector, but also in housing.
19.       Execution of Bank-financed projects has been satisfactory.  Dis-
bursement of Bank loans reached US$32.6 million in FY82. Then in FY83, with
the current depression at its nadir, disbursements declined to US$22.3 mil-
lion. This was in large measure because of the two-year lending hiatus as
well as the fact that the farmers' debt burden, and investment uncertainty in
the agricultural sector, created disbursement problems for the FY51 agricul-
tural credit project; however, modifications to this project have helped ex-
pedite disbursements, and it is now expected that this loan will be fully
disbursed by the closing date. Disbursements on Bank loans in FY64 reached
their highest historical level of US$34.5 million.
3/ Substantially the same as Part II of the President's Report of the Road Sector
Project presented to the Executive Directors on June 20, 1985.



- 6 -
20.       The Bank's present lending strategy is to support the Government's
medium-term economic adjustment program by focussing on improvements in:
(i) external trade policies that would ensure an acceleration of export
growth and efficient import-substitution and further diversify production and
exports; (ii) public sector management and fiscal policies to reactivate the
economy and strengthen public savings in a timely way with emphasis on making
better use of existing infrastructure and productive capacity; (iii) finan-
cial policies to stimulate domestic savings and to allocate credit more ef-
ficiently; and (iv) policy incentives to expand productive employment. The
proposed Structural Adjustment Loan is the keystone of this strategy.  The
Industrial Finance Restructuring Loan complements this strategy. These oper-
ations would contribute to improved efficiency and enhanced savings, as well
as stimulate much needed employment and output in the private producing sec-
tors.
21.       Over the next few years, it is expected that the Bank will continue
supporting the Government's medium-term economic adjustment program through
further SALs. Sectoral operations will also be prepared in small enterprise
industrial credit, water and sewerage and in productive sectors such as agri-
culture and forestry. As part of the Bank's program of emergency assistance,
following the recent earthquake, a Port Reconstruction Project might also be
prepared during 1985 and 1986. A proposed multimodal transport operation
would emphasize rationalizing competing modes of transport and prepare the
country better for the container age. The operation for small industry
credit would help strengthen and diversify the structure of production among
smaller producers which can be expected to increase efficient import-substi-
tution. Lending for water and sewerage facilities would meet important
residential health needs and would also improve the export marketability of
fresh agricultural produce. Lending for energy, agriculture and forestry
would not only contribute to expanding output and employment, but would also
increase net foreign exchange earnings and savings.
22.       Although Chile's debt situation is currently limiting cofinancing
opportunities, the responsible way in which the Authorities are handling the
country's external obligations augurs well for future operations in which the
Bank could co-lend with commercial banks. International commercial banks are
considering providing Chile with new funds to tide the country through the
next year but have yet to resume lending on a voluntary basis.  Opportunities
for cofinancing with the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) are also being
explored.  IDB has a sizeable program in Chile; it is focusing primarily on
agriculture, industry, power, and transportation -- sectors in which the Bank
is also preparing operations. IBRD exposure in Chile currently stands at 1.6
percent of public debt and about 1.4 percent of total debt.
PART III - THE FINANCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL SECTORS
A. The Financial Sector
23.       As of November 1984, the Chilean financial system comprised the
Central Bank of Chile (CB), 38 commercial banks (the largest of which, Banco
del Estado, is Government-owned) and seven financial companies
("financieras"). Commercial banks are multi-banking institutions and operate
at both the short- and long-term ends of the market, financing all kinds of



- 7 -
activities and trading in mortgages and commercial paper. Many
financieras, much smaller institutions, are associated with commercial
banks. They do not receive demand deposits and account for less than two
percent of the total system's outstanding credit. The banking market is
highly concentrated: of the 38 commercial banks, the five largest account
for 60 percent of the system's credit. Other financial institutions in-
clude sever mutual funds, 12 private pension funds, 51 insurance companies
and the Santiago Stock Exchange. The Central Bank is the highest monetary
authority in the country, sharing with the Superintendency of Banks
(Superintendencia) the supervision of the financial system. It is managed
by an Executive Committee of three members, appointed by the President of
the Republic. The Chairman of the Committee is also the bank's president
and has a rank equivalent to that of a cabinet member. The Central Bank
undertakes all of its credit activities through commercial banks and
financieras. The Superintendencia is an autonomous body, and its author-
ities are appointed by the President of the Republic. Both institutions
are well run and their staffs are highly qualified.
24.       Several factors led to the creation of large industrial/financial
conglomerates in Chile. At the end of the Allende regime, under the threat
of widespread confiscations, the prices of all assets fell sharply, and
many of them changed hands at extremely low prices. When the political re-
gime was changed, the assets' prices increased again, creating a specula-
tive mood in the business community. Speculation was further encouraged by
the sale of most Government-owned firms that the new Government undertook
shortly after its accession to power. Given the depressed state of the
economy at the time, assets had not yet recovered their equilibrium prices,
and those firms were sold in public auctions at very low prices, mostly to
conglomerates formed to purchase them. As the economic situation improved
in subsequent years, asset prices increased, and the conglomerates obtained
large capital gains. Later in the 1970s, the Government denationalized the
banks, and most of them were bought by the newly formed groups, which then
used the banks' credit to finance further acquisitions and, in some cases,
to pay for the shares of the banks themselves. Eventually, these conglom-
erates established networks of financial institutions (banks, mutual funds,
insurance companies) that channeled the cash they needed to keep on growing
through acquisitions. Two big groups predominated: the BHC group, con-
trolling Banco de Chile and its subsidiaries (accounting for close to 30
percent of the financial system's credit) and the Progresa group, con-
trolling Banco de Santiago, BHIF and Colocadora Nacional (accounting for
about 20 percent of the system's credit).
25.       The trend toward incestuousness in the relationship between
financial and nonfinancial companies worsened at the end of the decade,
when a substantial overvaluation of the Chilean peso created incentives for
cross currency speculation. From June 1979 to June 1982, the Government
fixed the foreign exchange rate in dollar terms in order to reduce domestic
inflation to international levels. During that period, prices of domestic
nontradeable assets continued rising at the diminishing but still high
local rate of inflation, while the price of the US dollar remained fixed in
peso terms. This made it profitable to borrow in apparently low-interest
dollar-denominated funds to speculate in real estate and in peso-
denominated financial assets. Moreover, cheap imports discouraged trade-
able activities, and nontraditional exports, one of the main sources of
growth in the previous five years, lost international competitiveness



- 8 -
and tended to stagnate. As a result, investment in industrial activities
remained low, while the private sector's exterial debt was increasing
rapidly, from US$2.7 billion at the end of 1978 to US$10.5 billion at the
end of 1982. Eventually, close to 60 percent of the private sector debt
was denominated in US dollars, and about 60 percent of it was invested in
activities that do not generate foreign exchange. This credit was highly
concentrated; at the end of 1982, 19 percent of the financial system's
credit was allocated to firms related to the creditor banks. One of them,
the second largest bant in the country, had 4? percent of its total credit
allocated to its related companies. When the devaluation finally took
place in June 1982, the price of domestic assets fell drastically in dollar
terms, large capital losses occurred and, in many cases, the value of the
claims on those assets exceeded the value of the assets themselves.
26.       In markct economies, losses incurred by defaulting firms are
normally absorbed by their owners, the shareholders of creditor banks, or,
if necessary, by the depositors and holders of other liabilities of failed
banks. The Government intended to take this approach when it became clear
that several banks would fail as a result of the mounting financial
crisis. In January 1983, however, as public confidence in the banking
system eroded because of the mounting debt crisis, the Government provided
Ch$100 billion in liquidity assistance to support domestic banks financial-
ly, intervened five of them, and guaranteed 100 percent of the value of de-
posits. Although, at the time of heavy external borrowing, the Chilean au-
thorities had made it clear to all parties involved that no public guaran-
tee would be provided for the private debt, in early 1983, it explicitly
guaranteed the external debt of the private financial sector maturing in
1983-1984 when it was rescheduled, and provided assurances to international
creditors that this debt would be serviced adequately during that period.
These guarantees, however justified in the Government's view by the need to
preserve the integrity of the financial system and to ensure the
availability of external credit for Chile, effectively blocked the main
mechanism that the market has to allocate losses. As a result, only a
small portion of the losses has been written off by both local and foreign
banks, and there is a discrepancy between the book value and the real value
of the assets.
27.       Banks are trying to avoid writeoffs by clinging to unrealistic
repayment agreements they have reached with debtor firms and among
themselves. This attempt to forestall losses that have already been
incurred has paralyzed the financial markets, at a very high cost to the
Chilean economy. As a result, the losses that the banking system will
eventually hav,e to absorb in its loans to these firms have increased
considerably. Furthermore, productive activities are being hindered by the
financial deadlock since resources are being kept away from efficient
companies in order to sustain firms that, de facto, went bankrupt years
ago.
28.       Since 1982, the Chilean banking system has suffered losses equiv-
alent to more than three times its equity capital and has been able to sur-
vive only because of the strong support it has received from the Central
Bank. The losses, however, were concentrated in banks that had been con-
trolled by large conglomerates, and, especially, in the five banks now "in-
tervened" by the Superintendencia, which account for 41 percent of the
credit and 66 percent of the non-performing assets of the banking system.
Some of the non-intervened banks, however, seem to be in conditions similar



to those of the intervened ones, and only one Chilean bank (BICE) has non-
performing assets below ten percent of its portfolio.
29.       The Government implemented, in early 1984, a scheme to regular-
ize the financial help provided to the non-intervened financial system.
Under this scheme, participating banks and financieras sold their worst
portfolio to the Central Bank, receiving, in payment, the funds that the
Central Bank had already provided to them as liquidity assistance. Sixteen
private banks chose not to participate in the program since, under the
scheme, participating financial institutions would have to devote all their
future profits to repurchasing this portfolio from the Central Bank, paying
a five percent real interest rate on the outstanding amounts. In essence,
this arrangement is a loan from the Central Bank to the banks' share-
holders, precluding them from receiving any dividends or capital gains un-
til the whole loan is repaid. The banks can, however, issue new shares
that would be exempt from this obligation and could receive dividends pro-
portional to their participation in the institutions' equity. Implementa-
tion of this solution has failed, so far, to solve all cf the portfolio
problems of participating banks. Risk assets (i.e., loans in arrears for
more than 90 days, accrued but uncollected interests, and goods r-ceived in
payment as a result of foreclosures, and considered insufficient to cover
their related debts) still represent 34 percent of the non-intervened
banks' equity capital. Nevertheless, the financial situation of the non-
intervened banks is improving since they are operating profitably and are
building up reserves to cover potential losses that could arise from their
risk assets.
30.       Intervened banks (which account for 41 percent of the crclit
market) show an asset account called "deferred losses" in their books
(losses that have already been recognized but have yet to be written off)
equal to 93 percent of their nominal equity. In addition, they have sub-
stantial arrears and have to repurchase the non-performing portfolio pre-
viously sold to the Central Bank. The Government is devising a plan to
"recapitalize" these banks in two stages:  (a) it would convert into equity
a portion of the credit that the Central Bank has given them, in an amount
sufficient to put these banks on financial terms equivalent to those of the
rest of the banking system; and (b) it would then apply to them the scheme
that was used with the non-intervened banks. To implement this plan, a law
authorizing the Government to buy newly issued equity in these banks has
been prepared; this law restricts Government holdings in any bank to a max-
imum of 49 percent of the shares outstanding at any given moment, and
forces the Government to sell the shares to the public within five years
after the purchase. The implementation of this plan started in the first
half of 1985. Although it could take a long period for the Government to
sell its participation in these institutions, the intervened banks would be
"recapitalized" as soon as the Government purchases these shares and the
banks enter into the new portfolio repurchasing agreement with the Central
Bank, in effect ending the Government's intervention of the commercial
banks.



- 10 -
D. Th Industrial Sector
31.       Since 1973, economic reforms have reduced the Government's inter-
vention in the economy, allowing the market to allocate economic re-
sources. Of these reforms, the liberalization of the external sector --
tariff reductions from a 97 percent average level in 1973 to a uniform ten
percent in 1979, elimination of quota restrictions -- affected the
structure of the industrial sector substantially. The reduction caused a
shift in the allocation of resources, away from the production of
import-substitution manufactures and into resource-based exports. A
substantial portion of the import-substituting industry disappeared and
resource-based exporters, such as pulp and paper, fishing, lumber and fresh
fruits, grew at a very fast rate. Since the Chilean manufacturing sector
had been largely oriented toward the domestic market and had grown
inefficient behind a multitude of trade barriers, the trade liberalization
resulted in a decline in the share of the sector in the country's GDP from
25 percent in 1970-1973 to 20 percent in 1981-1983. The share of
manufacturing employment in the economy also fell from 17 percent in 1977
to 13 percent in 1983.
32.       Since 1981, the drastic fall in domestic demand has depressed
domestically oriented manufacturers, especially those producing consumer
durables and intermediate ccnstruction goods. Given the nature of Chile's
balance of payments problemi, further measures to restrict domestic demand
could be necessary. This is likely to have a negative effect upon the
future growth of manufacturing. The more competitive exchange rate, how-
ever, has increased demand for locally produced goods with high domestic
value-added (e.g., textiles, clothing, furniture and metal products) and
has also increased the international competitiveness of Chilean industry.
Several manufacturers whc have so far produced only for the domestic market
are now able to compete internationally and are currently exploring poten-
tial markets for their product3.
33.       As a percent of value-added, credit to the manufacturing sector
decreased, during the years of overvaluation, from 45.1 percent to 40.4
percent, but, as a result of the 1982 devaluation, it went up to 65.7 per-
cent. Although this figure is lower than the average for the private sec-
tor as a whole (77 percent of GDP), the burden of this debt is proving ex-
cessive for some manufacturing companies. As a result, principal and in-
terest on these loans have been repeatedly rolled over by commercial banks
during the last two years.  A large number of the country's productive com-
panies are involved in these agreements and are caught in a vicious circle
since their repayment capacity depends upon their ability to grow, but they
cannot expand because they are too heavily in debt to undertake the neces-
sary investments. The failure to restructure these companies financially
when it first became clear that they would not be able to fully service
their debts has significantly worsened their financial condition because
accrued interests have compounded their financial distress to the extent
that many of them, which were viable two years ago, now have lest their
equity capital many times over. Although the most seriously affected com-
panies tend to be those producing for the domestic market, several export-
ing companies are also weak financially, and some of them are troubled by
the ownership problems resulting from the financial collapse of their hold-
ing companies.



- 11 -
(i)   Industrial Investment Requirements
34.       The 1982-1985 devaluations have created opportunities for export-
ers and efficient import-substituting companies, which are currently plan-
ning investments, to both increase their efficiency and expand their pro-
duction capacity. In total, fixed investment demand from non-mining indus-
trial companies can be estimated on the order of US$500 million for 1985-
1987, of which US$300 million would represent foreign exchange expendi-
tures. The weak financial situation of Chilean industrial firms, however,
is making it difficult for them to proceed with their investment plans.
Therefore, the materialization of industrial investment and growth crucial-
ly depends upon the realization of a case-by-case financial restructuring
of industrial enterprises.
(ii) Industrial Restructuring
35.     Although the industrial sector is recovering from the 1982-1983 de-
pression, its recovery remains precarious. The two major factors hindering
recovery are: (a) the sector's debt burden; and (b) the legal uncertain-
ties stemming from the financial collapse of holding companies. The
Central Bank has implemented two successive across-the-board reschedulings
during the last two years, both aimed at firms owing less than US$3 million
equivalent. Firms with larger debts were supposed to renegotiate their
debts directly with their creditors on a case-by-case basis. The across-
the-board programs for the smaller debtors, while extending loan maturities
and reducing interest rates, addressed short-term constraints and, in ef-
fect, have probably delayed the long-run solution: the allocation of
losses among creditors. The first round of renegotiations of the larger
debtors is by now almost concluded. Many of these renegotiations, however,
have resulted in unrealistic agreements that leave debtor firms unable to
meet their new contractual obligations and also severely constrained in
their growth potential.
36.       Chilean banks could lower their long-run losses if they reduced
the financial burden now imposed upon borrowers through immediate loan
writeoffs (partial or total), conversions of debt into equity, or other re-
lief schemes. Liberated from the excess burden, debtor firms could grow
faster and repay a larger portion of their obligations than otherwise.
Banks have not done this during the past two years, however, because of the
following main reasons: (a) a thorough financial restructuring of the pri-
vate sector would have caused the banks' own bankruptcy; and (b) creditors
and debtors have been expecting a Government bailout that would allow banks
to reduce the financial burden of their debtors without causing losses to
the banks' shareholders. There is a growing perception, however, that the
Government lacks the financial power required to bail out the entire pri-
vate sector. These developments tend to favor the undertaking of a case-
by-case restructuring that could effectively liberate efficient firms from
their excessive debt burden and undo the financial deadlock that is hinder-
ing the country's economic recovery.
37.       To undertake a once-and-for-all restructuring, the banks may have
to: (a) reduce their claims on the firms' cash flows and (b) increase their
exposure to finance normalized operations and, when appropriate, their ex-
pansion. For the reduction of their claims on the firms' cash flows, banks
may prefer to substitute equity or quasi-equity for debt instead of writing



- 12 -
writing off loans. This will allow banks to participate in the future pro-
fits or cash generation of the restructured firms. The Superintendencia is
allowing banks to take newly issued shares as repayment, but the Banking
Law requires them to dispose of shares within a maximum period of three
years, even if they are non-voting stock. The Government is reluctant to
change this provision of the law because the current banking problems were
caused, to a large extent, by the interconnection between financial and
nonfinancial firms; it therefore prefers the use of quasi-equity instru-
ments such as subordinated convertible debentures, i.e., loans at low (or
zero) interest rates that can be converted into equity shares by the credi-
tor, at a specified price and within a given period, and whose payment is
contingent upon the availability of resources to first service more senior
debt.
38.      The use of convertibles would allow the banks to wait for a much
longer period for the firms to generate profits, and then to participate in
them through capital gains, if they can sell the debentures or shares at
prices higher than those at which they acquired them. There are provisions
in the law limiting the amount that banks can invest in bonds as well as
the overall exposure that they can have in any single firm or conglomer-
ate. The Superintendencia, however, is considering bonds received in pay-
ment and increases in exposure derived from restructurings as exceptions to
these provisions. Furthermore, it has upgraded the classification of the
remaining debt of properly restructured firms.
39.       Given the significant participation of foreign banks in the
financing of Chile's private sector, the participation of these banks in
the restructuring process is essential. A case-by-case approach, linking
repayments to the cash-generating capacity of each individual firm, would
encourage such participation. Moreover, a precedent was established in
September 1984, when several foreign banks wrote off 80 percent (US$44 mil-
lion) of their claims on an industrial company declared bankrupt, in ex-
change for repayment, in cash, of the remaining 20 percent. After this ac-
tion was taken, the bankruptcy was lifted and the company is now operating
normally. It is likely that international banks will have to go through
similar operations in the immediate future because no alternative solution
appears to exist for a substantial portion of the country's industrial
firms.
40.       If it is restructured well, lending to a company previously in
financial distress could be an attractive business proposition because the
company would represent a better risk. While international banks are re-
luctant to increase their exposure in Chile, Chilean banks have to increase
their operations in order to recover from their losses, and there are not
many good credit risks in Chile nowadays. A more serious problem is posed
by the availability of resources to pass on to the restructured firms,
which, at least initially, will have to be provided in part by equipment
suppliers and by multilateral lending institutions, such as the Bank and
the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB).
C. Legal Issues
41.      Chilean legislation provides an adequate framework for restructur-
ings to take place. The main instruments used in financial restructurings
(writeoffs, conversion of debt into equity or quasi-equity, subordinated



- 13 -
loans, warrants and options, preferred shares of various kinds) can be
utilized legally in Chile. The absence, in Chilean law, of provisions
similar to those in "Chapter 11" of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code (temporary
protection from bankruptcy) has frequently been mentioned as a hindrance to
potential workouts.  It has also been suggested that its inclusion would be
the main improvement that can be introduced to facilitate debt renegotia-
tions. However, this is not a key issue because, under existing Chilean
legislation, creditors and debtors can reach judicial or extra-judicial
agreements that substitute for temporary protection from bankruptcy. More-
over, even if companies are declared bankrupt, they can continue their op-
erations for up to 18 months ("continuidad de giro") if certain conditions
are met, and bankruptcy can subsequently be lifted if creditors accept the
conditions set by the receiver to restructure the company (if not, the com-
pany is liquidated immediately). This mechanism can actually prove more
effective than protection from bankruptcy to force realistic agreements be-
cause it presents the choices quite clearly and demands more rapid deci-
sions.
D. Bank Strategy in the Industrial Sector
42.       The financial crisis of the industrial sector is one of the main
obstacles to Chile's future economic growth. The Government, aware that
previous measures have been insufficient to remove it, has decided to take
a case-by-case approach in assisting industrial firms to design and execute
financial restructurings conducive to investment and growth.  Financial re-
structuring of the private sector involves two tasks: (a) the reduction of
the financial burden of productive companies to levels that could allow
them to invest and grow; and (b) the strengthening of the banking system to
withstand the losses resulting trom this reduction. The Government is cur-
rently implementing a program to "recapitalize" the banking system and has
asked the Bank to concentrate its help in this project upon corporate re-
structurings.
43.       In designing the proposed project, the Bank agreed with the
Government on the following strategy: (a) case-by-case restructurings would
ensure that scarce financial resources would be allocated to efficient
firms only; (b) all decisions concerning individual workouts would be taken
by the parties directly involved (debtors, creditors, shareholders and,
when appropriate, receivers and bankruptcy judges); (c) the Government
would be a catalyst, facilitating and promoting individual workouts; and
(d) the proposed project would set up a mechanism to facilitate restructur-
ings and then provide fresh resources to finance the normal operation and
expansion of restructured firms. No funds of the proposed loan would be
used for refinancing of existing obligations.
44.       Given the magnitude of the private sector debt, it is proposed
to use the proceeds of the proposed loan for financial restructurings of
industrial corporations (including mining and agroindustry), although the
proposed project's institutional framework could also be used to help in
workouts of firms in other sectors of the economy. To make restructurings
possible, the Government would agree to abstain from granting subsidized
credit lines that could compete with the proceeds of the proposed loan with
easier borrowing conditions (Section 3.05 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Since the costs involved in the establishment of this institutional frame-
work make it suitable primarily for channeling relatively large subloans,



- 14 -
the proposed loau is expected to assist mainly medium- and large-scale
firms. Help to small-scale firmn would be channeled through a proposed Small
Scale Industry Project, now under preparation.
PA   IT - TMEPROaCT
45.       The proposed project was prepared by the Central Bank of Chile and
Bank staff missions that visited Chile between June and November 1984. A
Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Chile, Industrial Finance Restructuring Pro-
ject" No. 5433-CH dated, May 20, 1985 has bedn distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. Negotiations took place in Washington, D.C. from April
15 to 19, 1985. The Chilean Delegation was headed by Mr. Claudio Pardo,
Director of Chile's Central Bank. Supplementary project data are contained in
Annex III.
Project Objectives and Description
46.       The project's major objective would be to assist the Government to
undertake a financial restructuring of industrial firms on a selective
basis. The project is conceived as a pilot effort that would be replicative
in restructuring efforts carried outside the project. The proposed project
would include the following components:
(i) technical assistance for the establishment of a Technical Unit
within the Central Bank to manage the corporate restructuring
and financing of eligible firms; and
(ii) medium- and long-term credit (subloans) to eligible industrial
companies to finance the foreign exchange cost of (a) machin-
ery, equipment, buildings and related civil works; (b) perman-
ent working capital; and (c) technical assistance services re-
quired by industries.
Project Execution
47.       The Republic of Chile would be the Borrower and the Central Bank of
Chile the Executing Agency. The Central Bank would create an autonomous
Technical Unit which would be in charge of approving and supervising the
financial restructuring of eligible companies, and of appraising and approv-
ing subloan requests. Subprojects approved by the Unit would be submitted to
the Central Bank's management for final approval. The Unit would have a
Board of Directors consisting of representatives of the Central Bank, the
Ministries of Finance and Economy, and the Superintendencies of Banks and of
Corporations. The representative of the Central Bank would be the President
of the Unit to ensure a close coordination between both institutions. The
Unit would be staffed with high-level professionals under the direction of a
manager reporting to the President who, in turn, would report to the Board.
The Unit's operations would not be tied exclusively to the proposed Bank
loan, but would also help arrange other workouts. The Central Bank would pay
for the expenditures of the Unit, part of which would be covered with a mar-
gin of half a percentage point that for this purpose the Central Bank would
earmark from its net proceeds from this loan (Section II (5) and (6) of
Schedule 1 of the draft Project Agreement). In addition, some of the loan
proceeds, amounting to US$2,600,000, would finance the expenditures of ex-
ternal and full-time consultants to review subprojects and workout proposals
(Section 2.02 (a) (ii) of the draft Loan Agreement). The Unit would



- 15 -
initially be staffed with a manager. The rest would be e-anomists or busi-
ness management specialists with strong financial and corporate backgrounds.
The Unit would be managed in accordance with a Statement of Operating Poli-
cies and Procedures reviewed and approved by the Bank. Changes to the State-
ment of Policies would have to be approved by the Bank (Section 4.01 (i) of
the draft Loan Agreement).
Subloan Eligibility and Limits
4B.       Subloans would cover estimated foreign exchange costs of:  (a)
fixed assets (machinery, equipment, factory buildings and related civil works
and services); (b) permanent working capital (initial stocks or increases in
stocks of imported raw materials, spare parts and components required for in-
creases in productive capacity or in the rate of utilization of existing
capacity); and (c) technical assistance services required by industries. Un-
less otherwise agreed by the Bank, not more than 50 percent of the loan
would be used to finance subprojects requiring working capital financing in
excess of 70 percent of the subloan (Section 2.02 (c) (iv) of the draft Loan
Agreement).
49.       Eligible firms in need of restructuring should not have government-
al participation (directly or indirectly) in excess of 50 percent of their
equity capital, unless satisfactory plans are submitted to decrease such par-
ticipation to less than 50 percent within a five-year period (Section I,
para. (b) of Schedule 1 of the draft Project Agreement). Similarly, firms
controlled by commercial banks would not be eligible unless specific plans
are submitted to reduce the bank's controlling ownership through sales to
private entrepreneurs within a three-year period. A firm would be eligible
as beneficiary of the proposed loan only if the ownership of shares adding up
to a controlling interest in its capital is clearly and unquestionably de-
fined. Also, firms related to the major Chilean groups described in para. 24
would be eligible as beneficiaries of the proposed loan provided that they
are no longer responsible for any of their former holding companies' obliga-
tions. Initially only firms in need of restructuring would be eligible as
project beneficiaries.
Lending terms and Conditions
50.       Proceeds of the Bank Loan -- other than an amount of up to
US$2,600,000 for the Unit (see paras. 47 and 60) -- would be onlent by the
Central Bank to participating commercial banks under subsidiary loan
agreements. A condition of loan effectiveness would be that the Central Bank
has entered into subsidiary loan agreements with at least two commercial
banks (Section 5.01 (b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
51.       The Central Bank as fiscal agent for the Government would onlend
Bank funds to commercial banks in US dollars or in Chilean pesos. Interest
rates in both currencies for both new and outstanding subsidiary loans and
subloans would be adjusted semiannually to reflect the changes which occurred
in the Bank's interest rates. Interest rates on dollar-denominated subsidi-
ary loans would be equal to the Bank's interest rate plus a spread that would
compensate the Central Bank for the Bank's commitment fees and for the cost



- 16 -
of operating the Technical Unit. Interest rates on dollar-denominated sub-
loans would be calculated by adding a compounded three percent spread to the
interest rates on subsidiary loans. Under present conditions this would re-
sult in interest rates for dollar-denominated subsidiary loans and subloans
of 9.95 percent and 13.2 percent, respectively (Section II (5) of Schedule 1
of the draft Project Agreement).
52.       Interest rates on peso-denominated subsidiary loans and subloans
would be the same as those on dollar-denominated loans. They would be ex-
pressed in real terms calculated: (i) upon a principal adjusted for local
inflation in accordance with the Unidad de Fomento (UF), which reflects the
daily changes in the country's CPI; and (ii) by deflating the respective dol-
lar interest rates by the CPI of the US. Under present conditions interest
rates for peso-denominated loans and subloans would be about UF plus 4.7 per-
cent and UF plus 7.8 percent, respectively, in line with current market con-
ditions (Section II (6) of the Schedule of the draft Project Agreement). Ac-
cordingly, the Central Bank would review semiannually the formulae for the
determination and adjustment of interest rates on subsidiary loans and sub-
loans, exchange views with the Bank on the results of such review and, if
necessary, revise such formulae in a manner satisfactory to the Bank so as to
ensure that the interest rates on subloans determined thereby are positive in
real terms (Section 2.06 of the draft Project Agreement).
53.       Subloans for fixed investment and associated permanent working cap-
ital would have maximum maturities of 15 years, including grace periods of up
to three years. Subloans granted exclusively for permanent working capital
financing would have maturities of 18 months to five years including a grace
period of up to one year. Subloans financed out of the proceeds of the loan
would rank pari-passu with all other senior obligations of the restructured
firmn in terms of both debt service and repayment in case of bankruptcy (Sec-
tion II (3) of Schedule 1 of the draft Project Agreement).
Subproject Appraisal and Supervision
54.       Workout proposals for compnies seeking Bank financing would be ar-
ranged by the companies themselves (or by consultants hired by them). Partic-
ipating commercial banks vould assume the commercial risk of subloans fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the proposed loan and, therefore, would have to
undertake a thorough appraisal of the proposed subprojects, and any restruc-
turing arrangements involved. The Unit would carry out a detailed analysis
of each workout proposal to ensure that: (a) the firm would become econom-
ically and financially viable as a result of the proposed workout on the
basis of reasonable assumptions regarding its future performance; (b) the
proposed restructuring, if carried out, would be legally binding and no
further claims could be leveled against the firm in connection with its
liabilities at the moment of the restructuring; (c) the ownership of the
beneficiary firm's controlling interest is incontestably defined; (d) the
proceeds of the subloan would not be used to repay obligations existing at
the moment of the restructuring; and (e) the proposed operation is in accord-
ance with the Unit's Statement of Operating Policies and Procedures. Upon
the Central Bank's approval, the first two subloans requiring Bank financing
and, subsequently, all those requiring Bank funds in excess of US$5.0 million
equivalent would be submitted to the Bank for approval (Section 2.02 (b) of
the draft Loan Agreement). No enterprise, including its subsidiaries, would
be eligible to obtain financing from the proposed loan in excess of US$15
million equivalent and not more than US$10.0 million equivalent would be
allocated for working capital in any given subloan (Section 2.02 (c) (v) of



- 17 -
the draft Loan Agreement). Any subloan exceeding US$10.0 million equivalent
could be processed only after confirmation that best efforts have been made
to arrange a cofinancing program undertaken with IFC, other multilateral
agencies and/or commercial banks.
55.       The workout proposals would include: (a) a marketing plan, aimed at
increasing the firm's revenues, through emphasis in the more profitable pro-
ducts and customers; (b) a production plan, which could include measures
ranging from curtailment of productive capacity to a fuller utilization or
expansion of existing capacity; and (c) a financial work out plan. The
financial work out plan would typically include:  (i) streamlining of manage-
ment and administration; (ii) the sale of unnecessary assets; (iii) a reduc-
tion in the firm's financial burden, and other measures to improve the firm's
financial situation (extended maturities, for instance); (iv) an issue of new
shares to mobilize fresh capital, whenever possible; (v) a request for a sub-
loan that could include financing for free-standing permanent working capi-
tal, fixed investment, or a combination of both; and (vi) financial projec-
tions showing the expected results of all these planned measures (Sections
1.02 (n) and 2.03 (a) and (b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
56.       The Bank would finance subprojects when their financial and econom-
ic rates of return exceed 11 percent in real terms. Evaluation criteria have
been included in the Unit's Statement of Operating Policies and Procedures.
The Unit would also request, as part of a subloan approval process, an inde-
pendent legal opinion confirming the legality of the proposed arrangements.
Covenants limiting the incurrence of future loans would be included in sub-
loan agreements.
57.       Commercial banks would regularly supervise the subprojects they
would finance to see that subloans are utilized for the purposes intended and
that the financial and other conditions affecting the subproject's
performance are progressing satisfactorily. A copy of their periodic
supervision reports would be submitted to the Unit, which would review it and
would have the right to obtain clarifications from either the beneficiary
firm or the corresponding commercial bank. The Unit would be responsible for
supervising the performance of participating commercial banks and their
compliance with the conditions agreed in the proposed loan.
Participating Intermediaries
58.       No intervened banks would be allowed to participate in the proposed
project as long as they remain intervened. All other commercial banks would
be eligible to participate, provided that they sign a subsidiary loan agree-
ment in terms satisfactory to the Bank (Sections 1.02 (g) and (h) of the
draft Loan Agreement).
Project Costs and Pinacing
59.      As mentioned before (para. 34), the investment cost of industrial
projects is estimated at US$500 million for 1985-87, with a foreign exchange
need of US$300 million. In addition, imports of current inputs for industry
are estimated at US$1.2 billion per year. Of these amounts, approximately
US$800 million would be demanded by firms eligible for Bank financing under
the proposed project. After taking into account other probable sources
(i.e., a proposed US$130 million IDB loan for free-standing working capital
and suppliers' credits), and given the pilot nature of this project, a Bank



- 18 -
loan of US$100 million equivalent is proposed to help fill the soetor's
estimated foreign exchange gap. The rest of the financing for the program
would be provided by suppliers' credits and internal resources of the firms
involved. It has been estimated that this amount is needed to make a
meaningful impact in the corporate sector, an well as to justify the creation
of a Unit to manage financial restructuring loans, which could later be the
key agent in the replication and expansion of the restructuring process by
the Government.
60.      The proposed US$100 million loan would have a maturity of 15 years,
including three years of grace. The loan would be committed over a 36 month
period and would be allocated as follows:
(i) US$97.4 million for the credit component which would
cover the foreign exchange costs of subloans made by
commercial banks for working capital or fixed investment
purposes, including increases in, or rationalization of,
productive capacity of enterprises and for technical
assistance required to undertake those projects; and
(ii) $2.6 million to help finance the consultancy costs of the
special Technical Unit created by the Central Bank to
appraise workout proposals.
61.       The Government would assume the foreign exchange risk between the
currency pool obligations incurred under the Bank loan and the currency of
the Central Bank's onlending to commercial banks (i.e., US dollars or Chilean
pesos). The loan would be repaid according to a standard fixed amortization
schedule. The Central Bank as fiscal agent for the Government would utilize
the proceeds accrued from the repayment of principal and interests of sub-
loans, which are not required for the repayment of the loan, for paying the
administrative expenses of the Technical Unit and for making loans for the
same purposes, and under similar terms and conditions as the loan (Section
2.02 (c) of the draft Project Agreement).
Special Account
62.       To ensure timely payment of reimbursement claims, a Special Account
in US dollars will be established in the Central BRnk to cover estimated ex-
penditures for four months (Section 2.02 (d) of the draft Loan Agreement).
The Bank would make an initial deposit of US$10 million into the Special Ac-
count. The Central Bank would claim reimbursement of expenditures from the
Special Account upon presentation of fully documented withdrawal appliea-
tions. The Central Bank would submit to the Bank a monthly certified state-
ment on the Special Account reflecting transactions during the previous month
(Section 3.02 (a) (iii) of the draft Project Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
63.       Procurement procedures would conform with standard practice for In-
dustrial Development and Finance loans; the Unit would monitor procurement to
be financed out of the proposed loan in order to ensure that the items are
reasonably priced and appropriate for their intended purpose. The loan pro-
ceeds would be disbursed against 60 percent of the fixed investment and per-
manent working capital requirements of approved subprojects. This percentage
reflects estimated average foreign exchange costs of the respective expendi-
ture categories. Terms of reference for consultants hired to provide techni-



- 19 -
cal assistance in the implementation of subprojects/workouts, would have to
be acceptable to the Unit and the procedures used for hiring such consultants
would be in accordance with the Bank's standard guidelines. Expenditures
made not more than 180 days prior to the date of the receipt by the Bank of
the corresponding financing requests, would be eligible for disbursement
under the Proposed loan -- rather than the 90 days customary under the Bank's
industrial development and finance loans -- in view of the administrative
complexities and the time lags involved in a two-tier operation with many
participating financial intermediaries. The Closing Date of the loan would
be December 31, 1991. Retroactive financing of up to US$10 million, or ten
percent of the loan amount, would be provided to cover expenditures eligible
for financing under the loan realized by participating commercial banks prior
to Loan Signing but after February 1, 1985 (Section 2.02 (c) (i) of the draft
Loan Agreement).
Accounts and Auditing
64.       Beneficiary firms would be requested to appoint external auditors
acceptable to the Unit. Commercial banks participating in the proposed pro-
ject would be required to maintain adequate records reflecting their opera-
tions financed out of the proposed loan, and to submit annual statements of
account, audited by independent auditors following principles satisfactory to
the Unit. The Central Bank would maintain adequate records concerning the
progress of the project and reflecting, separately from its other operations,
the operations and financial transactions related to the proposed loan, in-
cluding the Special Account. These accounts would be audited by independent
auditors following principles satisfactory to the Bank (Section 3.02 (a) (i)
of the draft Project Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
65.       The proposed project would help remove the financial deadlock that
is hindering the recovery of industrial production in Chile by establishing
an institutional framework through which corporate workouts could be devised,
negotiated, and implemented. The project would also contribute to set repli-
cative examples that could be extended outside the project to other econom-
ically viable, but financially troubled, firms in other sectors of the econo-
my. Finally, the project would further help in closing the foreign exchange
gap which currently curtails the country's economic growth. A total of 20-30
industrial firms are expected to benefit directly from the project.
66.       On the risk side, commitments could fall short of expectations if:
(a) as a result of copper prices remaining low, or international interest
rates high, for a long time to come, the country's economic situation deteri-
orates substantially, causing a contraction in investment credit demand; (b)
the Unit fails in promoting restructurings or proves incapable of analyzing
them properly; (c) individual restructurings prove too difficult to be com-
pleted within the proposed loan's commitment period; and (d) once restruc-
tured, currently troubled companies obtain credit from other sources. Given
the precarious condition of the Chilean economy, and the uncertainties as-
sociated with restructuring, the risks of the project are considerable. To
mitigate these risks: (i) intervened banks will not be allowed to partici-
pate in the project and at least two commercial banks would participate in
the financing of each subloan, jointly and severally assuming the responsi-
bility for carrying out the respective subproject to completion; (ii) all



- 20 -
financial restructuring requests will be appraised by a Technical Unit
attached to the Central Bank, staffed by high level professionals with
experience in corporate restructurings; and (iii) detailed Operating Policies
and Administrative Procedures for the Unit have been prepared to ensure that
restructuring proposals will be in line with the project's objectives. The
benefits to Chile could be substantial, and the experience gained in this
operation would be useful in the design of programs to support firma now in
financial distress. Therefore, the overall benefits of the project are ex-
pected to outweigh the risks significantly.
PAR! V - LEGAL USIETS h   AND RITT
67.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Chile and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Central Bank of Chile and the
Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4
(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. The main conditions of the draft Loan Agreement are
referred to in the text of this report and are listed in Section III of Annex
III.
68.       The following events are specified as Special Conditions of
Effectiveness for the proposed loan: (i) the Borrower has designated the
Central Bank as its fiscal agent; (ii) the Central Bank has entered into Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreements with at least two Participating Banks; (iii) the Bor-
rower shall have secured external financing sufficient to cover the foreign
exchange required to close the Borrower's balance of payments account for its
fiscal year 1985; and (iv) the Technical Unit shall have been staffed in a
manner satisfactory to the Bank (Section 5.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).
69.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI -             ONS
70.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
June 27, 1985
Washington, D. C.



-21 -                                  AM= I
Pa8e 1 of 6
T A-5 L  I6%          
cons               S-CXL MIIBU:" DMs
CRILI                               tuiiuu m S (HUcE3om   A*usa ms
M                   (uST   t            ) 
UNIN          NIU ZIIDUOUe
19 db-   197OLb-    RITDUa iL      IAT. ALICL A CM
ML C            . 5)
TOURL                              73n.0      737.6        757.0
11.IL                           134.4       13.9        174.3
mm    aU Con)                        66.0  IIC0.0            2210.0             2100.4                 2345.3
CKIIACRU   W O11. i)AhLU)  370.0   679.0        734.0              993                    1122.6
_m m m
S.DA13o.wo-wo1  ( _coUISS)   7363.0         9349.0      1147.0
                            _          1         O   ItL)     47.6        73.2        62.1                66.S                   46.6
101LT101  TRAR 2000 (MILL)                                14.7
STIISO T IOPUIAT=O  (HILL)                                20.7
IIULATIOS lIOl                                             1.7
POIUIATIOU 3351?
PM SQ. M.                         10.0       12.4         14.9               33.7                   82.9
PM Sq. M. *51. LAND               56.4       "9.0          4.6               92.4                   136.9
POEUAUIOU AGE SUIVCJU2 (I)
0-14 uS                          39.1       36.1         31.4               39.9                    31.6
15-4  US                         5b.5        57.2         62.9               56.0                   61.1
65 MD ARM                         4.3         4.6          S.6                4.1                     7.1
3O3OLATiOU mE!3 3LT1 (I)
TOTAL                              2.2        2.1          1.7                2.4                     1.6
13Y4                               3.7        3.1          2.4                3.6                     3.7
CUOZ 6M K12E (MR ITOIS)            34.0        20.l         23.1               31.3                   23.4
cUm  DEATH 34Z (MR 305)             12.6    O    .9          6.7                3.1                    8.6
GS O7UPUOICTI  3ATZ                 2.5         1.6          1.3                2.0                     1.6
FAIILT IIWFIC
A     5T023. A_NAL (T0U15)          ..      216.7        26.6 /c
-s5 CZ or OA D                      ..         ..           ..               40.3
113  OF MO  30. rEL CAPtTA
(196-71-100)                       90.0       104.0         98.0              114.3                   114.5
MM3 CAPITA SfPLI OF
CILZZS (Z OF orEiQIFrJs)         110.0      110.0        114.0              110.6                   126.6
1 IS015 (GS "a1 DU)              71.0        71.0         76.0               67.3                   89.7
OF WRICH AEIKAL AM 3.S         28.0       30.0         27.0 Ic            34.1                    34.3
CKILD [ACES 1-4) ORT  LATr         20.0         9.0          2.0                3.7                     5.2
LIln mEc. AT S161 (WTEARS)         56.9        62.4         69.7               64.7                   67.4
IWA*Jr N1T. RATE (13 TOM)         119.0        32.0         27.0               60.6                   54.2
ACCSS TO SAFE WATER (110P)
TOrA.                             62.0       5460         62.0 /d            65.4
13343                             76.9       67.D         93.0 Td            76.1
Rom                               11.4     13.0         36.0 73-           46.2
AS To mrm DIsOSL
CZ W 35r11aX1)
AL                                  ..       29.0         32.0/              3 2.9
1M                                           33.0         36-0 T             67r0
3 .AL                                        10.0         it.o7*             24.5
POIATWO  33 WUTSICIM              1760.0     2150.0       1930.0 Id          1917.7                  1065.6
0F9. PER NURSING P30S    61.40.0              41.0         430.0 7            315.J6                 704.4
7OP. PER HOPITAL ED
TOTAL                            260.0      260.0        280.0 /t           367.2                   326.3
U134                             270.0      260.0        320.o7             411.5                   201.5
RURAL                                      161000        770.0             2636.33
ANUSS5 MM HOSPITAL 3re               ..          ..         26.0 ic            27.3                    20.0
AV111*5  SmE Or oUSOLu
TOTAL                              5.4        5.1
URN"                               3.2       53.0
RUJAL                              0.0        5.5
AVE3AGE N0. Of rEmus/aorn
TOTAL                              1.7         1.4
URBA                               1.0        1.3
Room                               2.0        1.7
Acms To ELCT. (z Or Um9L%)
TOTAL                             70.6         ..         76.9 ./
11                                $6.3          ..           To-
313L                             23.9          ..        35.0 7..



-22-                                        ANN I
Pae 2 of 6
ADJUSIRS  lu u. I&1.
piDmEI   SOUM                    100.0       107.0        111.0               L0s.                    LOW
mmLE                  11L.0       107.0        111.0               L06.3                   101.1
PNauE                 107.0       106.0        114.0               L06.5                    96.1
3C31UI 2OZAL                      24.0        39.0         17.40              63.2                     16.1
VWAL                   26.0        36.0         13.0                61.3                    6.9
VULAL                  26.0        43.0         62.0                446.                    10.6
vocATOIL CS e  BiO t)               26.2        33.0         26.2                331.6                   11.
IZL-MA0133 ATtO
3m                                  ..        10.0         34.0 /i             30.1                    25.1
aucouuaw                          140         13.0         20.0                1.6l                    20.5
ADLT LT3A0T UTZ Cs)                  3.6        69.0           ..                79.                     713.6
PASSENGER CAISTNOUSAND O             7.6        16.6         40.2                46.0                   56.7
30            /T! UDSO  p0o        130.6       149.6        292.7              125.6                   164.9
TV 3nZCZtZ fWU       po0             0.1        13.4        110.1               107.2                   1".1
NEWSPAPER CDAUT G6UAL
MUTEMT-") CRCalUTAno
MR 21001AND lOPUTIO              13L.6        34.1         66.6                63.5                    96.3
02131  OUL ATTINDANCE/CAPITA         7.1 J       4.7          1.46                2.6                     2.9
- 
TOTAL LAR FORCE (TOUS)           2505.0      2885.0       3690.0
muA  (ClERClT)                    21.?        22.0         26.4                23.2                    34.5
ACUCULTKUE (PERCIET)              30.2        22.6         19.2                31.1                    40.7
IOUSTIRT (11C1I)                  20.1        21.0         19.4                23.9                    23.3
PARTICIPATION UATZ (PELICEUT)
TOTAL                             33.0        30.6         32.1                32.2                    62.9
MALE                              52.1         6.4         U7.7                U9.3                    56.7
FawZ                              14.2        13.5         16.8                15.2                    31.0
ZOWOIIIC DEPENECr  362o              1.3         1.4          1.2                 t.4                     0.9
DI6UPRVATE  II
*OEZVED 11T
11Gzsr 5S O0F  135OLDI0             ..          ..
310315? 20S 01 UIJOSEILDS           .         51.4 '1        .....
ILONEST 202 0 HOU   S               .         4L  A .T 6.                                               ..
LOES?T *02 0F VOUSZUOLD             ..        13.4 71
ESTIM     ABSOLUTZ 1091M2 X1100H
LEVL CUSS PU CAPITA)
UR                                  ..          ..        360.0 /d            288.2
ITEAL                               ..          ..           ..               166.0
ZE7111AMZ  W.ATIVE 2011?! IT OM
LIVL CUSS 'A CAPIA)
as                                  ..          ..        640.0 /d            522.6
RURAL                               ..          ..           ..               372.4
ESTIATED POP. BEW  ABSOLUn
PoVET nECE LEVE  (S)
nURB                                ..          ....
u.A~                       ..          ..           .                   ..
Mr? AVAILABLE
MOT APPLICABLE
H O T C S
/a  7he group averas for each indicetor aro populatlonu-weibted arithimetic mu.  Covera  of countries own the
Indicators depends on availability of date and iu not unifom.
lb   Unless othervie noted. -eta for 1960' refer to any year betmens 1959 aod 1961, rlta for 1970- betwen 1969 mad
1971; and d-ta for 'Nast Recent Atl.te' betmeen 1910 and 1982.
lc  1977; /d 1979; 1o 1975; If 1978; /Peraonnal in  overnment or.icte  oly;     1962; /1 1966.
JUE* 1984



- 23 -                                                       AMUECI
op T! Sam                                   ~~Page 3 of 6
as..,  41aialt   It. daiS  35 iusead Is.' eec... d.edilakt. 195C'- a- dahambsIIIIe. e.g  .ecSI.. it "eid c.1- h. c5I.d  m1. IMI,. - m t.d 5mr.l.
= 0pewal amaf        e.. .qs   I     w  teddedrllhtd 4101wllstide ad as.fsas as LUstI.'. ana edtO.. iaWe. lltel OM. 'a..  IMe 4    Ire. iMsIt.e.kl I.
VW  Met.N."se d.we.p MeP .ml IOM       MeAtl drae5sPe'A ghuS cbl-eft 3hl59- 5495cP auSlI   WipSdee" MIMI. 4a15*          -"`..   lam ea 59 ewIh   OPaIIeals  NO9lb
JtepMmr   lmIa  lCles5ad   ii.s..    ..drauqe a  saplew.  IC   lb4m    551am...             fe i jams. - lb     1 s.ea.ei1c  Cm. a.g l.-  clm.v.1 Ida. amdt he
P5lSd Ce 5.14519- ...C.aa cue  Isbm..      ee.  Ited .s.uasf.utdi". eels se ekS  I    i. .flP . I5 St1. s*le  .9t -t msasl 0. : w. it addlide gads.a
esaae..a.q,Se.5  ~ ~      ~     -      ft.   k--4  -                      t 9.iddddiejn.  Lqqffj5   did adepeIslIe  ilClii 35       ofe..    p1c159yPid
*  cafiCee *P4 'tO*1e4q ld    ace  4.5mg  etaye4 lUll,cc.. esledlde ke li es .elcPeSlp tens
cal Ill; 4Clt~~                                                           P.....tt eardiku  s -0 repilsMc 415154 tes  grb   .9pelC
add, I....~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pie,-~  s t.es g
. ...... ....   de _-  P......                 -ecu.bce-lulb.   l.p.5 U1uecle. h..   ...--eI.Idda,1.98k aei
ipso ccwme. Ise Ca*t- "'   dii -               eet.pue   ...ga.- fqeel"?              Odltis T    idean  ae..WuMefdI. aeere  ty*ppeam.tweda.edt  0sdleel
.5   ek.el, *Ie.tlel"    .:   I.bIe  ist  saelme a.e,11                                 eds`  *   Mal1 Oldi    at ed.Jca.:  9Poe.IpIIsIspe.ip11y -.d.
dit d ijlii fi9llidd a. e    ou4 bi-.    Iddl   .la
C                                                                    .44 .9 bIs~PRT  flynj!r-    '  -A 1 idrd   lidrple ISA  1119. e.g lUll,__Mal________________________________ p__ 1__ '___A_W_P___1___
P4 Ie4L-:  LM.1.1.   I      de- aS .9 I  : efle'   POI. Ids."alow.                -ct.s.  I.hetg     M d me   -44sea  . el cIeta   .A..Tu. qeM
'I'". -dameatlat  epselta   9  a.                                                   5lb.  sw eO.bme  i .ipMe  St                            be  1dissag l
ec.q eaelrleel 5114. 11115. e5 lIlt Jute.                          *5~~i.  911-1bcI rue *.94.letlsel pes,ee.1 adl
ga.   ea    m  m  aideeeS  uwiu  eueSas  -                                   aid.....t.I_  uwFWCms      SeIlc    MuIS        u.ml  eMlei
se.P.1.94mm       e-Sr  i.em94euu  me  earc. 1  hu.                              ..u9pt  gne
aecel a.ee.  539 ..uecees Zace.   ce.e."eq c4. aeae,'   .                     ded.y'su I 4.uI~r.l  ts'sL(.ck %-.tiuul%da. -P n.   WM Ub.  ."dd usual
mdell. edbd pasetee10..u.la  i.useye.al,as  eta ,nte                                    .  easedl,cam   aS ..     ...c "mlcamuamulelu
uCed.ci scuicuam Idateda. s.u    eI.. =    e.es aa ac..I  *..e .4..edlapel ..
..et.aS .a. ieegelis' cdr4 eu OMl luase u  pu..a I-ce"5uS.. P.
MOO. 1 -! IL-1a' gel 'n   ki. weu .m-  m 'se-epsl. .eu.egg                                                                                         2  C-aese iae aS us-
guele.1 Pee, ewes.  Rlb , .gs.ae.u   peelt9.   5..-  e.4Seea"'   ukeCg'a   efe  5   e   taage  llsSwtl
u.aa.s5a'weaee  -  . g. gasgva.aucC. Ice.   as=as-p,% is    ay',-"se,.  gs..  cuecesaleeguwula.. 1
'~~~7~gia     ue..ee..aw-l..II uidi.pesee. Iea  ...... .e -a.                      gacceaqee a    a9 ea a.Ia r.df.p' . J.ew;p.ueade    n. WM   id .sfldd   55
dw. af-I aSs. 1k Me sfr'eu.  pa.  5-.rd     pacPei cede.. 5..                            aa.C-I.Ic  ..sIegdd
nm..' a. paatl    wee          ""esI luint .1peg a. epat-wl ef gee               4...c-ec          pi aeu15m5Idsua,       Irage.5  ieseSImes saIueNo.
.cc.l. Reee  ad..eu .# ..scsce  q. el  ca- a  e  .se  ssj.s.                        *.-....  .c.5  eeeea,as..   uau- .aesw                      adiMeugit
ilu twei S.. t.t95 Illsa..ee     da..5  ..gS-I ..          teesdd                   p e..se.aI. es c  su utL .    . -desagag,e ,ci.s5cea.
.Mug Ie  eta.                   i.          -.,pll -.. essw'u.a15a   a                                               .   .ai..-au  - 5. .* sd.' s4'1p
__..___1            -Peeg..  .s elad "e*-  Id,.           ag.e  .e                     .cs-e.u.eec      .a
selc.leIssasuese l.u.Iai'.  - ecde.il-tvepe5 .s-'eee  lt                       k.d,
u.w.addl.gas   Spm.e  Ilif. Puecew -igj u5     5seae5d. IssceMdelss..tel
Swsmassewtge(umdI- re  1,..al spawa lsa. s  I.um.a.da. isdda...   alasuII.-...g. 'U.gsee.                                                            asas.    'et
ue,'.taass  9.. flhe-ee, ga-Ics  a   Iau -a;.adLtMe  pnlesaSe udara   a  I                                                  P"`I" a- P1atiausee.1a
(asmuha. c.pbesg       at   s  Isesa. u.s wect .9 aes-weddss- da tad.s se. -c eci del L.. -s ensue aaseg.  - wise-
Cuesecces be  *cs u?af-uisi  - eec...  bigO Jes w  p.s   cea   .le.`d-                        ad mug If-. 5eswspe.a.  sasseIl, I- IV  eas..  -ccsae. SCd  d
peps dalafiecid t*elis ei ..- 5191  dma.e.esaPMals  u. Ighwad .eeaae   ece.e.4...i   sseu
Cusd...    e, 991scs. Pate - =esa.   Auad   egass    9c.1   au4                            .te.           S5 Wz ep. s-c :: sektee   -49ew             sSet
I,....l  a.pa..l.  pel` deeua.' eqepeanei  s.a   cpeeuesLetd.,                     m. -.sepCpu.l L.ce  *au glead MMLceate  -1 TV         gat,   eaLs1MOOL
I.rtlswts resee  ....lc  'C4-ode.r en      dd.sidse   gall9. 1111. da                  - =       Iele     el   eesse. diedeeuape    5e5iat          a .  drislessees
sa1s2.                                                                                   peLcsea  .ea.  ruec.sss  ws  Ve.tq  .a  ma   5wIc.iced
uss  n..c. -  .e.tcelessaafeaeaadel- a.eas e.&.sd .5asmns ad _dsahu  el as aPuas  a  aaamf    O=. tc                             -.
.9  sa.ae   eu.eSs-ra M.                  .cteaL udaml. sPI      s                      gea   eC dadae- ta..u.-s 14.Ol- iea.  c.u , a de. .5
Mel .                                                                                                                  L     aad.   eee  s...9-uwsuS  ewi-  cpsgc  e   ciee  em.  ege
psasse   aflas  ef  aeldetsstm  I. eLi .easi.. add      ... eu                   b'.in
stllg..seuea  c a   cpatls  e... eaI. gtes, sgec ,us  ..  n                    rt       .~   u.e.e.     uc-             eage.pdn-.ssaial
Eaeaegla  -ntsmp.Ie.c.de.cc...e.pu  iw  aap-  uina                                        cu   -ecl.i     d.sc.g a am.-.-.. issteaie. acd.r-                ct
peadil-Lid  .q adgad.,  WfaesLe  s-epa."- nseuwe- -e
ssa addieee O-..sh    go's, Is's  ai ..Ia..
me    1-cu  S .l?Cil-5ci  e  asa- Ps-L. ldee., Su-  a. lepa-c   .a   s Ptte.
MSa. ddd      .  sa  e         .se.    wsIn   eLgweS...s.euii.l      a.  Sen. See  9a.q udeues. I    'waIs  a
ICsaed      ce.ag 5e.cP  dlt -- orddia,  C, ao.. 9v-ca.  deaid.adid l...               tdeiss le es"           lb   l     s   en.e.aucie.s-iuisf
sep wage e.c.Is .9 salesgee (Ce.ueas .9 .eMualusl - ~~~~~~eS  In.  aueluIpp umee Me mss  as       .  s a.efIdiedl.. a 4s   daddtabs iieese
wt.F. Alas- Oabai- It eeel   Uteel.t. s-ddriCedl. leadeal, t                             m   at  aem    gsscw.    .n-r             g.edta   a            ~  
qamlstee..dd .4549 v-a  W9d.5 Pd     WIs-. dd C.ssdlbtsCaa.ea.C             .                e.a- an9uale-c,edd    eec .s.                lIel  ied  fddt  
.utlfls   a  alseade -spssM   cesa-      ed  enus., ams mtsawe.                          iEparades-  -a-.Is."CWeet Id-eat.
ci b: eesI 1ImeLe leSPdGi. pldiveed.  W0  sledds.,                                          a MnusscId
Pe ..lw adaeeeid   a 1 suss1ae1iau.e aF  gas O    I- MidWm,s tusses.Niillulsi  es  (m   wsat  .   s t                                              i- aselat, s at- I
1eLuS la    l    Z:Lesaa       __ZP eesl.Ie  NW 5fl   "radla   . elee-.                  Pee.et.                                              pdde    .1P-
cUeecj 9.  tie- atd sege _.I ePt. Odds dsy5 idi    sue-  .9 ddieeC 
ps... PsIsaw. de i  - ala SL..ae ele.l  W. eel.   daead.a.  15.
.daglumd a. c.ar eed'ld  (tea de 51 gse  .955Cpuul  . Oii ..-     epae                1llletm.t.te..eu NO    HE.ae cas..  ddddu laeelaa  ae
iwat 'ald  e Pddd ald- Illti  kil  Pd! wedr aie..                                       sltaeau u.u5se..ia   ea-
Pertl-d                                                         e.g ...,adwsW .St.                               gee Pibe   -%se.Ia s-Cia  -MILeedlel. weN
sat..                                                                                sfide O  Ee'gcdi!tl..   e   I-   v
delisea. c-e    guat  sea wu,e.dead 9-S' ba-  .ssb'm   5                      gclnle  as         --I9 m L-m Ieal Ette -  "S..lt - ua.     suct"
.acue. a.. gccw.dwg a lu t nt. ea...- 1ie, 0.   as7 d es g1 w..                       u.sse-. c-  aC ste s 1:u,  iiam  le.- .l             a9-ku
lentdd   rddids Sletee.  Mc=%a ceS tn' -                        Ies
.555.11                                                                           lseaeleg  aelcwlaeklwe  eeeItus ensless.. les teesmel-- sub
as ecsaa cMm  Ian     " e.g  dietra. did iud
t.rn.. sMI,asg  -ae(u       MaC      c.-    s    9c-g    - 
p.accu.we-a didA      ec.eeat    -IMS. I14,5 eg -.me .gdid
sn  -. .  Maf.1 m.. smg-a  .9 -.eaeI.  _-ss, .rt.,am~ usM  -
c .9 pee.  ltesc. .s5.,  a ,ddd~  5d- sSut s eesea   esne  s  eaeCtPscee.yaaegus ,ws.e
acetsu  'eic -9 re peadiaMap1   gll  ueeidg. muclatled, kPe .4
aate   l. as.. . als   .sLcle -  steegrId  t..seg as ie.g. glee. Part .au
9. a   b    c.ra a died seg ee ac' ide.15.eeaesete.cik
vflit-J pale 5w54tle addael.uee P.9 aidlaulm -laddreS 4. Ma. .5 Lmsa
p,I  delieeps.di (weedk,  da.. a   W-ea  ceea   . Wm ldlae
a   ae-aa   Ws sr-as-tm.. dedres.. as CM  -4 .    -p-     -as
etasbe leeedUlleebc



-2P-                                              A
-              11,70D (od-1)
aq            =1,                   tW ,      _71.5 (__L_
kd-   -m                                        -
.                               _~~~~~~~~~W
bAkmw                                        No            - n                          n   ur    w   z    -   am
m~~ -
camm RD c Pmabct                19.436        7.8    5.7  -14.3  -0.8          6.3        2.0    3.0       3.6    3.4    3.4    3.8
l bndu                         1,749         3.8    5.3  -2.3   0.9          7.3        3.5    3.0       3.5    3.5    3.5      3.5
Tm&stiy                       4,275         6.2    2.6  -21.6    3.0        11.5        2.0     3.0      2.5    3.5    3.5    4.5
aew                           13.410         9.1    6.7  -13.4   -1.9        4.6        1.5    3.0       3.0    3.3    3.4       3.6
cmmw_tl-                        16,848        4.2   12.2  -13.5  -5.8          4.5      -1.7    0.0       1.3     1.5    1.1      1.8
Co. 7umvm_t                      2,718       31.2    5.7  -65.4   15.3        72.1       -0.2    14.2     3.4    9.4    10.3    9.7
am t Gdom  wWS                4,66D        14.3  -5.3   10.9    1.4         4.1        6.5    8.0       4.5     5.1    5.5      5.7
f Cmb mdWS             -4.822         18.7   14.7  -32.9  -9.4        14.2      -12.5    1.6      2.1     3.6    3.5    4.2
Comm Ihdmml s.vh                  842        27.7  -41.1  -36.7  -1.7         84.7       36A.9   32.9    14.1    21.2   21.8    16.0
-  Ihflabr                        549.0      29.2   13.4   11.3   26.9        15.3       25.0    25.0    25.0   25.0   25.0   25.0
of -  t   -M  amm ) conl  _                                 *1. )en_   a
(M 0om Mm.)                      (at         1977 om)
190   1915    1W   I33    1990      19-105  IW1SQ   1940   11540
Cko   -tic Pmjez             1OO.  10 .0  100.0  100.0  100.0      -0.3      7.5    -0.9       3.0
"aLtu1                       6.8   6.6    7.2   9.4    9.6        0.0      Z_9      1.7      3.3
25.5  2D.3   21.4   20.8   21.0      -1.7      7.6    -1.6       3.2
swIm                        67.7  73.1   71.4  69.8   69.4         3.7     8.1    -1.1       2_9
C     _jqzdm                  82.9  889   832   81.5   74.5         0.0      6.4    -1.3       1.2
*e= I_..mz                    16.5  13.1   21.0   15.0   19.9     -11.6    19.6    -9.7        9.0
b xof Coads md NFS            15.0  25.5   22.   25.8   28.5        2.5    15.1       0.8      5.0
h*uaof od aNS                14.4  27.4   27.0   22.4   23.0       -2.7    19.3    -6.8       3.6
amu. 1bclm.1  s!hv            15.1   7.9   13.9   9.0   19.2       -7.7     18.5    -7.9      17.9
An a 2 fG
V                         1n3      18
Gmnuc XWOMMOMB                        32.9   26.4
n0c  _to      m                       245    29.2
sphu (C) mr IbtkIi (-3                 8.4   -2.8
Cqpl  ]     t1muz                      4.6    4.5
F aOElg Fliq                          -1.0    0.6
19pr   190-
a~~~~~                                nnE
GNP hcodl YAM (Z)                       2.5      3.49
GNP Per Cq.  th litR  (Z)               0.9      1.2
&            G.W CRqmt    Quath RitX CZ)  1.5    1.9
CRn                                     7.1      5.6
lbxgizml Su*p Roo                       0.87     0.76
Tqpat ELmtd.ty                          1.12     1.14
a/ Ririn of Swath In pwojcatad valms In oitn pti-.
R   fay  _mcu
TEI ftudy.



- 25 -
WT5of 6
mum - - n
A-                                         ANOL *mm me
ll,Dim                                1us        whz_             m'
t                                   3.41                            4.6   Q16         4.6     5.5      6.0     6t
con-    ~ ~  ~     ~    11.35                            3.8     3.8      3.8      3.8     3.8      3.8
1AVI1ura1 Wab                      366                           7.4     7.6       7.3     7.5      7.6     7.8
3miacbiw GM&                     1,259                           4.5     4.5       4.6     6.7      8.1     6.4
o01 dGaab                          424                           5.2     4.7       5.1     5.1      5.0     5.0
_      _dim  bpJw                  3,390                           0       2.0       1.9     3.7      3.9     4.6
Food                              424                           -1.7     0.0      0.0      1.1      0.0     1.3
Ibd    Qm  Gam)                   411                            0.0     2.1       2.4     3.4      3.6     3.8
PatrJl       alI.  1*jidw        2.7                             0.0     1.7       2.4     3.0      3.5     3.7
Odor InainJLas& Cqital Can&   528                                0.0     2.9       2.4     4.8      5.2     5.9
1   (1977-1W)
ano  Pd=m  ain                                                   119     126       137     149      161     174
ua't Ftm  -*                                                     115     122      132      143     152      165
VW* of -     .i                                                  103     103       103      04      105     105
5/2585



M  -  04ma  mI.971.5 (1Ion
PEO.IECTED
5At inM*     ofi G* a MS       -21.3    421.   -3197   -OLI   -31L8  -1.033.  -3,211.3   -219.1    SPA             -QuL0       sii     U3   1,.=    I.=2       Ms  iou
dwt of  amk A5 Ws         035    2.412,9  2.40112  z.us    4.W2LA  3.863  S.ms.s  s.O.o   a.I.A   4.s1.e    W.S   1.133   '.22                  ijim    '.in
1m8  of Gld A Ws           -2O.08.  -3.960.  -MOI  -3.12LO -3.23.1 -7,0.0  -6.33.  -231L.1  -4,W82    -4.731.    -,31   -4,111  -5,101  4,08    -.1132 -1,33
lIt 5-33or Im                  -191.4   -321.    -3RA9.4     U 393.3 *U1.  -1.MBJ  -I.5.1 -2.I6LI -I.203    -1.32.    -MOW   -2.72   -2.21   -2.161  -2.13  -2,2
334 TA.UfM                        3.b      W       VA 0.    1M.       4.9      01.2     "A1      43       9.        9.7        A10     ME      IV?      M3      MI    Ls
fInt"          kIm bl          -40.1    131.6   -mu1.  -L. 129 -4214J -2,083.  -4.3.  -2.436A1  -3.013.2  -[..4    -3.31   -1.210  -l.a.  -l.m   -1.8   -L.=1
matwt 941vam knman               49.      -l.a      343    O7M.    212.       1703    3.2    23M61    14I           63.1       M       M 1     a        M8     M1    210
liz      woE(It  y              321.7     22.0      220   1.ILL  1,371.0  2,103.9  3614.3  t.403   1,8OL0    2,14.           1.054   1,2       am1     No       120     M
WEti  Quita                      M)3.     144.3    33.      3443     MA1  3.0O.   1.319   -3%4.           443    -131.         M1        0       0       0       0       0
Qn     i II~  m(I~               723   -411.0    -21.    437.3   .37.  -1.143A    -391L9   1.2113    X(69          -81.8      -4         0       0       0       0       0
Inanutloul 3m,,                  41.7    432.7    460.7  L.33.0  2,043.1  3.865.   %.1S.   2,340.   2.02L.    2,139.5    2.19P93  2.39     2.1193  39.3M52,193.3 2199.
3mwindo        5udh     naof               3        2        3         4        0        3        3        A         3.7        3.3      3.3     3.0     L?      23    2.
cim  MSUN11535    91    3                             a      a
aifgdal Nlmt                          -     -                                                 -        -
1hu  Mnhaumga of ftUO  tmu m  213 13 4 73W  1.453  1.354   I72   3.03    1.3   1.599  2ES
ao,in1ein                           10    13    Zs      21    133                       
Klmtwid                   16      2    at      M       7             ..     ..      .
ML                                       --             
ow   nladiaINmld                    14     3     2       3      6 
N2rinluuln                         213   43    143  1.420  1,241                                 2.=8
tEt1dd1bumrt Cufll                86    W1     45     so     39             ..     ..      ..      5
Ia.                               10    13    12      17     13    14       21             24     43
mm34ILtuma1                       14    it    19      39     72                           Ws      73
fts ~     ~       ~       4          33.1 1,127 .A    IA       .. 2.W1
-lf     mm                      4.4m 4.M1 4180 Li  m    9111A cum8033IS 14.3  5.1W
14*k oft MAmbwiuua shma    3.721 3.382 3.80   4.355  4,032  4.73   4,421  3.319   .93   3.1W
(Stidalt                         2437 2312  2,02  1.37   1,619  1.337  1.416  3.2    1,447  1.693
M                       Ug          Lib~31     33 1 34  52    Ls  113    in  .   212    33
IDA                              21    22    72       23     21     n1      M      .       3      19
odo                            2,13  2.354h 1,39   1,134  L,W   1.23  I.23         .       ..  1.396
Mw1a                             1,3 =   a 1.032A  Z.433  3.34a  3,121  3,017  3.943  3.511  7312
UWmlWPbf Oft1                       61Z   We   978  1,21        721    317    34       ..     ..  1.03
341l   minia                        010W  772     M36   1.309  2.736  4.33   3,135  8.0    7.543  8.a
um.1 362k ad 34amv MWZ oft
5-vim In                            4   943  L.MS  1.311   1.M3   2.146  2.329  2.951  2.019  2,432
kmwt                               175   210    283   378    590    913  3,4ZI  1,747  L.703  3.039
OLPOOM .0 2 of31                  M3      41    38     33      31     41     39      43     so
hg-~W It.. am  m  -  p.63k 3m  CZ) 1.2   7.8    3.7  I43.   329   15.7   1.0   -.    34.1
33fldal                           6.1   6.4    7.8   8.0    7.5    9.2    9.2
944aM                             8L.3   L9    3LB  10.7  L132   30.3   16.2
Aqg.   w1uff el    p&. 3m  bym) 14.5  30.2    01    Li1   7.8    6.8   10.    .              7
351d1.                            19.4  l".   17.3  13.7   13.7   14.    19.3
5-awm                             11.3   3.4    5.7   7J    713    1.0    W.
aMD MPA3k  M                        3.5   3.8    3.9   3.5    1.3    3.5    6.3    4.3    3.0    3.6
MD  3a.4.111  pm p61kc 01mb.      37   335   1.81 I           La0   3.0    LI .9                  1.4
M  As  avliAfnJam  dot MVimD   3.4   1.9    1.4   3.9    3.4    1.2    1.0           ..      .    L
31    1m1tn    M                    0.0   0.0   0CA    03    05    0.4    03            .      . 
ML dumbJ/wt WM dlmbEm-                             -      -      - 
ML dEt uet.violmoia diL  vim                -                     
And z tPU  otk          ee
di ad el -N2w 
Iwo23
3moty onm 63 p61k .hbt adnmadi
MtiApdp  AM .dldn 5 Y9.
941l(d1 a    ld tdn 10 Y~                          97.0
-                63 aum    o p61S dt  vAmm
hmamo   d ffldNA  fl=t ,mr                     33.
31 53m  W aft .116 Pak s            .=N
.1 3m my mt eM 4. Om toami2U
LMbA



- 27 -                         ANN  XII
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF MM GROUP OPERATIONS IN CWLE
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as at March 31, 1985)
Loan or                                                    US$ million
Credit     Fiscal                                   Amount (less eancellations)
Number      Year    Borrower    Purpose              Bank  IDA   Undisbursed
25 loans and one credit fully disbursed             326.2   22.9 1/      -
1832        1980    Chile      Water Supply          32.4    -          7.7
1902        1981    Chile      Agri. Credit          36.0    -         11.0
1927        1981    Chile      Highway Recon.        42.0    -         0.4
2297        1983    Chile      Highway Recon. II   128.0    -          97.2
2481        1983    Chile      Agri. Serv./Credit   56.0    -          56.0
2482        1983    Chile      Housing               80.0    -         60.7
2504        1985    Chile      Public Sector Mgt.   11.0    -          11.0
Total                                               711.6   22.9
of which has been repaid                          208.9    4.5
Total now outstanding                               502.7   18.4
Amount sold                      7.2
of which has been repaid       7.2
Total now held by Bank and IDA                      502.7   18.4
=         =
Total undisbursed                                                     244.0
1/ Includes exchange rate adjustments. The original amount of the credit
was US$19.0 million.



- 28 -
ANNRM II
Page 2 of 2
B. STATIINT OF INC INYISTHINTS (as at March 31, 1985)
Placal                              Type of            Auount In US$ sillion
Yoeg ibll"r                        Dilneas            Lon   !qq         Total
1958, 1959, Empresa Minera de
1966, 1984    Mantos Blancos        Copper mining      35.10    4.25    39.35
1959, and   Fideos y Alimentos
1965          Carozzi S.A.          Food products       1.50    0.15      1.65
1960, 1961
and 1965    Cemento Bio-Bio S.A.  Cement                 1.20    0.10      1.30
1963        Cia. Manufacturera de
Papeles y Cartones  Pulp and paper       3.00      -        3.00
1970        Minera Sagasa S.A.    Copper mining        10.45    0.45    10.90
Money and Capital
1982        Inverchile                Markets             -      0.20     0.20
Total gross commitments                   51.25    5.15    56.40
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                    34.75    0.70    35.45
Total Commitments now held by IFC   16.50    4.45    20.95
Total Undisbursed                     20.00    1.88    21.88



- 29 -
AN3 III
Page 1 of 2
RNIUBLIC 0 CEIL!
I DUSTRIAL 1IRAICR NTRUCTURING PROJECT
SUPPLfTAI   ! PROJECT DATA S1HET
Soetion I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare project: 11 months.
(b) Project prepared by: Central Bank with Bank assistance.
(c) First presentation to the Bank: June 1983.
(d) Departure of Appraisal Mission: October 24, 1984.
(e) Completion of Negotiations: April 19, 1985
(f) Planned Date of Loan Effectiveness:
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
1.   The Borrower would provide assurances that:
(a) the Government would not make available subsidized lines of credit
for financial restructuring with terms and conditions that could
undermine the proposed loan (para. 44);
(b)  the Technical Unit would be managed in accordance with a Statement
of Operating Policies and Procedures satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 47).
Cc) not more than $50 million of the loan would be used to finance sub-
projects with a working capital requirement exceeding 70 percent of
total estimated cost (para. 48);
Cd) eligible firms will not have governmental participation in excess
of 50 percent (para. 49);
(e) on-lending arrangements between the Central Bank and each
participating institution would be covered by subsidiary loan
agreements containing terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 50); and the Government would assume the cross-currency
risk (para. 61);



- 30 -
ABDEI III
Page 2 of 2
(f) interest rates would be reviewed by the Borrower and the Bank every
six months for purposes of maintaining interest rates positive in
real terms; and responding to market conditions (para. 51);
(g)  the basis for establishing the interest rate charged on peso/denomn-
inated subloans reflects Chile's rate of inflation (para. 52); and
(h)  a Special Account of US$10 million would be established to insure
timely payment of reimbursement claims (para. 62).
2.   Special conditions for loan effectiveness would be:  (i) the Borrower
to designate the Central Bank as its fiscal agent; (ii) the Central Bank to
enter into Subsidiary Loan Agreements with at least two Participating Banks;
(iii) the Borrower shall have secured external financing sufficient to cover
the foreign exchange required to close the Borrower' s balance of payments ac-
count for its fiscal year 1985; and (iv) the Technical Unit shall have been
staffed in a manner satisfactory to the Bank (para. 68).
r






