Document of
The World Bank
FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
0g/.~~ C. - <fw
Repwt No. 5433-CH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHILE
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
May 20, 1985
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
Thk daueut* bwaresatgdc dh~on*  --rm be useod by redpkiets| only Ine pefrnossce of
SbEr oShicd du&$.e lb eootsX  M not o&uwise be d id sed wthmt World EBnk shdai



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
All currency amounts are expressed in Chilean Pesos (Ch$)
and US Dollars CUS$).
Chile has a crawling peg that resulted in a nominal devaluation of 37Z in 1984.
Exchange rate as of December 31, 1984
US$1.00- Ch$124
Ch$1.00- USSO.008
Average Exchange Rate                                          B
1982                           1983                           1984
US$1.00 = Ch$50.91             US$1.00 - Ch$78.84              US$1.00 - Ch$96S.4/
Ch$ 1.00- US$0.0196            Ch$ 1.00- US$0.0127             Ch$ 1.00- US$0.0102
Weights and Measures
Metric System
Government of Chile Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BHC                          Banco Ripotecario de Chile (now in liquidation)
and, by extension, thle name of the business
conglomerate that controlled it
BHIF                         Banco Elipotecario de Fomento Nacional
a private bank
CB                           Central Bank of Chile
Colocadora Nacional          Colocadora Nacional de Valores.  National
Securities Underwriter, a private bank.
ERR                          Economic Rate of Return
FRR                          Financial Rate of Return
GDP                          Gross Domestic Product
IDB                          Inter-American Development Bank
IFC                          International Finance Corporation
(Member of the World Bank Group)
LIBOR                        London Interbank Offered Rate
PROGRESA                     One of the two largest business
conglomerates in Chile
SUPERINTENDENCIA             Superintendencia de Bancos (Superintendency
of Banks and Financial Institutions)
UF                           Unidad de Fomento
(Financial Unit of Account which reflects the
movements in the Country's Consumer Price Index)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHILE
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ..........................................         i
I.   ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ENVIRONMENT             .    .......       . 
A. Background                          .....1
B.   Recent Developments and Tren d*   1.............
II.  THE FINANCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL SECTORS ....... ..................    2
A.   The Financial Sector      e       cr..... . .......... . ......   2
B.   The Industrial Sector. ..............................             5
Mi) Industrial Investment Requirements.                          6
(ii) Industrial Restructuring                                     7
C_.  Legal I     s    s    u    e    s ....................B... 
D.   Bank Strategy in the Industrial Sector.                           9
Ill. THiE PROJECT .............................................................. 10
A.   Project Objectives and Description ...................... .      10
B.   Credit Component .......       ..............            .....   11
C.   Onlending Terms and Conditions .      . .........................   12
D.   Institutional Setting ...       .       .....................   13
E.   Subproject Appraisal and Supervision .....................   14
F.   Procurement and Disbursement ........................... .       15
G.   Accounts and Auditing ....................................       16
H.   Participating Intermediaries .............................       16
I.   Benefits and Risks            . ................. ..   17
IV.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ................... ......   17
This report is based on tHie findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Chile on October - November 1984. The mission comprised Messrs. M. Hinds
(LCPI2), M. Long (IND), N. De Souza (LEG), P. Jones (IFC), P. Glaessner, E.
Saucedo and Ms. R. Halvorson (Consultants).
This document has a restricted disibution and may be used by recipients only in the performnce
of their official duties Its contens may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dank authoriation.



- i -
REPUBLIC OF CHIlE
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUNKARI
Borrower:       Republic of Chile
Ezeuting
Agencty         Central Bank of Chile (CB)
kAount:         US$100.0 million equivalent
Terms:          Repayment in 15 years, including three years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
eBmdlng
Terms:          The Central Bank as fiscal agent for the Government would on-
lend loan funds to commercial banks in US dollars or in
Chilean pesos. US dollar-denominated loans to commercial
banks would have rates equal to the Bank's interest rate plus
a spread to compensate the Central Bank for the Bank's com-
mitment fees and for the cost of operating the Technical Unit
(TU). Commercial banks would onlend these funds charging a
three percent spread. Interest rates on peso-denominated
loans to commercial banks and subloans to beneficiary enter-
prises would be equivalent to those of dollar-denominated
subloans and would be expressed in real terms calculated upon
a principal expressed in Unidad de Fomento (UF), by deflating
the respective dollar rates by the United States Consumer
Price Index (CPI). This would ensure that real interest
rates would be the same for both dollar- and peso-denominated
loans and subloans. The repayment terms for subloans would
be up to 15 years, including a grace period of up to three
years.
Project
Objectives:    The proposed project would help the Government to undertake a
financial restructuring program of industrial corporations on
a selective basis. The project is conceived as a pilot ef-
fort that would be replicative in restructuring efforts car-
ried on outside of the project.
Project
Description:   The project would include assistance for: (a) establishing
and financing the institutional framework through which cor-
porate restructurings would be devised, negotiated, and im-
plemented; and (b) financing the purchase of capital goods
and working capital necessary to maintain and increase pro-
duction.



- ii -
Project
Beneflts:      The proposed project would help to remove the financial dead-
lock that is hindering the recovery of industrial production
in Chile through the establishment of an institutional frame-
work geared to promote the financial restructuring of selec-
ted industrial companies and the provision of foreign ex-
change financing needed by the restructured companies to
carry out required investments.
Project Risks: Credit demand could be curtailed if: (a) the economic
situation deteriorates further; (b) the Technical Unit fails
to promote restructurings or proves incapable of analyzing
them properly; (c) individual restructurings prove too dif-
ficult to be completed within the proposed loan's commitment
period; or (d) after being restructured, the firms obtain
credit from other sources. To mitigate these risks, the
Technical Unit would: (i) have detailed Operating Pol4cies
and Administrative Procedures in line with the project's ob-
jectives; and (ii) be staffed by high-level professionals
with experience in corporate restructurings. The benefits to
Chile would be substantial, and the experience gained in this
operation would be useful in the design of programs to sup-
port firms in financial distress. Therefore, the overall
benefits of the project are expected to outweigh the risks
significantly.
Estimated Costs:                                Local    Foreign    Total
(USS Million Equivalent)
Investment Sub-Projects                     147.6     147.4      295.0
Technical Assistance to
Technical Unit                               2.4       2.6        5.0
Total Financing Required                    150.0     150.0      300.0
Fimencing Plan:
Government                                  100.0       0.0      100.0
Other Sources                                50.0      50.0      100.0
Bank                                          0.0      100.0     100.0
Total                       150.0     150.0     300.0
=     =         =~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 



- iii -
Estlated
Dlaburanemts:  Bank FY:       196  1987  1988  1989 1990  1991  1992
Annual        1.7  10.2  19.4  30.4  18.0  15.7   4.6
Cumulative    1.7  11.9  31.3 61.7  79.7  95.4  100.0
Rate of Return: Not Applicable



I. ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ENVIRONMENT
A.   Background
1.01     Notwithstanding its strong recovery in 1984, the Chilean eronomy
is still suftering from one of the worst crises in its modern histcry,
following a fall of 14.9% in the country's GDP, in real terms, between 1981
and 1983. While this crisis shares, with past cyclical recessions, the
prevalence of low copper prices, there is a key feature that sets it apart
from previous recessions, i.e., the inability of the private sector to
repay a substantial portion of its large debt to domestic and foreign
creditors. Service of the external portion of this debt was identified by
the most recent Economic Memorandum on Chile (Report No. 5099-CH) as a
major obstacle to the country's future growth. At the end of 1984, the
medium- and long-term Chilean external debt was estimated at US$17.0
billion (close to 85% of GDP), with interest payments representing over 40Z
of exports in 1983. About 40% of this debt is public; the private sector
owes US$4.5 billion directly to foreign banks and US$6.3 billion through
the country's financial system. While the growth of the external debt was
facilitated by the abundant liquidity of international banks during the
late 1970s and early 1980s, the private sector's excessive indebtedness
was, in part, caused by the incestuous relationships between firms and
financial institutions that prevailed during 1975-1983 in some of the
largest business conglomerates, by the 1979-1982 overvaluation of the
currency, and, eventually, by distress borrowing at extremely high real
interest rates.
1.02     The Government has made significant efforts, during the last two
years, to service both public and private external obligations. To reduce
domestic demand, it imposed austere monetary and fiscal policies and
adopted a crawling peg that has kept the real exchange rate at its lowest
value since 1978. As a result, the trade balance turned from a US$2.7
billion deficit in 1981 to a US$1 billion surplus in 1983, and the current
deficit of the balance of payments was reduced from US$4.9 billion to
US$1.5 billion during the same period. Most of this adjustment, however,
was achieved through a drastic reduction in merchandise imports, which fell
from US$6.6 billion to USS2.9 billion during the period; in spite of the
favorable real exchange rate, the value of exports declined slightly from
1981 to 1983 as a result of falling commodity prices in the international
markets, the depressed condition of Chile's neighboring markets and
financial problems at the firms' level.
B. Recent Developments and Trends
1.03      The depression bottomed out in late 1983.  During 1984, GDP grey
at a 6.3% annual rate, and 250,000 additional jobs were created, mainly as
a result of expanding domestic demand, boosted by a large public investment
program, and of the rescheduling of a substantial portion of the private
sector's domestic debt (para. 2.07). Balance-of-payment problems, however,
slowed growth in late 1984. Prices of non-copper exports declined 4.5%,
while copper prices dropped 12% to their lowest level since the 1930s. As
a result, despite an almost 10% volume increase in non-copper exports,



-2-
Chile's total export earnings dropped 5%. Simultaneously, imports
increased 18Z over their 1983 level as a consequence of the rising economic
activity. In September 1984, in response to a growing external imbalance
and to declining copper tax revenues, the Government increased the uniform
import tariffs from 20% to 35% and devalued the currency 23%. These
measures were followed by a sharp curtailment of monetary expansion, which
succeeded in preventing a permanent surge of inflation after the measures
were taken. Also, a new three-year Extended Facility Program was
negotiated with the IMF.
1.04       In order to sustain the recovery, the Government is undertaking
a three-year public investment program with emphasis upon export promotion
and job generation. Corporate and individual tax reductions are now in
place in order to stimulate investment and savings, and a general financial
plan has been prepared to resolve the financial problems of the banking
system (paras. 2.07-2.08). Major reforms in the structure of large
business groups have been undertaken, and their ownership conflicts, caused
by the financial collapse of their holding companies, are gradually being
resolved.   In spite of these actions, the Chilean recovery remains
precarious, severely constrained by foreign exchange scarcity. Increased
export earnings depend, in part, upon a rapid expansion of non-copper
exports. The Government has established a competitive exchange rate policy
and is planning a major enhancement of export incentives, including a
program to reduce import tariffs to their previous levels. In order to
maintain a moderate rate of growth of GDP, however, Chile also needs a
substantial flow of external capital, which, in the immediate future, will
be difficult to obtain from private sources.
II. THE FINANCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL SECTORS
A. The Financial Sector
2.01      As of November 1984, the Chilean financial system comprised the
Central Bank of Chile (CB), 38 commercial banks (the largest of which,
Banco del Estado, is Government-owned) and seven financial companies
("financieras'). Commercial banks are multi-banking institutions and
operate at both the short- and long-term ends of the market, financing all
kinds of activities and trading in mortgages and comercial paper. Many
financieras, much smaller institutions, are associated with commercial
banks. They do not receive demand deposits and account for less than 2%
of the total system's outstanding credit. The banking market is highly
concentrated: of the 38 commercial banks, the five largest account for 60%
of the system's credit. Other financial institutions include seven mutual
funds, 12 private pension funds, 51 insurance companies and the Santiago
Stock Exchange. The Central Bank is the highest monetary authority in the
country, sharing with the Superintendency of Banks (Superintendencia) the
supervision of the financial system. It is managed by an Executive
Committee of three members, appointed by the President of the Republic.
The Chairman of the Committee is also the bank's president and has a rank
equiitalent to that of a cabinet member. The Central Bank undertakes all of



- 3 -
its credit activities through commercial banks and financieras. The
Superintendencia is an autonomous body, and its authorities are appointed
by the President of the Republic. Both institutions are well run and their
staffs are highly qualified.
2.02      Several factors led to the creation of large industrial/financial
conglomerates in Chile. At the end of the Allende regime, under the threat
of widespread confiscations, the prices of all assets fell sharply, and
many of them changed hands at extremely low prices. When the political
regime was changed, the assets' prices increased again, creating a
speculative mood in the business community. Speculation was further
encouraged by the sale of most Government-owned firms that the new
Government undertook shortly after its accession to power. Given the
depressed state of the economy at the time, assets had not yet recovered
their equilibrium prices, and those firms were sold in public auctions at
very low prices, mostly to conglomerates formed to purclxse them. As the
economic situation improved in subsequent years, asset prices increased,
and the conglomerates obtained large capital gains. Later in the 19709,
the Government denationalized the banks, and most of them were bought by
the newly formed groups, which then used the banks' credit to finance
further acquisitions and, in some cases, to pay for the shares of the banks
themselves. Eventually, these conglomerates established networks of
financial institutions (banks, mutual funds, insurance companies) that
channeled the cash they needed to keep on growing through acquisitions.
Two big groups predominated: the BHC group, controlling Banco de Chile and
its subsidiaries (accounting for close to 302 of the financial system's
credit) and the Progresa group, controlling Banco de Santiago. BHIF and
Colocadora Nacional (accounting for about 20Z of the system's credit).
2.03      The trend toward incestuousness in the relationship between
financial and nonfinancial companies worsened at the end of the decade,
when a substantial overvaluation of the Chilean peso created incentives for
cross currency speculation. From June 1979 to June 1982, the Government
fixed the foreign exchange rate in dollar terms in order to reduce domestic
inflation to international levels. During that period, prices of domestic
nontradeable assets continued rising at the diminishing but still high
local rate of inflation, while the price of the US dollar remained fixed in
peso terms. This made it profitable to borrow in apparently low-interest
dollar-denominated funds to speculate in real estate and in
peso-denominated financial assets. Moreover, cheap imports discouraged
tradeable activities, and nontraditional exports, one of the main sources
of growth in the previous five years, lost international competitiveness
and tended to stagnate. As a result, investment in industrial activities
remained low, while the private sector's external debt was increasing
rapidly, from US$2.7 billion at the end of 1978 to US$10.5 billion at the
end of 1982. Eventually, close to 60Z of the private sector debt was
denominated in US dollars, and about 60% of it was invested in activities
that do not generate foreign exchange. This credit was highly
concentrated; at the end of 1982, 19% of the financial system's credit was
allocated to firms related to the creditor banks. One of them, the second
largest bank in the country, had 42% of its total credit allocated to its
related companies. When the devaluation finally took place in June 1982,
the price of domestic assets fell drastically in dollar terms, large



capital losses occurred and, in mny cases, the value of the claims on
those assets exceeded the valua of the assers themselves.
2.04      In market economies, louses incurred by defaulting firm  are
normally absorbed by their owners, the shareholders of creditor banks, or,
if necessary, by the depositors and holders of other liabilities of failed
banks   The Government intended to take this approach when it became clear
that several banks would fail as a result of the mounting financial
crisis.  In January 1983, however, as public confidence In the banking
system eroded because of the mounting debt crisis, the Government provided
ChS 100 billion in liquidity asistance to support domestic banks
financially, intervenedl/ five of them, and guaranteed 100S of the value
of deposits. Although, at the time of heavy external borrowing, the
Chilean authorities had made it clear to all parties involved that no
public guarantee would be provided for the private debt, in early 19F13, it
explicitly guaranteed the external private debt maturing in 1983-1984 when
it was rescheduled, and provided assurances to international creditors that
the private financial debt would be serviced adequately during that
period. These guarantees, however justified in the Government's view by
the need to preserve the integrity of the financial system and to ensure
the availability of external credit for Chile, effectively blocked the imin
mechanism that the market has to allocate losses. As a result, only a
small portion of the losses has been written off by both local and foreign
banks, and there Is a discrepancy between the book value and the real value
of the assets.
2.05      Banks are trying to avoid writeoffs by clinging to unrealistic
repayment agreements they have reached with debtor firms and among
themselves (para. 2.11). This attempt to forestall losses that have
already been incurred has paralyzed the financial markets, at a very high
cost to the Chilean economy. As a resulL. the losses that the banking
system will eventually have to absorb in Its loans to these firms have
increased considerably. Furthermore, productive activities are beinV
hindered by the financial deadlock since resources are being kept away from
efficient companies in order to sustain firms that, de facto, went bankrupt
years ago.
2.06      Since 1982, the Chilean banking system has suffered losses
equivalent to more than three times its equity capital and has been able to
survive only because of the strong support it has received from the Central
Bank. The losses, however, were concentrated In banks that had been
controlled by large conglomerates, and, especially, in the five banks now
intervened- by the Superintendencia, which account for 4t1 of the credit
and bh% of the non-performing assets of the banking system. Some of the
non-intervened banks, however, seem to be in conditions similar to those of
the intervcned onen, and only one Chilean bank (BICE) has non-performing
assets below 10X of its portfolio (Annex 3. Table 1).
I/ -Intervention,' in the Chilean context, means the taking over, by the Superin-
tendency, of the day-to-day management of financidl institutions, without af-
fecting the institutions' ownership structure.



2.07      The Government implemented, in early 1984, a scheme to regularize
the financial help provided to the non-intervened financial system. Under
this scheme, participating banks and financieras sold their worst portfolio
to the Central Bank, receiving, in payment, the funds that the Central Bank
had already provided to then as liquidity assistance. Sixteen private
banks chose not to participate in the program since, under the scheme,
participating financial institutions would have to devote all their future
profits to repurchasing this portfolio from the Central Bank, paying a 5X
real interest rate on the outstanding amounts.  In essence, this
arrangement is a loan from the Central Bank to the banKs' shareholders,
precluding them from recelving any dividends or capital gains until the
whole loan Is repaid. The banks can, however, issUe new shares that woul.
be exempt from this obligation and could receive dividends proportional to
their participation In the institutions' equity. lmplementation of this
solution has tailed, so far, to solve all of the portfolio problems of
participating banks. Risk assets (i.e., loans in arrears for more than 90
days, accrued but uncollected interests, and goods received in payment as a
result of toreclosures, and considered insufficient to cover their related
debts) still represent 34% of the non-intervened banks' equity capital.
Nevertheless, the financial situation of the non-intervened banks is
improving since they are operating profitably and are building up reserves
to cover potential losses that could arise from their risk assets.
2.08      Intervened banks (which account for 41% of the credit market)
show an asset account called deterred losses" in their books (losses that
have already ti n recognized but have yet to be written off) equal to 932
of their nominal equitv. In addition, they have substantial arrears and
have to repurchase the non-performing portfolio previously sold to the
Central Bank. The Government is devising a plan to -recapitalize- these
banks in two stages: (a) it would convert into equity a portion of the
credit that the Central Bank has given them, in an amount sufficient to put
these banks on financlal terms equlvalent to those of the rest of the
banking system; and (b) It would then apply to them the scheme that was
used with the non-intervened banks. To implement this plan, a law
authorizing the Government to buy newly is3ued equity in these banks has
been prepared; this law restricts Government holdings in any bank to a
maximum of 49: of the shares outstanding at any given moment, and forces
the Governmenit tc sell the shares to the public within five years after the
purchase.  The implemnntation of this plan started in the first half of
1985. Although it could take a long period for the Government to sell its
participation in these institutions, the intervened banks would be
recapitalized- as soon as the Government purchases these shares and the
banks enter into the new portfolio repurchasing agreement with the Central
Bank, in effect eniding the Government's intervention of the commercial
banks.
B. The lndustrial Sector
2.09      Since 1973, economic retorms have reduced the Government's
intervention in the economv, allowing the market to allocate economic
resources. Of these reforms, the liberalization of the external sector --



- 6 -
tariff reductions from a 97Z average level in 1973 to a uniform 10% in
1979, ellminatic9 of quota restrictions -   affected the structure of the
industrial sector substantlally. The reduction cauced a shift in the
allocatlon of resources, away from the production of import-mubstitution
manufactures and into resource-based exports. A substantial portion of the
import-substituting industry disappeared *nd resource-based exporters, such
as pulp and paper, fishing, lumber and fresh fruits, grew at a very fast
rate. Since the Chilean manufacturing sector had been largely oriented
toward the domeatic m_rkat and had grown inefficient behind a ultitude of
trade barrlers, the trade liberalizatLon resulted in a decline ln the share
of the sector in the country's GDP from 25Z in 1970-1973 to 202 in
1981-1983. The share of manufacturing employment In the economy also fell
from 172 In 1977 to 13% in 1983.
2.10      Since 1981, the drastic fall in domestic demand has depressed
domestically oriented mnufacturers, especlally those producing consumer
durables and intermediate construction goods. Given the nature of Chile's
balance of payments problems , further measures to restrict domestic demand
could be necessary. Thls Is likely to have a negative effect upon che
future growth of manufacturing. The more competitive exchange rate,
however, has increased deuand for locally produced goods with high domestic
value-added (e.g., textiles, clothing, furniture and metal products) and
has also lncreased the International competitiveness of Chilean lndustry.
Several manufacturers who have so far produced only for the domestic market
are now able to compete internationally and are currently exploring
potential markets for their products.
t
2.11      As a percent of value-added, credit to the manufacturlng sector
decreased, during the years of overvaluation, from 45.1Z to 40.4Z, but, as
a result of the 1982 devaluation, It went up to 65.7% (Annex 3, Table 2).
Although this figure is lower than the average for the private sector as a
whole (77% of GDP), the burden of this debt Is proving excessive for some
manufacturing companies. As a result, principal and Interest on these
loans have been repeatedly rolled over by commercial banks during the last
two years. A large number of the country's productive companies are
Involved in these agreements and are caught In a viclous circle since thelr
repayment capacity depends upon thelr ability to grow, but they cannot
expand because they are too heavIly in debt to undertake the necessary
investments. The fallure to restructure these companies financlally when
it first becamo clear that they would not be able to fully service thelr
debts has significantly worsened their financial condition because accrued
interests have compounded thelr financial distress to the extent that many
of them, which were viable two years ago, now have lost their equity
capital many times over. Although the most seriously affected companies
tend to be those producing for the domestic market, several exporting
companies are also weak financially, and some of them are troubled by the
ownership problems resulting from the financial collapse of their holding
companies.
(i)   Industrial Investment Requirements
2.12      The 1982-1985 devaluations have created opportunities for
exporters and efficient import-substituting companies. which are currently



planning investments, to both increase their efficiency and expand their
production capacity. In total, fixed investment demand from non-mining
industrial companies can be estimated on the order of US$500 million for
1985-1987, of which US$300 million would represent foreign exchange
expenditures. The weak financial situation of Chilean industrial firms,
however, is making it difficult for them to proceed with their investment
plans. Therefore, the materialization of industrial investment and growth
crucially depends upon the realization of a case-by-case financial
restructuring of industrial enterprises.
(ii) Industrial Restructuring
2.13    Although the industrial sector is recovering from the 1982-1983
depression, its recovery remains precarious. The two major factors
hindering recovery are: (a) the sector's debt burden; and (b) the legal
uncertainties stemming from the financial collapse of lolding companies.
The Central Bank has implemented two successive across-the-board
reschedulings during the last two years, both aimed at firms owing less
than US$3 million equivalent. Firms with larger debts were supposed to
renegotiate their debts directly with their creditors on a case-by-case
basis. The across-the-board programs for the smaller debtors, while
extending loan maturities and reducing interest rates, addressed short-term
constraints and, in effect, have probably delayed the long-run solution:
the allocation of losses among creditors. The first round of
renegotiations of the larger debtors is by now almost concluded. Many of
these renegotiations, however, have resulted in unrealistic agreements that
leave debtor firms unable to meet their new contractual obligations and
also severely constrained in their growth potential.
2.14      Chilean banks could lower their long-run losses if they reduced
the financial burden now imposed upon borrowers through immediate loan
writeoffs (partial or total), conversions of debt into equity, or other
relief schemes. Liberated from the excess burden, debtor firms could grow
faster and repay a larger portion of their obligations than otherwise.
Banks have not done this during the past two years, however, because of the
following main reasons: (a) a thorough financial restructuring of the
private sector would have caused the banks' own bankruptcy; and (b)
creditors and debtors have been expecting a Government bailout that would
allow banks to reduce the financial burden of their debtors without causing
losses to the banks' shareholders. There is a growing perception, however,
that the Government lacks the financial power required to bail out the
entire private sector. These developments tend to favor the undertaking of
a case-by-case restructuring that could effectively liberate efficient
firms from their excessive debt burden and undo the financial deadlock that
is hindering the country's economic recovery.
2.15      To undertake a once-and-for-all restructuring, the banks may have
to: (a) reduce their claims on the firms' cash flows and (b) increase their
exposure to finance normalized operations and, when appropriate, their
expansion. For the reduction of their claims on the firms' cash flows,
banks may prefer to substitute equity or quasi-equity for debt instead of
writing off loans. This will allow banks to participate in the future
profits or cash generation of the restructured firms. The Superintendencia



- 8 -
is allowing banks to take newly issued shares as repayment, but the Banking
Law requires them to dispose of shares within a maximum period of three
years, even if they are non-voting stock. The Government is reluctant to
change this provision of the law because the current banking problems were
caused, to a large extent, by the interconnection between financial and
nonfinancial firms; it therefore prefers the use of quasi-equity
instruments such as subordinated convertible deaentures, i.e., loans at low
(or zero) interest rates that can be converted into equity shares by the
creditor, at a specified Price and within a given period, and whose payment
is contingent upon the availability of resources to first service wore
senior debt.
2.16     The use of convertibles would allow the banks to wait for a much
longer period for the firms to generate profits, and then to participate in
them through capital gains, if they can sell the debentures or shares at
prices higher than those at which they acquired them. There are provisions
in the law limiting the amount that banks can invest in bonds as well as
the overall exposure that they can have in any single firm or
conglomerate. The Superintendencia, however, is considering bonds received
in payment and increases in exposure derived from restructurings as
exceptions to these provisions. Furthermore, it has upgraded the
classification of the remaining debt of properly restructured firms.
2.17      Given the significant participation of foreign banks in the
financing of Chile's private sector, the participation of these banks in
the restructuring process is essential. A case-by-case approach, linking
repayments to the cash-generating capacity of each individual firm, would
encourage such participation. Moreover, a precedent was established in
September 1984, when several foreign banks wrote off 80% (US$44 million) of
their claims on an industrial company declared bankrupt, in exchange for
repayment, in cash, of the remaining 20%. After l-'Iis action was taken, the
bankruptcy was lifted and the company is now operating normally. It is
likely that international banks will have to go th-:ough similar operations
in the immediate future because no alternative solution appears to exist
for a substantial portion of the country's industrial firms.
2.18      If it is restructured well, lending to a company previously in
financial distress could be an attractive business proposition because the
company would represent a better risk. While international banks are
reluctant to increase their exposure in Chile, Chilean banks have to
increase their operations in order to recover from their losses, and there
are not many good credit risks in Chile nowadays. A more serious problem
is posed by the availability of resources to pass on to the restructured
firms, which, at least initially, will have to be provided in part by
equipment suppliers and by multilateral lending institutions, such as the
Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB).
C. Legal Issues
2.19     Chilean legislation provides an adequate framework for
restructurings to take place. The main instruments used in financial
restructurings (writeoffs, conversion of debt into equity or quasi-equity,



-9 -
subordinated loans, warrants and options, preferred shares of various
kinds) can be utilized legally in Chile. The absence, in Chilean law, of
provisions similar to those in "Chapter 11" of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code
(temporary protection from bankruptcy) has frequently been mentioned as a
hindrance to potential workouts. It has also been suggested that its
inclusion would be the main improvement that can be introduced to
facilitate .ebt renegotiations. However, this is not a key issue because,
under existing Chilean legislation, creditors and debtors can reach
judicial or extra-judicial agreements that substitute for temporary
protection from bankruptcy. Moreover, even if companies are declared
bankrupt, they can continue their operations for up to 18 months
("continuidad de giro") if certain conditions are met, and bankruptcy can
subsequently be lifted if creditors accept the conditions set by the
receiver to restructure the company (if not, the company is liquidated
immediately). This mechanism can actually prove more effective than
protection from bankruptcy to force realistic agreements because it
presents the choices quite clearly and demands more rapid decisions.
D. Bank Strategy in the Industrial Sector
2.20      The financial crisis of the industrial sector is one of the main
obstacles to Chile's future economic growth. The Government, aware that
previous measures have been insufficient to remove it, has decided to take
a case-by-case approach in assisting industrial firms to design and execute
financial restructurings conducive to investment and growth. Financial
restructuring of the private sector involves two tasks: (a) the reduction
of the financial burden of productive companies to levels that could allow
them to invest and grow; and (b) the strengthening of the banking system to
withstand the losses resulting from this reduction. The Government is
currently implementing a program to -recapitalize the banking system and
has asked the Bank to concentrate its help in this project upon corporate
restructurings.
2.21      In designing the proposed project, the Bank agreed with the
Government on the following strategy: (a) case-by-case restructurings would
ensure that scarce financial resources would be allocated to efficient
firms only; (b) all decisions concerning individual workouts would be taken
by the parties directly involved (debtors, creditors, shareholders and,
whea appropriate, receivers and baakruptcy judges); (c) the Government
would be a catalyst, facilitating and promoting individual workouts; and
(d) the proposed project would set up a mechanism to facilitate
restructurings and then provide fresh resources to finance the normal
operation and expansion of restructured firms. No funds of the proposed
loan would be used for refinancing of existing obligations.
2.22      Given the magnitude of the private sector debt, it is proposed
to use the proceeds of the proposed loan for financial restructurings of
industrial corporations (including mining aad agroindustry), although the
proposed project's institutional framework could also be used to help in
workouts of firms in other sectors of the economy. To make restructurings



- 10 -
possible, the Government would agree to abstain from granting subsidized
credit lines that could compete with the proceeds oa the proposed loan with
easier borrowing conditions. Since the costs Involved in the establishment
of this institutional framework make it suitable primarily for channeling
relatively large subloans, the proposed loan is expected to assist mainly
medium- and large-scale firms. Help to small-scale firms would be
channeled through a proposed Small Scale Industry Project, now under
preparation.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives and Description
3.01     The proposed project would help the Government in the undertaking
of financial restructurings of industrial corporations through:
(a) assistance in establishing and financing an institutional
framework through which corporate workouts could be devised,
negotiated and implemented, and
(b) assistance in financing the purchase of the intermediate and
capital goods necessary to maintain and increase production
of restructured firms.
3.02     The benefits of the loan would be open to any efficient industrial
company, including agroindustrial firms, which could earn or save foreign
exchange. The proposed project would be considered a pilot project geared
to setting replicative examples of restructuring processes for
economically viable, but financially troubled, firms, within a case-by-case
approach, which could later be extended to other firms under similar
conditions.
3.03     The Government of the Republic of Chile would be the borrower and
CB the executing agency. CB would onlend the loan proceeds to
participating commercial banks in accordance with Subsidiary Loan
Agreements, satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.20), entered into as a
condition precedent to disbursements with respect to each commercial bank.
At least two Commercial banks would participate in the financing of each
subloan, and would assume the responsibility for carrying out the
respective subproject to completion jointly and severally. No intervened
banks would be eligible to participate in the loan. Subprojects to be
financed out of the proceeds of the proposed loan would be selected on the
basis of subloan requests, which, for companies in need of restructuring,
would include a workout proposal (para. 3.13).
3.04     Excluding large copper mining projects, the aggregate investment
cost of industrial projects over the next 36 months (the proposed loan
commitment period) is estimated to be on the order of US$500 million
(para. 2.12), of which US$300 million would represent foreign exchange
expenditures. Imports of current inputs for industry are estimated at
US$1.2 billion per year. Adding this figure to the foreign exchange needed
to finance imports of capital goods for the industrial sector, total



- 11 -
foreign exchange needed amounts to US$4.2 billion for 1985-1987. Of this
amDunt, approximately US$800 million would be demanded by firms eligible
for Bank financing, divided equally between fixed investment and permanent
increases of working capital (the rest corresponds to normal working
capital imports, and to foreign exchange needs of large firms and projects
tha-. exceed the scope of the proposed project). Given the pilot nature of
this project, it is expected that investments amounting to US$300 million
would be financed out of the proceeds of the loan. After taking into
account other probable sources (i.e., a proposed US$128 million IDB loan
for free-standing working capital and suppliers' credit), a Bank loan of
US$100 million equivalent is proposed to help fill part of the sector's
estimated foreign exchange gap. It has been estimated that this amount is
needed to make a meaningful impact upon the industrial sector, as well as
to justify the creation of a Technical Unit (TU, para. 3.12) to manage
financial restructuring loans, which could later be the key agent in the
replication and expansion of the restructuring process by the Government.
3.05     The proposed US$100 million loan would be allocated as follows:
(a) US$97.4 million for the credit component, which would cover
the foreign exchange costs of subloans made by commercial
banks for working capital or fixed investment purposes,
including increases in, or rationalization of, productive
capacity of enterprises, and for technical assistance
required to undertake those projects; and
(b) US$2.6 million to help finance the costs of the special unit
created by CB to appraise workout proposals.
3.06     The proposed loan would have a 15-year maturity, including three
years of grace. The Government would assume the foreign exchange risk
between the currency pool obligations incurred under the Bank loan and the
currency of CB's onlending to commercial banks (i.e., US dollars or Chilean
pesos, para. 3.10). The loan would be repaid according to a standard fixed
amortization schedule. CB would utilize the proceeds accrued from the
repayment of principal and interests of subloans, which are not required
for the repayment of the loan, for paying the administrative expenses of TU
and for making loans for the same purposes, and under similar terms and
conditions, as the loan.
B.   Credit Component
3.07     Subloans wor'd cover estimated foreign exchange costs of:
(a) fixed assets (machinery, equipment, factory buildings and related civil
works and services); (b) permanent working capital (initial stocks or
increases in stocks of imported raw materials, spare parts and components
required for increases in productive capacity or in the rate of utilization
of the existing capacity); and (c) technical assistance services required
by industries. Not more than 50% of the loan would be used to finance
subprojects requiring working capital financing in excess of 70% of the
subloan.



- 12 -
3.08     Eligible firms should not have gover.mental participation
(directly or indirectly) in excess of 50% of their equity capital, unless
specific plans are submitted to decrease such participation to less than
50% within a five-year period. Similarly, firms controlled by commercial
banks would not be eligible unless specific plans are submitted to reduce
the banks' controlling ownership through sales to private enterpreneurs
within a three-year period. A firm would be eligible as beneficiary of the
proposed loan only if the ownership of shares adding up to a controlling
interest in its capital is clearly and unquestionably defined. Also, firms
would be eligible only if it h-As been clearly established that they are not
responsible for obligations of third parties, including those of their
former holding companies. No enterprise, including its subsidiaries, would
be eligible to obtain financing from the proposed loan in excess of US$15
million equivalent, and not more than US$10 million equivalent would be
allocated for working capital in any given subloan. Any subloan exceeding
US$10 million equivalent could be processed only after confirmation that
best efforts have been made to arrange a cofinancing program undertaken
with IFC, other multilateral agencies and/or foreign commercial banks. In
these cases, the subprojects would be reviewed with help from the Bank's
Industry Department and/or IFC. These limits are intended to: (a) ensure a
reasonable degree of dispersion of loan funds while giving access to these
funds to exporting firms with relatively large investment projects and
(b) reduce concentration of credit in the largest enterprises.
C.  Onlending Terms and Conditions
3.09     Within these limits, enterprises would have an option to borrow
in either US dollars or Chilean pesos. Interest rates in both currencies,
for both new and outstanding subsidiary loans and subloans, would be based
on the Bank's standard variable rate of interest. These rates would be
adjusted semiannually in order to reflect the changes occurred in the
Bank's interest rate. No adjustment, however, would be made to the
subloans' outstanding amounts on account of the revaluations effected in
the dollar value of the Bank's currency pool (the exchange risk between the
Bank's pool and the US dollar would be assumed by the Government, para.
3.06). Interest rates on dollar-denominated subsidiary loans would be
equal to the Bank's interest rate plus a spread that would compensate CB
for the cost of the Bank's commitment fees (1/10%) and for the cost of
operating a Technical Unit (TU) in charge of appraising subproject
proposals and their associated workout programs (1/2%, para. 3.11).
Interest rates on dollar-denominated subloans would be calculated adding a
3% spread (compounded) to the interest rates on subsidiary loans. Under
present conditions, this would result in interest rates for
dollar-denominated subsidiary loans and subloans of 9.95% and 13.2%,
respectively. Interest rates on peso-denominated subsidiary loans and
subloans would be expressed in real terms, calculated upon a principal
adjusted for local inflation in accordance with the Unidad de Fomento (UF),
which reflects the daily changes in the country's Consumer Price Index
(CPI). Real interest rates on peso-denominated subsidiary loans and
subloans would be calculated by deflating the respective dollar interest
rates by the CPI in the United States. This would ensure that real
interest rates would be the same for dollar-denominated and



- 13 -
peso-denominated subsidiary loans and subloans; presently, rates for peso
loans would be about UF+4.7% ar,d UF+7.8Z, respectively, which are in line
with prevailing rates in Chile. The formulae to calculate interest rates
are contained in Annex 2 and in the Schedule of the Project Agreement. CB
would review the formulae semiannually for the determination and adjustment
of interest rates on subsidiary loans and subloans, exchange views with the
Bank on the results of such review and, if necessary, revise such formulae
in a manner satisfactory to the Bank so as to ensure that the interest
rates on subloans determined thereby are positive in real terms. The
Government would provide assurances that the basis for establishing the
interest rate charged on peso-denominated subloans reflects Chile's rate of
inflation.
3.10     Subloans for fixed investment and associated permanent working
capital would have maximum maturities of 15 years, including grace periods
of up to three years. Subloans granted exclusively for permanent working
capital financing would have maturities of 18 months to five years,
including a grace period of up to one year. No subloan would mature after
the loan's maturity date. Subloans financed out of the proceeds of the
loan would rank pari passu with all other senior obligations of the
restructured firms in terms of both debt service and repayment in case of
bankruptcy.
D.   Institutional Setting
3.11     CB would, as executing agency, manage the funds of the proposed
loan and would be responsible for all the associated administrative tasks.
To appraise subloan requests, CB would create an entity (Technical Unit,
TU) with a Board of Directors comprising representatives of CB, the
Ministries of Finance and of the Economy, and of the Superintendencies of
Banks and of Corporations. The representative of CB would be the President
of TU to ensure a close coordination between it and CB. TU would be
staffed with high-level professionals and consultants as required (hired in
accordance with the Bank's guidelines for hiring consultants), under the
direction of a manager who would report to the President, who, in turn,
would report to the Board. Subprojects approved by the Board would be
submitted to CB's management for final approval at the Government level.
TU would not be tied exclusively to the proposed Bank loan, but would also
help to arrange other large workouts. CB would pay for the expenditures of
TU On behalf of the Government. A US$2,600,000 component has been included
to help finance TU's staffing expenditures. TU would initially be staffed
with four professionals, including the manager. One would be a lawyer
specializing in corporate law, and the rest would be economists or business
management specialists with strong financial and corporate backgrounds. In
addition to the permanent staff, TU would also hire temporary consultants
as needed in order to appraise proposed subprojects and their associated
workouts. TU would be managed in accordance with a Statement of Operating
Policies and Procedures satisfactory to the Bank. A draft of this
Statement appears as Annex 2 to this report. The full staffing of TU would
be a condition for effectiveness of the loan.



- 14 -
E.   Subproject Appraisal and Supervision
3.12      Workout proposals for companies seeking Bank financing would be
arranged by the companies themselves (or by consultants hired by them).
Participating commercial banks would assume the commercial risk of subloans
financed out of the proceeds of the proposed loan, and, therefore, would
have to undertake a thorough appraisal of the proposed subprojects and any
restructuring arrangements involved. TU would also carry out a detailed
analysis of each workout proposal to ensure that: (a) the firm would
become economically and financially viable as a result of the proposed
workout on the basis of reasonable assumptions regarding its future
performance; (b) the proposed restructuring, if carried out, would be
legally binding and no further claims could be leveled .against the firm in
connection with its liabilities at the time of the restricturing
(para. 3.15); (c) the ownership of the beneficiary firm's controlling
interest is incontestably defined; (d) the proceeds of the subloan would
not be used to repay other obligations existing at the time of the
restructuring; and (e) the proposed operation is in accordance with the
Loan Agreement and TU's Statement of Operating Policies and Procedures.
Upon CB's approval, the first two subloans requiring Bank financing and,
subsequently, all those requiring Bank funds in excess of USS5.0 million
equivalent (free-limit), would be submitted to the Bank for final
approval. Subprojects requiring subloans in excess of US$10.0 million
would be reviewed with help from the Bank's Industry Department and/or IFC
(para. 3.08).
3.13     The workout proposals would be based upon a 'workout strategy"
that would include: (a) a marketing plan, aimed at increasing the firm's
revenues, through emphasis upon the more profitable products and customers,
product redesign, quality and packaging improvements, geographic coverage,
etc; (b) a production plan, devised to fill the needs resulting from the
marketing plan, and which could include measures ranging from curtailment
of productive capacity to a fuller utilization or expansion of existing
capacity; and (c) a financial workout plan, devised to implement the
preceding marketing and production plans. The financial plan would
typically include: (a) streamlining of management and administration;
(b) the sale of unnecessary assets; (c) a reduction in the firm's
financial burden, accomplished through the use of any of the instruments
suitable for restructuring, or a combination of several of them; (d) other
measures to improve the firm's financial situation (extended maturities,
for instance); (e) an issue of new shares to mobilize fresh capital,
whenever possible; (f) a request for a subloan that could include financing
for free-standing permanent working capital, fixed investment, or a
combination of both; and (g) financial projections showing the expected
results of all these planned measures.
3.14     Appraisals of all subprojects and their related  workout
strategies" would include a calculation of the subprojects' Financial Rate
of Return (FRR) and Economic Rate of Return (ERR), and the subprojects
would be financed only if such rates exceed 11% in real terms. The ERR
would be estimated using border prices. To determine if a restructuring
package is viable, TU would ensure that, on the basis of reasonable



- 15 -
assumptions, the proposed "workout strategy" would enable the company to
adequately service Its debt while mantaining a sufficient level of
liquidity. Criteria to carry out this evaluation have been Included in
TU's draft Statement of Operating Policies and Procedures (Annex 2).
Particular attention would also be given to the following additional items:
(a) if the company is planning to borrow in foreign currency, it should
have a corresponding source of hard-currency-denominated revenues which
should be enough to repay the obligation (even if, in the long run, the
cost of indexed peso-denominated loans would tend to be equivalent to the
cost of dollar-denominated loans, short-term fluctuations could be severe
enough to cause the demise of a borrower); and (b) when required, a sinking
fund of appropriate size should be gradually built up to anticipate the
contingency of holders of convertible debentures choosing not to convert at
maturity.
3.15     To confirm that the beneficiary firms' controlling interest
was clearly established, and that the proposed refinancing scheme was
legally binding and enforceable, TU would request, as part of a subloan
approval process, an independent legal opinion confirming the legality of
the proposed arrangements. Covenants limiting the incurrence of future
loans would be included in subloan agreements.
3.16     Each commercial bank would regularly supervise the subprojects
financed by it to see that subloans are utilized for the purposes intended
and that the financial and other conditions affecting subproject
performance are progressing satisfactorily. Each bank would send a copy of
its periodic supervision report to TU, which would review it and would have
the right to obtain clarifications from either the beneficiary firm or the
corresponding commercial bank. Additionally, TU and commercial banks would
have the right to visit the beneficiary enterprises as necessary and to
receive from them the relevant information on the firm and the subproject.
TU would be responsible for supervising the performance of participating
commercial banks and their compliance with the conditions agreed in the
proposed loan. To this end, TU would make periodic visits to commercial
banks and would receive quarterly reports from them on the performance of
the portfolio financed out of the loan proceeds. These understandings
would not be modified without the Bank's consent.
F. Procurement and Disbursement
3.17     Procurement procedures would conform with standard practice for
IDF loans; TU would monitor procurement to be financed out of the proposed
loan in order to ensure that the items are reasonably priced and
appropriate for their intended purpose. Subloans would finance up to 60%
of the total cost of approved subprojects, and the loan proceeds would be
disbursed against 100% of the amount of the subloans. This percentage
reflects estimated average foreign exchange costs of the respective
expenditure categories. Also, the loan proceeds would be disbursed against
100% of the costs involved in hiring consultants for TU, up to the amount
allocated for this purpose (para. 3.05). Terms of reference for
consultants hired to provide technical assistance in the implementation of
subprojects/workouts would have to be acceptable to TU, and the procedures



- 16 -
used for hiring such consultants would be consistent with the Bank's
standard guidelines. Only expenditures made within not more than 180 days
prior to the date of the receipt, by the Bank, of the corresponding
financing requests would be eligible for disbursement out of the proposed
loan--rather than the 90 days customary under the Bank's IDP loans--in view
of the administrative complexities and the time lags involved in a two-
tier operation with many participating financial intermediaries. Annex 1
provides an estimated disbursement schedule, which is based on the average
disbursement profile for DFC operations in the LAC region and adjusted for
slower disbursement rates in order to allow for delays in restructuring
arrangements. The closing date would be December 31, 1991. To cover the
foreign exchange requirements of participating commercial banks for
investments that they would be financing after the proposed loan had been
approved by the Executive Directors, but before it became effective,
retroactive financing of up to US$10 million, 10% of the loan amount, has
been provided.
3.18     In order to ensure timely payment of reimbursement claims, as a
condition of loan effectiveness, a Special Account in US dollars would be
established in CB to cover estimated expenditures for four months. The
Bank would make an initial deposit of US$10.0 million into the Special
Account. CB would claim reimbursement of the Bank's share of expenditures
from the Special Account upon presentation of fully documented withdrawal
applications forwarded to the Bank for replenishment of the Special
Account. The Bank would receive from CB a monthly statement of the Special
Account which would reflect transactions during the previous month. The
Special Account would be subject to the same audit procedures as the other
project accounts.
G. Accounts and Auditing
3.19     Beneficiary firms would be required to appoint exteroal auditors
acceptable to TU. Commercial banks participating in the proposed project
would be required to maintain adequate records, reflecting their operations
financed out of the proposed loan, and to submit annual statements of
account, audited by independent auditors following principles satisfactory
to TU. CB would maintain adequate records concerning the progress of the
project and reflecting, separately from its other operations, the
operations and financial transactions related to the proposed loan. These
accounts would be audited by independent auditors following principles
satisfactory to the Bank.
H. Participating Intermediaries
3.20     No intervened banks would be allowed to participate in the
proposed project as long as they remain intervened.  AU other comercial
banks would be eligible to participate, provided they sign a Subsidiary
Loan Agreement in terms satisfactory to the Bank. The signature of
Subsidiary Loan Agreements with at least two participating banks would be
condition of effectiveness of the loan (para. 3.03).



- 17 -
I. Benefits and Risks
3.21     The proposed project would help to remove the financial deadlock
that is hindering the recovery of industrial production in Chile through:
(a) establishing an institutional framework geared to promote financial
restructurings in all sectors in the economy and (b) providing foreign
exchange financing needed for the restructuring of a number of industrial
companies. In this process, the project would contribute to establishing
replicative examples that could be extended to other economically viable,
but financially troubled, firms in other sectors of the economy. The
project would also help in closing the foreign exchange gap that could
prevent the country's economic growth. A total of 20-30 industrial firms
are expected to benefit directly from the project. On the risk side,
commitments could fall short of expectations if: (a) as a result of copper
prices remaining low, or international interest rates high, for a long time
to come, the country's economic situation deteriorates significantly,
causing a contraction in investment credit demand; (b) TU fails in
promoting restructurings or proves incapable of analyzing them properly;
(c) individual restructurings prove too difficult to be completed within
the proposed loan's commitment period; and (d) once restructured, currently
troubled companies obtain credit from other Ieders (inbthi  cas
project would be successful, but the loan would not disbutse). aivelvWthe
precarious condition of the Chilean economy, and the oncertainties
associated with restructuring, the risks of the project are significant.
However, the benefits to Chile could be substantial, and the experience
gained in this operation would be useful in the design of programs to
support firms in financial distress. Therefore, the overall benefits of
the project are expected to outweigh the risks significantly.
IV. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
4.01      During loan negotiations, final agreement was reached with the
Chilean Government and CB on:
(a) the loan amount and components (paras. 3.04 and 3.05); and
(b) arrangements for channeling the resources (paras. 3 03 and 3.11),
repayment of the Bank loan, (pars. 3.06);
(c) project's objectives (para. 3.01), terms and limits of financing,
(paras. 3.09 and 3.10), eligible enterprises and draft operating
policies and regulations (operating guidelines) (paras. 3.02 and
3.11), eligible expenditures for financing and procurement and
disbursement procedures (paras 3.17 and 3.18);
(d) onlending interest rates and spreads (para. 3.09); and
(e) institutional arrangement for implementing the project
(para. 3.11); and
(f) accounting and auditing arrangements (para. 3.19)



- 18 -
4.02      Special Conditions
The Government would provide assurances that:
(a) Firm agreement has been reached between the Government and its
international creditors on a financial package consistent with
closing the country's estimated balance of payments gap in 1985;
(b) the Government would not make available subsidized lines of
credit for financial restructuring with terms and conditions that
could undermine the proposed loan (para. 2.22);
(c) the Technical Unit would be nmnaged in accordance with a
Statement of Operating Policies and Procedures satisfactory to
the Bank (para. 3.11)
(d) not more than $50 million of the loan would be used to finance
sub-projects with a working capital requirement exceeding 70
percent of total estimated cost (para. 3.07);
(e) eligible firms will not have governmental participation in excess
of 50 percent (para. 3.08);
(f) on-lending arrangements between the Central Bank and each
participating institution would be covered by subsidiary loan
agreements containing terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank (para. 3.03);and the Government would assume the
cross-currency risk (para. 3.06);
Cg) interest rates would be reviewed by the Borrower and the Bank
every six mDnths for purposes of maintaining interest rates
positive in real term, and responding to market conditions
(para. 3.09);
(h) the basis for establishing the interest rate charged on
peso-denominated subloans reflects Chile's rate of inflation
(para. 3.09); and
(i) a Special Account of US$10 million would be established to insure
timely payment of reimbursement claims (para. 3.18).
4.03      If approved, the Loan would become effective after:
(a) the Government has designated CB as its fiscal agent;
(b) the Government shall have secured external financing sufficient
to cover the foreign exchange required to close the borrower's
balance-of-payments accounts for its fiscal year 1985;
(c) TU's staffing has been completed (para. 3.11);



- 19 -
(d) it least two subsidiary Loan Agreements have been signed with two
participating banks (pars. 3.20).
4.04      Subject to tha above, the proposed project would be eligible for
a Bank loan of USS100 million equivalent, with a term of 15 years,
including a grace period of three years.
May 20, 1985



- 20-                           AME= 1
Page 1 of 1
DLAL FDWAN WIUEDG FW
EsI=ted Sdu&ule of Isb         t */
IED Flgcial Year and        letimted Di _buzunts           Quuatla1
qarter ending           1Dur    the Qtnrter             Fad of Qupr
FY 1986
Septeber 30, 1985
Irornder 31, 1985                 299.2                  299.2
March 31, 1986                    720.0                1,019.2
June 30, 1986                     720.0                1,739.2
FY 1987
Sepcer1er 30, 1986              2,118L3                3,857.5
DeImber 31, 1986                2,118.3                5,975.8
Mbrch 31, 1987                  2,966.5                8,942.3
Jume 30, 1987                   2,966.5               11,908L8
FY 1988
September 30, 1987              5,158.8               17,067.6
I^^-her 31, 1987                5,158.8               22,226.4
Mardh 31, 1988                  4,563.6               26,790.0
June 30, 198B b/                4,563.6               31,353.6
FY 1989
Sepoeibcr 30, 1988              7,499.5               38,853.1
DeceIber 31, 1988               7,499.5               46,352.6
March 31, 1989                  7,654.5               54,007.1
June 30, 1999                   7,6C..5               61,661.6
FY 1990
September 30, 1989              6,874.6               68,536.2
3ecembrr 31, 1989               6,F,74.6              75,410.8
March 31, 1990                  2,142.7               77,553.5
June 30, 199D                   2,142.7               79,696.2
Fl 1991
Se tr 30, 1990                  5,234.7               84,9W09
Doember 31, 1990                5,234.7               90,165.6
Murch 31, 1991                  2,635.7               92,801.3
Junm  30, 1991                  2,635.7               95,437.0
FY 1992
Stecr ber 30, 1991              2,281.5               97,718.5
Iaombeur 31, 1991 cl            2,281.5              100,000.0
a/ Based co the auzer   dLsbu4reet profiles cf IGF projects In the
AC reginm, adjuitsl for slower disbxu --t race, gimn the Unaou   d the poject.
b/ FEtidtedend date for subaiasion of subloms.
cl tod date.



- 21 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 8
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHILE
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Central Bank of Chile. - Technical Unit of Financial Restructuring
Statement of Operating Policies and Procedures
This Statement lays down the policies and procedures that the
Central Bank of Chile (CB), as executing agency, will carry out through the
Technical Unit of Financial Restructuring tAU) in discharging its
responsibilities under the proposed Financial Restructuring Project (the
Project) and its associated Loan (the Loan) of the World Bank (the Bank).
I.   Organization
(a) TU will consist of two main bodies: the Board of Directors
and the Secretariat. The Secretariat will review proposed investment
projects in order to ensure that they are eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Loan. Based upon this review, the Secretariat will
recommend to the Board of Directors their approval or rejection.
Subprojects approved by the Board will be submitted to CB's management for
final approval at the Government's level. CB will decide on approving or
rejecting investment proposals using the Project's criteria exclusively.
Upon CB's approval, the first two subloans requiring Bank financing, and,
subsequently, all those requiring Bank funds in excess of US$5.0 million
equivalent (free limit), will be submitted to the Bank for final approval.
(b) The Board of Directors will consist of five uembers, one
representative each of CB, the Ministries of Finance and of the Economy,
and the Superintendencies of Banks and Corporations. CB's representative
will be the Chairman of the Board and will be responsible for the
coordination between TU and CB's units in charge of managing the proceeds
of the Loan and of keeping the records of transactions carried out under
the Project.
(c) The Secretariat will consist of a Secretary General and a
number of professionals, some of whom will be working full time on the
Project while others will be hired temporarily for specific tasks. The
Secretary General will manage TU and will report to the Chairman of TU's
Board of Directors. In addition to the Secretary General, at least three
professionals will work full time in TU: one lawyer and two financial
experts. Instead of hiring a full-time lawyer, however, TU could hire a
legal firm that would assign to TU man-hours equivalent to a full-time
lawyer. This arrangement would provide the flexibility required to handle
all the different legal aspects of restructurings, which could exceed the
expertise of any individual lawyer.
(d) TU will take all the steps necessary to ensure that its
staffing remains both capable and sufficient in numbers to discharge the
responsibilities associated with the Loan. Both its managerial and
technical staff, including consultants, will be hired in accordance with
the Bank's guidelines for hiring consultants.



- 22 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 8
II.   Utilization of Funds
(a) The Loan's funds will be managed by CB, which will disburse
them at the request of TU.
(b) The proceeds of the Loan shall be used, in accordance with
the terms of the Project and Loan Agreements, to finance the procurement of
capital and intermediate goods, raw materials and services needed for the
normal operation, or expansion, of privately controlled industrial firms
that are currently in financial distress and which undergo a financial
restructuring that transforms them into fully viable enterprises.
(c) The economic activities that may receive financing shall
include manufacturing industry, mining and agroindustry.
(d) The proceeds of the Loan will be used to finance only
specific projects that are technically, legally, financially and
economically sound. Financing out of the proceeds of the Loan will be
provided only for the purposes, and to cover the types of expenditures,
stated in the Loan Agreement.
III.   Subloans Terms and Conditions
(a) Subloans will finance fixed investments (including
investments carried out in order to imprcve the beneficiaries' technical
capabilities) and permanent working capital. Subloan components financing
permanent working capital not directly associated with fixed investments
will have maturities ranging between Id months and five years, including
grace periods of up to one year. Subloan components financing fixed
Investment, and the permanent working capital directly associated with
these investments, will have maturities not exceeding 15 years, including
up to three years of grace. No subloan, however, will mature after the
Loan's maturity date.
(b) Subloans will be denominated in either US dollars or Chilean
pesos, depending upon the preferences of beneficiaries. Each subloan will
be intermediated by at least two commercia'l banks, which will make a
commitment to carry out the investment project to its completion jointly
and severally.
(c) Interest rates in both currencies, for both new and
outstanding subloans, will be adjusted every six months (on January 1st and
July lst) in order to reflect the changes occurred in the World Bank's
interest rate expressed in dollar terms. No adjustment, however, will be
made to the subloans' outstanding balances on account of the revaluations
eff cted in the dollar value of the World Bank's currency pool. The new
interest rates will be applied for the next six months.
(d) Interest on the principal amount of dollar-denominated
Subsidiary loans and subloans will be payable at a rate adjusted
semiannually, on each January 1 and July 1, according to the following
formula:
r$ =   [(1+B)(1.001)(1.005)] - 13 x 100
i$= {t(l   (1.03)1 - 1 x 100,}
100



- 23 -
ANNEX 2
Page   of 8
where:
r$ - the rate at which CB will onlend the proceeds of the
loan to participating commercial banks in dollar terms.
B  - the Bank's interest rate prevailing on the date the
subsidiary loan was made or, for the purpose of the
semiannual adjustments, on the date of such adjustment.
i$ - the rate at which commercial banks will onlend to
beneficiary firms in dollar terms.
(1.001) = the estimated cost of the Bank's commitment fees.
(1.005) = the estimated cost of operating TU.
(1.03) = the spread to commercial banks.
(e) Interest rates on peso-denominated subsidiary loans and
subloans will be expressed in real terms, calculated upon a principal
adjusted for local inflation in accordance with the Unidad de Fomento (UF),
which reflects the daily changes in the country's Consumer Price Index.
Real interest on peso-denominated subsidiary loans and subloans will be
payable at a rate adjusted semiannually, on each January 1 and July 1,
according to the following formula:
rch = { [(1+s /(1+ CPI)] - 1 1 x 100
ich = t                      - 1    x 100
100
where:
rch =  the real rate at which CB will onlend the proceeds of
the loan to participating commercial banks in peso
terms.
r$  -  the rate at which CB will onlend to participating
commercial banks in dollar terms.
i CPI - the annual rate of change in the US's Consumer Price
Index, calculated between April and September for the
January 1 adjustment, and between October and March
for the July 1 adjustment.
ich  =  the real rate at which commercial banks will onlend
to beneficiary firms in peso terms.
iS  - the rate at which commercial banks will onlend to
beneficiary firms in dollar terms.
(f) -CB shall review semiannually the formulae for the
determination and adjustment of interest rates on subsidiary loans and
subloans, exchange views with the Bank on the results of such review and,
if necessary, revise such formulae in a manner satisfactory to the Bank so



- 24 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 8
as to ensure that the interest rates on subloans determined thereby are
positive in real terms.
IV. Subproject Appraisal and Supervision
(a) TU will specialize in corporate workouts. For the purposes
of the Loan, it will review the proposals of restructuring presented by
potential beneficiaries in order to approve or disapprove requests of
financing. Subloan requests should include a "workout proposal' and its
associated investment project. The workout proposals would be based upcm a
"workout strategy" that would include: (a) a marketing plan, aimed at
increasing the firm's revenues, through emphasis upon the more profitable
products and customers, product redesign, quality and packaging
improvements, geographic coverage, etc; (b) a production plan, devised to
fill the needs resulting from the marketing plan, and which could include
measures ranging from curtailment of productive capacity ti a fuller
utilization or expansion of existing capacity; and (c) a finanLial workout
plan, devised to implement the preceding marketing and producticn plans.
The financial plan would typically include:  (a) streamlining of management
and administration; (b) the sale of unnecessary assets; (c) a reduction in
the firm's financial burden, accomplished through the use of any of the
instruments suitable for restructuring, or a combination of several of
them; (d) other measures to improve the firm's financial situation
(extended maturities, for instance); (e) an issue of new shares to mobilize
fresh capital, whenever possible; (f) a request for a subloan that could
include financing for free-standing permanent working capital, fixed
investment, or a combination of both; and (g) financial projections showing
the expected results of all these planned measures. Subloan requests
should also include an independent legal opinion, on terms satisfactory to
TU, stating that the proposed workout is legally viable, that no further
claims can be leveled against the firm in connection with its liabilities
at the moment of restructuring, and that the ownership of the company's
controlling interest is clearly defined (or that it will be so as a result
of the workout).
(b) In reviewing subloan requests, Tm will obtain from the
applicant firms a complete disclosure of all the information relevant for
the appraisal of the subproject, including information about the identity
and history of the company's owners. To proceed with the appraisal of an
application, audited financial statements, certified by external auditors
satisfactory to TU, will be requested, and beneficiary firms will be
contractually obliged to appoint external auditors satisfactory to TU.
(c) In appraising a subproject, TU will pay special attention to
ensure that:
Ci) The owners are bona-fide enterpreneurs, committed to
the success of the enterprise. If the firm's ownership is controlled by
commercial banks, the workout proposal must provide for the transfer of
such controlling ownership to private enterpreneurs within a three-year
period. Eligible firms should not have Governmental ownership (directly or
indirectly) in excess of 50Z of their equity capital, unless specific plans
are submitted to decrease such participation to less than 50X within a
five-year period.



- 25 -
ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 8
(ii) The managerial abilities of the firm's executives are
sufficient to undertake the tasks required by the plans included in the
"workout strategy."
(iii) The administration and organizational setup of the firm
are adequate to carry out the proposed 'workout strategy," and salaries and
wages are reasonable.
(iv) The company has either already sold, or is planning to
divest itself of, all assets not necessary for its industrial activities
as spelled out in the corresponding "workout strategy.
(v) The company does not have obligations, binding or
contingent, derived from debts of another enterprise, unless this other
company is a subsidiary and is included in the workout.
(vi) No funds financed with the Loan will be used for
repayment of existing obligations of the firm.
(vii) All expenditures financed with the proceeds of the Loan
are eligible in accordance with the Loan Agreement.
(viii) The subloan financed out of the Loan will rank
pari passu with other senior debts of the beneficiaries.
(ix) The firm's Financial Rate of Return (FRR) and Economic
Rate of Return (ERR) both are equal to, or exceed, 11% in real terms, after
taking into account the proposed investment subproject. The ERR will be
estimated =sing bordc= prices.
Cx) The projected debt-service-ratio (cash generation
divided by financial charges plus principal repayments) is no less than 1.0
in each and every year of the life of the project, and averages not less
than 1.2 during that period.
(xi) The projected current ratio (current assets divided by
short-term liabilities) is not lower, at any time, than 1.2, unless the
Bank agrees otherwise.
(xii) The initial long-term-debt-to-equity ratio does not
exceed 1.2.
(xiii) If the company is planning to borrow in foreign
exchange, it has a source of hard currency that allows it to service and
repay the debt.
(xiv) Cash-flow and other financial projections have been
elaborated taking into account the mandatory dividends established by
Article 79 of Law 18046 (Ley Sobre Sociedades Anonimas).
(xv) The company has considered in its financial plans the
contingent liabilities that could arise from the restructuring process. In
particular, if subordinated convertible instruments were used to



- 26 -
ANNEX 2
Page 6 of 8
restructure the firm's debt, a sinking fund should be established in order
to cover the cash outlays that would take place if the holders of these
instruments decided not to convert at maturity.
(xvi) For the purposes of estimating the current and
long-term-debt-to-equity ratios, the term 'debt' will include all
outstanding and contingent liabilities of the company with respect to
persons or entities other than its shareholders, excepting only those that
are subordinated in both service and repayment of principal. The term
"subordinated- will be used to identify those debts that are senior only
with respect to the claims of the shareholders. A debt will be
"subordinated in the service of debts- when it is serviced only after all
normal debts have been serviced, and then, only if the liquidity of the
firm is enough to service it while keeping it within the limits agreed on
in the Subloan Agreement (item xi). A debt will be "subordinited in
repayment of principal" when, in case of failure of the company, repayment
of its principal is effected only after all normal debts have been fully
repaid. The term -capital' will include all net claims of th3 firm's
shareholders, plus those of the holders of subordinated debts.
(d) TU will also make sure that the Subloan Agreements are in
accordance with the provisions of the Loan and Project Agreements.
V. Conditions of Disbursement
(a) All relevant agreements should have been entered into and
be binding, including, inter alia, existing debt restructuring agreements,
loan agreements for new debt included in the "workout strategy,-
shareholders agreements whereby shareholders agree to offer the necessary
pre-emptive rights needed to implement possible conversions, warrants, new
equity issuance, etc., as well as possible security agreements,
shareholders undertakings regarding actual or contingent comnitments to
provide financial support.
(b) Disbursements of the subloans should be made pari passu with
other disbursements forthcoming under the workout implementation.
(c) For each disbursement to take place, but after taking into
account such disbursement, the current ratio should be equal to or higher
than L.2, and the long-ter-to-equity ratio should be equal to or lower
than 1.2.
(d) All other disbursement conditions established in the Subloan
Agreement should have been complied with.
VI.   General Subloan Conditions
(a) Beneficiaries will present to TU quarterly financial
statements and annual audited financial statements.
(b) All transactions effected by the beneficiary with any
individual or company related to it through ownership should be at arm's
length.



- 27 -
ANNEX 2
Page 7 of 8
(c) All or any revenue-sharing arrangements entered into by the
beneficiary should be subordinated to payments to senior creditors.
(d) Liens and mortgages will be shared proportionately with the
subloan to ensure that it ranks pari passu with other senior debt.
(e) The beneficiary will not declare nor pay dividends in excess
of the minimum established by Article 79 of Law 18046 until the
investment/divestiture programs contained in the 'workout strategy" have
been carried out, and then only if, after taking into account such
dividends, the current ratio is equal to or higher than 1.2, the long-term-
debt-to-equity ratio is equal to or lower than 1.2 and reserves have been
set aside to cover the full redemption of outstanding convertible
instruments. Such dividends should be paid only out of current profits.
(f) Limits will be imposed upon investments and indebtedness not
included in the "workout strategy," and upon the incurrence of short-term
debt in absolute amounts and to maintain a current ratio not lower than
1.2.
(g) No prepayments of long-term debt will be effected unless
proportionate payment is also made to the subloan.
(h) Except in the ordinary course of business, the beneficiary
will not provide loans, advances or deposits to subsidiaries or other
entities whose ownership is in any way connected to it.
(i) No change in the beneficiary's by-laws ("Estatutos") will be
effected except with TU's approval.
ij)  If the beneficiary controls other enterprises, all these
provisions are to be applied mutatis-mutandis to the consolidated financial
statements.
(k) All other conditions contained in the Loan and Project
Agreements.
VII.   Supervision
TU will be responsible for supervising the disbursements of
subloans, ensuring that transactions between banks and beneficiaries with
respect to the Loan are conducted in an arm's-length fashion. To tbis end,
TU will review the documentation submitted for disbursement and will pay
periodic visits to the beneficiary's facilities to confirm that the
-workout strategy" is being implemented in accordance with the Subloan
Agreement. During the period of disbursement, these visits will be
realized quarterly, and, after disbursement, once every year. TU will
carry out at least one major formal review of each subproject per year, and
will send a copy of its results to the Bank. Participating commercial
banks will be required to maintain adequate records reflecting their
operations financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to submit
quarterly reports on the performance of the portfolio financed out of the
Loan. Banks will also present annual audited statements of account with
respect to the Loan's funds.



- 28 -
ANNEX 2
Page 8 of 8
VIII.   Procurement
TU will monitor closely the procurement of items to be financed
under the Loan, in order to make sure that the items are reasonably priced
and appropriate for their intended use.  Particularly, TU will ensure that
commercial banks require quotations from at least three qualified suppliers
for pieces of equipment or single procurement packages worth US$250,000
equivalent or more. Expenditures carried out to improve the beneficiary
firm technologically will be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
the Loan. Only the following types of expenditures, or such other
expenditures as may be agreed by the Bank, would be eligible for financing
as technology improvement expenditures:
(i) Research and development programs, carried out to
initiate or increase exports, or to improve production techniques, sub-
contracted to national or foreign technical research institutes or
equivalent agencies, or carried out in cooperation with overseas
agencies.
(ii) Training of Chilean technicians abroad in international
marketing or production techniques, for periods of up to one year, when not
included as part of a normal licensing arrangement.
(iii) Hiring of foreign technicians or consultants to work
with a company for up to one year.
(iv) Establishment of a laboratory and/or purchase of
ecuipment, laboratory supplies and instruments for quality control,
r-terials te.ting or product research.
Cv) Lump sum payments to purchase outright, and without
restrictions, the rights to utilize a new or modified production process or
to produce some new product patented by a foreign concern.
IX.   Amendments and Clarifications
Amendments to this policy statement may be made upon agreement
between CB and the Bank. In addition, the procedures to be used by CB or
TU in dealing with any subloans or investments of a type not previously
subject to agreements between the Bank and CB would be clarified through an
exchange of letters.
In case of conflict between this Statement and the Loan or the
Project Agreements, the provisions of the Loan Agreement and the Project
Agreement should prevail.



- 29 -
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT 
T-1
Table 1:   Finaicl Indicators of the Cbim Baldxg Systn
C:.Kdit    AdjustI  Risk      Risk    Portf.    Rlsk
Market    Equity/   Assets/   Aesets/  Sold/     Assets +
Share     IbN1mU    Port-    Adjusted Adjusted   Sold Prt/
Equity    Folio    EquLty   Equity    Adjusted
Equity
Intervened Barks       40.8       0.07       0.18     30.03      21.89     51.92
De Chile                22.1      0.04       0.12     54.76      39.06     93.83
Sant                   10.8       0.07      0.32      40.53      29.63    70.16
Cwx~epcLoci             4.7      -0.09      0.21    -28.53      -17.75    -46.24
Colocadora              2.0       0.65      0.14       2.65       2.57     5.22
Intternmcional          1.2       0.39       0.05      1.15       2.39     3.54
Category B Private      35.1      0.91       0.06      0.77       2.36     3.13
Credito                 6.1       0.80       0.05      0b2        3.18     4.00
SudAmhericLa            4.9       1.00      0.09       1.22       2.52     3.74
Trabajo                 3.8       1.00       0.07      0.97       1.89     2.87
-51F                    3.5       1.00      0.05       0.89       2.49     3.38
A. Edards               3.2       1.00       0.07      1.01       2.46      3A8
D. Hixm                3.0       1.00       0.6       0.58       2.16     2.74
Espanol-Chle            2.1       0.97       0.04      0.34       2.66     3.00
Osoirm                  2.0       1.00      0.10       0.75       2.57     3.32
Nacional.                1.9      0.96       0.08      0.74       2.33     3.06
MorKg  Flnarisa         1.3       1.00       0.06      0.66       1.43     2.10
Cooinental              1.1       0.04      0.05      12.64       0.00     12.64
Pad.fif                 0.8       0.83      0.02       0.27       3.05     3.32
IDmniLoU                0.6       0.51      0.05       0.66       4.65     5.31
0.3      1.00       0.03      0.25       0.00    O02
lrquico                 0.3       1.00      0.01       0.03       0.00     0.03
Sudm.ra                 0.2       0.93      0.08       022        1.34     1.56
Categry A Private       8.0       0.98      0.03       0.19       0.00     0.19
Del Estado             16.0       1.00     -0.03      -0.16       0.00    -0.16
Note - Adjusted Equity - N1ul equity - defiered wrlte-ofs.
Rk assets - PNcxwperfo1rg ssets + Interet accual but -y efevely
percived + gDOds xersed in py eo: as a resuJ of fimer-re - pzavsiog)
Sold Portfoio               assets slDd to Q.
CateDy A of ba*s izc1xJs 16 iiwtitotiom tha did ox sel portfolio to CIS



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
a=Lg
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Table2::    Allocation of the Financial System's Total Credit
A. Percent crqoultlon
Agriculture,                                                               Transport,
Ivestoc k,                          Sub-total                             warhouslng,                            Sub-Total        1f-
fishing     mlnIng    Manufacture   7radeables  Construction  Co_nrwo  Cam.                Utilities  Services   Mon-tradebles   Speciflod  I/  Total
1979     13.9         1.2        30.4          45.5           5.0          22.8       3.2               .1       12.3        43.4             11.0   .      0O.0
1980     12.4         1 *7       21.6           35.7          8.1          21.5       3.7               .2       17.0        50.5             1 3.         100.0
198I     10.6         1.7        16.8           29.1         11.1          18.5       2.7               .3       20.4        53.0             18.0         I-00     1
1982     11.0         2.3        16.6           29.9         10.8          15.5       2.5               .6       27.8        57.2              12.9        100.0    o
1983     12.2        2.1         16.5           30.8         10.8          16.6       3.0               .9       28.7        S9.2              9.9         100-0
(Sept} *
B. As percent of value added.
1979     60.3        4.0         45.1           37.5         36.5          43.0      19.5              -         12.2        22.7              -            33.7
1980     78.1        8.9         45.8           43-6         71.0          59.8      34.4              -         22.9        36.8              -            n.5
19i1     87.4        16.2        40.4           45.3         92.3         5I2       30.9              -         29.7        42.3              -            53.0
19R2    153.7        28.8        65.7           72.0        167.9          73.1      41.4              -         55.1        63.9              -            77.7
*/  include  consumptIlon crodit, that In 1982 represented 4.5% of total credit and 3.4% of GP.
Source of basilc data:   Credit cemositIon: Suparlntendancla de Bencos a Instituciones Flnanclures GOP
coositiont Banco Central do Chile.
IxE
q~~~~~~~ 



