Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 17163 ALB
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 7.5 MILLION
TO
ALBANIA
FOR A
PRIVATE INDUSTRY RECOVERY PROJECT
JANUARY 5, 1998
Private/Financial Sector Development
Albania, Croatia Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective November 21, 1997)
Currency Unit = Lek
Lek 145.6= US$
US$ 0.007= Lek
FISCAL YEAR
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGA           -     Albanian Guarantee Agency
CAS          -      Country Assistance Strategy
EBRD          -     European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ECA           -     Export Credit Agency
EU           -      European Union
FYR           -     Former Yugoslav Republic
IDA           -     International Development Association
IMF           -     International Monetary Fund
PAIS          -     Pre-arrival Intelligence System
RCB           -     Rural Commercial Bank
SDR          -      Special Drawing Rights
Vice President             Johannes Linn
Country Director           Arntraud Hartmann
Sector Leader              Gerhard Pohl
Program Team Leader        Onno Ruhl



Albani
Private Industry Recovery Project
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                            2
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators      2
B. Strategic Context                                                        2
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project                  2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                        2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices  4
C. Project Description Summary                                              5
1. Project components                                                5
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project     5
3. Benefits and target population                                    5
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                     5
D. Project Rationale                                                        7
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection         7
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other
development agencies                                                 8
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design          8
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                  8
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                       8
E. Summary Project Analyses                                                 9
1. Economic                                                          9
2. Financial                                                         9
3. Technical                                                         10
4. istitutional                                                      11
5. Social                                                            11
6. Environmental assessment                                          11
7. Participatory approach                                            12
F. Sustainability and Risks                                                 12
1. Sustainability                                                    12
2. Critical risks                                                    13
3. Possible controversial aspects                                    13



G. Main Credit Conditions                                                  13
1. Effectiveness conditions                                         13
2. Other                                                            13
H. Readiness for Implementation                                            13
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                           14
Annexes
Annex 1.     Project Design Summary
Annex 2.     Detailed Project Description
Annex 3.     Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4.     Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary
Annex 5.     Financial Summary
Annex 6.     Disbursement Arrangements
Table A.     Project Costs by Procurement Affangements
Table Al.    Consultant Selection Arrangements
Procurement Notes and Schedule
Table B.     Threshold for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C.     Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Annex 7.     Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8.     Documents in Project File
Annex 9.     Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10.    Country at a Glance
Map



Albania
Private Industry Recovery Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia
Albania/Croatia Country Unit
Date: January 5, 1998                                Program Team Leader: Onno Ruhl
Country Director: Arntraud Hartnann                  Sector Leader: Gerhard Pohl
Project ID: 51602      Sector: IR                   Program Objective Category: PV/EA
Lending Instument: SIL                              Program of Targeted Intervention:   [ ] Yes  [xl No
Project Financing Data                [  Loan    [x ] Credit   [I] Guarantee        [  Other ISpecify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount: SDR 7.5 million (US$ 10.25 million equivalent)
Proposed terms:                        [xl  Multicurrency   [   Single currency
Grace period (years): 10 years    [    Standard        [   Fixed           []    LlBOR-based
Variable
Years to maturity: 40 years
Commitment fee: 0.50% (less any
waiver)
Service charge: 0.75%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                             Local             Foreign            Total
Govenmnent                                                0.7                                  0.7
Cofinanciers                                                                10.0              10.0
IBRD
IDA                                                                         10.25             10.25
Other (specify)
Total       0.7               20.25              20.95
Borrower: Albania
Guarantor:
Responsible agency(ies): Albanian Guarantee Agency
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):   1998     1999     2000      2001     2002      2003   2004
Annual US$5.25 M   US$ 5 M    US$ 0  US$ 0    US$ 0
Cumulative US$5.25 M   US$10.25 M USS10.25 M US$10.25 M USS10.25 M
Project implementation period: 02/28/98 to 01/31/03 Expected effectiveness date: 02/28/98
Expected closing date: 01/31/03
OSD PAD Form: July 30, 1997



Page 2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The main objective of the project would be to foster a speedy revival of the private mnanufacturing sector
after its collapse as a consequence of the recent political instability. Currently, and in the foreseeable
future, the perceived country risk for both foreign and local commercial financiers is extremely high, which
could prevent them from providing financing for otherwise sound commercial transactions. A Political
Risks Guarantee Facility (PRGF) would mitigate the perceived risks that are preventing the private sector
from having access to commercial financing for productive transactions or from risking their own funds to
re-enter the market. In order to enable the provision of finance in the Albanian market to service
enterprises that are active in the market, they, and financial institutions providing them with credit, would
be given the opportunity to buy guarantees against country risk.' The PRGF would thereby prevent a
further drop of private sector activity. The key performance indicators to measure the Project Development
Objectives would be the level of production and employment in enterprises benefiting from guarantees.
Project output would be measured by the value of guarantees issued.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: P-6058 Date of latest CAS discussion: September 14, 1993
There is no current CAS for Albania. In response to the recent crisis in Albania, a recovery strategy paper,
Albania: Directions for Recovery and Growth; An Initial Assessment, was prepared by the World Bank,
the European Commission, and the European Bank of Reconstruction and Development, in consultation
with the IMF. One pillar of this strategy is the revival of economic activity in Albania. The restart of
private sector activity is the major component of this pillar, which hinges upon the availability of financing
for productive activities in the country. This project directly addresses the goals set out in the recovery
paper in this respect, by providing political risk guarantees for financiers of productive transactions in
Albania.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Impediments to Private Sector Development
Security and Political Risks: The security situation in the country is a central issue for both this project
and the overall World Bank portfolio in Albania. Security has improved significantly smce the Spring of
1997. Until recently, the environment did not allow to conduct business activity on any significant scale,
and, although security has been restored over most of the country, security risks, both real and perceived,
present a barrier for the revival of private sector activity even today. The Government has received support
from Italy and Greece to train and equip police, which has been beneficial. A UN Security Specialist is
tracking the efforts of the Government to restore security in Albania. There remain about 15 isolated gangs,
down from 30 in August, that fight for control over certain towns and key roads of transit, especially in the
north and north east of the country. These gangs have alienated the local population as people would like
to see the return of nonnalcy and safety. The Tirana-Durres corridor is the safest and most accessible area.
The areas near the Greek border are now fairly well under control during daylight hours. Given the current
efforts of the Government and the police, the UN specialist is of the view that the security could be restored
throughout the country in early 1998.
The recent crisis in Albania has severely affected the country's reputation as a place to do business. The
perceived risk of renewed chaos is very high, and will prove to be a major impediment to attracting foreign
' Guarantees will not be granted to cover transactions involving Albanian companies that fall under the definition
of a pyramid scheme as determined in accordance with the Law on Transparency.



Page 3
investment and foreign credit in the country if no efforts are made to mitigate these risks. As local
resources are limited, foreign investment and commercial credit are necessary to restart private sector
activity and create jobs in the Albanian economy. Restoring and maintaining security will only be a first
step in rebuilding confidence, and it will take time before trust in political and economic stability is gained.
Until then, investors will have to pay a risk premium on credit funds when doing business in Albania, if
they are able to obtain credit at all. In the early stages of the country's recovery, this premium could put
the cost of investing in Albania at a prohibitive level.
WeakLegal Framework. The legal framework in Albania has proven to be a major impediment to lending
in the past. From the point of view of the private banks, the collateral law and its implementation through
the courts do not provide sufficient comfort in case of default. There are no established procedures to
claim collateral and liquidate fixed assets. Ownership titles are not always respected or sufficient. The
ongoing restitution process has created confusion in this area as well, as people have claimed ownership of
land/real estate that had already been sold. In the past, private banks lending to foreign companies have
provided credit that was collateralized by assets located in the mother company's country.
Another weak point in the legal framework is the registration of companies. There is no central registry
where banks can verify the documents presented to them by companies wanting to open an account or
apply for credit. It is a known fact that "companies" can get falsified documents in a few days time.
Banks must therefore check every application closely, and run the risk of working with "fake" companies,
in which case they have no legal recourse in the event of default.
The lack of enforcement of customs collection has allowed illegal import activities to flourish which creates
unfair competition to those companies that bring in goods in the country according to the rules. This
problem is an important weakness in the country's legal framework which should be addressed urgently by
the Government so as to encourage legal business activities, crack down on illegal activities, and increase
budget revenues from import tariffs. The European Union has a Customs Assistance Mission to Albania
since June 1997. They have installed a Pre-arrival Intelligence System (PAIS) that establishes satellite links
between customs offices in Italy and Greece with Albanian customs, allowing to track goods and their
declared value. It is expected that PAIS will soon establish a link with Montenegro and FYR Macedonia as
well. The EU Customs Assistance Mission has also provided equipment and training to customs officials.
Benefits are already being recorded: in September, customs revenues were 160% of expected revenues.
The Availability of Credit: The Bank of Albania has set credit ceilings to control the money supply in the
Albanian economy so as to prevent inflation and promote stable macroeconomic conditions in the country.
In principle, the sources of local credit include the three state-owned banks, the National Commercial Bank,
Rural Commercial bank, and Savings Bank, and private commercial banks. The state-owned banks are in
bad shape, and were ineffective in channeling resources to sound business activities before the crisis.' Their
restructuring and liquidation/privatization have been recommended by the World Bank, and an action plan
is being put together by the Government in this view. It is thus likely that the state-owned banks will not
represent a significant source of credit to the private sector in the near future.
There are six private banks in Albania, the Italo-Albanian Bank, Tirana Bank, the Arab Albanian Islamic
Bank, Dardania Bank, the International Commercial Bank, and the National Bank of Greece. The first five
are incorporated in Albania with different levels of foreign participation, while the sixth is a branch of its
Greek parent. All operate on a fully commercial basis, while most of them use sound banking principles,
which is corroborated by the fact that their letters of credit have been accepted in the past by a number of
foreign commercial banks. While the volume of lending provided by these banks before the crisis was
' Even donor-financed credit-lines, such as the World Bank Agroprocessing Development Project line through
RCB, and the PHARE line through the Savings Bank, did not work.



Page 4
limited, as is their experience in the market, they are the most promising channel for commercial credit to
the private sector, especially that part of the private sector which is involved in foreign transactions and/or
based upon joint ventures with foreigners. These banks, including the branch of the National Bank of
Greece, are subject to the credit ceilings imposed by the Bank of Albania. The Italo-Albanian Bank has
almost reached its maximum lending limit and needs to attract foreign credit resources before it can resume
lending on any significant scale. It is likely that other private banks will face the same problem once
private sector activity and demand for credit are revived.
The capital and financial resources in the Albanian economy are limited. The credit ceilings are necessary
to prevent overheating the economy. However, private sector activity needs to have access to credit in
order to operate and grow after the crisis. Measures to attract foreign resources, including confirmation of
domestic credit instrments by foreign financial institutions, that would not create inflationary pressure in
the Albanian economy, could be used to restart and promote private sector activity in Albania.
Goverwnent Strategy
ParLiamentary elections were held in June/July, and a new Government was appointed at the end of July.
The Govermment has not yet had the opportmity to present a detailed strategy regarding the revival of
economic activity and private sector development. Based on the recovery paper which was presented to the
international donor community, the Government is developing a detailed strategy, in conjunction with the
preparation of the CAS, which is expected to be presented to the Board later this fiscal year.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
This project will address the issues listed above under "Political Risks" and "Availability of Credit".
Indeed, the PRGF will facilitate bringing in foreign financing in Albania, at a time when foreign financiers
and investors perceive the political risk to be extremely high. It is important to implement this project as
soon as possible as it will mitigate a problem that would otherwise prevent a speedy revival of the private
sector, that was the engine for growth in Albania prior to the crisis. Other sector issues, and in particular
the weak legal framework, require interventions in the medium-term, but are unlikely to provide immediate
effects in terms of preventing foreign investors to leave Albania and severely limiting local enterprises from
carrying on business transactions as a result of the crisis. The PRGF is therefore a key short-term action in
the area of private sector development in Albania. Keeping this intervention simple and focused will
contribute to its effectiveness.



Page 5
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Component               Categorv      Cost Inci.    % of    Bank-         % of
Contingencies   Total  financing    Bank-
(US_ $M)_            (  $M)   financug
Start-up capital for AGA          Local             0.7         3.3        0          0
Start-up / operational costs for AGA  Foreign       0.25        1.2       .25        2.4
through Year 2
Political Risks Guarantee Facility    Foreign        20         95.5      10.0       97.6
Total     20.95        100      10.25       100
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project is designed as a quick intervention to address an immediate threat to the private sector in
Albania as a consequence of the perceived risk of doing business in the country. This intervention can only
be effective if the Government continues to succeed in establishing and maintaining effective security in the
country. It will not aim at addressing any policy issue, as the sector in question was growing at a healthy
rate prior to the crisis, and the objective is to re-establish that growth momentum. Outstanding policy
issues will be addressed in subsequent operations.
3. Benefits and target population:
The project would help Albania to maintain its attractiveness as a place to do business. This would
increase its chances to preserve the roughly 135,000 jobs in the manufacturing sector -- close to one sixth
of formal employment in the country-- which depended on foreign partnerships prior to the crisis. The
target population of the project is the workers in those jobs, and possible new jobs that might be created in
the future.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The Government has set up the Albanian Guarantee Agency (AGA), a state-owned statutory corporation,
to manage the Political Risk Guarantee Facility (PRGF). The project would provide financial support to
AGA by backing up its guarantees with the IDA credit, thereby giving credibility to AGA and its
guarantees in the market place. AGA would issue guarantees to entities that finance productive activity in
Albania. Transactions would only be eligible for guarantees if they served a productive purpose, i.e. if they
generate productive activity in Albania. This would exclude straight trade finance. Based on contacts with
the private sector during project preparation, it is expected that most guarantees would be issued for: (i)
short to medium term bank loans for investment, imported inputs, or to finance working capital; (ii) lease of
capital goods; (iii) sale of capital goods on credit; (iv) short term exposure in the context of "facon" oT
processing arrangements'.
1 Many transactions in the private manufacturing sector in Albania are so-called "facon" operations, where foreign
enterprises enter into an arrangement with a local enterprise, usually without taking equity. The foreign enterprise
typically provides machinery, and unfimshed goods which are processed by the local enterprise and exported.
During the crisis, many foreign enterprises lost both their stock of unfinished goods (being processed) and their
machinery. Now, they are reluctant to re-enter Albania in view of the perceived risk of a repetition of these events.
Guarantees would cover the financial exposure taken by the foreign enterprise shipping unfinished goods to
Albania on a revolving basis, as these goods are usually processed in two to three weeks. This would allow the
guarantee to cover a multiple of its value in productive activity over a validity period of for example one year.



Page 6
The guarantees would cover a range of political risks, including civil commotion of the kind recently
experienced in Albania. AGA was created as a statutory corporation, all of the. shares of which are owned
by the Albanian Government. It will have a board of directors consisting of representatives of the
Government, the Bank of Albania and the private sector. The Managing Director of the Agency is
appointed by the Council of Ministers. Day-to-day management of the Agency would be in the hands of
the Managing Director.
The criteria for determining eligibility of guarantee applications, the form of guarantee contract and the
procedures for issuing guarantees would be set out in a detailed Operations Manual which would be agreed
between the Albanian Government and IDA and which could not be amended without the approval of both
AGA and IDA.
A first class commercial bank, incorporated outside of Albania, would be appointed by the Albanian
Govermnent as the "Agent Bank". Selection of the Agent Bank is being handled by a competitive tender
process which was accepted by the Bank. The Government identified a short list of candidate banks, which
were approved by the Bank, along with the Tenns of Reference. Six banks were invited to tender, with
four of them submitting proposals. The Government has prepared an evaluation of the proposals that the
Bank has reviewed and for which the Bank has given its no objection. The selected bank will shortly be
invited to negotiate the Agency Agreement with the Albanian Guarantee Agency. The Agency Agreement
must be satisfactory to the Bank. Selection of the successful bank was based on the capacity of the
institution and elements such as the utility of methods and estimated cost, as provided for in the Guidelines
(QCBS). The Agent Bank would provide credibility to the guarantees issued by the Albanian Guarantee
Agency by issuing irrevocable standby letters of credit in favor of the guarantee holders, fully backing up
the guarantee. The standby letters of credit would cover payment of a claim under the contract of
guarantee issued by AGA which (i) had been admitted by AGA, or (ii) successfully taken to arbitration by
the claimant-guarantee holder.
As security for the issue by the Agent Bank of standby letters of credit, an IDA credit would be disbursed
progressively into an escrow account held by the Agent Bank, as guarantees are issued. Once disbursed,
funds would remain in the escrow account to pay claims or to provide security for the issue of further
standby letters of credit for the life of the facility. The recommended life of the facility is five years, during
which period guarantees could be issued by AGA covering transactions involving a maximum exposure
period of three years.
In order to provide an incentive for the Government not to cause claims by interfering in guaranteed
transactions, funds remaining in the escrow account at the end of the facility, after payment of all claims,
would be available to the Government for the establishment of a guarantee facility in which IDA had no
interest. This would be subject to the PRGF never having been suspended by IDA for reasons other than
war or civil disturbance or civil commotion, and the total volume of claims not having exceeded US$ 1
million.
The use of the remaining funds for a new guarantee facility would be discussed at a formal review toward
the end of the commitment period of the PRGF. It is expected that at that time, AGA would have built up
significant institutional capacity, and would be well-placed to play a broadbased role as an export credit
and guarantee agency implementing a variety of guarantee facilities in support of Albanian exports. The
fornal review would serve to (i) assess whether the above-mentioned conditionality would have been met;
(ii) assess AGA's institutional capacity and any need for technical assistance in support of its new role; (iii)
agree on the main parameters of a possible new guarantee facility. This would ensure that any new
guarantee facility would continue to be well-managed and serve the development objectives of the project.
In such case, IDA would continue to support AGA's institutional development.



Page 7
The project's institutional and implementation arrangements as described above are essentially the same as
the ones applied in the Bosnia and Herzegovina Emergency Industrial Re-start Project (BA-PA-45820), but
there are several elements distinguishing this project from the one in Bosnia due to particular circumstances
in Albania: the mechanisms of providing cover have been modified to take into account the large number
of small facon or tolling arrangements, and the risk coverage is different to ensure that cover is effective in
circumstances similar to the events of March 1997, and reflecting other circumstances specific to both
countries. Additional prudential controls are being introduced to ensure that cover is not given in
dangerous geographical areas or in premises that are not adequately secure. Also, the inter-entity
arrangements that were necessary for the Bosnia project do not apply here. Finally, the proposed project in
Albania does not include a critical imports component, and a small portion of the credit is being used to
finance AGA's start-up operating costs.
Some foreign consultants with specialized skills would be employed for a brief period to provide technical
assistance to the staff of AGA in preparing the Operations Manual, processing applications and marketing
the facility to potential guarantee holders. In addition, AGA will likely engage the services of three or four
local persons as Individual Consultants to help it assess applicants' proposals, operational security
arrangements, environmental feasibility, and to provide legal and arbitration support. These are expected
to be low cost and short-term services arrangements, whereby the Bank would review Terms of Reference
and AGA's procurement and selection procedures, the terms of employment, etc., and provide no-
objections as indicated in the enabling documentation. Accounting and audit assistance will likely be
procured using the Least Cost Selection method. AGA will also purchase a limited amount of office
equipment, a vehicle and miscellaneous operating supplies and office services. These purchases will be
very small value, based on obtaining quotations from qualified suppliers in the market using National
Shopping procedures acceptable to the Bank. If needed, the Credit will also finance initial AGA operating
expenses until the guarantee facility gets underway.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
A traditional line of credit operation was considered as an alternative. This was rejected for the following
reasons: (i) under the prevailing circumstances in the country, it would be hard to justify a project concept
that would require the Government to take commercial risks in the financial sector; and (ii) the PRGF
project design generates a more sustainable result: genuine commercial financing links which can survive
beyond the life of the project without further Government or IDA intervention, assuming that the political
situation will continue improving. Consideration was also given to supporting the PRGF with an IDA
guarantee (which is expected to become available as an instrument in the near future). Under the
circumstances in Albania, however, it was decided that it was essential to pass the full concessionality of
the IDA credit to the country, so that it could serve the productive purpose of financing the operation costs
of AGA and increasing the size of the PRGF. In addition, as stated in the IDA guarantees paper, a facility
covering a large number of smaller transactions is more effectively covered by a credit, which prevents the
need for a direct call on IDA for even the smallest clain.



Page 8
2. Major relatedprojects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing
and planned):
Sector issue                   Project          Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
(Bank-financed rojects only)
Implementation   Development
Progress (IP)    Objective
(DO)
Bank-financed
Line of Credit                     Agroprocessing                U               U
Development Project
Other development agencies
USAID - Development of small and    Small and Medium
medium sized enterprises - Regional  Sized Enterprise
Business Centers                    Development Agency
(SMEDA)
USAID - Line of Credit              Albanian American
Enterprise Fund
KfW - Line of Credit               FEFAD
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The proposed operation has design features similar to operations in Bosnia and Herzegovina (Emergency
Industrial Re-start Project, BA-PA45 820), Moldova (Pre-export Guarantee Facility, 3851-MD), and
Ukraine (Pre-export Guarantee Facility Report, P-6954-UA). The lessons learnt in the early stages of
implementation of the Bosnia operation have been particularly important in finalizing the design of the
PRGF in Albania, as both operations are addressing a post-conflict situation. The main lesson is to root
project preparation firmly into a survey of the target market and build on the survey's results and
subsequent contacts with the private sector to develop a strong database of prospective clients for the
facility. In terms of lessons learned from other operations in Albania, the project design reflects the
experience that lines of credit through the state banks are generally not effective, while lines of credit
through private banks are more appropriately funded from non-Government-guaranteed soulces.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Government of Albania has recognized that the recent crisis damaged Albania's image as a place to do
business, and acknowledged the importance of private sector activity and foreign financial involvement for
the country's economic growth. An intervention that would support local businesses, help improve
Albania's image in the eyes of foreign investors and financial institutions, and speed up the return of
foreign investors in the country is one of the Government's highest priorities. The Government's speedy
preparation of the project, including the establishment of AGA, has demonstrated its clear commitment to
the project.
As noted in Section E 7 (Participatory Approach), the Project Team consulted with the private sector,
including private banks, and these discussions clearly indicated a strong demand from private investors
and financiers in Albania for the guarantee facility. Furthermore, the guarantee will complement a credit
line to the local private banks financed by the EBRD.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
IDA's participation in this project addresses the country's lack of credibility in the eyes of foreign investors
and financial institutions as a result of the crisis in two ways: (i) working with and supervising AGA,
ensuring transparency, and establishing the procedures and rules for issuing guarantees; and (ii) providing



Page 9
finance to back-up guarantees issued by AGA. The financial leverage of IDA's participation will be
enhanced by the revolving nature of the PRGF, which will allow funds to support several rounds of
transactions.
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
[ I Cost-Benefit Analysis:    [ ] Cost Effectiveness Analysis:
[x] Other - Market Selection
Since the commercial risk in the guaranteed transaction would not be guaranteed by AGA, and the project
would be fully demand-driven (first-come, first-served), the market would select the transactions to be
guaranteed. No further economic analysis would be required.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
(1)   Income of the Albanian Guarantee Agency
Income of AGA would derive from fee income charged to guarantee holders. A matrix of rates for
guarantees has been developed and is included in the Operations Manual, which takes account of the length
of tenure of the guarantee, the type of transaction, and the presence of a local bank guarantee of the
obligation covered by the political risk guarantee. Guarantee fees will range from 1% per annum to 2% per
annum on outstanding liabilities. Income from this source will be in excess of operating expenses of AGA
(see Annex 5). Any income in excess of operating expenses will be available for additional guarantee
capacity. Interest on funds lodged in the escrow account and interest thereon will be available for AGA
expenses, if needed, and additional guarantee capacity.
(2)    Operating expenses of AGA
Fixed costs of AGA will consist of salary payments to the managing director and a small staff consisting of
two or three underwriting and marketing personnel, an office manager, and a driver. There will also be
rental for office space and office operating costs. Variable costs consist principally of Agent Bank fees.
Capital expenses are limited to a motor vehicle, computers and other office equipment.
(3)    Inplications for the Government budget
Apart from obligations relating to re-payment of an IDA credit, there are no implications for the Albanian
budget. Guarantees issued by AGA are fully backstopped by an irrevocable standby letter of credit of a
first class commercial bank which, in turn, is fully covered by cash lodged in the escrow account. Except
for the start-up period, operating expenses of AGA will be covered by income from issuing guarantees and
interest on IDA and other donor funds in the escrow account. IDA funds will cover AGA's start-up
operating expenses.
(4)    Financial controls
The Albanian Govermnent authorizes the Agent Bank to draw IDA funds after receipt of a request from
AGA to issue a standby letter of credit. Funds can only be withdrawn from the escrow account during the
lifetime of the facility by the Agent Bank and then only to pay valid claims under the standby letter of
credit. Interest income on funds lodged in the escrow account can be withdrawn for operational expenses
of AGA, but only with the approval of IDA. Fees from issuing guarantees are available to AGA at any
time for operational expenses.



Page 10
(5)    Stop-loss provision
In order to limit the potential for large losses due to claims under the PRGF, IDA will have the right to
suspend issuance of new guarantees by AGA when a claim occurs. This will not prevent claims under
guarantees already issued, but it would stop AGA from "insuring a burning house". In addition, as such
suspension would result in the Government not having access to the funds remaining in the escrow account
upon expiration of the PRGF (see C 4), this suspension right will create a strong disincentive for the
Government to cause claims.
Fiscal impact:
n/a
3. Technical:
The function of AGA is to provide guarantees against what are generically known as "political risks".
These risks would be specified in a guarantee contract, using definitions that are well-established in the
market, and have proven to be acceptable to prospective guarantee holders in the implementation of a
similar project in Bosnia and Herzegovina (see D 3). The risks covered would be the following:
f  0  Inconvertibiity or Inability to Transfer. This would include coverage for losses arising
rom the introduction by the Government of any restrictions on the conversion of local currency into foreign
exchange or the transfer of foreign exchange out of Albania. This coverage would also include protection
against the Government's failure to permit the free conversion of local currency into foreign exchange.
However, this coverage would not grant the guarantee holder the right to convert local currency into foreign
exchange at a guaranteed future exchange rate.
*     Cancellation of Licenses and Restrictions on _mport and Export. This would include
coverage for losses arising from the cancellation or non-renewal of an import or export license by the
Government or the imposition by the Government of restrictions on the import into Albania of working
capital inputs or the export from Albania of outputs which were not previously subject to restriction.
*      Lmposition or Increase of Import or Export Taxes. This would include losses arising from
the imposition by the Government of new or increased tax, levy or duty relating to the import or the export
of goods specifically identified as being part of the covered transaction. It would not cover losses as a
consequence of increases in general taxes such as VAT and corporate or personal income tax.
*     Expropriation. This would cover losses caused by expropriation by the Government of
sums due under a guaranteed transaction, or funds held on deposit in Albania for payment of such sums, or
property or assets of the local enterprise involved in the transaction.
*      Seizure of Goods. Prevention of Sale, or Prevention of Export. This would include losses
arising from the taking and holding by the Government of goods specifically identified as being part of the
covered transaction for reasons other than ensuring public health, safety, welfare and protection of the
environment.
*      Interference with the Carriage of Goods. This would include coverage against interference
by the Government with carriage or storage of the goods involved in the covered transaction.
*     War or Civil Disturbance. This would include coverage against losses arising from war or
civil disturbance in Albania. Other types of force majeure -- e.g., flood, drought, other natural disasters,
war in neighboring transit countries, etc. - would not be covered.



Page 1 1
Civil Commotion. This would include serious domestic disturbance or series of domestic
disturbances, arising from persons or groups of persons acting together with a common objective or
purpose resulting in broadly based turbulence and disorder. This risk was added to ensure effective cover
against a possible repetition of the events of March 1997.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agency: Albanian Guarantee Agency
b. Project management: Ministry of Finance
The quality and transparency of the management of the PRGF by AGA will be crucial for the credibility of
the facility. In large part, this will be addressed by the preparation of a detailed Operations Manual, which
will leave very little discretionary decision-making power with the staff of AGA. To reinforce this,
exceptions to the rules set forth in the Operations Manual will require the consent of both AGA, and IDA.
In addition, to ensure quality project management from the start, guarantees issued by AGA will be subject
to prior review by IDA until sufficient experience will have been built up. Finally, to give non-Albanian
guarantee holders comfort even in a worst case scenario, the guarantee contracts will be subject to
arbitration outside Albania and governed by English law. Albanian law will govern contracts between
AGA and Albanian entities. These measures, together with the financial credibility provided by the
involvement of the Agent Bank, have proven in Bosnia and Herzegovina to add up to an instrument with
strong credibility in the market place.
5. Social:
n/a
6. Environmental assessment:  Environmental Category [ A   [x] B   []C
T-he main environmental concern associated with this project is that guarantees could support importing
environmentally hazardous inputs, the production of environmentally hazardous outputs, and
environmentally hazardous activities. The types of transactions that foreign investors have carried out in
Albania in the past have not been environmentally hazardous, and the project is expected to support mainly
existing production facilities.
To ensure that no guarantee would be available to support importing environmentally hazardous inputs and
the prsduction of environmentally hazardous outputs, AGA will be provided with a list of products and
transactions that do not meet Bank and/or Albanian environmental requirements. During supervision of the
project, the Bank would promptly notify AGA of any changes in the Bank's environmental regulations
specifically regarding pesticides and industrial chemicals. The sub-projects would have to comply with
local environmental laws, rules and regulations in force at that time, as set forth in the Operations Manual,
during the whole period of operation of the project. AGA will also be required to employ a person
independent of AGA, the Albanian Govenument and the investor or Albanian partner, who has relevant
professional skills and expertise, to certify that goods included in an application are not on the World Bank
list mentioned above.



Page 12
7. Participatory approach:
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
The primary beneficiaries of the project are the foreign partners of enterprises in Albania. A survey of
foreign enterprises active in Albania was conducted in June/July 1997 to identify their needs and interest in
continuing business activities in Albania. Interviews of foreign business people were conducted in Albania
during the project's identification and preparation and appraisal missions to gather specific information on
the types of transactions that they are planning to carry out (sector, size, financing needs, risks). This
dialogue has enabled the Project Team to tailor the project design to fit the private sector's needs.
b. Other key stakeholders:
Local and foreign banks: Issues specific to the availability of credit in Albania were identified during
meetings with representatives of the banking sector. As a result the project allows confinnation of
domestic credit by foreign banks, which will greatly enhance the role of local private banks in financing
international transactions.
Investors unions: Contacts with investors associations and unions, both local and foreign (Italian and
Greek) provided access to a wide number of foreign investors and enterprises in Albania, ensuring that the
Project Team covered a wide array of sectors and transactions that involve foreign investors and local
Albanian partners.
Export Credit Agencies (ECAs): Contact was established with the Italian and Greek Export Credit
Agencies, which are the two ECAs that are most likely to be present in the market. Opportunities for risk
sharing and co-guaranteeing business transactions are being explored with both organizations. They are
currently off-cover for Albania, and a political risk guarantee facility backed up by the World Bank could
induce them to re-enter the market.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The project aims directly at allowing the private sector to build business links on a fuUy commercial basis.
If the underlying transactions are successful, this will help build a viable private sector which is not
dependent on official assistance or special programs. The fact that the project will be based on market
selection only will ensure that the result is fully sustainable.



Page 13
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column ofAnnex 1):
Risk                     Risk Rating      Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1, cell "from Outputs to Objective"
Private financiers not prepared to bear    S             Project design allows for cover of
commercial risk of transactions                          many types of transactions so that
the private sector can minimize
commercial risks through the
structure of the transaction
Annex 1, cell "from Components to Outputs"
Slow re-establishment of security          S             The Albanian Guarantee Agency's
underwriting capacity will be limited
to areas where security has been
restored.
Overall Risk Rating S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Risk                   Type of Risk Rating  Risk Minimization Measure
Risk               _
Occurrence of civil commotion               G          s      None
Type of Risk - S (Social), E (Ecological), P (Pollution), G (Governance), M (Management capacity), 0 (Other)
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
G: Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
Execution of an Agency Agreement between the selected Agent Bank and AGA, acceptable to IDA.
2. Other:
The Government will have access to funds remaining in the escrow account at the end of the facility only if
the PRGF has never been suspended by IDA for reasons other than war or civil disturbance, or civil
commotion, and that the total volume of claims have not exceeded US$ 1 million (see C 4).
H. Readiness for Implementation
[ I The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation. [xl Not applicable.
[x] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of project
implementation.
[x] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[x] The following items are lacking and are discussed under credit conditions (Section G): Agency
Agreement (under negotiations)



Page 14
L Compliance with Bank Policies
[xl This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Program Team Leader: Onno Ruhl
Sector Leader: Gerhard Pohl
Country Director: Amtraud Hartmann



Annex 1
Project Design Summary
Albania: Private Industry Recovery Project
Narrative Summary       Key Performance Indicators   Monitoring and Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                          (Goal to Bank Mission)
*  Revival of private      *  Increase in production    *  Economic data          *  Generate sustainable
economic activity          and number of jobs                                     growth
Project Development                                                               (Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 *  Level of production and   *  Gather data on         *  Re-establish pre-crisis
*  Quick resumption of        jobs in enterprises         enterprises during          momentum in private
productive activity in     benefiting from             supervision of project     sector development
private industry,          guarantees                 implementation
particularly in
transactions involving
foreigners
Outputs:                                                                          (Outputs to Objective)
*  Commercial financing    *  Value of issued          *  Monitor guarantee       *  Facilitate the availability
for productive activity    guarantees                  activity                    of commercial finance
for private enterprises
engaging in productive
___ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ _  __ __ __ __ __ __ _ _ _   _transactions



Annex 2
Private Industry Recovery Project
Project Description
Project Component 1, Start-up capital of the Albanian Guarantee Agency - US$ 0.7 million (total cost of
component)
Albania will contribute US$ 0.7 million as issued and paid-in capital for AGA.
Project Component 2, Start-up Costs of the Albanian Guarantee Agency - US$ 0.25 million (total cost of
component)
Although AGA is expected to be self-financing, AGA's initial start-up costs covering capital expenditures and
operating and administrative expenses for its first year or so of operation will be covered by grant funding, or if
necessary, by credit funds. This is to ensure that resources will be available for AGA to staff itself and start its
operations even if guarantees are not issued immediately upon effectiveness. If necessary, credit funds will also be
available to help finance AGA's initial operating expenses, including expenses such as salaries, office rent and
furnishing, equipment servicing, utilities, consultant and support services, consumables and communications. It is
expected that the credit would finance e.g., 100% of such expenses for the initial six months, 75% for the next six
months and 50% for the following twelve months. Government funds or fee/interest income would be expected to
finance the rest of the AGA operations or, if available, replace the credit funding on an accelerated schedule.
Project Component 3, Political Risks Guarantee Facility - US$ 20 million (total cost of component)
The project involves the issue of guarantees covering certain non-commercial risks to entities that have financial
exposure in Albania where that financial exposure is related to a productive activity. Guarantees are issued by an
Albanian statutory corporation owned by the Albanian Government, to be known as the Albanian Guarantee
Agency or AGA. AGA would not grant cover to transactions involving an Albanian company that falls under the
definition of a pyrarmd scheme as determuned in accordance with the Law on Transparency.
To give credibility to guarantees issued by AGA, the International Development Association will provide a credit
of the equivalent of US$ 10 million to the Albanian Government. As guarantees are issued, these funds will be
placed in escrow with a commercial bank incorporated and carrying on business outside Albania, to be known as
the Agent Bank. The Agent Bank is being selected following a competitive tender process.
Whenever a guarantee is issued by AGA, the Agent Bank will provide the beneficiary of the AGA guarantee with
an irrevocable standby letter of credit. The Agent Bank will hold the funds in escrow until liability under the
guarantee runs off. A standby letter of credit will cover the payment of a claim under an AGA guarantee which (i)
has been admitted by AGA, or (ii) has been successfully taken to arbitration by a guarantee holder. In this manner
a beneficiary of an AGA guarantee will have the security of a further guarantee from a commercial bank of good
standing outside Albania, and knowledge that there are funds available to pay a claim.
It is expect  that additional funds will be made available from other donors' sources boosting the total available
guarantee funds to US$ 20 million equivalent.
Funds will be drawn under the IDA credit and donor contributions progressively as guarantees are issued.
However, when liabilities under a guarantee which led to the drawdown of the credit and donor funds run off, the
amounts will remain in the escrow account and will be available to be used by the Agent Bank as security for the



issue of furtier standby letters of credit backing up new guarantees.
Subject to the project having been implemented in a satisfactory manner, funds from the IDA credit and other donor
sources will be available to Albania at the end of the project for the establishment of a guarantee facility in which
IDA would have no interest. The use of the remaining funds for a new guarantee facility would be discussed at a
formal review toward the end of the commitment period of the PRGF. It is expected that at that time, AGA would
have built up significant institutional capacity, and would be well-placed to play a broadbased role as an export
credit and guarantee agency carrying out a variety of guarantee facilities in support of Albanian exports. The
fonnal review would serve to (i) assess whether the project conditionality (see below) would have been met; (ii)
assess AGA's institutional capacity and any need for technical assistance in support of its new role; (iii) agree on
the main parameters of a possible new guarantee facility. This would ensure that any new guarantee facility would
continue to be well-managed and serve the development objectives of the project. In such case, IDA would continue
to support AGA's institutional development.
Structure of IDA Credit Agreement and other security documents
There is a Development Credit Agreement between IDA and Albania and a Project Agreement between AGA and
IDA.
The Development Credit Agreement requires the Albanian Government, through AGA, to establish an escrow
account with the Agent Bank, and defines the purposes for which funds placed into the escrow account may be
used, namely to backstop the issue of standby letters of credit. The Agent Bank is permitted to use the funds to pay
a valid claim under a standby letter of credit, but no withdrawals from the escrow account are permitted for any
other purpose until the end of the guarantee facility of five years. Interest income from funds in the escrow account
will also be available to backstop the issue of further guarantees and to cover operational costs of AGA, if required.
IDA has the right to suspend disbursements covering new commitments of AGA if (i) the Government is in arrears
on its debt service payment to the IBRD and/or IDA and loan disbursements have been suspended, (ii) there is a
breach of the Project or Agency Agreement, or (iii) a payment for a claim is made by the Agent Bank to a guarantee
holder using IDA or donor funds. However, no suspension would affect the obligation of IDA to disburse funds for
guarantees issued by AGA prior to the suspension.
The Project Agreement is between AGA and IDA. It requires AGA to carry out its functions with due diligence
and efficiency using appropriate administrative and financial practices. It also requires AGA to enter into an
agreement with the Agent Bank to carry out the purposes of the project, and to issue guarantees that substantially
conform to standard documents and procedures set out in the Operations Manual. AGA is also required to
maintain accounts of its financial dealings, have these accounts audited in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles, furnish regular reports to IDA of its operations, and participate in reviews and evaluations with IDA of
the operations of the project.
Covered Transactions
Transactions would only be eligible for guarantees if they served a productive purpose, i.e. if they generate
productive activity in Albania. This would exclude straight trade finance. Based on contacts with the private
sector during project preparation, it is expected that most guarantees would be issued for: (i) short to medium term
bank loans for investment, imported inputs, or to finance working capital; (ii) lease of capital goods; (iii) sale of
capital goods on credit; (iv) short term exposure in the context of "facon" or processing arrangements'. Based on
l Many transactions in the private manufacturing sector in Albania are so-called "facon"' operations, where foreign enterprises enter
into an arrangement with a local enterprise, usually without taking equity. The foreign enterprise typically provides machinery, and
unfinished goods which are processed by the local enterprise and exported. During the crisis, many foreign enterprises lost both
their stock of unfinished goods (being processed) and their machinery. Now, they are reluctant to re-enter Albania in view of the
perceived risk of a repetition of these events. Guarantees would cover the financial exposure taken by the foreign enterprise shipping



market surveys during project preparation, it is expected that there would be strong demand for coverage from the
textile, footware, construction and food processing industries.
Risks Covered
The following risks will be covered under the guarantees issued by AGA:
Inconvertibilitv or Inabilitv to Transfer. This would include coverage for losses arising from the introduction by the
Government of any restrictions on the conversion of local currency into foreign exchange or the transfer of foreign
exchange out of Albania. This coverage would also include protection against the Government's failure to permit
the free conversion of local currency into foreign exchange. However, this coverage would not grant the guarantee
holder the right to convert local currency into foreign exchange at a guaranteed future exchange rate.
Cancellation of Licenses and Restrictions on Import and Export. This would include coverage for losses arising
from the cancellation or non-renewal by the Government of an import or export license or the imposition by the
Government of restnctions on the import into Albania of working capital inputs or the export from Albania of
outputs which were not previously subject to restriction.
Imposition or Increase of Import or Export Taxes. This would include losses arising from the imposition by the
Government of new or increased taxes, levies or duties relating to the inport or the export of goods identified as
part of the covered transaction. It would not cover losses as a consequence of the imposition of or increases in
general taxes such as VAT and corporate or personal income tax.
Expropriation. This would cover losses caused by expropriation by the Government of sums due under a
guaranteed transaction, or funds held on deposit in Albania for payment of such sums, or property or assets of the
local enterprise involved in the transaction.
Seizure of Goods. Prevention of Sale. or Prevention of Export. This would include losses arising from the taking
and holding of inputs or outputs by the Government for reasons other than ensuring public health, safety, welfare
and protection of the environment.
Interference with the Carriage of Goods. This would include coverage against interference by the Government with
carriage or storage of the goods involved in the covered transaction.
War or Civil Disturbance. This would include coverage against losses arising from war or civil disturbance in
Albania. Other types offorce majeure -- e.g., flood, drought, other natural disasters, war in neighboring transit
countries, etc. -- would not be covered.
Civil Commotion. This would include serious domestic disturbance or series of domestic disturbances, arising from
persons or groups of persons acting together with a common objective or purpose resulting in broadly based
turbulence and disorder. This risk was added to ensure effective cover against a possible repetition of the events of
March 1997.
The political risk guarantee facility does not cover losses arising from the failure of the commercial venture or the
default or bad faith by either party.
unfinished goods to Albania on a revolving basis, as these goods are usually processed in a period of two to three weeks. This would
allow the guarantee to cover a multiple of its value in productive activity over a validity period of for example one year.



Exclusions, warranties and covenants
There are a number of circumstances where, notwithstanding the occurrence or appearance of the occurrence of a
guaranteed risk, AGA will not be obliged to pay a claim. The most important of these are:
(i)    if there is an unresolved dispute between the guarantor holder and an Albanian partner relevant
to the covered risks;
(ii)   if the loss was insured or insurable under marine risk insurance or was otherwise insured;
(iii)  if the loss was caused by or was under the control of the guarantee holder;
(iv)   if the loss arises from a non discriminatory official measure of general application of the kind
that governments normally take in the public interest for the specific purpose of regulating
economic activity ensuring public health, safety or welfare, or protecting the environment;
(v)    if the guarantee holder has failed to disclose any information or has been guilty of
misrepresentation which is material to the covered risks or the guaranteed transaction;
(vi)  if the guarantee holder fails to comply with the laws of Albania.
In addition, a guarantee holder must covenant and agree with AGA:
(i)   to use reasonable care and exercise reasonable skill to avoid or minimize loss;
(ii)   comply with environmental laws of Albania;
(iii)   not assign its rights under the guarantee without the prior consent of AGA;
(iv)   provide notice to AGA of the occurrence of an event likely to cause a loss;
A guarantee holder must promise to AGA:
(i)   that it has disclosed and will continue to disclose to AGA all information material to the
guaranteed risks;
(ii)   that all permits and approvals required from Albanian authorities to perform the guaranteed
transactions have been obtained; and
(iii)  that it will comply with all applicable Albanian laws.
The consequence to a guarantee holder of failure to comply with the requirements set out in the above paragraphs,
if such failure to comply is serious and material to a guaranteed risk, would be that AGA would not be obliged to
make a claim payment.
Appointment and role of the Agent Bank
The Agent Bank is selected following a tender process in which the Albanian Government invites a number of
banks to tender. The criteria for selecting an Agent Bank, once its overall quality and credit rating has been
established according to the terms of the invitation to tender, is firstly the effectiveness of the operational
procedures for fulfilling its role as Agent Bank, secondly the return guaranteed for funds invested in the escrow
account, and thirdly the level of fees and charges proposed for the role of Agent Bank. A process of evaluation of
tenders is undertaken before selection of the appropriate bank.
The role of the Agent Bank can be summarized as follows:
(i)   to issue standby letters of credit at the request of AGA to cover the liabilities assumed by the
AGA guarantees;
(ii)   to receive the proceeds of the IDA credit and other donor funds which act as security to the
Agent Bank for liabilities assumed under the standby letters of credit;
(iii)  to pay interest on funds lodged in the escrow account in accordance with
pre-agreed modes of investment;



(iv)   to keep records of amounts available from drawn IDA and other donor funds and guarantee
liabilities that run off in order to deternine the overall amount of guarantee availability;
(v)   to reserve guarantee availability for particular transactions when requested by AGA;
(vi)  to pay claims upon production by a guarantee holder of a letter by AGA
admitting a claim, or an arbitration award in favor of the guarantee holder;
(vii)  to furnish monthly reports to AGA of the number and value of guarantees and standby letters of
credit issued, their expiry dates, amounts in the escrow account and other accounts, the amount
of guarantee availability, and claims paid or under arbitration.
AGA and the Agent Bank are required under the Project Agreement to enter into an agency agreement which
reflects the functions set out above and that imposes legal obligations upon the Agent Bank.
The Agent Bank will charge service fees for perforning the functions described above. These service fees will be
paid by AGA out of fees it receives from guarantee holders. The basis upon which the Agent Bank charges fees is
set out in its tender for the role of Agent Bank. The Agent Bank will receive a substantial benefit from receipt of up
to US$ 20 million in the escrow account, and this benefit should be taken into account by the Agent Bank when
setting fees for performing its function as Agent Bank.
Structure of AGA
The Albanian Guarantee Agency or AGA is a statutory corporation owned by the Government of Albania. Its
function includes administering the political risks guarantee facility. AGA has a board of directors and a staff
consisting of at least the following personnel:
Managing Director
Underwriting Manager
Marketing Manager
Office Manager
Interpreter and translator
The Board is appointed by the Minister of Finance except for one member appointed by the Bank of Albania, one
member appointed by the Minister of Privatization and Economy. It is comprised of representatives of both
government and the private sector. Government representatives come from relevant ministries, including the
Ministry of Finance. The function of the Board is to set policy within the framework of the Operations Manual
agreed between the Albanian Government, IDA and AGA. The Board also has the power to appoint and remove
the Managing Director and to set his salary and conditions of his employment.
The Managing Director is a Board member, and is appointed by the Minister of Finance. The Managing Director,
on behalf of the Board, has the overall responsibility of managing AGA. The Managing Director appoints and
removes staff. The terms and conditions of the staffs employment, including remuneration, is determined by the
Board.
The Marketing Manager has the responsibility of disseminating information about the facility both within and
outside Albania. The Underwriting Manager has the responsibility of ensuring that applications comply with the
criteria set out in the Operations Manual, preparing applications for approval by the Managing Director, and
submitting applications to IDA and the Agent Bank. The Office Manager would have the responsibility of
maintaining a filing system, bookkeeping, and generally ensuring that the office runs efficiently and smoothly.
There is a requirement that the capacity to communicate both verbally and in writing in the Italian, Greek and
English languages be available at AGA. It would be preferable if all staff could speak English. Selection of
personnel will take this into account. However, it may be necessary to employ additional staff on a part or full time
basis to undertake these duties.



Guarantee fee
An applicant for a guarantee would be required to pay a fee for the benefit of the guarantee. This fee would be
calculated on the amount of exposure under the guarantee. The rate charged on the amount of the exposure would
vary between 1% per annum and 2% per annum according to criteria set out in the Operations Manual. These
criteria would result in a lower rate for short term transactions and for transactions guaranteed by an Albanian
bank. A schedule of premium rates is part of the Operations Manual.
Where a transaction is for a longer period than one and a half years, the guarantee holder pays premium for one
year in advance only. At the end of a year the guarantee holder will have the option of continuing cover for an
additional one year by payment of premium for that year. If premium is not paid for any subsequent year, the
guarantee agreement with that guarantee holder will lapse, and the guarantee availability will be restored for that
amount to be used to support additional investment in Albania.
Security
It is essential to the successful implementation of the project that security is fully restored to Albania in the near
future. Implementation can begin in those areas where security is restored such as Tirana, Durres and the corridor
in between. The United Nations have set up a system of zoning (red, yellow and green) according to the level of
security assessed for each area. This is a guideline for AGA. Applications will not be approved for proposals
involving productive activity in red zones. Applications in yellow zones will be assessed on a case-by-case basis.
In addition, AGA will undertake an assessment of the security aspects of each application and, where necessary,
engage a security consultant when needed. Research will encompass the history of the investor and the Albanian
entity and its employees during the civil commotion that occurred in March 1997, and the quality of security at
premises at which productive activity is to occur. Where necessary, the security consultant will be employed to
check on the quality of the security at premises.
AGA has the discretion to refuse to guarantee a transaction in the worst cases where the productive activity is in a
particularly dangerous location or there are no or patently inadequate precautions being taken to protect premises.
Where the investor is in control of the premises where productive activity is to take place, some conditions will be
imposed relating to security at premises. However, there will be many situations where the investor has no control
and it will then be inappropriate to impose any conditions relating to security. Each case needs to be assessed on its
merits. There are guidelines in the Operations Manual for the assistance of AGA staff.
Where an application is refused by AGA management for security reasons, or conditions are imposed, an applicant
has the right to require the Board to review the decision. A decision by the Board would conclude the review
process.
Environmental issues
AGA will be provided with a list of goods that do not comply with World Bank requirements relating to the
environment, including a negative list of banned pesticides derived from the WHO categories of "Extremely
Hazardous" materials. In addition, AGA will be required to reject any application that does not meet the
environmental laws in force in Albania, such as a production facility that is not properly licensed to operate in
Albania. These requirements will be part of the Operations Manual prepared for the guidance of AGA staff.
If the Albanian Governtnent employs adequate environmental safeguards relating to importation of environmentally
hazardous material, AGA will be able to rely upon the approval to import as sufficient evidence that goods comply
with environmental standards of Albania. However, AGA will be required to engage a person independent of AGA,
the Albanian Government and the investor or Albanian entity, who has relevant professional skills and expertise, to



certify that goods included in an application are not on the World Bank banned list mentioned above. Research into
which individuals might best perform such tasks will be undertaken before AGA becomes operational.
Operations Manual
AGA will be charged with the function of administering the political risk guarantee facility. This will be achieved
principally by the use of an Operations Manual which sets out in detail conditions of eligibility and the procedures
involved in reviewing of applications, issuing guarantees and payment of claims. The terms of the Operations
Manual were agreed upon at negotiations and cannot be changed without the agreement of AGA and IDA.
Adherence to the terms of the Operations Manual is important because it provides for certainty and consistency of
treatment to parties considering to take financial exposure in Albania and ensures that the important issues are
addressed at all times. The Operations Manual also includes general guidance and procedures for AGA staff
regarding basic administrative procedures, procurement methods, communications, financial and payment controls,
and accounting and audit guidance.
IDA "no objection" procedures
In order to ensure that the terms of the Project Agreement are adhered to and that AGA is implementing the
Operations Manual and functioning smoothly, operational guidelines require that no guarantee can be issued by
AGA until IDA has received details of an application and AGA's assessment thereof, and has issued its advice that
IDA has no objection to the application proceeding. A "no objection" advice is not a discretionary matter for IDA,
unless an application does not comply with the operational guidelines. As soon as it is estimated that AGA has
adequately trained staff who are implementing the guidelines in a consistent and effective manner, IDA will agree
that the "no objection" procedures will be discontinued. In order to enhance the credibility and transparency of
AGA, the Government has requested that the "no-objection" requirement remain in place for an extended period.
Thereafter, missions from IDA and audits by approved auditors will appraise the past performance of the activities
of AGA from time to time in accordance with normal IDA requirements.
Procedures of AGA
Procedures for processing an application are as follows:
(i) An applicant files an application in the form supplied by AGA. The application form asks a series of
questions which in most cases would be sufficient to allow AGA to issue a guarantee offer;
(ii) Based upon the information supplied in the application form, AGA determines what type of
guarantee agreement is appropriate and prepares either a draft "guarantee offer letter" or a formal
guarantee offer letter. As most applicants are likely to want some time to negotiate a transaction and to
study the details of an offer from AGA, it is usually best to prepare a draft offer and await a reaction
from the applicant rather than go to the trouble and expense of a formal offer. A draft offer is for
information purposes only and does not create any obligation upon AGA;
(iii) The guarantee offer letter sets out the detailed terms and conditions of insurance. For example, if
the application were made in respect of a credit sale, the guarantee offer letter would attach General
Conditions of Guarantee applicable to a credit sale, set out the calculations for the guarantee fee and
specify the amount of each annual installment thereof, set out the initial maximum liability and the
reducing amounts of maximum liability as installments are paid, and specify any special conditions of
cover. In this manner, the applicant can determine the precise terms and conditions of cover and present
the document to its banker for approval etc.;
(iv) Prior to sending out a formal guarantee offer, AGA prepares and submits by fax an application to the



Agent Bank for reservation of guarantee availability and receives confinnation from the Agent Bank that
guarantee availability has been reserved. The Agent Bank determines from its records whether there is
unused guarantee capacity from undrawn amounts of the IDA credit or issued guarantees where liability
has run off. It is necessary for AGA to reserve guarantee availability before the Agent Bank will issue its
standby letter of credit. It is therefore important to seek reservation in every case. Reservation of
guarantee availability can be canceled where the applicant does not proceed;
(v) Where a formal guarantee offer letter is prepared, AGA applies for and obtains the environmental
clearance from the expert (see above) and prepares a checklist and an application to IDA for advice of "no
objection" (see above). A checklist is a series of written questions designed to ensure that all questions
have been asked relevant to the issue of a guarantee agreement by AGA;
(vi) A formal guarantee offer letter provides that if the applicant wishes, it may accept the offer by
signing a copy of the offer and returning it to AGA. This must, however, be a formal guarantee offer. A
draft offer is for information purposes only, and would have to be converted to a formal offer before
being capable of acceptance;
(vii) The guarantee offer letter provides that the guarantee holder must pay the guarantee fee, or first
installment thereof, into AGA's account at the Agent Bank by a certain date, usually about 21 days from
the issue of the guarantee offer letter;
(viii) When a guarantee offer is accepted, AGA sends two copies of the accepted guarantee offer letter
to the Agent Bank along with a request to issue a standby letter of credit to the applicant, but only after
the applicant has paid the guarantee fee into AGA's account at the Agent Bank;
(ix) After receipt of the guarantee fee and posting it to AGA's account, the Agent Bank prepares a
standby letter of credit, dates the AGA guarantee and the standby letter of credit the same day, and issues
it to the applicant;
(x)    If the balance in the escrow account is insufficient to cover the transaction, the Agent Bank
submits a withdrawal application to IDA for the amount necessary to replenish the escrow account. The
withdrawal application is supported by a copy of the signed AGA guarantee, the letter of credit, and a
statement from the Agent Bank confirming that the balance in the escrow account was in fact
insufficient;
(xi)   If AGA decides that the application does not comply with the guidelines in one or more respects
and refuses the application, an applicant can request that such refusal be reviewed by the Board.
Guarantee agreement
As set out above, the process by which a guarantee is issued results in a number of documents relevant to a
guarantee transaction. Firstly, the application which sets out details of the transaction sometimes contains
attachments providing technical details of goods etceteras and sometimes an applicant sends a letter after the date of
an application. This, together with the guarantee offer letter, which attaches General Conditions of Guarantee
comprising the detailed terms and conditions of the arrangement, when accepted by the applicant, comprise the
guarantee agreement. It is an important legal principle that when AGA issues its guarantee, it relies upon the
statements made by the applicant in its application. If these applicant's statements are later determined to be untrue
and are material to the risks assumed by AGA under its guarantee, AGA has no liability to pay a claim.



Claims procedures
The General Conditions of Guarantee provide for claims procedures. A guarantee holder must provide AGA with
notice of the occurrence of an event which causes or is likely to cause loss covered by the guarantee. This is called
a Notice of Potential Loss. The guarantee holder must wait 45 days after providing the Notice of Potential Loss
before being able to lodge a fonnal claim. The reason for this is to allow AGA time to research the background and
make attempts to rectify the situation. Obviously this would be impossible in the case of major civil unrest, but
where the cause of the loss is a "government performance" risk, being any risk other than war or civil commotion,
AGA being a government agency should have some influence to attempt to rectify the government failure which
caused the loss, bearing in mind that failure to rectify the situation would result in a claim becoming payable. This
could result in suspension of the guarantee program and a loss of confidence by investors in doing business in
Albania.
Once the 45 days has expired after delivery of the Notice of Potential Loss, the guarantee holder has another 45
days within which to lodge a claim. A strict time limit is imposed to allow AGA to investigate the claim while
events are still recent and to determine its validity or seek any additional information before making a decision.
AGA must admit or deny the claim within 15 days of receipt of a claim period bearing in mind that AGA has had at
least 45 days from the time the Notice of Potential Loss is delivered by the guarantee holder to make up its mind
whether the claim is valid. As it has had at least 45 days since receipt of the claim, this should be sufficient to
allow an informed decision to be made.
AGA must act responsibly and admit a claim where, on a balance of probabilities, the circumstances are in favor of
a guaranteed event having occurred. Failure to admit a claim promptly in circumstances that indicate a covered
risk has occurred, or imposing conditions upon the guarantee holder requiring proof of occurrence of a covered
event which are too strict or demanding, can quickly lead to a loss of confidence in the integrity of the guaranteeing
agency and the Albanian Government's intention of providing a favorable environment for investment. The
operating guidelines provide assistance as to what evidence is required to make a decision.
If AGA decides that a claim is valid, it immediately provides the guarantee holder with a letter admitting the claim.
The guarantee holder presents this letter to the Agent Bank for payment under the standby letter of credit out of
funds in the escrow account.
Arbitration
If AGA decides that a claim brought by a non-Albanian entity is not valid, and the guarantee holder is dissatisfied
with that finding, it may seek arbitration in accordance with the terms of the General Conditions of Guarantee.1
Under the terms of this document, a guarantee holder can apply to an arbitrator who is located outside of Albania.
The General Conditions of Guarantee sets out the means of appointing an arbitrator.
AGA is served with a notice of the arbitration application. It may attend the hearing of the guarantee holder's
claim and state its case as to why it believes a claim is not payable. If it does not attend, the guarantee holder's
case is reviewed by the arbitrator and a finding made in AGA's absence. The arbitrator determines the case in
accordance with English law that is suitable for the determnination of international disputes. An arbitrator usually
awards the costs of the arbitration hearing against the party losing the decision which can sometimes amount to a
considerable sum of money. This should serve as an important incentive for AGA and the guarantee holder to agree
when a claim is payable.
If the arbitration award is in favor of the guarantee holder, he may present the award to the Agent Bank, which is
bound to pay the award under the terms of the standby letter of credit issued to the guarantee holder.
If the guarantee holder is Albanian, Albanian law will govern its contract with AGA.



Financial records and audit
Funds lodged in the escrow account and interest thereon will be held in the name of the Albanian Government. It is
a term of the IDA Credit Agreement that the escrow account holding the funds and interest thereon will be audited
by an auditor acceptable to the World Bank who will be asked to certify that the escrow account is maintained in
accordance with the provisions of the IDA Credit Agreement and the Agency Agreement.
AGA is also obliged to maintain records which accurately record its financial transactions and dealings, to prepare
financial statements for each fiscal year, to have these statements audited by independent auditors acceptable to
IDA, and to furnish the audited financial statements to IDA within six months of the end of a financial year. Upon
effectiveness, an IDA accounting and auditing advisor will assist AGA in setting up a record-keeping system which
will be acceptable to IDA and capable of providing management information.
Technical assistance
AGA is provided with technical assistance to prepare standard documents comprising the guarantee contract and
covering the standard types of transactions listed above, to prepare an Operations Manual, to assist in the setting up
of AGA and to train staff and provide practical assistance with applications as they are lodged in the early stages of
AGA's operations. Some of this assistance is in the form of a resident technical adviser who is available on hand
on a full time basis to assist the agency to become operationally effective.



Annex 3
Private Industry Recovery Project
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                                        Local           Foreign      Total
--------------------US $ million-------
Start-up Capital of AGA*                                  0.7             0.00          0.7
Start-up Costs of AGA                                    0.15              0.09        0.24
Guarantee Facility*                                      0.00            20.00        20.00
Total                                                    0.85            20.09        20.94
Total Baseline Cost
Price Contingencies                                   0.006            0.004        0.01
Total Proiect Cost                                       0.86             20.09       20.95
* No price contingencies are included as AGA's start-up capital and the guarantee facility do not relate to specific
project expenditures.



Annex 4
Private Industry Recovery Project
Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
Summary of benefits and costs:
Since the facility will not cover commercial risks, covered transactions will be selected by the market. Therefore,
no further economic analysis is required. However, in order to establish whether the project is likely to generate
substantial benefits compared to the costs incurred by the Government in taking an IDA credit, a model was
developed to estimate the amount of business generated by the PRGF. This model is based on certain assumptions
in terms of the numbers of guarantees issued, and the types of transactions covered (see below).
The benefits of the project are equated to the business it generates. The amount of business generated is different to
the balance of outstanding guarantees at any point in time because: (i) some transactions are short-term and
therefore revolve more than once a year, leading to a large number of transactions over the five year life of the
facility; (ii) guarantees for processing transactions cover a constant flow of business during the period of coverage,
with an average turnover time of two to three weeks. Therefore, over a one year period, this type of guarantee
generates an amount of business which is a multiple of the amount it covers at any point in time. The model used to
calculate the amount of business generated by the facility indicates that the fiacility will support about US$ 325
million in productive activity in Albania over five years if no claims are made.
A sensitivity analysis shows that if there were a repetition of civil commotion at the end of Year 3, the facility
would have supported US$ 141 million in productive activity in three years. Under this scenario, the costs to the
Government would include the loss of the IDA funds lodged in the escrow account (US$ 10 million), but interest
accumulated during Years 1-3 of about US$ 3.4 million would remain which could cover AGA's expenses and IDA
administrative expenses.
Under another scenario where 5% of guarantees result in claims each year, the facility would support US$ 308
million in productive activity over five years, and AGA's revenues from guarantee fees would cover the claim
payments and the Government of Albania would incur no costs as a result.
Main Assumptions:
* Guarantee Facility: US$ 20 million
*  Average Balance of Guarantees Issued:    Year 1 - US$ 5 million
Year 2 - US$ 15.2 million
Year 3 - US$ 20.5 million
Year 4 - US$ 21.7 million
Year 5 - US$ 22.9 million
*     5% of facility covering transactions of 180/365 days with average risk period of 4.5 months
15% of facility covering 1 year credits, with average risk period of 9 months
20% of facility covering 1 year processing policies with average risk period of 21 days
60% of facility covering 3 year credits or machinery with average risk period of 21 months



(US$ min.)              IYear 1   Year 2    Year 3   |Year 4    Year 5
IDA Credit + Donor Funds     20.00    20.00     20.00    20.00    20.00
Guarantees Issued             5.00    15.20    20.52    21.66    22.90
Productive Activity Generated by Type of Transaction
180/365 days (5% of
guarantees issued; average  0.33     1.52     2.74      2.89     3.05
period: 4.5 months)
1 year credits (15% of
guarantees issued; average  0.50     2.28     4.10      4.33     4.58
period. 9 months)
1 year processing policy
(20% of guarantees issued;  8.57    39.09    70.35    74.26    78.50
average period: 21 days)
3 years -machinery and
credit- (60% of guarantees  0.88     3.91     7.04      7.43     7.85
issued; average period: 21
months)
Productive Activity          10.26    46.79     84.23    88.91     93.98
Generated
Cumulative Amount of
Productive Activity          10.26     57.06    141.29   230.20   324.17
Sensitivity Analysis
Cumulative Amount of
Productive Activity (US$ mln.)
Base Case: No claims                                             324
Scenario 1: All guarantees called at end of year 3                141
Scenario 2: 5% of guarantees called every year                   308



Annex 5
Private Industry Recovery Project
Financial Summary
hnpleentation Period
1998       1999       2000       2001       2002
Project Costs (in US$S
Investments Costs                                     97,100      5,700          0          0           0
Recurrent Costs                                      104,129    183,738    196,022    203,379    210,960
Surplus (Memorandum Item)                             88,750    103,162    198,988    213,576   229,769
TOTAL                                                   289,979    292,600    395,010    416,955    440,729
Financing Sources (% of total project costs)
IBRD/IDA
Cofinanciers                                          66.8%
Guarantee Fees                                        33.2%      100.0%.   100.0%      100.0%     100.0%
TOTAL                                                    100.0%     100.0%      100.0%/e    100.0%    100.0%
Main assumptions:
Guarantee fees calculated based on amount of transactions and average value of guarantees expected.
*  Agent Bank charges a US$ 10,000 front end fee, a US$ 5,000 legal fee, and USS 300 per standby letter of credit issued
In Year I
Salaries:                  US$ 19,800
Administrative Expenses:   US$ 76,829
Operational Expenditures:  US$ 7,500
*  Surplus revenue would be added to the guarantee facility
Note:
Since the IDA credit and Cofinanciers' contributions will be used only to backstop the Guarantee Facility, they do not figure in this sunmary.



Annex 6
Private Industry Recovery Project
Disbursement Arrangements
Disbursement
Upon receipt of IDA's no objection, AGA will issue guarantees to eligible persons/business entities and forward the
same to the Agent Bank. The Agent Bank will issue the stand by letter/s of credit in support of each guaranty given
by AGA, prepare the withdrawal application forms along with supporting documentation (i.e., (i) signed copy of the
Guarantee Contract, (ii) written confirmation of payment of the guarantee fees, and (iii) a copy of IDA's no
objection and a copy of the standby L/C) and will submit them to IDA. The Guaranty Facility will end on June 30,
2002. Upon expiration of the availability period, the funds would be made available for a new guarantee facility
not supported by IDA, to be agreed between the Government and IDA at the project's mid-term review.



Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements'
(in US$ Thousands equivalent)
Expenditure Category                      Procurement Method                 Total Cost
(including
contingencies)
ICB        NCB        Other        N.B.F
1. Works
n/a                          -           --          --                       --
2. Goods
Furniture and fixtures          --         --         20.0                     20.0
(20.0)1                 (20.0)
Computers / Software           --          --         14.0                     14.0
(14.0)1                 (14.0)
Printer / FAX / Copier         --          --         18.5                     18.5
(18.5)'                  (18.5)
Office furnishing,                   --               3.0                      3.0
phone/utility upgrades                                 (3.0)1                   (3.0)
AC/Heater & Generator           --         --         7.5                       7.5
(7.5)1                  (7.5)
Automobile                      --         --         20.0                     20.0
(20.0)'                 (20.0)
3. Services
Financial / Security Spec.      --         --          18.0                    18.0
(13 .0)2                 (13.0)
Environment Analyst            --          --          8.0                     8.0
(6 .0)2                 (6.0)
Legal Services                 --          --          10.0                    10.0
(7. 0)2                 (7.0)
Accounting / Audit             --          --          12.0                    12.0
(9.0)2                  (9.0)
4. Miscellaneous
AGA '98 Operating Expenses      --          --         96.0                    96.0
(84.0)3                 (84.0)
AGA '99 Operating Expenses      --         --          96.0                    96.0
(48.0)3                 (48.0)
Guarantee / Agent Bank fund     --          --       20,000.0               20,000.0
(10.000.0)             (10.000.0
Total                         --         --        20,323.0               20,323.0
(10,250.0)             (10,250.0)
Note: N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed (includes elements procured under parallel cofinancing procedures,
consultancies under trust funds, any reserved procurement, and any other miscellaneous items). The
procurement arrangement for the items listed under "Other" and details of the items listed as "N.B.F."
need to be explained in footnotes to the table or in the text.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan/IDA credit
For details on presentation of Procurement Methods refer to OD1 1.02, "Procurement Arrangements for Investment Operations."
Details on Consultant Services can be shown more easily in the Table Al format (additional to Table A, where applicable).



Annex 6, Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(in US$ Thousands equivalent)
Selection Method                       Total Cost
Consultant Services Exrenditure                                                           (including
Category                                                                       contingencies)
QCBS    QBS    SFB        LCS      CQ     Other  N.B.F.
A. Firms
Accounting / Audit services                            12.0                              12.0
(9.0)                             (9-0)
B. Individuals
Financial / Security Specialists                                        18.0             18.0
(13.0)           (13.0)
Environmental Analyst                                                    8.0              8.0
(6.0)           (6.0)
Legal Assistance                                                        10.0             10.0
(7.0)           (7.0)
Total                            12.0            36.0              48.0
(9.0)           (26.0)           (35.0)
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selecdon Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank credit.



Table A-1
Procurement Notes and Schedule
NOTES: [ For Annex 6, Table "A", superscript Nos. 1,2,&3 ]
1 -- Procurement of Goods will be by National Shopping because all are available from local dealers and
representatives of international companies, which can supply back-up parts and warranty servicing.
2 -- Consultant services will be procured using Least Cost Selection (LCS) for audit services, and Individual
Consultant (IC) procedures for the small value, short term support assignments (e.g., security assessment,
legal advice, environmental reviews).
3. -- AGA's annual operating budget will be reviewed by the Bank and proposed expenses and purchasing
methods cleared.
4.-- Funds for the Guarantee Facility will be transferred to the Agent bank and thus will not involve
procurement.
PROCUREMENT SCHEDULING:
Goods for AGA's office operations are expected to be purchased within the first four months of project implementation.
Consultant services will be procured mostly during the first year, with project audit services engaged during the first quarter
of 1999.
AGA's purchases of office supplies and supporting services (as part of Operating Expenses) will be on a continuous basis
over the two-year, Bank-supported start up period.



Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Expenditure         Contract Value    Procurement         Contracts Subject to
Category            (Ihreshold)        Method       Prior Review / Estimated Total
Value Subject to Prior Review
US$ Thousands                          US$ Thousands
1. Works                         --
n/a
2. Goods                        (50.0)         National
Shopping
Furniture and Fixtures (Lot)   20.0              "          First Package
Computers / Software (5)       14.0              "
Photocopy machine (1)          15.0              "
FAX machine (1)                 2.0              "
Laser printer (1)               1.5
AC / Heater (3)                 4.5
Automobile (1)                 20.0
Generator (1)                   3.0
3. Services
Financial / Security Servs.    18.0              IC        TOR and procedure
Accounting / Audit             12.0             LCS        TOR, evaluation
Legal Services                 10.0              IC        TOR and procedure
Environmental Analyst           8.0              IC        TOR and procedure
4. Miscellaneous
Operating Expenses*           (132.0)            n/a       n/a
Guarantee Facility Funding  (10,000.0)           n/a       n/a
Total value** of contracts subject to prior review: 68.0
* Financing of AGA operating expenses will be based on Bank review of AGA annual operating budget.
AGA purchases in support of office operations will be made using informal / national shopping procedures.
* Does not include Bank review of the Agent Bank services (QCBS), which is being competitively
procured before Credit negotiation (NBF).
lThresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement Documentation" and contact the
Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.



Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category       Amount in US$ Thousands         Financing Percentage
A. Civil Works                             n/a                           n/a
B. Goods                                   83.0            100% of foreign expenditures, 100%
Office Equipment, furniture,                            of local expenditures (ex-factory cost)
computers, vehicle, etc.                                and 80%  of local expenditures for
other items procured locally
C. Consultant Services                     35.0                         100%
D. AGA Operating Expenses:                132.0               100% through June 30, 1998;
75% through December 31, 1998
and 50% thereafter
E. Guarantee Facility Funding            10.000.0          100% of the initial Maximum Amount
of Guarantee included in the Standard
Form of Guarantee Contracts
Total         10,250.0



Annex 7
Private Industry Recovery Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$ Thousands)                Planned              Actual
145.4
B. Project Schedule                              Planned              Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)         5
First Bank mission (identification)            08/04/1997           08/04/1997
Appraisal mission departure                    10/27/1997            11/11/1997
Negotiations                                   11/28/1997            12/22/1997
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  01/01/1998           02/28/1998
Prepared by: Ministry of Finance
Preparation assistance: PHRD Grant
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Specialty
Onno Rit                           Senior Guarantee Specialist
Lloyd Edgecombe                        Export Credit Specialist
Kalyan Baneri                         Export Credit Specialist
Mark Walker                         Senior Counsel, Guarantees
Dilek Barlas                            Country Counsel
Marie-Sophie Tar                          Financial Analyst
Hannah Koilpillai                       Disbursement Officer



Annex 8
Private Industry Recovery Project
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Inplementation Plan
Project lmplementation Plan
Operations Manual
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Mission Reports
AGA's Budget
Projections on volume of business generated by the PRGF
C. Other
Project Agreement
Credit Agreement
Demand Survey
*Including electronic files.



Annex 9
Statement of Loans/Credits
as of November 30, 1997
(in Millions of US Dollars)
Amnount In USS million (less cancellations)
LoanlCredit   |FiscalYear |Borrower|Purpose                   |Bank        |IDA        |Undisbursed |Closing Date
Credits
2 Credit(s) closed                                                         |       43.5_
24920        1993          TECHNICAL ASST.                                  4         1.29      6/30/98
24990        1993          TRANSPORTAINFRASTRUC                            18         3.93      6/30/98
25240        1993          AGRIC. SECTOR ADJ. C                            20         5.84     12131/98
25340        1994          HOUSING                                         15         1.58      6130/98
25430        1994          SOCIAL SAFETY NET                              5.5         1.28      6/30198
26100        1994          DURRES WATER SUPPLY                           11.6         6.47     12/31/01
25440        1994          LABOR MARKET DEVELOP                           5.4         2.07      6/30198
26330        1994          SCHOOL REHAB. AND CA                           9.6         3.22      3131199
26490        1995          EFSAC                                           15         7.43     12/31197
26520        1995 _         IRRIGATION REHABILIT                           10         1.46      6/30101
26460        1995          TAX ADMIN. MODERNIZ.                             4         1.74      6/30/98
26590        1995          HEALTH SERVICES REHA                          12.4         8.45      3/31/00
26770        1995 _        POWER LOSS REDUCTION                             5         0.03     12/31/97
26800        1995          IRURAL DEVELOPMENT                               6         1.72      6130/99
27320        1995          IRURAL ROADS                                    15         10.9      6/30199
27700        1996 _        URBAN WORKS & MICRO                              4         1.62      6/30/99
27950        1996          AGROPROCESSING DEVEL                             6         4.36      6/30/99
28260        1996          POWER TRANSM. & DIST                          29.5        22.62      6/30/01
28460        1996          FORESTRY                                         8         6.54     12/31/02
28880        1996       _  NATIONAL ROADS            I _ _                 25        22.52      6130/01
Total Number of Credits =20                                                         229       115.071
Loans
0 Loans(s) closed                                                         0                        0
Total Number of Loans = 0                                                 0                        0
Total***                                                  0       272.5
of which repaid                                           0           0
Total held by Bank & IDA                                  0       272.5
Amount sold                                   0
of which repaid                              0
Total Undisbursed                                         _                   115.07



Annex 1 0
Country at a Glance
Albania at a glance
Europe &   Lower.
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            Central  middle-
Albania      Asia  Income       Dev opnwnt diamond
Population mid-1996f (mlions)                           3.3       479    1,125
GNP per capIta 1996 (USS)                              820      2,180    1,750                 Lfe expectancy
GNP 1996 (bllons USS)                                   2.7     1,043    1,967
Average annual growth. 1990.46
Population (U)                                          0.2       0.3       1.4
Laborforce(%)                                           0.8       0.5       1.8     GNP                                  Gro
per    '              ----
Most recnt stimate (latest year available since 1989)                               capita         \ /enrole
Poverty: headcount index (X ofpopulation)               20
Urban population (% of total populaton)                 39         65       56
Llfe expectancy at brth (years)                         73         68       67
Intant mortality (per 1.000 #ve bIrths)                 30         26       41                Access to safe water
Child malnutrion (X of children under 5)
Access to safe water (X of population)
lmteray (X of'population age 15+)                                                       -Albanla
Gross primary enrollment (X ofscorage populaion)        98         97      104
Male                                                  98         97      105                Lower-middle-rIncome group
Female                                                99        97       101
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975     1985      1995     1996
Economic ratios
GDP (biIons USS)                                        2.0       2.4      2.7
Gross domestic Investment/GDP                    .     30.4      21.0     20.5
Exportsofgoodsandservies/GDP                   ..    16.2        12.5     12.6              Opennessof economy
Gross domestic savdngs1GDP                      ..    28.3       -1.0     -6.8
Gross national savinas/GDP                      ..    30.1       14.7     11.4
Current account balancelGDP                      .     -1.9      -6.4     -9.2
Interest paymentsiGDP                          ..        ..       0.4      0.4      Savings                          Investm
Total debtWGDP                                  ..       ..      29.4     27.4
Total debt servicelexports                       .       ..       1.1      4.1
Present value of debGDP                         ..       ..      32.6
Present value of debt/exports                  ..        ..    196.7        ..                  Indebtedness
1975-85  1986.96     1995      1996  1997-05
(average annual growth)                                                                      Albania
GDP                                    ..       ..      8.9       9.1            .      . -Lower-middl/encome group
GNP per capita                        ..        ..      9.7       7.6
Exports of goods and services         ..       ..    27.4        12.4
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975     19865     1995     1996      _-_-
(X of GDP)                                                                          Growth rates of output and Investment tp)
Agriculture                                     ..    27.9       55.9     55.4      200
Industry                                       ..    34.9        21.3     21.1    I1SO
Manufacturing                                 ..
Services                                        ..    37.2       22.7     23.5       00,..
.50!    t     2    93   94  s        9K
Private consumption                             *-    62.6       87.4     94.2
General government consumption                          9.2      13.6     12.6          _ GaD         0 GDP
Imports of goods and services                   .      18.4      34.5     39.9
197546  1986-96       1995     1996                           -
(average annual growth)                                                             Growth rates of exports and Imports I%
Agriculture                                     ..      3.5      10.6      8.1      20o
Industry                                        .      -9.1       6.0      7.7         '
Manufacturing                                 .         ..         .       ..     1a0 +        
Manufacuring                                  .       2.6        7.6     12.9    1'0
Private consumption                             ..      0.1       1.1     19.9                          _       _o____
General govemment consumption                           0.0       9.2      2.6      so 1    91   92   93    9    95   96
Grossdofesticinvestmnet                         ..     4.1       28.5      5.2      .
Imports of goods and services                   ..       ..       5.6     26.5             Exports  Import
Gross natidonal product                         ..       0.0     11.3      9.2
Note: 1996 data are prelimiary estimates.
The diamonds show tour key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Albania
PRICES and GOVERNIENT FINANCE
le5     1965      1SW       1996      . 
DonUt[c pff latton o
(M cnge                                                                            250
Consume p                                       ..p..             7.8     12.7      no
ImpllckGDPdeator                                ..      0.4       9.8     14.6 1800
0-I.-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
Gov npst ffm                                       -F--  -  -
(X o?GDP)                                                                             so D  9    92   93   94   95   91
Curentrevee                                     ..    50.6       23.9     18.3
Current budget blane                            .      24.4      -1.9      -7.5          -GDP def. --*-CP
OveraD aplusidfi                                ..    -1.8      -10.4    -11.9
TRADE
'117     13W 1'15            1'6___.i.
(mios USS)                                                                          Export and Import levels (mill. US$)
Total exports (fob)                                    304        205      229      * oo
Comnodty 1I
Manumatures                                   *o*
Total Imports (cI)                                     345        679      921
Food                                                                               400
Fuel and enery                                 .                            ..     200-
Caal goods                                     .. ..    I                                              8 
Export pice idx (19s3S10)                       .        ..         .        ,.           90  91  92  93  94  95  96
Import pri  Mde (1987.100)                     ..        ..        ..       ..                         i a Imports
Trms of "ad (1987-100..                                  .          .        . 
ESALANCE d PAY11ENTS
1975     13W       1996     13W        - .   .
(filions USS)                                                                       Curent account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Export of goods and swvi..                             319        302      338
Impots of goods and srvIces                            363        838    1.073     1
Resoure baance                                  ..      44       -534     -735       c .               flE
Neticome                                        ..       1         53       61      20
Net cunbansr                                    ..       6        327      428
Cuwent account balance,                                                                          I     
before ofcial capa tIrsnfers                         -37       -181     -249
F.-andng lems (nd)                              ..      20        207      297        1
Changennetreerve w                                      17        -26       48      1
Reseres Idudhggold (mM. US)                     ..      83        265      323
Converin rate (ocaJSS)                                  8.6      92.8    104.5
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
19S5      1995     1996
(mfilons USS)                                                                       Conipostlan of tobtl debt, 196 (FIll. USS)
Total debt outstndirlg and disbursed           ..        ..       713      737
IBRD                                                             0        0 !
IDA                                           ..      ..       109       137                    G
55B
Total debt serv6.                                        .          7       34                              137
IBRD                                          ..       .          0        0
IDA                                                               1        1                                  c
CompositIon of net resource flows                                                          F 
algrnts                                      ..        ..       118       80            3004
Official creditor                            ..        ..        46       54 0  2
Prabt crors.                                                      0        2
Foreign d  ret ivesnent                       ..       .,        89       97                                177
Portfobo equity                              ..        ..         0        0
vWord Bank progran                                                                I
Com    mie                                     .       ..        36       62      A - IBRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                 ..       ..        43       32    1 B-IDA    D - Otler multiateral  F - Prvete
Prtncipal repaymewt                           ..       ..         0        0      C-IMF                       G - ShortternM
Net fows                                      ..       ..        43       32    ;
Intere payments                                .       ..         I 
Net tranfers                                 ..        ..        43       31
Development Economics                                                                                                 115/98



MA SECTION



IBRD 28467
L30,                      190J1"3'20                                                                                                   21'00'
'~~~~~~~~-                                                                                      0 ~~~~~~~~~ED  E.YUGOSLAVIA
1~~~iCR~~~~~ TIAI  ~ ~ ~     ~         ~        ~ ~ ~ SE~~RBIA N/ M EDONIA)
412~30'
-  ...   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~   ~~~~*. ~~~~F.Y .R .                                                                     J3
QIE    MACEDONIA
BELARU ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~er,                         LM4 
C-RMNY               POLAND
REP.                      UKRAINE
4YREP.,
2 '.HUNG~                                                                                                                                              001
Z.F   -R <-            ROMANIA\(
TURKI f                                                   ~~~~~~          ~          ~~~~~~~~~~20'30  21 0o



