                                         Document of
                                      The World Bank




                                                                 Report No: 29826

                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                          (IDA-30380)

                                             ON A

                                            CREDIT

                             IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 7.5 MILLION

                                              TO

                                           ALBANIA

                                            FOR A

                          PRIVATE INDUSTRY RECOVERY PROJECT




                                         August 19, 2004




Private and Financial Sector Development Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                  (Exchange Rate Effective Effective August 16, 2004)

                              Currency Unit = Lek
                                      1 Lek = US$ 0.0098
                                      US$ 1 = 101.7 Lek

                                    FISCAL YEAR
                               January 1   December 31

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AGA     Albanian Guarantee Agency
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
IDA     International Development Association
IMF     International Monetary Fund
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PIRP    Private Industry Recovery Project
SDR     Special Drawing Rights
TA      Technical Assistance




                            Vice President:    Shigeo Katsu
                 Country Manager/Director:     Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
                   Sector Manager/Director:    Gerrardo Corrochano/Fernando Montes-Negret
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:        Lloyd Edgecombe

                                           ALBANIA
                      PRIVATE INDUSTRY RECOVERY PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              6
6. Sustainability                                                                  7
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   8
8. Lessons Learned                                                               10
9. Partner Comments                                                              10
10. Additional Information                                                       12
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             15
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             16
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             19
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             20
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             22
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                23
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            24

Project ID: P051602                                                  Project Name: PRIV IND REC
Team Leader: Lloyd Edgecombe                                         TL Unit: ECSPF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: August 20, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: PRIV IND REC                                             L/C/TF Number: IDA-30380
   Country/Department: ALBANIA                                                            Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: General industry and trade sector (98%); Banking (2%)
                  Theme: Other financial and private sector development (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 07/22/1997                                     Effective: 01/01/1998                06/29/1998
     Appraisal: 10/24/1997                                         MTR: 11/15/2000
      Approval: 02/10/1998                                      Closing: 01/31/2003;                01/31/2003
                                                                             05/01/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          MINISTRY OF FINANCE/ALBANIA GUARANTEE AGENCY
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                         At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                    Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:               Orsalia Kalantzopoulos                          Arntraud Hartmann
Sector Director:                Fernando Montes-Negret                          Gerard Pohl
Team Leader at ICR:             Lloyd Edgecombe                                 Onno Ruhl
ICR Primary Author:             Lloyd Edgecombe


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The main objective of the Private Industry Recovery Project (PIRP) was to foster a speedy revival of
private sector activity after its collapse as a consequence of the political instability which resulted from the
pyramid scheme crisis in 1997. The Project was developed to provide guarantees against political risk for
private sector transactions, and in particular to mitigate the perceived risk that there would be a repetition
of the loss in economic activity and damage to property that followed the collapse of the pyramid schemes.
Private sector enterprises and financial institutions would be able to buy guarantees against country risk to
address concerns about factors outside their control causing financial loss. The political risk guarantee
facility would thus contribute to preventing a drop in private sector activity. The key performance
indicators to measure the Project Development Objectives would be the level of production and employment
in enterprises benefiting from guarantees. Project output would be measured by the value of guarantees
issued. The Albanian Government created the Albanian Guarantee Agency (AGA) to implement the
political risk guarantee facility.

Assessment

This objective matched some of the most important priorities for Albania in the aftermath of the 1997 crisis
which followed the collapse of the pyramid schemes.

During project implementation, the Albanian Government requested the Association to assist it in
converting AGA into an export credit agency to support the development of exports through activities
usually provided by export credit agencies such as export credit insurance. Export development is a key
element of the Albanian Government's development strategy in order to address the wide and growing
deficit in the balance of trade and foster employment and growth. The possibility was discussed during
Appraisal that AGA would be converted into an export credit agency at the time of project closing in
January 2003, although this would be subject to further assessment and would require project restructuring.
Given that highly specialized skills are needed to operate the more complex facilities of an export credit
agency, it became evident that the required minimum standard was unlikely to be achieved before the
scheduled closing date of January 2003, despite the employment of a consultant to assist the staff of the
agency to develop these skills to a standard adequate to justify start up of operations. Consequently, the
Bank's management informed the Government in August 2002 that it would not support the proposed
restructuring. In such circumstances, the Albanian Government and the Association reached agreement to
delete Part B of Schedule 2 of the Development Credit Agreement, which required available funds
disbursed under the Credit and released from backing obligations assumed under guarantees to be used for
a guarantee facility not financed by the Association. The deletion of Part B of Schedule 2 of the
Development Credit Agreement is consistent with the conclusion that the agency was not in a position to
implement a guarantee facility involving facilities of greater complexity than the political risk guarantee
facility under Part A of Schedule 2 of the Development Credit Agreement. By deleting part B of Schedule 2
disbursed funds became available to be used by Albania for purposes not connected with a guarantee
facility .
         1




_________________

1
  The Albanian Government subsequently decided in early 2004 to allocate remaining AGA funds to two microfinance
institutions established under another World Bank project.




                                                           - 2 -

3.2 Revised Objective:

As mentioned above, the proposed restructuring of the Project, which would have implied significant
changes to the Project Development Objectives, was never implemented.


3.3 Original Components:

The Project consists of the following components:

Component 1. Start-up Capital of AGA

The Albanian Government contributed $114,315 as paid-in capital for AGA. Some of these funds were
used for AGA's portion of incremental operating costs, and cost for goods not covered under the Credit.

Component 2. Start-up Costs of AGA

IDA Credit funds were used to cover the agreed portion of AGA's incremental operating costs, cost for
goods, and consulting services. The funds were used for the financing of AGA's start up costs including
salaries, office rent and furnishing, equipment servicing, utilities, consultant and support services,
consumables and communications. The credit provided that and amount of $155,000 would be allocated to
AGA's operating costs and would finance 100% of such costs for approximately four months, 75% for a
further six months and 50% thereafter. However, the amount of $155,000 was insufficient to cover AGA's
operational costs after income from issuing guarantees was taken into account. and AGA was reliant on
proceeds of the credit to finance operational costs for most of the remaining implementation period. The
shortfall in projected income from issuing guarantees was due to the lower than expected demand for
guarantees. Notwithstanding this, it should be noted that interest income was accruing on disbursed funds
in the escrow account which was not made available to AGA for its operational costs until late in the
implementation period. The amount of interest together with guarantee fees would have been sufficient to
finance AGA's total operational costs.

Component 3. Guarantee Facility

IDA Credit funds were used to back up obligations assumed under guarantees covering certain
non-commercial risks to foreign entities with a financial exposure related to a productive activity in
Albania. IDA Credit funds were placed into an escrow account at San Paolo IMI S.p.A.a commercial bank
based in Italy and used to support guarantees issued by AGA. Whenever AGA issued a guarantee, San
Paolo Bank would issue a standby letter of credit in favor of the beneficiary of the guarantee supporting the
obligations of AGA under the guarantee.

The risks covered by the guarantee included actions by the Albanian Government to restrict the conversion
or transfer of funds out of Albania, cancellation of licences and restrictions on export or import of goods,
imposition or increase of import or export taxes, expropriation of funds, property or other assets of
enterprises that were benefiting from the finance made available by the guarantee holder, seizure or
interference with the carriage of goods, and war or civil disturbance including the type of civil disturbance
recently experienced following the collapse of the pyramid schemes.



                                                    - 3 -

Technical assistance required for AGA to carry out its mandate was provided during the preparation of the
Project and funded under a PHRD Grant. The Credit financed the establishment and operations of AGA.
The Government of Albania made available a monetary contribution of $114,315. As mentioned, some of
these funds were used to cover the portions of AGA's incremental operating costs and cost for goods not
financed under the IDA Credit. Processing of applications was facilitated by the use of an operations
manual prepared by an experienced consultant.

AGA's staff consisted of a Managing Director, a Finance Manager, an Underwriter and a
Translator/Administration Assistant. AGA was adequately staffed and experienced a low turnover of
personnel during the Project implementation period.

Overall, the components and the implementation arrangements were reasonably related to achieving the
objective of the project, and to the capacity of the implementing agency.

3.4 Revised Components:

Except as already stated involving the deletion of Part B of Schedule 2 of the Development Credit
Agreement, the Project Components were not revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

The Project was not selected for a quality at entry assessment by the Bank's Quality Assurance Group. The
Region's assessment is that the quality at entry of the project was satisfactory.

Consistency with the objectives of the recovery strategy paper

At the time of Appraisal there was no current CAS for Albania although a CAS was agreed in 1998.
However, in response to the crisis following the collapse of the Pyramid Scheme in 1997, a recovery
strategy paper, "Albania: Directions for Recovery and Growth. An Initial Assessment", was prepared by
the World Bank, the European Commission and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development,
in consultation with the IMF. One pillar of the strategy was to promote the revival of economic activity by
the private sector in Albania. The restart of private sector activity was the major component of this pillar.
The Project identified the perception of risk of a resumption of civil commotion as an inhibitor to the
revival of economic activity and proposed a method of mitigating the perceived risk by means of a
guarantee instrument. This method was in successful implementation at that time in Bosnia and
Herzegovina under the Emergency Industrial Restart Project. Consistency with the objectives of the
recovery strategy is therefore rated as satisfactory.

Government Priorities

The Project's objective was consistent with the Government priorities. The Government which took office
after the elections of July 1997 adopted a strategy aimed at, amongst other things, reestablishing
macroeconomic stability and alleviating poverty. The Project addressed private sector growth and poverty
alleviation by providing political or non commercial risk guarantees to financiers of productive activity in
Albania. Consistency with the Government priorities is therefore rated as satisfactory.




                                                      - 4 -

Quality of Design

The PIRP was prepared on an accelerated basis, in response to the crisis. The Project design took into
account the difficult conditions under which the Albanian economy was functioning at the time and the
urgent need to restart private sector activity. For example, in order to deal with the different levels of
security within different areas inside Albania, the operations manual provided for the zoning of areas within
the country according to the security situation as determined on a daily basis by the United Nations security
services. This allowed the agency to immediately offer cover in areas that were considered safe but refrain
from supporting activity in other areas until the situation improved.

Political risk guarantees were issued through a relatively simple and reliable mechanism in accordance with
procedures set out in a detailed operations manual. To allow for simplicity of operation, the manual
provided detailed documentation for the most common type of transactions the agency was likely to
encounter e.g. sale of goods on credit terms, financial and operational leases, confiscation or seizure of
goods, confirmation of letter of credit and commercial loan transactions as well as defining the procedures
to be followed in determining the eligibility of a transaction and the issuance of guarantees and standby
letters of credit.

The mechanism described in component 3 of backing the guarantees with IDA loan funds lodged in an
escrow account to support the issue of standby letters of credit issued by a highly rated commercial bank in
Italy gave credibility to the guarantees issued by AGA.

Overall the implementation arrangements, which were put in place in a relatively short period of time,
worked in a satisfactory manner without requiring a lengthy and costly investment in developing highly
specialized skills within the implementing agency. This also helped to keep AGA's operating costs to a
reasonable level. The quality of design is rated as highly satisfactory.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The Project has satisfactorily achieved its development objective of catalyzing the revival of productive
activity in Albania by providing political risk guarantees for financiers of productive transactions in
Albania. Since June 1998, AGA has issued 24 guarantee contracts for a total amount of about $8.7
million. Funds disbursed under the Credit amount to SDR 3,343,872.60 out of a Credit of SDR 7.5 million.
This is a modest but fully satisfactory result. The decline in demand for political risk guarantees that has
clearly emerged over the past two years is also a positive development as it indicates a lower perception of
political risk in Albania due to greater stability in the political and macroeconomic situation prevailing in
Albania.

According to the PAD, the achievement of the Project Development Objective is to be measured against
two performance indicators: level of production and level of jobs in enterprises benefiting from guarantees.
According to the data collected by AGA during the implementation period, the 24 political risk guarantees
have played a significant role in both generating employment and supporting local production. In
particular, about 680 jobs were directly created by the enterprises that were the subject of the guarantees
during the period when the guarantees were current, representing a 248% increase in the number of jobs in
these enterprises. Cumulative production levels in these enterprises also increased by 341% during these
periods to $12,200,000. The section 10, "Additional Information", contains a list of all the guarantees



                                                      - 5 -

issued by AGA.

4.2 Outputs by components:

As stated in the PAD, the output of the political risk guarantee component is commercial financing for
productive activity as measured by the value of the guarantees issued. Over the implementation period
AGA has issued 24 guarantees against political risk for a total value of about $8.7 million.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

See Annex 3 "Economic Costs and Benefits".

4.4 Financial rate of return:

Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The implementing agency processed guarantees in accordance with the operations manual in a timely and
efficient and therefore satisfactory manner.
However, preparation for the restructuring mentioned in Section 3 was not carried out by AGA in a
professional or timely manner which adversely affected the preparedness of AGA to implement the more
complex facilities proposed by the restructuring. Accordingly, the project did not achieve the intended
objective of creating an institution capable of managing the more complex facilities that would have been
required if the restructuring had proceeded.The institutional development impact is therefore moderate.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

The perception of political risk in Albania has remained largely dependent on the political and economic
stability within the region.      Successive Albanian Governments have consistently acknowledged the
importance of private sector activity and foreign financial involvement for the country's economic growth.
The influx of Kosovo refugees of 1999 was managed efficiently by the authorities but nevertheless may
have affected demand for political risk insurance by causing potential investors to delay or abandon
investments plans.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

In late 1997, with the support from IDA and IMF, the Government started the implementation of a
comprehensive program of structural reforms. Successive governments have maintained their commitment
to macroeconomic stability and structural reform, thus contributing to a progressive reduction of the
perceived political risk. The successful implementation of this program is likely to have reduced demand
for political risk guarantees but this is not a matter to regret.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

The implementing agency processed guarantees in accordance with the operations manual in a timely and
efficient and therefore satisfactory manner.
Preparation for the restructuring mentioned in Section 3 was not carried out by AGA in a professional or



                                                       - 6 -

timely manner which adversely affected the preparedness of AGA to implement the more complex facilities
proposed by the restructuring. There were two managing directors of AGA during the implementation
period, the first being appointed when the project started who remained in this position until a few months
before the closing date of the Project. The first appointed managing director proved incapable of handling
the preparation for the restructuring despite the availability of a resident technical adviser to assist in this
process. His replacement appeared to be capable of handling the transition but a decision had been made by
IDA at the time of his appointment not to proceed with the restructuring proposal.

5.4 Costs and financing:

Funds disbursed from the Credit Account represent only 45% of the IDA Credit. However, the value of
guarantees supported at $8.7 million is 2.2 times the amount of funds disbursed into the Escrow Account.
This is because once funds disbursed from the Credit Account into the Escrow Account at the Agent Bank
to support a specific transaction were released from backing up obligations under that transaction as a
result of the expiry of that transaction, the funds were used to back up other transactions before there was
further recourse to undisbursed funds in the Credit Account. Revolving the funds in the Escrow Account in
this manner constitutes a relatively efficient financing method for use of IDA funds. However, the revolving
nature of the funds lodged in the Escrow Account was taken into account when estimating the demand for
guarantees and the lower cost of the project is attributable to lower demand than was anticipated during
Appraisal despite demand surveys that justified this estimate.

Revenues from issuing guarantees were less than predicted and not sufficient to cover operating expenses
of AGA during the life of the Credit. An amount of $670,000 was paid in total towards operating costs
compared with $190,000 estimated at Appraisal. Consulting services were also higher than predicted at
Appraisal amounting to $150,000 against an estimated $50,000. The lower than expected revenues from
issuing guarantees was due to lower demand for guarantees than anticipated in the demand survey
prepared at the time of Appraisal significantly affecting the revenues of the agency. However, interest
earned on funds lodged in the Escrow Account amounted to $547,000 and this income should be taken into
account in determining total revenues, resulting in total revenues and operating costs not including
consulting fees, being approximately in balance.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

The project was introduced as a quick intervention to address the risk that potential investors and financiers
in Albania would be deterred from investing as a result of the civil disorder and destruction to property and
assets that followed the collapse of the Pyramid Schemes in 1997. The project provided security to those
potential investors and financiers that were issued guarantees against loss arising from these risks. Some 24
guarantees were issued during the project implementation period of five years. Most of these guarantees
were issued in the first three years when the perception of risk was greatest. Demand fell away significantly
during the last two years as the perception of risk abated. Thus, sustainability of the project is assesed
based on the contribution made by the project to the maintenance of private sector activity during the period
when there was a high perception of country risk which activity continues to contribute to job creation and
the level of production. This is evidenced by the number of jobs created and level of production achieved
by the enterprises supported by the guarantees referred to in Section 4.1, "outcome/achievement of
objective".




                                                      - 7 -

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

The project was intended to deal with risk of loss arising from the civil disorder in 1997. Perception of this
risk abated during the project implementation period and thus there is no basis for further operation of a
political risk guarantee facility and no transitional arrangements are necessary.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

As mentioned, at the time of appraisal there was no current CAS for Albania. However, due to its
experience in the Emergency Industrial Restart Project in Bosnia, the Bank was able to respond quickly to
the crisis and support the revival of economic activity by the private sector, one of the four pillars of the
recovery strategy paper, by installing the political risk guarantee facility.

Project preparation was assisted by funding under a PHRD Grant and included detailed demand surveys
carried out within Albania and with potential investors in the neighboring countries of Greece and Italy.
The design of the Project was based closely on the Emergency Industrial Restart Project. The Project
required the identification or creation of an agency within Albania to process guarantee applications and
issue guarantees, and the appointment of an agent bank that would issue standby letters of credit backing
up the obligations assumed under the guarantees on a fully cash backed basis. The proceeds of the Credit
were to be disbursed as guarantees were issued and paid into an escrow account held at the agent bank. The
Bank assisted the borrower in the preparation process by providing draft legislation for creation of the
guarantee agency, by reviewing and assisting in the preparation of selection criteria for appointment of an
agent bank and by employing an expert to prepare a detailed operations manual including transaction
documents applicable to the various types of trade transactions that could be involved in a guarantee
application.

7.2 Supervision:

Supervision by the Bank included providing the Bank's no objection to all proposals to issue guarantees
after reviewing applications and the underwriting processes and the proposed terms of guarantees prepared
by the agency. This included reviewing certificates provided by a local inspection agency certifying that
any goods proposed for import as part of a guaranteed transaction, were not prohibited or banned
substances. The Bank also employed an expert as a consultant resident in Tirana and working on a full time
basis in the agency assisting the staff to process applications in the first few months of operation of the
facility. Bank personnel were also involved in training of staff in the commercial aspects of the transactions
that were submitted for support under the guarantee facility.

There were few procurement issues as funds disbursed for guarantees were paid into an escrow account
held at the agent bank. Procurement of goods consisting largely of office equipment was carried out in the
first few weeks of project implementation under National Shopping guidelines. The procurement method
for selection of auditors was on a Least Cost Selection method. The Bank reviewed the agencies annual
operating budget.

Reference is made to Borrower's comment number 2 and the Bank's letter of August 1, 2002, an extract
being as follows:



                                                       - 8 -

"Unfortunately, the Bank's proposal to restructure AGA was not accompanied, on our
part, by a comprehensive analysis of the demand for export credit guarantees, of the
complexity of establishing a public export guarantee facility in Albania, nor,
alternatively of the private sector's capacity to provide export credit guarantees. We
also regret that we have not kept the Government better informed of the delays and
issues associated with building AGA's capacity to issue export guarantees".

This statement is not completely accurate. Reference had been made in several Aide Memoir's to delay by
the implementing agency in preparing for restructuring and in converting the existing political risk
guarantee facility to a leveraged facility. A complaint had been made to Ms. Berberi, the then Assistant
Minister of Finance about the delay and the performance of the chief executive of the agency without any
action being taken. However, the full extent of the problem was not apparent until a resident consultant had
been in place for more than a month after which World Bank management and the Ministry of Finance
were informed that the Project Team was not prepared to refer the restructuring proposal to the World
Bank Board. Further, a demand survey amongst Albanian enterprises addressing the need for export credit
insurance and working capital guarantees for export was undertaken by agency personnel in conjunction
with the resident consultant shortly after the consultant took up residence in Tirana. The survey revealed a
group of exporters who were eligible for support and who expressed a keen desire to work with the agency
in developing their business. Had the restructuring proceeded as planned, supporting and assisting a
majority of the exporters identified in the survey in the first year of the agency's new operations would have
constituted an effective launch of the restructured facility.

The project addressed the need to deal with the loss of confidence in Albania as a place to do business in
the aftermath of the collapse of the pyramid schemes. The PAD and the Development Credit Agreement
made reference to the agencies conversion into a guarantee agency after the completion of the
implementation period but this was not an objective of the project. Notwithstanding this, if the authority for
the agency to provide export credit insurance and other facilities usually provided by an export credit
agency had been provided at the outset, a restructuring would not have been necessary and AGA could
have been introduced to these activities gradually and with appropriate levels of technical assistance. The
inadequacies of the first chief executive may then have been apparent and action taken at an earlier stage to
find a suitable replacement.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

The overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

The designated representatives of the Borrower applied themselves diligently in the preparation process.
This included preparing legislation creating the Agency and supervising its passage through Parliament,
preparing bid documents for selection of an Agent Bank, selecting the Agent Bank according to the
selection criteria and negotiating and approving the Agent Bank agreement between the Agency and the
Agent Bank.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

Once the project was effective there was little involvement by Government in the operations of the Agency.



                                                      - 9 -

There were Government representatives on the Supervisory Board of the Agency.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

The implementing agency was required to use its resources for promoting the facility to potential users and
processing applications as they were received in accordance with a detailed operations manual. Most
publicity and marketing was carried out in the first few months after effectiveness. The Agency could have
made a greater effort at publicizing the facility and attempting to attract business on a continuous basis.
The Agency processed applications in a timely and satisfactory manner.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Overall performance of the Borrower is satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

An agency was established by legislation and a staff of six persons was employed to implement the project.
As it eventuated, activity was not adequate to keep the staff fully and actively employed except in the set up
period of training and the initial marketing. The Project Appraisal Document envisaged that the agency
would be able to continue in existence after the project closed as a guarantee agency and provide support
for cross border trade including export credit insurance. The project description in Part B of Schedule 2
envisaged the continuation of the project in the form of a guarantee agency unsupported by the World Bank
but only after the project had closed at the end of January 2003. The form of insurance or guarantees
envisaged by Part B, such as export credit insurance, are related but more complex functions than
providing political risk only guarantees. In retrospect, the objectives of the Project would have been better
achieved by allowing the agency during the project implementation period to use the project funds on other
related activities such as export credit insurance, subject to similar controls and restrictions as applied in
the use of political risk insurance.

This lesson has been applied in the design of the Export Finance Facilitation Project in Serbia and
Montenegro.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

Borrower's comments and a response are set out below.

Comment 1. Project Data

The draft ICR states that the Project's Closing Date is 31.01.2003.

This date is The First GF Closing Date, not the Project's Closing Date. The Project's Closing Date is The
Second GF Closing Date which, in accordance with the Credit Agreement, Article 1, Section 1.02, item
(v), falls 180 days after the expiry date or the termination of the Last Guarantee Contract issued by AGA.
Since the Last Guarantee Contract expires on 10 December 2003, then the Second Closing date falls in
June 2004.

Furthermore, according to the Credit Agreement, Schedule 3, item (k) and to the Project Agreement ,
Article II, Section 2.05, item (b), the Implementation Completion Report is prepared 6 months AFTER the



                                                     - 10 -

Closing Date.

Response

As there are two closing dates, there was some debate within the bank as to which date was appropriate to
determine the timing for completion of the ICR. The matter was resolved in favor of the Borrower's
position, namely after the second closing date.

Comment 2. Evaluation of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

Item 3.1, paragraph 3, regarding the transformation of AGA into an ECA, states: "...despite the
employment of a consultant to assist the staff of the agency to develop these skills to a standard adequate
to justify start up of the operations, it became evident that the required minimum standard was unlikely
to be achieved before the scheduled closing date of January 2003. Consequently, the Bank's management
informed the Government in August 2002 that it would not support the proposed restructuring".

In our opinion, the draft ICR does not mention all the motives presented in said letter (the letter of Mr.
Poortman to the Minister of Finance, dated 1 August 2002), that led to the interruption of the envisaged
restructuring process. Therefore we suggest that all the motives mentioned therein be included in the draft
ICR as follows:

"Unfortunately, the Bank's proposal to restructure AGA was not accompanied, on our part, by a
comprehensive analysis of the demand for export credit guarantees, of the complexity of establishing a
public export guarantee facility in Albania, nor, alternatively of the private sector's capacity to provide
export credit guarantees. We also regret that we have not kept the Government better informed of the
delays and issues associated with building AGA's capacity to issue export guarantees".

Response

Please refer to comments in 7.1, "Bank performance".

Comment 3. Evaluation of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

The same item 3.1, paragraph 3 reads: "The deletion of Part B of Schedule 2 allows these funds to be
used by the Albanian Government for other purposes not connected with a guarantee facility.

The deletion of Part B of Schedule 2 of the Credit Agreement becomes effective after the Albanian
Government approves the amendment proposed and approved by the World Bank. This amendment
envisages no limitations in the use of these funds by the Albanian Government. Consequently, the limitation
in draft ICR for the use of funds that belong to the Borrower is legally unfounded.

Response

It is a matter of doubt whether this comment is correct in view of the terms of Schedule 4, Part C, 1 and 2
but in any event there is no practical effect since the DCA was amended to remove Part B of Schedule 2.

Comment 4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

Item 4.1 paragraph 1 states that AGA, over a 5 year period has issued 30 guarantee contacts, whereas


                                                      - 11 -

item 6.1 provides another figure: 24.

It must be specified that AGA has issued 24 guarantee contracts in reply to 30 applications for guarantees.

Response

This comment is correct and the ICR has been amended to record the issue of 24 guarantees


(b) Cofinanciers:

Not applicable

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

Not applicable

10. Additional Information


List of the transactions covered by AGA

Guarantee Contract nr.1

         The guarantee covered the value of goods and of processing for shirt production (Textile Industry).


Guarantee Contract nr. 2; 5

         Two guarantees were issued to cover a commercial loan and a financial leasing for wood
         processing (Wood Industry).

Guarantee Contract nr.8

         The transaction covered the value of goods for assembling generators (Power Industry).

Guarantee Contract nr.6;7

         Two guarantees were issed to cover a commercial loan and a financial leasing for wood processing
         (Wood Industry).

Guarantee Contract nr.9

         The guarantee covered a commercial loan for brick production in Lushnja (Construction Industry).


Guarantee Contract nr.10

         The guarantee covered a commercial loan for the reconstruction of a film theater (Entertainement
         Industry).




                                                  - 12 -

Guarantee Contract nr.11

      The guanrantee covered a commercial loan to buy and process grain in Fier (Flour Industry).

Guarantee Contract nr.12

      The guarantee covered a commercial loan for fish processing in Shengjin, Lezha (Fishing
      Industry).

Guarantee Contract nr.14

      The guarantee covered the value of goods and of processing for shirt production (Textile Industry).

Guarantee Contract nr.15

      The guarantee covered was teh value of goods for assembling generators (Power Industry).

Guarantee Contract nr.16

      The guarantee covered a commercial loan for the reconstruction of a film theatre (Enetertainment
      Industry).

Guarantee Contract nr.17

      The guarantee covered a commercial loan for the reconstruction of a film theatre (Enertainement
      Industry).

Guarantee Contract nr.18

      The guarantee covered a commercial loan to construct a high school.

Guarantee Contract nr.19

      The guarantee covered a commercial loan from the mother company to the subsidiary company.

Guarantee Contract nr.20

      The guarantee covered a commercial loan for fish processing in Shengjin, Lezha (Fishing
      Industry).

Guarantee Contract nr.22

      The guarantee covered the value of goods and of processing for shirt production (Textile Industry).


Guarantee Contract nr.23

      The guarantee covered was a commercial loan to build a Kindergarten.




                                               - 13 -

Guarantee Contract nr.24

        The guarantee covered the value of goods and of processing for assembling lampshades (Electric
        Industry).

Guarantee Contract nr.25

        The guarantee covered the value of goods and of processing           for shirt production (Textile
        Industry).

Guarantee Contract nr.27

        The guarantee covered a commercial loan for the reconstruction of a film theater in Tirana
        (Entertainemnt Industry).

Guarantee Contract nr.29

        The guarantee covered the value of goods and of processing for assembling of lampshades
        (Eelectric Industry).

Guarantee Contract nr.30

        The guarantee covered the value of goods and of processing for shirt production (Textile Industry).


All the companies are still operating except for two. One went bankrupt while the other is currently closed
due to the incident that is the subject of current arbitration proceedings.




                                                      - 14 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                      1
               Indicator/Matrix                   Projected in last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate
Level of production                          N/A                           US$12.2 million
Level of jobs in enterprises benefiting from N/A                           680 (directly created)
guarantees




Output Indicators:
                                                                      1
               Indicator/Matrix                   Projected in last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate
Value of guarantees issued                   N/A                           US$ 8.7 million




1End of project




                                                        - 15 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                         Appraisal  Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                         Estimate    Estimate      Appraisal
                       Component                        US$ million  US$ million
Start-up Capital of AGA                                    0.70           0.14           3.3
Start-up Costs of AGA                                      0.25           0.58           1.2
Political Risk Guarantee Facility                         20.00         10.00           95.5

Total Baseline Cost                                       20.95         10.72
                         Total Project Costs              20.95         10.72
                   Total Financing Required               20.95         10.72




                                                - 16 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                               1
                                                      Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category               ICB                NCB                     2          N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                           Other
1. Works                               0.00               0.00               0.00             0.00              0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)             (0.00)
2. Goods                               0.00               0.00               0.08             0.00              0.08
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.08)           (0.00)             (0.08)
3. Services                            0.00               0.00               0.05             0.00              0.05
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.04)           (0.00)             (0.04)
4. Incremental Operating               0.00               0.00               0.19             0.00              0.19
Costs
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.13)           (0.00)             (0.13)
5. Political Risk Guarantee            0.00               0.00              20.00             0.00              20.00
Facility                              (0.00)             (0.00)            (10.00)           (0.00)            (10.00)
6. Start-up Capital for AGA            0.00               0.00               0.70             0.00              0.70
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)             (0.00)
   Total                               0.00               0.00              21.02             0.00              21.02
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (10.25)           (0.00)            (10.25)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                               1
                                                     Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                           Other
1. Works                               0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
2. Goods                               0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.01)            (0.00)           (0.01)
3. Services                            0.00               0.00              0.15             0.00              0.15
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.08)            (0.00)           (0.08)
4. Incremental Operating               0.00               0.00              0.29             0.00              0.29
Costs
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.38)            (0.00)           (0.38)
5. Political Risk Guarantee            0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
Facility                              (0.00)             (0.00)            (3.98)            (0.00)           (3.98)
6. Start-up Capital for AGA            0.00               0.00              0.11             0.00              0.11
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   Total                               0.00               0.00              0.55             0.00              0.55
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (4.45)            (0.00)           (4.45)

1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
  of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
  managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.




                                                      - 17 -

Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                  Percentage of Appraisal
      Component             Appraisal Estimate           Actual/Latest Estimate
                        IDA        Govt.      CoF.     Bank      Govt.       CoF.  IDA    Govt.   CoF.
Goods                   0.08       0.00                0.01       0.00             12.5    0.0
Consulting Services     0.04       0.01                0.08       0.07             200.0  700.0
Incremental Operating   0.13       0.06                0.38       0.29             292.3  483.3
Costs
Guarantee Facility      10.00      0.00      10.00     3.98       0.00             39.8    0.0     0.0
Funding




                                               - 18 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits


The value of guarantees issued in the Project was $8.7 million, much lower than predicted at the time of
Appraisal. However, whilst this is a moderate amount, the value of claims paid is unlikely to exceed
$400,000, the amount currently being contested in an on going arbitration claim. Legal opinion from
experienced lawyers gives the claim a less than 50% chance of success. The net position is therefore likely
to be that all funds disbursed into the Escrow Account amounting to approximately $4 million will be
available to Albania together with the current balance in the Additional Escrow Account representing
interest earned on funds in the Escrow Account less some deductions for authorized expenses, amounting to
about $451,000. In measuring the cost versus the benefit, the availability of these funds for other purposes
must be taken into account. These funds represent SDR3.2 million at current exchange rates against
disbursed funds under the Credit of SDR3.4 million.




                                                  - 19 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              August 1997               7    Senior Guarantee Specialist; 2
                                             Export Credit Specialist; Senior
                                             Counsel, Country Counsel,
                                             Financial Analyst, Disbursement
                                             Officer.

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              November 1997             7    Senior Guarantee Specialist;
                                             2 Export Credit Specialist;
                                             Senior Counsel, Country
                                             Counsel, Financial Analyst,
                                             Disbursement Officer.

 Supervision

              July 1998                 2    Guarantee Specialist (1);             S               S
                                             Financial Analyst (1)
              November 1998             2    Guarantee Specialist (1);             HS             HS
                                             Financial Analyst (1)
              October 1999              1    Task Team Leader (1)                  S               S
              March 2000                1    Task Team Leader (1)                  S               S
              October 2000              3    Task Team Leader (1); Senior          S               S
                                             Financial Specialist (1);
                                             Consultant (1)
              May 2001                  2    Task Team Leader (1);                 S               S
                                             Consultant (1)
              May 2002                  1    Task Team Leader (1)                  S               S
              July 2002                 1    Task Team Leader (1)                  S               S

 ICR
              06/2003                   1     Task Team Leader (1)                 S               S




                                              - 20 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            N/A                            84.4
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 N/A                            70.0
  Supervision                           N/A                          354.9
  ICR                                   N/A                            30.0
  Total                                 N/A                          539.3




                                            - 21 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 22 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 23 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


Project Status Reports
Audit Report, 2002




                                      - 24 -

- 25 -

