Environmental Section                                          Time I ?0n?
B.   Environmental Requirements
Before AGA approves a Loan under the project, it must verify that the Enterprise has
valid municipal, city, canton, or state licenses to operate including the environmental
license, and that the operations, respecting the Nominated Export(s), will be in
accordance with the applicable environmental law and standards of Albania and the
guidelines for environmental assessment listed below. During its due diligence, AGA
will conduct a visual inspection of the premises to verify that there are no hazardous
activities being undertaken.  The following questions should be answered by the
Albanian enterprise during the application process. This Environmental Checklist is
provided in Attachment H.
(i)   Enterprise has necessary permits to operate in city, canton, municipal or
national levels and has the urban permit, building permit, plant operation
permit or other licenses;
(ii)  If applicable, the enterprise has necessary environmental license issued by the
NEA and/or Ministry of Health;
(iii)  Enterprise provides a specific inventory of the type and volume of wastes that
are or will be generated by the operations;
(iv)  Enterprise provides method of how each type of waste, which is identified
will be disposed and/or treated;
(v)   Enterprise provides evidence of any special technological or management
approaches to minimize or recycle waste;
(vi)  Enterprise provides any technical documentation or development plans that
are available for the existing or proposed project; and
(vii)  Enterprise lists all technical documentation that must be completed before
project implementation.
According to WB environmental guidelines, the following types of projects are
unacceptable on ecological grounds:
(i)   Production of lead-based (Pb) paint;
(ii)  Trading in wildlife or wildlife products prohibited under the CITES
convention on Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora;
(iii)  Introduction of genetically altered organisms;
(iv)  Production, distribution and sale of illegal pesticides;
(v)   Use of drift nest in fishing;
(vi)  Any activity involving the production or use of products containing
chlorofluorcarbon (CFC) or other materials prohibited under the Montreal
Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer;
(vii)  Production of electrical products containing polychlorinated biphenyl
(PCB);
(viii) Products containing asbestos;
(ix)  Manufacture of tobacco products; and
(x)   Any activity involving radioactive materials.
FILE COPvY



Environmental Section                                           June 3, 2002
If an Albanian Enterprise applying for a Loan under the WCF, has received loans or other
forms of financial support from international donors such as USAID, EBRD or IFC
within the last three (3) years, the Enterprise will provide AGA with the environmental
assessments or audits for the Enterprise from these organizations and AGA will review
these to confirm that the Enterprise meets the requirements in Article 121 and Article 122
and Attachment H.
If the Enterprise has had no environmental audit conducted in the last three (3) years,
AGA and the CAT will conduct an audit and if necessary work with the relevant
technical institutes to determine that the Enterprise meets the requirements in Article 121
and Article 122 and Attachment H.



Environmental Section                                            June 3, 2002
ATTACHMENT H:
ENVIRONMENTAL CHECKLIST FORM
NAME OF
ENTERPRISE:
ADDRESS:
TEL/FAX:
LOCAL PFI:
LOAN OFFICER PFI:
AGA STAFF:
ENVIRONMENTAL QUESTIONS FOR ALBANIAN ENTERPRISES
(Yes or No and if No please provide explanation)
Y/N/NA
Does enterprise have municipal / city / canton operation permits?
Attach copies if yes.
Does enterprise have a Republic of Albania operation permit?
Attach copy if yes.
Does enterprise have a building permit? Attach copy if yes.
Does enterprise have pernit to operate production plant? Attach
copy if yes.



Environmental Section                                             June 3, 2002
Does the socio-economic activities supported by the enterprise is
in the list of activities requiring Environmental Impact
Assessment? If yes, the enterprise should provide evidence that
the EIA has been carried out.
Does enterprise have an environmental license issued by the
Ministry of Environment and/or Ministry of Health?
Indicate license number and date of issue
Does enterprise have a list of cantonal, municipal and national
Environmental Authorities responsible for the enterprise?
Addresses and phone numbers? Attach copy if yes.
Does the enterprise use hazardous substances and/or chemicals?
If yes, specify may types, quantities and concentrations.
Does enterprise have a specific inventory of the type and volume
of wastes that are, or will be generated by the project? If yes,
please identify.
Has enterprise determined how each type of waste, which is
identified, will be disposed of and /or treated? If yes, please
specify.
Does enterprise use any special technological or management
approaches to minimize or recycle waste or minimize emissions?
If yes, please identify.
Does the activity supported by the enterprise has impacts on the
natural environment, e.g., water, soil, flora and fauna? If yes,
please indicate the nature of the impacts.
Has enterprise provided any technical documentation or
development plans that are available for the existing or proposed
project? Attach if yes.
Has enterprise listed technical documentation that must be
completed before the project implementation? If yes, please list.



Environmental Section                            June 3, 2002
r                     _                     l-           l



