Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3038 ALB
Development Credit Agreement
(Private Industry Recovery Project)
between
ALBANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated February 25, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3038 ALB
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 25, 1998 between ALBANIA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A)
 the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and
(B)
the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to make available the Credit to the Borrower for the Project upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date 
herewith between the Association and Albanian Guarantee Agency (the Project 
Agreement);
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Page  2
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement (the General Conditions) constitute an integral 
part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Additional Escrow Account" means the account referred to in paragraph 3 
of Part A of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(b)
"Additional Escrow Amounts" means the amounts generated as interest and 
other earnings from the deposits in the Escrow Account and includes interest and other 
earnings generated from the deposits in the Additional Escrow Account;
(c)
"Agency Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section 2.01 (b) 
(i) of the Project Agreement;
(d)
"Agent Bank" means the agent bank of AGA referred to in Section 2.01 (b) 
(i) of the Project Agreement and includes any successor or successors thereto or 
assignee thereof acceptable to the Borrower and the Association; 
(e)
"Albanian Guarantee Agency" or "AGA" means the legal entity established 
pursuant to the Charter and operating under the laws and regulations of the Borrower, 
and includes any successor or successors thereto acceptable to the Association;
(f)
"Available Amount" means the amount equal to the amount of the Revolving 
GF Amounts on the First GF Closing Date (as these terms are hereinafter defined);
(g)
"Charter" means the Law No. 8267, dated December 19, 1997, establishing 
AGA as well as the by-laws or other similar instrument of AGA;
(h)
"Civil Commotion" means a serious domestic disturbance or series of 
domestic disturbances, on the territory of Albania, arising from persons or groups of 
persons acting together with a common objective or purpose, resulting in broadly based 
turbulence or disorder;
(i)
"Committed GF Amounts" means the sum of the Maximum Amount of Guarantee 
(as such term is defined in the General Conditions of Guarantee included in the 
Standard Form of Guarantee Contract) under all of the Guarantee Contracts outstanding 
at any date;
(j)
"Covered Risks" means the risks specified in Part A.1 of the Project, as 
each of these risks is defined in the General Conditions of Guarantee included in the 
Standard Form of Guarantee Contract and covered by each Guarantee Contract and 
includes such other similar risks as may be agreed upon from time to time by the 
Association;
(k)
"Escrow Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.03(b) of this 
Agreement;
(l)
"First GF Closing Date" means the date specified in paragraph 2 of Part B 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(m)
"General Conditions of Guarantee" means the general conditions of 
guarantee, dated November 21, 1997, applicable to sale of goods, and such other 
General Conditions of Guarantees as may be agreed from time to time between AGA and 
the Association;
(n)
"Guarantee Contract" means any of the contracts referred to in Section 
2.01(b)(ii) of the Project Agreement;
(o)
"Guarantee Facility" or "GF" means the guarantee facility provided under 
Part A.1 of the Project;
(p)
"Guarantee Holder" means a natural person or a private juridical person, 
who, having the risk of loss associated with the financing or the carrying on of a 
productive activity in Albania, has been issued a Guarantee Contract by AGA in 
accordance with procedures set forth in paragraphs (a) through (e) of Schedule 2 to 
the Project Agreement.  For the purposes of this paragraph, the term "private 
juridical person" means  an entity, the management and policies of which, including 
Page  3
operating decisions, are not directed by or are not under the direction of, whether 
through ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise, a state, or a 
political or administrative subdivision thereof, or by any regional, local or other 
governmental body.  Any commercial leasing or finance company acceptable to the 
Association shall be considered a private juridical person; 
(q)
"Loss" means the amount denominated in Dollars, payable to the Guarantee 
Holder upon occurrence of any of the Covered Risks in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the Guarantee Contract with such Guarantee Holder;
(r)
"MOF" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance and includes any successor 
or successors thereto;
(s)
"Operations Manual" means AGA’s Operations Manual, dated November 21, 
1997, as agreed by the Borrower and the Association, which sets out the operating 
policies and procedures of AGA;
(t)
"Payment" means any payment made to a Guarantee Holder by the Agent Bank 
on account of a Loss;
(u)
"Revolving GF Amounts" means the Unwithdrawn GF Amounts that are retained 
in the Escrow Account following the expiry or termination of Guarantee Contracts and, 
before the First GF Closing Date, that are used on a revolving basis for the purpose 
of providing new guarantees under the Guarantee Facility pursuant to paragraph 3 of 
Part B of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(v)
"Second GF Closing Date" means the date 180 days following the date on 
which the last outstanding Guarantee Contract issued under the Guarantee Facility has 
expired or terminated in accordance with its terms;
(w)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.04(b) of 
this Agreement;
(x)
"Standard Form of Guarantee Contract" means AGA’s Standard Form of 
Guarantee Contract including the General Conditions of Guarantee, as approved by the 
Borrower and the Association, which contains all the standard terms and conditions to 
be included in the Guarantee Contracts;
(y)
"Unwithdrawn GF Amounts" means the Committed GF Amounts that remain 
unwithdrawn in the Escrow Account at the expiry or termination of the Guarantee 
Contracts covered thereby;
(z)
"Unwithdrawn Credit Amount" means the amount of the Credit remaining 
unwithdrawn in the Credit Account after the First GF Closing Date;
(aa)
"War or Civil Disturbance" means acts of war (whether declared or 
undeclared), revolution, insurrection, civil war or civil strife of a lesser degree, 
on the territory of Albania, where such acts are undertaken with the primary intent of 
achieving a political objective. Acts undertaken to further labor, student or other 
specific interests and acts of terrorism, kidnapping or similar acts directed against 
the guarantee holder shall not qualify for coverage as civil disturbance; and
(bb)
"Withdrawn Credit Amounts" means the amounts withdrawn from the Credit 
Account and deposited into the Escrow Account, from time to time, for the purpose of 
providing guarantees under the Guarantee Facility.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to seven million five hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 7,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit shall be allocated in accordance with 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03.  (a) For the purposes of Part A.1 of the Project, the amount of 
the Credit allocated thereto may be withdrawn from the Credit Account in accordance 
with the provisions of Part B of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Page  4
(b)
The Borrower shall, through AGA, for the purposes of Part A.1 of the 
Project, open and maintain in Dollars an escrow account in the Agent Bank on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against 
set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Escrow Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04.  (a) For the purposes of Part A.3 of the Project, the amount of 
the Credit allocated thereto may be withdrawn from the Credit Account in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the 
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for Part A.3 of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall, through AGA, for the purposes of Part A.3 of the 
Project, open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in the Agent Bank on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.05. Any Unwithdrawn Credit Amount shall be cancelled by the 
Association after the First GF Closing Date.
Section 2.06. The Closing Date shall be January 31, 2003, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.07. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at 
such other rates as  may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.09. Commitment and service charges shall be payable semi-annually on 
March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.10. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
March 15 and September 15 commencing March 15, 2008, and ending September 15, 2037. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on September 15, 2017, shall 
be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by the Association of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify 
the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower 
to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal 
amount of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to 
commence repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual 
payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six (6) months or more after 
Page  5
the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in 
this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace 
period of a minimum of five (5) years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.11. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.12. (a) The Managing Director of AGA, or any person duly authorized by 
him or her, is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking 
any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.03(a) 
and 2.04(a) of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
(b)
Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing, the Borrower hereby 
entrusts AGA with responsibility for the preparation of withdrawal applications under 
the Credit and for the collection of the documents and other evidence to be furnished 
to the Association in support of such applications.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall: (a) 
carry out the Project through AGA, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, financial and insurance practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
(b)
Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations 
under this Agreement, the Borrower shall cause AGA to perform in accordance with the 
provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of AGA therein set forth, 
shall take or cause to be taken all actions, including the provision of funds, 
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable AGA to 
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which 
would prevent or interfere with such performance by AGA and with the fulfillment of 
the objectives of the Project.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall take all measures necessary on its part to 
ensure that AGA shall exercise its rights and comply with its obligations under the 
Agency Agreement and the Guarantee Contracts in such manner as to protect the 
interests of the Borrower, the Association and AGA and to accomplish the purposes of 
the Credit.
Section 3.03.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants’ services required for Part A.3 of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by Section 2.02 of the 
Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the First GF Closing 
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s 
objectives; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
Page  6
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at 
the request of either party, exchange views on the implementation by the Borrower of 
Part A of the Project.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the status of implementation of 
Part A of the Project, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
Section 4.02.  Not later than six (6) months prior to the First GF Closing Date, 
the Borrower shall notify the Association of its intention to implement Part B of the 
Project. 
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01.  (a) For all expenditures with respect to Part A.3 of the Project 
to which withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one year after the Association has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section and those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested, 
including a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall:
(a)
have the Escrow Account and the Additional Escrow Account for each fiscal 
year audited in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(b)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six (6) months after the end of each such year, the report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(c)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Escrow 
Page  7
Account and the Additional Escrow Account and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall have reasonably requested.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
AGA shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement;
(b)
AGA or the Agent Bank shall have failed to perform any of their 
respective obligations under the Agency Agreement;
(c)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that AGA will be able to perform its obligations under the Project 
Agreement or that AGA or the Agent Bank will be able to perform their respective 
obligations under the Agency Agreement;
(d)
the occurrence of War or Civil Disturbance, or Civil Commotion;
(e)
the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of AGA, or for the suspension of 
its operations;
(f)
any provision of the Charter shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, terminated or waived without the prior written consent of the Association;
(g)
any material or substantial provision of the Operations Manual shall have 
been amended without the prior written consent of the Association;
(h)
any provision of the Standard Form of  Guarantee Contract shall have been 
amended without the prior written consent of the Association;
(i)
any provision of the Agency Agreement shall have been amended, assigned, 
suspended, abrogated, terminated or waived without the prior written consent of the 
Association; or
(j)
the Agent Bank shall have made a Payment to a Guarantee Holder on behalf 
of AGA with the funds deposited by the Association into the Escrow Account for that 
purpose.
Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the event specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of Section 6.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice 
thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)
any of the events specified in paragraphs (e), (f), (g), (h), (i), or (j) 
of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions, namely that the Agency Agreement, acceptable to the 
Association, has been executed and delivered on behalf of AGA and the Agent Bank.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by AGA 
and is legally binding upon AGA in accordance with its terms;
(b)
that the Agency Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by AGA and 
Page  8
the Agent Bank and is legally binding upon AGA and the Agent Bank in accordance with 
its terms; and
(c)
that the Guarantee Contracts, when executed and delivered by the 
respective parties thereto based on the Standard Form of Guarantee Contract, will be 
legally valid and binding upon the respective parties thereto in accordance with their 
respective terms.
Section 7.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. Except as provided in Section 2.12(a) of this Agreement, the 
Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower 
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Bulevardi "Deshmoret e Kombit"
Tirana
Albania
Telex:
4295 Komplan AB
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Tirana, Albania, as of the day and year first above written.
ALBANIA
By /s/ A. Malaj 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ A. Hartmann 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Page  9
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each 
category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each 
Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
% of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Guarantee Facility
7,260,000
100% of the initial
under Part A.1
Maximum Amount of
of the Project
Guarantee included in
the Standard Form of
Guarantee Contracts
(2)
Consultants’ services
   25,000
100%
under Part A.3
of the Project
(3)
Goods under Part A.3
   60,000
100% of foreign
of the Project 
expenditures, 100%
of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and
80% of local expendi-
tures for other items
procured locally
(4)
Operating costs
  155,000
100% through 
under Part A.3
June 30, 1998;
of the Project
75% through
December 31, 1998;
and 50% thereafter
TOTAL 7,500,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
provided, however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another 
country from the territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in 
such currency for goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign expenditures"; and
(c)
the term "operating costs" means the operating costs incurred by AGA on 
account of staff salaries, office facilities, services, staff travel and consumable 
office supplies as may be agreed by the Association.
3.
The amount of the Credit allocated to Category (1) of paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule shall be withdrawn in accordance with the provisions of Part B of Schedule 4 
to this Agreement.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.
The Association, for the purposes of Part A.3 of the Project, may require 
withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on the basis of statements of 
expenditures.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to facilitate, encourage, 
and develop, directly or indirectly, its productive capacity and its ability to 
Page  10
attract investment.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Guarantee Facility and Institutional Strengthening
1.
Provision of guarantees to Guarantee Holders against the following political and 
war risks: (a) Inability to Convert and Transfer Currency; (b) Expropriation; (c) 
Seizure of Goods; Prevention of Sale or Prevention of Export; (d) War or Civil 
Disturbance; (e) Civil Commotion; (f) Cancellation of Licenses and Restrictions on 
Import or Export; (g) retroactive Imposition or Increase of Import or Export Taxes; 
and (h) Interference in the Carriage of Goods.
2.
Provision of information and brokerage services to help industrial and 
commercial enterprises in Albania transact business with foreign partners.
3.
Strengthening of AGA through the provision of goods, services, and operating 
costs, including salaries of AGA staff.
Part B:
Unsupported Guarantee Facility
Establishment and operation by AGA of a new guarantee facility, not financed by 
the Association, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by July 31, 2006.
SCHEDULE 3
Modifications of General Conditions
For the purpose of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions are 
modified as follows:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted;
(b)
The following sentence is  added to Section 4.01:
"For the purposes of Part A.1 of the Project, except as the Borrower and 
the Association shall otherwise agree, withdrawals from the Credit Account 
shall be made in the currency of the Escrow Account specified in Section 
2.03(b) of the Development Credit Agreement.";
(c)
Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit 
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of the Development 
Credit Agreement and of these General Conditions. Except as the Association 
and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on 
account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is not a 
member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or 
for 
any import of goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the 
Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security 
Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.";
(d)
At the end of Section 6.01, following the words "Section 5.02" the words 
"or in respect of which a Guarantee Contract (as such term is defined in the 
Development Credit Agreement) has been issued and remains outstanding" are added;
(e)
In Section 6.02, at the end of the first phrase which precedes 
sub-paragraph (a), ending with the word "Account", the words "with respect to any 
amount of the Credit which has not been committed under a Guarantee Contract (as such 
term is defined in the Development Credit Agreement)" are added;
(f)
Section 6.03 is modified to read as follows:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Association. If (a) the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account shall have been suspended 
with 
Page  11
respect to any amount of the Credit for a continuous period of thirty 
(30) 
days, or (b) at any time, the Association determines, after consultation  with the 
Borrower, that an amount of the Credit will not be required to 
finance the 
Project's costs to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,  or (c) at any time 
the Association determines, with respect to any contract to 
be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit, that corrupt or fraudulent 
practices were 
engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a 
beneficiary 
of the Credit during the procurement or the execution of such 
contract, 
without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory 
to the Association to remedy the situation, and establishes the 
amount of 
expenditures in respect of such contract which would otherwise have 
been eligible 
for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit, or (d) at any 
time, the 
Association determines that the procurement of any contract to be 
financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit is inconsistent with the procedures  set forth or 
referred to in the Development Credit Agreement and establishes 
the amount of 
expenditures in respect of such contract which would otherwise 
have been 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit, the 
Association 
may, by notice to the Borrower, terminate the right of the 
Borrower to 
make withdrawals with respect to such amount. Upon the giving of 
such notice, 
such amount of the Credit shall be canceled.  Furthermore, any 
Unwithdrawn 
Credit Amount shall be canceled by the Association after the First 
GF Closing 
Date.";
(k)
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read:
"(c) Not later than six (6) months after the Second GF Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a 
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably 
request, on the implementation of the Project, the performance by the Borrower 
and 
the Association of their respective obligations under the Development 
Credit 
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit."; and 
(l)
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 9.07 
and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07.
SCHEDULE 4
Withdrawals and Escrow Account
Part A:
General
1.
The Escrow Account shall be in the form of an interest bearing account for the 
purposes of the Project.
2.
The Committed GF Amounts shall be used exclusively to make Payments in 
accordance with the provisions of Part B of this Schedule. After the First GF Closing 
Date, the Available Amount shall be used exclusively to finance Part B of the Project, 
subject to the terms and conditions and in accordance with the procedures specified in 
Part C of this Schedule. 
3.
The Borrower shall, through AGA, for the purposes of the Additional Escrow 
Amounts, open and maintain in the Agent Bank, an interest bearing account on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against 
set-off, seizure or attachment.
4.
The Additional Escrow Amounts shall be used exclusively for the purposes of the 
Project as specified in Part D of this Schedule.
5.
The Committed GF Amounts and the Additional Escrow Amounts may, pending 
utilization as specified in paragraphs 2 and 4 hereof, be used for investments for 
which prior written approval has been obtained from the Association.
Part B:
Guarantee Facility
1.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Escrow 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of amounts from the Credit Account for 
deposit in the Escrow Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
The Agent Bank, acting on behalf of AGA, shall furnish to the 
Association, upon receipt of a Guarantee Contract and the payment of the guarantee fee 
payable thereunder, either a request for a deposit of an amount to cover the initial 
Page  12
Maximum Amount guaranteed thereunder if there are no Revolving GF Amounts available, 
or a request for a deposit of the balance amount required to cover the initial Maximum 
Amount guaranteed thereunder if there are insufficient Revolving GF Amounts available. 
On the basis of such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the Escrow Account such amount as the 
Agent Bank shall have requested.
(b)
For each Payment made by the Agent Bank, on behalf of AGA, out of the 
Escrow Account and/or Additional Escrow Account in accordance with the terms of the 
Agency Agreement, the Borrower shall cause AGA, at such time as the Association shall 
reasonably request, to furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence 
showing that such Payment was made exclusively on account of a Loss.  
(c)
(i) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any 
disbursement out of the Escrow Account: (i) was made for other 
than making a Payment; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Association: (A) refund to the Association an 
amount equal to the amount of such Payment or the portion thereof 
not so eligible or justified; or (B) provide such additional 
evidence as the Association may request.
(ii)
If, based upon the notice provided by the Borrower in accordance 
with Section 4.02 of this Agreement, the Association shall have 
determined that the Borrower does not intend to implement Part B 
of the Project, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association, refund to the Association any amount outstanding in 
the Escrow Account that will not be required to cover further 
payments.
(iii)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the 
Escrow Account.
(iv)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraphs (c) 
(i), (ii), and (iii) of this paragraph shall be credited to the 
Credit Account for cancellation in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
2.
No withdrawals from the Credit Account for deposit in the Escrow Account shall 
be made after January 31, 2003, or such later date as the Association shall establish. 
The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
3.
Unwithdrawn GF Amounts shall be retained in the Escrow Account and, before the 
First GF Closing Date, shall be used on a revolving basis for the purpose of providing 
new guarantees under the Guarantee Facility.
Part C:
New Guarantee Facility under Part B of the Project
1.
Subject to the provisions of paragraphs 2 and 3 of this Part, and, if deemed to 
be justified by the Association under the circumstances existing at the time, the 
Borrower shall, for the purposes of financing Part B of the Project, be entitled to 
obtain the release of the Available Amount after the First GF Closing Date and the 
balance of the Revolving GF Amounts remaining in the Escrow Account after the Second 
GF Closing Date.
2.
(a)
No release of the Available Amount after the First GF Closing Date or the 
balance of the Revolving GF Amounts after the Second GF Closing Date shall be made 
from the Escrow Account unless the Association is satisfied: (i) after an exchange of 
views as described in Section 4.01 of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to 
the Association, with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the implementation of 
Part A of the Project; (ii) claims pursuant to guarantees under the Guarantee Facility 
have not exceeded one million Dollars at any time; (iii) there has been no suspension 
of the Borrower’s right to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions at any time for reasons other than War or Civil 
Disturbance, or Civil Commotion; and (iv) that an acceptable notice has been provided 
by the Borrower pursuant to Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if, after the exchange of views pursuant to Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Association shall have given notice to the Borrower that the progress 
achieved by the Borrower in the implementation of Part A of the Project is not 
satisfactory and, within ninety (90) days after such notice, the Borrower shall not 
Page  13
have achieved progress satisfactory to the Association, then the Association may, by 
notice to the Borrower, require the Available Amount after the First GF Closing Date 
or the balance remaining in the Escrow Account after the Second GF Closing Date to be 
refunded to the Credit Account for cancellation; 
(c)
if the Association shall have determined at any time that any part of the 
Available Amount, or any part of the Revolving GF Amounts withdrawn under this Part C 
has been used to make a payment for an expenditure not related to Part B of the 
Project, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund such 
amount to the Association.  Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request 
shall be credited to the Credit Account for cancellation; and
(d)
in the case of Part B of the Project, except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the funds made available pursuant hereto shall be used in accordance 
with terms and conditions and operating procedures acceptable to the Association. 
3.
The Available Amount or the balance of the Revolving GF Amounts shall only be 
released by the Agent Bank upon certification by the Association that the provisions 
of paragraph 2(a) of this Part C have been satisfied.
Part D:
Additional Escrow Amounts
1.
The Additional Escrow Amounts or any part thereof shall, until the expiry of the 
First GF Closing Date, be used only for: (a) the provision of guarantees to Guarantee 
Holders on a revolving basis under the Guarantee Facility; or (b) Payment on account 
of Losses; or (c) expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for Parts A.2 
and A.3 of the Project. Thereafter, the Additional Escrow Amounts or remaining balance 
thereof shall be released to the Borrower at the request of the Borrower.
2.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods and 
services required for Parts A.2 and A.3 of the Project and to be financed out of the 
Additional Escrow Amounts shall be governed by Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (2), (3) and (4) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the amount of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $100,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
Page  14
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.04 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 5.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.  
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied 
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
Page  15
