Page  1
October 28, 1997
Mr. Arben Malaj
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Tirana, Albania
Re:
ALBANIA: Japanese Grant for the preparation of the proposed 
Private Industry Recovery Project
Grant Number TF025531
Excellency:
I am writing on behalf of the International Development Association (IDA) to 
indicate IDA’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by Japan to make a 
grant in an amount not exceeding four hundred fifty-five thousand three hundred eighty 
dollars ($455,380.00) (the Grant) to Albania (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial 
assistance and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex 
to this Letter Agreement. The Recipient hereby confirms its request that IDA carry out 
the activities described in paragraph 1 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement, and 
represents that it is authorized to contract the Grant for the said purposes and on 
the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement. Upon 
receipt by IDA of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter 
Agreement will become effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ A. Hartmann
Country Director
Albania, Croatia Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
AGREED:
ALBANIA
By /s/ A. Malaj
Minister of Finance
Date: October 28, 1997
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms and Conditions of the Grant
1.
The purpose of the Grant is to assist the Recipient in the preparation of a 
proposed Private Industry Recovery Project (the Project).  The technical assistance 
activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is given are as follows:
(a)
conducting a survey of existing foreign partners of Albanian enterprises 
and banks to assess demand and to allow the Project to meet the needs of its target 
audience;
(b)
assisting in the preparation of the legal documentation and operational 
procedures of the facility such as the guarantee contract and the operations manual; 
and
Page  2
(c)
assisting in building the institutional capacity of the Albanian 
Guarantee Agency (AGA), including on-the-job training of Project staff in the context 
of the implementation of a pilot during Project implementation. 
2.
The Grant shall be used to finance consultants’ services required for the 
Activities.
3.
IDA shall carry out the Activities on behalf of the Recipient. The Recipient 
shall cooperate with IDA to the extent necessary to permit IDA to carry out the 
Activities promptly and effectively, and to evaluate the results of the Activities. 
The Recipient shall indemnify IDA against any costs or liabilities incurred by IDA as 
a result of claims against IDA in connection with the Activities, except those 
resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of its staff or external 
consultants.
4.
It is expected that the Activities will be completed by June 30, 1998.  After 
that date, IDA may at any time cancel the remaining balance of the Grant.
5.
The engagement and supervision of the consultants (the Consultants) required to 
assist in the carrying out of the Activities shall be the responsibility solely of IDA 
and shall be done according to IDA’s applicable procedures.
6.
The Recipient shall be responsible for the payment of any taxes levied by, or in 
the territory of, Albania on the Consultants or any of the Consultants’ personnel 
(other than nationals or permanent residents thereof) in connection with the 
Activities.
7.
The Recipient may at any time request IDA in writing to terminate the 
Activities. Whether or not the Recipient has made such a request, IDA may at any time 
suspend or, after consultation with the Recipient, terminate the right of the 
Recipient to receive Grant funds for the Activities if any of the following events has 
occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to perform any of its 
obligations under this Letter Agreement; or (b) the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals under any development credit agreement with IDA shall have been suspended.
8.
IDA is not an agent of or trustee for the Recipient and shall not have any 
fiduciary relationship with the Recipient. The Recipient shall have no right to any 
portion of the Grant that is not expended by IDA pursuant to this Agreement.
