Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15570-GE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
BASIC EDUCATION SECTOR IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
May 24, 1996
Population and Human Resources Division
West Central Africa Department
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(April 1996)
Currency Unit = Cedis
US$1.00 = 1550 cedis
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ADB            Africa Development Bank
BE             Basic Education
BESIC          Basic Education Sector Improvement Credit
CIDA           Canadian International Development Agency
CSPIP          Civil Service Performance Improvement Program
CP             Consultative Panel
DACF           District Assembly Common Fund
DEO            District Education Office
DEOC           District Education Oversight Committee
GES            Ghana Education Service
ERP            Economic Recovery Program
EU             European Union
FCUBE          A Program for Free, Compulsory and Universal Basic Education by the Year 2005
FIMTAP         Financial Management Technical Assistance Project
GER            Gross Enrollment Ratio
GNAT           Ghana National Association of Teachers
GOG            Govemment of Ghana
GTZ            Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit
ICB            Intemational Competitive Bidding
IDA            Intemational Development Association
IOC            Implementation Overview Committee
IPPD           Integrated Personnel Payroll Data
JICA           Japan Intemational Cooperation Agency
ISS            Junior Secondary School
KfW            Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
LIB            Limited Intemational Bidding
MOE            Ministry of Education
MOF            Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
MLGRD          Ministry of Local Govemment and Rural Development
MTR            Mid-Term Review
NCB            National Competitive Bidding
NGO            Non-Govemmental Organization
NIRP           National Institutional Renewal Program
NDPC           National Development Planning Commission
ODA            Overseas Development Administration (U.K.)
OHCS           Office of Head of Civil Service
PMU            Project Management Unit
PREP           Primary Education Program (USAID)
PSDP           Primary School Development Project
PTA            Parent Teacher Association
PUFMARP        Public Financial Management Technical Assistance Project
SDR            Special Drawing Rights
SMC            School Management Committee
SSS            Senior Secondary School
UNDP           United Nations Development Program
UNICEF         United Nations Children's Fund
USAID          United States Agency for Intemational Development
WDR            World Development Report
FISCAL YEAR                                 EDUCATION STRUCTURE
January I - December 31                     Years 1-6   Primary
SCHOOL YEAR                                        7-9   Junior Secondary
September - June (Basic and Tertiary)              10-12 Senior Secondary and Technical
January - December (Sr. Secondary)                 13-16 University



4. PROGRAM  IMPLEMENTATION ...................................................                         29
A. PROGRAM PREPARATION ...................................................                    29
B. PROGRAM MANAGEMENT AND COORDINATION ................................................ 30
C. PROGRAM MONITORING, REPORTING AND SUPERVISION .................................. 31
D. PROCUREMENT ...................................................                            32
E. DISBURSEMENT ...................................................                           36
F. ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, AND REPORTING ...................................................  37
G. PROGRAM BENEFITS AND RISKS ...................................................             37
Program  Benefits ...................................................                37
Program  Risks ...................................................                   39
5. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ........................... 39
ANNEXES
I    Basic Data Sheet
2    Descriptors of Basic Education
2-1   Participation Indicators
2-2   Efficiency Indicators
2-3   Student Achievement Indicators
2-4   System  Outcome Indicators
2-5   Teacher Quality Indicators, 1989-1994
2-6   Manpower Indicator
3    Fiscal and Economic Analysis
3-1 Expenditure Analysis
3-2 Equity Analysis
3-3   Cost-Benefit Analysis
3-4   Fiscal Impact and Financial Sustainability Analysis
4    Letter of Sectoral Policy
5    Operational Plan
5-1   Key Performance Indicators
5-2   Summary Implementation Plan
5-3   Key Areas of Technical Assistance
5-4   Supervision Plan
5-5   Procurement and Disbursement Schedules
6    Draft District Education Oversight Committee Agreement
7    Proposed Organizational Structure for FCUBE Implementation
8    Management Roles and Relationships
9    List of Key Source Documents in Project File
MAP:  IBRD No. 28045



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
BASIC EDUCATION SECTOR IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CREDIT AND  PROGRAM   SUMMARY ......................................................................... iii
1. INTRODUCTION..
2. THE EDUCATION SECTOR AND SOCIO-ECONOMIC CONTEXT ........................ 1
A. ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL OVERVIEW .................................................................... 1
B. EDUCATION SYSTEM  OVERVIEW ......................................................................... 2
C. KEY ISSUES IN BASIC EDUCATION .......................................................................5 
Poor Teaching and Learning Outcomes ....................................................... 5
Lack of Management Efficiency .................................................................. 6
Unsatisfactory and Inequitable Access and Participation ............................ 9
Inadequate Financing Arrangements ..................                 ....................................... 1I1
D. PREVIOUS BANK OPERATIONS IN THE EDUCATION SECTOR .............................. 13
E. OTHER DONOR SUPPORT FOR THE EDUCATION SECTOR ..................................... 14
F. LESSONS FROM PREVIOUS IDA AND OTHER DONOR INVOLVEMENT IN GHANA
EDUCATION ...................................................................................    14
G. RATIONALE FOR IDA INVOLVEMENT IN BASIC EDUCATION ................................. 15
3. THE BASIC EDUCATION SECTOR IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM ....................... 16
A. PROGRAM  OBJECTIVES ...................................................................................  16
B. PROGRAM  DESCRIPTION ................................................................................... 16
Component 1: Enhanced Quality of Teaching and Learning ........                           ............ 17
Component 2: Management for Efficiency ............................................... 19
Component 3. Improving Access and Participation ................................. 22
C. PROGRAM  COSTS AND FINANCING .................................................................... 24
Program  Costs ...................................................................................   24
Program  Financing ................................................................................... 26
Program  sustainability ............................................................................... 27
This operation was prepared on the basis of a series of missions in 1995/1996, which worked closely with Govemment
officials from the Ministry of Education and Ghana Education Service, and with donor agencies including ODA(UK),
KfW (Germany), USAID, UNICEF and EU. Mission members comprised at different times Messrs/Mmes Gregory
Hancock (Sr. Operations Officer), Kazuhiro Yoshida (Human Resources Economist), Josephine Woo (Project Officer),
Irene Xenakis (Sr. Implementation Specialist), Tsri Apronti (Project Officer), Eluned Roberts-Schweitzer (Education
Specialist), Sudharshan Canagarajah (Economist), Rebekah Kirubaidoss (Sr. Staff Assistant); and Kevin Brown, Gary
Theisen, David Evans, Joanne Capper, Bing Deng, and Paul Turton (Consultants). Messrs/Mmes Rebekah
Kirubaidoss, Geise Santos (Staff Assistant) and Ross Pfile (Projects Assistant) provided support for report production.
Peer reviewers are Messrs/Mmes Marlaine Lockheed, Ward Heneveld, Nicholas Bumett and Dzingai Mutumbuka.
Messrs. Ian Porter and Olivier Lafourcade are the managing Division Chief and Director, respectively, of the
operation,



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
BASIC EDUCATION SECTOR IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:               Republic of Ghana
Implementing Agency: Ministry of Education/Ghana Education Service
Beneficiaries:          School age children, teachers, Ministry of Education, Ghana
Education Service, and district authorities
Poverty Category:       Program of Targeted Interventions. Focusing on issues of education
quality, equity and efficiency, the program will particularly benefit
educationally less advantaged groups of the Ghanaian population,
directly school-age urban and rural poor children, and indirectly their
parents and communities.
Credit Amount:          SDR 34.7 million (US$50 million equivalent)
Terms:                  Standard IDA terms, with 40 years' maturity
Financing Plan:         For phase 1 (1996-2000) of the Government's Basic Education Sector
Improvement Program:
US$ million
Ghana (Govenrment/communities) ,5120.9
Ongoing donor support                54.0
Proposed donorf0nancing
IDA                                 50.0
UODA (UK)                           23.0 equiv. (£15.0 m)
GrSAID (tentative)                  53.0
Germany (tentative)   /a            25.0 equiv. (DM 40.0 m)
Other (to be confirmed) a           25.3
Rate of Return:                                            Primarv      Jr. Secondarv
Private internal rate of return    27.7%           12.4%
Social internal rate of return     18.5%            9.7%
Project ID No.          GH-PA-975
- The European Union, Japan and Norway have expressed their interest in supporting the program, but commitments
are not yet firm.
P Rates of return are based on mean earnings by each subgroup according to their educational background. The rate
of return for primary education, for instance, compares costs and benefits between those with no education and
those with primary education over the period of working life. It is also found that the rate of return to basic
education is higher for girls than for boys in Ghana, justifying interventions targeting girls and poor children.



ii
FCUBE Program 1996-2000
Total Costs of Betterment Activities
Local and Foreign Costs by Component
(US$ million)
Component                      Local Foreign  Total  % Foreign
1. Enhanced Quality of Teaching/Learning
(a) In-Service Training of Education Personnel  7.7    2.1      9.8      21.0%
(b) Pre-Service Teachers' Training              12.6   14.0    26.7      52.3%
(c) Assessment/Evaluation of Student Performance    0.7    0.9  1.5      55.9%
(d) Provision of Instructional Materials       38.7   47.7    86.5       55.2%
(e) Curriculum Review and Development           0.5    0.4      0.9      46.1%
Subtotal  60.3   65.0   125.4       51.9%
2. Management for Efficiency
(a) Institutional/Organizational Analysis & Change    12.4    3.5    15.9  21.9%
(b) Staffing and Personnel Management           4.3    1.7    6.1        28.3%
(c) Performance Management                       1.1    3.2     4.2      74.7%
(d) Budgeting and Financial Management          0.4    0.6      0.9      60.3%
(e) District Capacity Building                   1.4    0.4     1.8      20.0%
Subtotal  19.6    9.3    28.8       32.1%
3. Improving Access and Participation
(a) Infrastructure Development and Maintenance  22.8   22.1    44.9      49.2%
(b) Increasing Girls' Participation              1.8    0.5     2.3      20.0%
(c) Schooling Improvement Fund (SIF)            8.9    2.6    11.4       22.5%
(d) Information, Educ and Communication (IEC)   0.2    0.0      0.2      20.0%
Subtotal  33.7   25.2    58.8       42.8%
Total Base Costs                                  113.6   99.5   213.0      46.7%
Price Contingencies                                 8.6    7.5    16.2
Physical Contingencies                              6.6    5.8    12.4
Total Costs of Betterment Activities              128.8  112.8   241.6      46.7%
Estimated Annual Disbursement
(US$ million)
j IDA FY                 1997       1998       1999       2000      2001
Annual                   2.5       11.7       13.3      14.8        7.8
Cumulative               2.5       14.2      27.5       42.2       50.0



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
BASIC EDUCATION SECTOR IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
1. INTRODUCTION
1.1    The Government of Ghana has requested IDA assistance of SDR 34.7 million (US$50.0
million equivalent) to help finance the first (five-year) phase of a basic education sector
improvement program which will be implemented over the ten-year period 1996-2005, aimed at
improving: teaching and learning outcomes; access to primary and junior secondary education
(especially for girls and the poor); efficiency in resource management; and financial
sustainability.
1.2    This request is based on experience gained over nine years from a series of Government,
IDA and other externally funded activities in support of the national Education Reform Program.
It is in response to a constitutionally mandated requirement that universal basic schooling be
available to all young Ghanaians by the middle of the next decade.
2. THE EDUCATION SECTOR AND SOCIO-ECONOMIC CONTEXT
A. ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL OVERVIEW
2.1    During the 1970s and the early 1980s, Ghana experienced a serious economic decline,
bringing a country which once had enjoyed a relatively high living standard compared with other
Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA) countries down to bedrock. The economy had contracted by 2-3
percent per annum during this period. Since launching the Economic Recovery Program (ERP)
with support from the IMF, the World Bank and other donors, the Government has made thirteen
years of efforts at economic stabilization and structural adjustment. The economy has been
growing by an average of about 5 percent annually, or at around 2 percent per capita. The
Extended Poverty Studyl found that during the middle stages of the ERP, poverty had fallen
moderately. Sustained and even more rapid growth and more rigorous poverty-fighting activities
are necessary to improve the quality of Ghanaian life within a reasonable time-span.
2.2    Government has adopted a strategy of trying to accelerate growth and to achieve social
equity and poverty reduction, with agriculture and other parts of the private sector being the
main engines.2 Over the past few years, the macroeconomic situation has been less favorable.
Despite a successful turnaround in fiscal balance, annual inflation exceeded 60 percent in 1995.
It is important that all segments of the population also benefit from growth through participating
in economic activities. This requires all Ghanaians to be functionally literate and numerate.
Ghana Poverty Past, Present and Future, The World Bank, 1995.
2   Ghana 2000 and Beyond: Setting the Stagefor Accelerated Growth and Poverty Reduction, The
World Bank, 1993.



2
Human resources development is ranked highly among the Government's key development
3
objectives; and basic education has a crucial role to play. Key social, economic and education
indicators for Ghana are shown in the Basic Data Sheet (Annex 1).
B. EDUCATION SYSTEM OVERVIEW
2.3    Since independence in 1957, Ghana's educational services have been financed and
provided mainly through the public sector, although private provision is an important part of
primary schooling and technical training. Due to the heavy dependence on public financing, the
macroeconomic turmoil of the 1970s and early 1980s plunged the country's education system
into severe decline. Between 1976 and 1983, expenditures on education by the Government fell
from 6.4 percent of GDP to 1.4 percent. A shortage of foreign exchange deprived schools of
textbooks and other essential instructional materials. A mass exodus of trained and qualified
teachers who were unsatisfied with poor conditions of service left nearly half of the primary
teachers untrained.  School buildings, furniture, and equipment deteriorated.  In 1987, the
Government initiated an overall education sector reform as an integral part of its national plan
for economic recovery. This process restructured the school system; revised the curricula for
primary, junior secondary school (JSS) and senior secondary school (SSS) levels; developed new
teaching and learning materials; provided in-service teacher training; raised teacher qualification
requirements; steadily replaced unqualified teachers; introduced several cost-saving/sharing
policies; and began the process of administrative decentralization. In the early 1990's, the
Government turned its attention also to the tertiary sub-sector, consisting of universities and
polytechnics. These institutions were coming under increasing strain owing to the huge increase
in social demand, in part brought on by the creation of mass schooling. Middle level technical
training is provided by a mixture of public and private providers, but it is widely regarded as
being non-responsive to changing labor market needs and the preferences of school leavers.
2.4    Structure. Ghana's current education structure is still in the consolidation stage. Prior
to 1987, education in Ghana consisted of a six-year Primary; a four-year Middle; a seven-year
Secondary (the first five years leading to the 'O' level certification and the last two leading to the
'A' level); and a three or four-year Tertiary. Legally it was possible to skip the middle school
years by passing the Common Entrance Examination in class 6 of primary grade. In reality,
however, the majority had to spend as long as 17 years for pre-university education. The
structural change has been one of the key elements of the reform. The new system consists of
primary (grades 1-6) and junior secondary (grades 7-9), together forming the Basic Education
(BE) cycle, followed by the senior secondary cycle (grades 10-12); and several forms of post
secondary education and training that include technical institutes, universities, polytechnics, and
teacher training colleges. The final replacement of the old structure with the new structure is
being completed during the 1995/96 academic year when the last cohort of students under the old
system graduates.
2.5    Dimensions of Basic Schooling. Ghana's nine-year basic education cycle is nominally
compulsory, and children are supposed to enter primary school at the age of six. Primary pupils
are promoted to the next grade every year except for pupils (up to 5 percent) with extremely
weak performance or poor attendance, who repeat with parental consent. In reality, quite a few
pupils are over-age, and about one-fourth of the average Primary One (P1) cohort drops out by
Ghana Vision 2020, Government of Ghana, 1995.



3
P6 (Annex 2-4-1). In the primary school, nine subjects are studied: English, Mathematics,
Science, Agriculture, Social Studies, Life Skills, Ghanaian Language, Cultural Studies, and
Physical Education. The lower primary classes (P1-3) are taught in the Ghanaian language
prevailing in the local community; for P4 and beyond, English is the language of instruction.
2.6    After completing the sixth grade, all pupils are automatically eligible to enroll in JSS
without being screened by examinations, subject to a place being available. JSS is expected to
equip those who wish to enter the world of work with the necessary basic skills, or to develop the
ability to continue study at SSS. Thus to meet these dual objectives, JSS curricula have been
restructured, and new syllabi and teaching materials developed for thirteen subjects - technical
and pre-vocational skills training have been added to the core primary subjects, with French as
an elective course.
2.7    The access and participation situation in Ghana compares favorably with the Sub
Saharan Africa (SSA) average, and with other countries with a similar level of per-capita
income. Yet for a country which aims to join the newly industrializing economies, Ghana is
facing a big challenge (Table 2-1 below). Global evidence demonstrates the importance of
widening opportunity for quality schooling at both primary and secondary levels. In the national
interest, efforts of the Government to strive for universal, quality basic education is not only a
constitutional responsibility, it is a prerequisite for the economy to grow and for poverty to be
reduced.
Table 2-1. Basic Education Enrollments: A Comparative Look"
| Primary GER    Secondary GER
Sub-Sahara Africa         67                18
Low-income'                66               26
Fast-growing'             99                52
Ghana                      78              430
Source: WDR, 1995 and MOE, 1995.
a
Notes:  Enrollment data is of 1992; for Ghana it is of 1993.
b Excluding China and India.
Average GER of 9 fastest growing countries (6% or more)
d during the period 1980-93.
A combined gross enrollment ratio for JSS and SSS.
2.8    In primary school, a teacher covers all subjects with her/his class group; and is supposed
to be competent in at least two Ghanaian languages. Headteachers are nominally detached from
teaching so that they can concentrate on school management and supervision. In many cases, the
headteacher has class duties as well, leaving little time for proper school management. There are
some 63,000 primary school teachers and 31,000 JSS teachers in schools. National Service
provides additional temporary teachers, some 2,000 for primary and over 5,000 for JSS
respectively who serve for two years. This makes a theoretical pupil/teacher ratio of 31:1 in
primary and 20:1 junior secondary (Annex 2-2-2), although these national average figures do not
capture the reality in many districts of overcrowded classrooms, a shortage of teachers, and in



4
JSS, a big difference in the student/teacher ratio by subject (Annex 3-2-8). As well, there are
over 4,500 Ghana Education Service (GES) staff who are qualified as teachers but serve in
administrative positions at headquarters, regional and district offices and at religiously-based
educational units (Annex 2-6). To become a qualified teacher now, one has to be a graduate of
either a teacher training college or SSS, and has to have been awarded a teacher certificate.
Previously, many became teachers after completing the middle school, and without having any
professional training.  The situation has improved, and presently around three-quarters of
primary teachers and two-thirds of JSS teachers are at least minimally trained and certified
(Annex 2-5). The Ghana National Association of Teachers (GNAT) counts among its members
all teachers at public schools and those teachers at private schools who are on a fixed term
secondment from the public sector, as well as those with qualification for teaching but presently
holding administrative posts.
2.9    Private Sector. Until now, Government policy on private sector provision of schooling
may be described as lightly regulated laissez-faire. Private primary and to a lesser extent JSSs
are currently spreading at a higher rate than public schools, mostly in urban areas. There are at
least 900 private primary schools, accommodating about ten percent of primary enrollment
nationally. In addition, there are 200 private JSSs enrolling some 30,000 students, about six
percent of all JSS enrollments. These private schools charge instructional and other fees, and
pay their own teachers while the Government provides textbooks and some other consumables.
Fees presently range from 25,000 cedis to 65,000 cedis per term, with extra charges ranging
between 5,000 and 10,000 cedis a year. GES certifies private schools and has tried to regulate
fees, but has met with resistance on the latter from the private schools lobby. There are also
several "international" schools offering high cost (and high quality) services to the national and
expatriate elite without any support from the Government.
2.10   System Administration.  The Government, through MOE, is responsible for basic
education policy. MOE has four core functional divisions: Planning, Budgeting, Monitoring and
Evaluation (PBME); Manpower Development, Training and Personnel Policy and Management;
Statistics, Information Management, Public Relations and Research; and General Administration
and Finance. In addition, there is a Project Management Unit (PMU), staffed mainly on a
contract basis, to facilitate the administration of externally funded projects. MOE is supported
operationally by the Ghana Education Service (GES), which was established in 1974, largely as a
result of pressure from the Ghana National Association of Teachers (GNAT), to promote a sense
of collegiality, accountability and peer discipline among teachers. GES, with offices at Accra,
the ten regions and 110 districts, delivers and supervises education services. All public pre-
tertiary teachers belong to GES. Each district, under the Local Government Act of 1988, is
responsible for providing and maintaining basic school infrastructure. Teachers, and teaching
and learning materials, are provided by MOE to all government schools.
2.11   Government Financial Commitment. The Government's current emphasis on the
importance of education in the development process has been reflected in the budget for
education. The education budget as a percentage of GDP has increased from the pre-ERP's low
level of 1.4 percent in 1983 to 3.2 percent in 1989, and further to 3.8 percent in 1994 (Annex 3-
1). Hence, Ghana has shown relatively strong fiscal commitment to the education sector during
its decade of structural adjustment. The proportion of the Government's annual discretionary
budget allocated to education has averaged nearly 39 percent over the last five years, on an
actual spending basis. Intrasectoral allocation since the educational reforms began in 1987 has



5
been in favor of basic education which has consistently received 60 percent or more of MOE's
budget.
2.12   Financing the Basic Education Sector. Over the last four years, of the total amount of
basic education recurrent expenditure, the Government has contributed about two-thirds,
households about a quarter, and donors about 10 percent (Annex 3-1-3). For capital costs,
districts are the major source of in-country domestic spending and on average they share the load
equally with external aid partners, although contributions toward capital expenditures fluctuate
significantly. Two major sources of funding for districts are the District Assembly Common
Fund (DACF), a centrally distributed intergovernmental (i.e. national to district level) transfer of
5 percent of the national tax revenue; and funds generated by the districts themselves, with
education levies accounting for most. The Government has thus been responsible mainly for
recurrent expenditure, predominantly salary and administrative costs.  Its spending on
infrastructure and instructional materials has been very minimal; which has been compensated
for by donors.
2.13   Despite substantial real increases over the years which have made teacher salaries
relatively higher than those for civil servants of comparable rank, remuneration is still felt to be
inadequate by many teachers. This contributes to alienation and to the inclination to pursue
other income-generating activities.  Making sufficient resources available for non-salary
expenditures in schools to improve the quality of education outcome while maintaining teacher
motivation through attractive incentive packages are challenging tasks.
C. KEY ISSUES IN BASIC EDUCATION
2.14   Since establishing a joint forum with resident donors in 1994, MOE/GES has been
engaged in collaborative sector studies. A top-level task group was formed by the Minister for
Education to oversee the preparation of reports prepared by professional study teams involving
local experts, and a series of participatory workshops has been held involving stakeholders.
Parents, community leaders, district and regional officers, teachers, parliamentarians, and
MOE/GES staff have all contributed to producing analytic reports that have identified the main
issues which have been addressed in the MOE's Strategic Plan for Universal Basic Education
(FCUBE).
2.15   The key issues in basic education flowing from the process outlined above can be
categorized into four broad areas as follows: (a) poor teaching and learning outcomes; (b)
inadequate access to education services; (c) weak management capacity at all levels of the
system; and (d) unsatisfactory financing arrangements.
Poor Teaching and Learning Outcomes
2.16   Over the past decade the present education system has been rebuilt on the ruins of its
predecessor. However, despite increased resource inputs and enrollments, the reform movement
has had very limited success so far in improving the quality of teaching and learning outcomes.
Pupil achievement continues to be very disappointing. Criterion referenced tests conducted
through a USAID project (PREP) on a sample of P6 pupils over the last few years continue to
show appalling results. In 1994, only three percent of the pupils tested attained satisfactory
scores for English, and merely 1.5 percent for mathematics (Annex 2-3). If the basic education



6
system continues to fail to produce acceptable outcomes, it will become politically difficult for
the Government to maintain such a large share of budgetary resources for schooling, parental
confidence will be totally eroded, and a downward spiral will negate the considerable progress
over recent years as measured by a number of important indicators.
2.17   Causes identified for this problematic situation include:  (a) lack of instructional
materials and equipment despite the considerable external funding for them over recent years,
and even where available, teachers often do not make effective use of them; (b) inadequate
spending on non-salary recurrent items, especially at the school level; (c) high levels of pupil and
teacher absenteeism; (d) insufficient teacher-pupil instructional contact hours; (e) inappropriate
pre-service teacher training and inadequate in-service teacher training; (f) unmotivated teachers
owing to ineffective supervision, unattractive incentives and low societal regard of the teaching
profession; (g) an overly ambitious curriculum, burdensome to both teachers and pupils and; (h)
didactic modes of teaching, namely, rote memorization and copying from the blackboard.
Furthermore, many private and some public schools, especially some religiously based, do not
actually provide the regular courses. A complicating issue is the language of instruction: poor
rural children tend to have almost no access to spoken or written English in everyday life. In the
lower primary school in which children's mother-tongue is supposed to be the language of
instruction, insufficient supply of both educational materials and teachers who can communicate
in local languages means that few pupils learn the skills of reading and writing even in their
native language. The majority therefore have no linguistic framework to help them become
literate in English as a second language. While recognizing that, as in most multi-linguistic
countries, this is a political as much as a pedagogical issue, it is nonetheless having a devastating
effect on the learning of core skills.
Lack of Management Efficiency
2.18   Improving the effectiveness and efficiency of MOE/GES cannot be achieved through
action in the education sector alone. A collective effort is required which will involve a wide
range of stakeholders - other Government and public sector agencies, particularly the Ministries
of Finance and Local Government, Office of the Head of Civil Service (OHCS), and the National
Development  Planning  Commission  (NDPC),  communities  and  employees/unions
representatives.  Nonetheless, immediate strengthening of the management capacity of
MOE/GES is required. Some of the immediate management issues to be addressed are
summarized below
2.19   Effective management of basic education depends upon the institutional capabilities of
five agencies - the twin bureaucracies of MOE and GES at the central, regional and district
levels, the Ministry of Finance (MOF), the OHCS, and the schools themselves,.  MOE
formulates education policy, sets sectoral objectives, determines sub-sectoral resource allocation
and monitors the provision of services. GES has its own enabling legislation, the Ghana
Education Service Act of 1994, and provision for a Governing Council. It is the technical
implementing arm of the education sector. While MOE is a civil service agency and GES a
subvented one, to all intents and purposes they are administratively and budgetarily interrelated
in their day to day operations. MOF holds the budgetary and resource allocation levers, although
MOE/GES are expected to manage their allocations within prescriptive guidelines. OHCS
controls the appointment of new personnel and senior managers.



7
2.20   Significant efforts have been made over the years to enhance the responsibility and
authority of the GES District Education Offices (DEOs). In line with this, it is envisaged that the
role of the Regional Education Offices would be one of coordinating and monitoring. Recently
DEOs were given extended authority over some staffing matters, especially promotions,
although the majority of personnel decisions, particularly those concerning appointments and
severe discipline, continue to be taken centrally within the GES. In practice, the regions
continue to play a significant managerial role in the preparation of budgets, although this is
expected to change with the advent of financial decentralization.
2.21   Restructuring. In 1995, the GES initiated a review of its management structures at
headquarters, regional and district levels in order to bring authority and responsibility for
services closer to communities. As part of this process a workshop was conducted in March
1996 for MOE/GES managers, District Assembly members and headteachers in order to
determine management responsibilities at different levels, to define the relationships between
key bodies and to formulate priorities for institutional strengthening. The results of this exercise
are set out in Annex 8. This has been motivated both by the pressing requirement to reduce non-
school based payroll costs in order to make more resources available for schools; and by the
political imperative to decentralize functions. The dilemma is that increased decentralization,
whether administratively or politically motivated, often leads to demands for additional
administrative staff and hence larger payrolls. The restructuring of GES, which is necessarily
coupled with that of MOE, is being conducted in line with the National Institutional Renewal and
the Civil Service Performance Improvement Programs (NIRP/CSPIP), the Government umbrella
arrangement for public sector and financial management reform. The systemic issues arising
from workshops, together with the outputs of beneficiary surveys, are currently being analyzed.
These will form the basis for actions to address system-wide constraints to public sector
performance and good governance. The restructuring of MOE/GES and the development of
improved management systems and skills will need to be facilitated by, and harmonized with,
this broader process.
2.22   Decentralization. The restructuring referred to above involves significant delegation of
operational decision making to the district level. Hence it will give due regard to the local
government reform movement which has been pursued since 1988 in order to promote popular
participation in development by devolving powers and responsibilities for service provision to
elected District Assemblies. As a result of the Local Government Acts of 1988 and 1993,
District Assemblies have a legal mandate to take over specified Government services including
the primary and junior secondary schools. District Education Oversight Committees (DEOCs)
are in the process of being established (Annex 6). In order to effect this transfer of authority,
responsibility and accountability for services to the District Assemblies, additional enabling
legislation such as the passage of the Local Government Service Bill will be required. Further,
"Common Funds" have been established to enable District Assemblies to meet capital
expenditures for all sectors. In time, recurrent budgets may also be devolved to the Assemblies.
Accordingly, the restructuring and decentralization which will take place within the MOE/GES
will need to pave the way, ultimately, for full devolution of basic education services to the
District Assemblies.
2.23   Devising improved and decentralized management structures and achieving clear roles
and decision making authority are necessary but not sufficient conditions for institutional
effectiveness. A number of other critical management issues need to be addressed to enable the
MOE/GES to achieve its basic education goals. These are summarized below.



8
2.24   Organization  Culture.   Whilst proposals are being  developed  to  streamline
management and to delegate authority to the districts, a management culture which is rooted in
centralized decision making and administration by formal directives remains largely intact.
Resistance to change can be anticipated from some. Pre-emptive action is required to counteract
impedance of further operational delegation and local initiative.
2.25   School Supervision. Inadequacies in the supervision of schools, both by district level
officers and headteachers, and the limitations of disciplinary processes are seriously undermining
effective teaching. Of particular concern are the quality and impact of school inspections and the
degree of professional independence of the inspectors and circuit supervisors. The absence of an
appropriate performance management framework which sets out clear and relevant
accountabilities for monitoring purposes simply compounds the problem.
2.26   Educational Management Information. School census and survey data critical for
planning and resource allocation are consistently reported too late to be of practical use. As a
result, user units tend to collect their own information independently. This results in duplication
of effort, data inconsistencies and validity problems, as well as overburdened district officials
who are charged with data collection. The fact that units tend to operate in isolation further
inhibits informnation sharing and exacerbates the problem.
2.27   Management Skills. There is a dearth of capable managers at all levels of the system
because they have traditionally been selected on the basis of their teaching qualifications and
experience. Subsequently very few receive any significant management training. Inadequacies
in the supervision of schools, both by district education officers and headteachers, and the
limitations of disciplinary processes are seriously undermining effective teaching and learning.
Such weaknesses are reinforced by the absence of an appropriate performance management
framework which sets out clear and relevant accountabilities for monitoring purposes.
2.28   Community Involvement. An important question is how communities can become
more involved in the management of schools through the new School Management Committees
(SMCs) and DEOCs recently legislated in the GES Act of 1995. Although parents are officially
expected to play a more active role in school management, many continue to see their role as
providing supplementary financial support only. This is partly due to some confusion between
the roles of the PTAs and the SMCs and partly because teachers do not always welcome parental
"intrusion".
2.29   Resource Allocation. There is a general shortage of instructional materials especially in
primary schools and of trained teachers particularly in rural areas. There are also weaknesses in
the resource distribution system and the teacher posting system, resulting in considerable
inequities between schools, regions and districts (see para. 2.35). These problems are partly due
to absolute resource limitations but can be attributed largely to failure in the resource allocation
process which allows prior claim to personnel emoluments and to advantaged areas.
2.30   Rewards. Currently there are few incentives available to teaching and non-teaching
staff, beyond the standard remuneration and conditions of service, to encourage and reinforce
good performance. Specific performance-related rewards to motivate staff and salary range
decompression to attract and retain people in positions of high responsibility, have to be devised
and implemented.



9
Unsatisfactory and Inequitable Access and Participation
2.31   Basic education enrollments have been increasing.  Enrollment in public primary
education increased by more than 25 percent during the 1988-93 period from 1.6 million to 2.0
million. Enrollment in private schools increased relatively more rapidly from about 134,000 to
225,000. But because of population growth, enrollment ratios have been stagnating despite
overall enrollment increases (see Table 2-2 below). The gross enrollment ratio presently stands
at 78 percent for primary with 85 percent of children at age 6 entering the first grade (P1); and at
61 percent for JSS. Enrollment ratios in the north, where girls comprise only 35 percent of
primary enrollments and as little as 25 percent in junior secondary, are up to 30 percent lower
than the national average (Annex 3-2-8). Girls' enrollment ratios continue to decrease steadily
through the grades (Annex 3-2-2). The direct and indirect costs of education together with
parents' lack of confidence in the education system are discouraging poor families from sending
their children, particularly girls, to school.
Table 2-2 Population and Primary School Enrollments 1980-93
(in thousands)
Average for the period          Average Growth Rate
1980-84 1984-88 1988-93 1991-93 1980-84 1984-88 1988-93 1991-93
Population       11,516  13,138  15,270  15,963   3.7%    3.4%    3.1%    3.1%
School age (6-11)   1,926   2,175   2,511   2,641   3.1%    3.1%    3.5%    3.8%
primary (public)    1,468   1,586   1,778   1,855  2.5%    1.2%    3.6%    2.8%
primary (private)  112     126    174    209  3.1%    3.1%    10.9%    4.9%
GER (pub.& priv.) 82.0%   78.8%   77.7%   78.2%   -0.5%    -1.8%    0.2%    -0.9%
Source: MOE
2.32   During 1988-92, the number of public primary schools increased from 9,368 to 11,270.
The mid-term review of the IDA-funded Primary School Development Project (PSDP) found
that some districts, particularly in the north, put in a significant part of their budget for
schooling. But due to limited financial capacity and inefficiency in resource management by the
districts which are legally responsible for basic education infrastructure, the need to construct,
maintain and rehabilitate school facilities is far from being met satisfactorily. Despite MOE's
guideline that all children should not have to walk more than 5 km to school, in rural areas, many
children walk in excess of 8 km.  Progress through PSDP and other donor support
notwithstanding, classes under trees are not unusual; and many schools do not have protection
from rain or wind. The absence of systematic school mapping does not enable MOE to monitor
the actual condition of infrastructure or to determine relative needs for rehabilitation and
construction of new schools.
2.33   Weak Community Involvement.  The majority of parents have not yet regained
confidence in the public school system because of its perceived poor value for money. At
present local communities have a limited role in the running of primary and JSSs: extra-
curricular activities organized by Parent Teacher Associations (PTAs) are the most usual form of
involvement. For this reason, communities feel little ownership of the schools their children
attend; and frequently are mistrustful of attempts by the authorities to solicit community
involvement lest it be an excuse for extracting additional financial contributions. MOE is aware



10
that new approaches to community participation need to be actively pursued. Draft constitutions
have been prepared for the legislatively mandated SMCs at the primary and JSS levels. These
committees have a potential role to play in relation to the new DEOCs and to District
Assemblies. However, the SMCs as presently constituted will have limited influence as
governing bodies until significant management responsibility is transferred to the schools
themselves.
2.34   The key to successful community participation is to ensure that, having regard to distinct
features, local people have a real influence over decisions which affect the quality of education
their children receive. Ultimately, communities are likely to reject mechanisms which are seen
as simply advisory or established to "rubber stamp" decisions taken by school or system
officials.
2.35   Geographical Disparities. There are multiple disparities among regions. In 1992, the
total gross enrollment ratio (including both public and private schools) for primary education
was high in Volta, Ashanti and Greater Accra (ranged from 90 to 86 percent), much higher than
the national average of 77 percent, while low in Upper East, Northern and Upper West ranging
from 53 to 46 percent. The three regions with the lowest enrollment are also the three poorest
regions. The private sector is especially active in Greater Accra, currently accommodating 36
percent of total primary enrollment, and in Ashanti (14 percent), the two regions with the
country's biggest cities (Annex 3-2-7). Regional spending patterns, however, do not show
evidence of action to mitigate this inequity. Upper East and Upper West, two of the most
disadvantaged regions, spent only US$22-23 per primary school pupil in 1994 against the
national average of US$52 (Annex 3-2-9).
2.36   The Poor. The fact that provision of basic education infrastructure is the responsibility
of district governments and local communities works unfavorably against poor areas because of
their lesser fiscal capacity, despite supplementary financial support by the central government.
Also, there are various direct and indirect costs of schooling.  The Bank's poverty study on
Ghana shows that children without access to basic education predominantly belong to families of
the poorer segment of the population (Annex 3-2-4). In efforts to mobilize resources locally for
school maintenance, many districts, PTAs, and schools impose levies or fees. These additional
costs further deny access by the poor. Many school-age children are contributing to family
income in one way or another. For poor parents, the high direct costs of schooling, the critical
importance of income earned by their children, and uncertainties about future higher earning
deriving from participation in basic education, all contribute to their opting not to send all the
children to school. The very poor households spend only half as much on primary education as
the richest households do (Annex 3-2-5). In rural areas, where most of the poor reside in Ghana,
households spend less on, and benefit less from, education than households in urban areas
(Annex 3-2-6).
2.37   Girls. Access of girls to basic education, although gradually improving, is a major issue
among gender concerns in education. On the encouraging side, particularly at the JSS level, the
gross enrollment rate increased from 43 to 51 percent in the last five years, and the retention rate
is also improving. Less improvement is seen at the primary level (Annex 3-2-1). However, at
all grades of schooling, girls enrollment is lower than that of boys. Out of every 100 girls
enrolled, 72 reach P6 and 51 reach JSS3, against the boys' 80 and 63, respectively. Such
disparities increase in the north. Studies in Ghana show that in addition to the factors militating
against the children of poor families attending school, factors known to impede the participation



I1
of girls include: high opportunity costs of education for girls who are needed for household and
child care and parents' perception of boy's superior returns to education; socio-cultural barriers
to girls education, and traditional early marriages; lack of parent/community awareness of the
benefits of girl's education; inability of parents to pay for the education of all their children,
leading to prioritizing of boys; inappropriate domiciliary and hygiene arrangements associated
with schools; and insufficient role modeling by women teachers. These access, retention and
performance problems are sourced as much on the "demand" side (i.e. household behavior and
cultural attitudes) as on the "supply" side (i.e. education policies and school facilities). Table 2-
3 summarizes these disparities at the district level.
Table2-3. Basic Education Characteristics by Neediest Regions
% of                         % of                         Pupil/Teacher
District       Total         District       Total         Districts           Ratio
I.GUSHIEGUKARAGA    23.77   JUABESOBIA            25.38   GUSHIEGUKARAGA           56.11
ans,R@ex:t*   1eu-11[5]f12 * *                          *  *               11
3.TOLONKUMBUNGU      28.13   AFRAMPLAINS           32.26   ACCRA                    46.03
4.ZABUZUGU           33.02   SENE                  38.89   SABOBA                   42.57
5.EASTDAGOMBA        33.96   SAVELUGUNAN.          39.50   KASENANANKANA            41.87
6.NANUMBA            34.52   TWIFUHEMAN            42.30   BAWKUEAST                40.35
7.EASTMAMPRUSI       35.48   EASTGONJA            43.63   NADAWLI                   40.05
8.BAWKUWEST          36.14   MPOHORWASSA          45.27  JIRAPALAMB                 39.28
9.SABOBA             37.06   WASSAAMENFI           46.34   GA                       39.10
10.BAWKUWEST         37.25   ASUNAFO              46.61   BUTLSA                    38.70
1 IBONGO             37.25   ATEBUBU              46.69   BOLGA                     38.07    *
|| 12.WESTDAGOMBA      39.21   SEFWIWIAWSO          48.53   KUMASI                   37.82
13.EASTGONJA         39.90   ZABUZUGUTATALE       49.21   ANLO                      37.50
14.13OLE             40.18   ADANSIEAST           49.25   BOLE                     37.25
[15JIRAPA-LAMB         40.68   AMANSIEWEST          49.78   TEMA                     36.86
Source MOE.
Inadequate Financing Arrangements
2.38   The education  sector has been  receiving  36-40  percent of the  Government's
discretionary recurrent budget (net of debt servicing and other extra-budgetary items); and
around 3 percent of the development (capital investment) budget. The expenditure side has been
constantly beset by uncertainties concerning salary obligations. During the past several years for
which expenditure data is available, MOE's actual expenditures have overrun the budget. Nearly
the entire overrun can be attributed to salary related expenses while in some instances the meager
amounts allocated to non-salary items have been underspent. The absence of a workable policy
to contain overall personnel emoluments, and of a reliable and timely expenditure monitoring
system are partly responsible for this poor financial management. In particular, data at the
district level, by the time it is consolidated at the regional level and forwarded to GES
headquarters, is out-of-date and is often inconsistent. The Government's central Integrated
Personnel Payroll Data (IPPD) system is expected to address this problem, although inaccurate
data processing sometimes plays tricks with names from the payroll. Internal resource allocation
within the basic education subsector is also heavily influenced by the sheer size of the wage bill.
Of total MOE/GES expenditures, personnel emoluments account for 85 percent. When looking
at school-level basic education expenditures, around 98 percent of the national budget allocation



12
is absorbed by salary and related personnel costs with only a negligible remainder available for
school operation and maintenance. GES staff already account for over 40 percent of total public
sector personnel,4 but the policy goal of achieving universal primary education by 2005 indicates
the need for further increasing the number of teaching staff. Given that the education sector
receives more than one-third of the country's discretionary budget, it is essential to closely
monitor the size of the sector's salary envelope. Textbooks and other teaching/learning materials
are provided, but because the budgetary provision is so small, a substantial part of the costs of
textbook provision is presently financed by donors.
2.39   Inappropriate disbursement practices further impinge use of limited financial resources.
Due to uncertainty about the extent of outlays on the emoluments, MOE/GES does not seem to
effect procurement of goods until the third or even the fourth quarter of the fiscal year. This
often results in underspending of the already thin non-wage budget. Reallocation from salary to
non-salary budget lines has not been allowed. With the recent agreement between MOE and
MOF to undertake such internal reallocation, it is timely to establish a more user-friendly
budgetary system. A more transparent system of budgeting has to be developed: the present
system is extremely complicated and it is difficult to tell how much is actually spent on basic
education or any other level of education.
2.40   Funds for rehabilitation have been provided through support from  donors, NGOs,
Districts and local communities. The Government has spent almost nothing on capital stock for
basic education in the past decade, except for transfers to the District Assembly Common Fund
(DACF). Special resource transfers to the needier regions were made, but the level of support
has not been adequate. Until recently learning materials have been procured largely from
abroad. This caused a serious supply shortage when foreign reserves and donor support were not
available for this purpose. Moreover, even when textbooks have been procured, they have taken
too long to reach schools. Development of local capacity to produce and distribute learning
materials in a timely manner remains a challenge.
2.41   Until the concept of cost recovery was introduced under the Education Sector
Adjustment Credits (EdSACs), the Government had no scheme for sharing the financial burden
of public education. Textbook user fees of 0150 per pupil per year (later raised to 0250) were
introduced in the P3 through JS3 range to offset production costs (less the cost of paper which
was provided by CIDA). Also, students were charged for stationery items. Special revolving
funds for stationary and textbooks were established but were not administered effectively.
Primary education was regarded traditionally as being free of charges of any sort, and successive
governments continued to declare that it should be free and universal. In 1991, when MOE
imposed textbook fees for primary education, absolute enrollments dropped by 3.5 percent for
the first time in a decade. The memory of the "good old days" still affects many parents' notions
about the cost of education, and about who should bear them. Unlike decades ago when
schooling was for a privileged minority, it is a pragmatic necessity in an era of mass education
for governments to seek to establish cost-sharing arrangements to ease the burden on the public
purse: the issue, of course, is one of equity.
2.42   For cost recovery schemes to be effective, collection rates and appropriate policies have
to be addressed. It is MOE's intention to ensure basic education opportunities for all by reducing
Ghana's public sector has some 345,000 staff; of this number, over 155,000 are GES personnel.



13
the actual private costs of the lower levels of public education and by increasing the proportion
of cost-recovery at the higher levels. This is consistent with the differential rates in the social
and private returns to schooling at different levels. Thus, in response to the decreased intake
into the P1, the Minister for Education announced in January 1995 that textbook fees would be
abolished for primary education. This policy decision was accompanied by a raising of the
textbook fees at JSS to ¢1000. MOE policy explicitly forbids a basic education pupil being
excluded for non-payment of fees of any sort on his/her behalf. Nonetheless, the de facto
compulsory nature of ancillary levies is reported to be still widespread, with its accompanying
exclusions.
2.43   Parents/guardians are asked to pay for exercise books, stationery, school uniforms,
lunch, transportation, and some other fees and levies which can amount to ¢5,000 per pupil
(US$3.25) in rural areas and to ¢ 12,000 (US$8.00) in urban areas. Table 2-4 shows some of the
fees paid for each pupil on average in 1992. For large poor families, this means fewer
educational opportunities, especially for girls and younger children. It is important that the
Government clarifies and wins support for guidelines as to which direct costs the household
should pay. This needs to be done in the context of overall sectoral financial planning.
Table 2-4 Annual Private Costs of Publicly-Provided Basic Education
(Cedis per pupil)
Actual
MOE guidelines          1992
Tuition fee                       free               1,331
Textbook user fees     BE 3-9: 250 (Oct. 1990)    )
500 (1991)         )
free for BEI-6 (1995)     )  710
Exercise books and     for primary and JSS        )
stationery                                       )
PTA levy                                              264
Uniform                                              1,819
Food/lodge                                          2,126
Transportation                                        148
Others                                                966
Total                                               7,364
Source: GLSS 3: The Incidence of Social Spending in Ghana. 1992.
D. PREVIous BANK OPERATIONS IN THE EDUCATION SECTOR
2.44   The  two main objectives of the education reforn that began in 1987 have been to
improve pedagogic coverage and to rebuild a financially sustainable education system. After an
initial emergency Health and Education Project (Cr. 1653-GH, US$5 million for education
sector), the implementation of the reform program was supported initially by the Bank through
the First and Second Education Sector Adjustment Credits (EdSACs). EdSAC I (Cr. 1744-GH,
US$34.5 million), which supported the first three years of the reform (1987-89) and closed on
December 31, 1991, focused on the reform process particularly at the basic level (primary and
JSS). EdSAC 11 (Cr. 2140-GH, US$50 million) supported the second phase of the reform



14
program (1990-92) to help consolidate the reform in basic education and extend it to the senior
secondary level. The EdSACs have been followed by projects that respectively support: primary
(Cr. 2508-GH, US$65.1 million), senior secondary (Cr. 2278-GH, US$15 million), and tertiary
(Cr. 2428-GH, US$45 million) levels as well as adult literacy (Cr. 2349-GH, US$17.4 million)
and vocational training in the informal sector (Cr. 2695-GH, US$9.6 million). In all, some
US$240 million has been committed by IDA over the past twelve years. The ongoing Primary
School Development Project (PSDP) is the antecedent to the proposed Basic Education Sector
Improvement Credit (BESIC), and will partially finance the start-up of the FCUBE Program
during 1996 until BESIC becomes effective.
E. OTHER DONOR SUPPORT FOR THE EDUCATION SECTOR
2.45   Over recent times, the largest donors apart from IDA have been: USAID, which
allocated US$35 million to primary education over a six year period (1991-96) and is currently
in the process of formulating a follow-on program of assistance within the framework of
FCUBE; ADB with US$20 million for tertiary education; CIDA with US$14 million mainly for
technical education; British ODA with US$8 million for literacy and basic teacher education;
Norway with US$8 million for literacy and school pavilions for basic education; and the OPEC
Fund with US$4.4 million for school pavilions and school sanitation. The EU is providing
earmarked adjustment funding to support non-salary recurrent expenditure in education. Other
donors include World Food Program (WFP) for school feeding; UNICEF for primary and pre-
school education; Switzerland for secondary school equipment; the Saudi Fund for secondary
school development; GTZ of Germany for vocational school development and UNDP and ILO
for institutional strengthening. KfW of Germany has recently completed its appraisal of a
project to rehabilitate teacher training colleges serving basic schooling; and is about to prepare
an implementation strategy in collaboration with GTZ, having regard to FCUBE. Various non-
governmental organizations (NGOs) have provided assistance.
F. LESSONS FROM PREVIOUS IDA AND OTHER DONOR INVOLVEMENT IN GHANA
EDUCATION
2.46   Some US$240 million of IDA credits have been approved for the whole education sector
in the past decade. Four projects are ongoing. The education reform movement at the school
level, fueled with IDA and other donor support, has seen a significant increase in enrollments
and a decrease in drop-outs, although participation rates are a problem due to high population
growth rates. But the outcomes of schooling are still far from satisfactory.
2.47   One of the most important conclusions of the two Implementation Completeion Reports
(ICRs) for the EdSACs as well as the recent mid-term review of PSDP is that continuing to
expand access to basic education and to increase physical inputs into the system are necessary
but not sufficient to ensure that the quality of teaching and learning at the school level improves
significantly. More attention has to be paid to the "software" (process) aspects of program
design and implementation. Institutional capacity matters a great deal in this context, without
which new "hardware" (inputs) and existing resources cannot be effectively utilized.
2.48   The recent ICR for the Community Secondary School Construction Project provides
equally important lessons: a community participation scheme may not work unless particular
needs and preferences, such as seasonal differences in the flow of income, are carefully



15
considered. Furthermore, the benefits of decentralization will not be realized without building
strong capacity at the community and district levels as well as at the central levels.
2.49   It is now necessary to harmonize development efforts to improve outcomes at the school
level while continuing to pursue the goal of universal equitable access. To this end, the
traditional project-by-project approach is being consolidated into support for the comprehensive
FCUBE Program, covering both development and recurrent activities.  The lessons from
previous IDA (and other donor) funded operations emphasize the importance of widespread
consultation and debate at the formative stage, close involvement by the "line" divisions of
MOE/GES and by districts in implementation arrangements, and adherence to agreed priorities
while allowing financing flexibility to accommodate periodic program modifications justified by
experience gained over time. For more efficient management of external support to basic
education, a MOE-donor forum was set up in August 1994 as an MOE initiative, and is now an
effective vehicle for regular communication and coordination among partners.
2.50   USAID, ODA and UNICEF programs in three areas of the country (Cape Coast,
Winneba and Afram Plains) have gathered experience in small-scale, integrated approaches to
primary school development, with strong emphasis on community engagement and teacher
motivation in the pursuit of improvements in the quality of teaching and learning.
G. RATIONALE FOR IDA INVOLVEMENT IN BASIC EDUCATION
2.51   MOE has affirmed that quality improvement of basic education must receive higher
priority from now on. The FCUBE program aims to achieve this through curriculum reform,
continual (re-)training and monitoring of personnel, increasing community participation, system-
wide management improvement, and steady expansion of access with priority to the neediest
groups. The FCUBE is the sole program for basic education, involving all current and future
activities supported by national resources and external donors. The FCUBE will help address
equity, gender and poverty issues in terms of access to basic social services as well as building
capacity in the education sector and encouraging a participatory development approach. These
are all in line with the Bank's own assessment of the situation and are underscored in the Bank's
Country Economic Memorandum and Country Assistance Strategy. Without the continued
involvement of the Bank and other donors in Ghana's education sector, the Government will
have extreme difficulty in furthering the reform process. The Bank's sector knowledge and
comparative familiarity with the integrated sector investment approach will be particularly
helpful to the Government in mobilizing continued donor support. The activities outlined below
are systemic in impact, affect all on-going basic education activities and structures, and promote
initiatives to meet demand for access and quality. IDA assistance, in addition to the support of
other donors, for MOE's Sector Strategy and Operational Rolling Plan, will underpin a holistic
solution to a complex development problem.



16
3. THE BASIC EDUCATION SECTOR IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
A. PROGRAM OBJECTIVES
3.1    The long-term  national goal to which the FCUBE program  will contribute is an
empowered citizenry, regardless of the geographic region in which they live, their gender,
religion or ethnicity. By requiring that all Ghanaians receive 9 years of quality basic education,
the Government wishes to ensure that young people are prepared for further skills training either
in the work force or in formal study. The central goal of the basic education system in Ghana is
to ensure that all students are equipped with the capability to become full stakeholders in, and
beneficiaries of, development. The policy priorities, commitments and targets of the FCUBE
program for the period 1996-2005 are outlined in the Government's Letter of Basic Education
Sector Development Policy (Annex 4). IDA will support the Government's program, focusing
on issues of school-level quality improvement, more equity in resource allocation, greater
efficiency in resource use, expanded access, and increased participation. The Basic Education
Sector Improvement Credit (BESIC) will help consolidate the considerable progress made since
1987 by helping to (a) improve the teaching process and learning outcomes; (b) strengthen
management of the basic education system through better planning, monitoring and evaluation
by MOE/GES at central, regional and district levels, and by promoting active involvement of
communities in the management of schools; (c) improve access to basic education, especially of
girls, the poor and other disadvantaged segments of the population; and (d) ensure financial
sustainability of the Government program for basic education over the longer term.
B. PROGRAM DESCRIPTION
3.2    The FCUBE program is documented by MOE in two volumes: (a) a Program containing
a statement of sector policy along with a description of the strategic framework and its
components; and (b) an Indicative Operational Rolling Plan.  The second volume will be
regularly updated in the light of experience and as additional sources of finance come on stream.
A draft of this volume was discussed during negotiations, and as a condition of Credit
effectiveness, the Government will finalize and adopt the Operational Plan, with specific
arrangements for activities to be carried out in 1996-98. The FCUBE program comprises three
components:  (a) enhancing pedagogic effectiveness through support to teacher education,
improved supervision, regular assessment of student performance, adequate provision of
instructional materials and periodic curriculum renewal; (b) developing and strengthening the
capacity for efficient management at the central, district and school levels; and (c) improving
access to basic education, especially for girls and the less advantaged groups, and encouraging
community interest and participation in the schooling process.  It will be necessary to
systematically design activities which explore the interactions between these components, in the
light of the best understandings of the factors that characterize effective education within
schools, focusing on, among others, school-level autonomy, school climate, the teaching/learning
process, and pupil evaluation/feedback by teachers.
3.3    The program will support wide-ranging strengthening of capacity at districts and schools
in the delivery of basic education. Among others, the development of leadership skills of
headteachers, the quality of supervision, and the engagement of the community through School
Management Committees (SMCs) will provide much more focused attention on issues relating to
the quality of schooling. The Government, with donor support, plans to work towards the



17
integration of these components in pursuit of school improvement in selected districts,
attempting to develop models of best practice, and building on previous work described in para.
2.46-2.50. This approach would involve working with individual schools, clusters of schools,
individual headteachers, groups of headteachers, etc., in developing plans and strategies to utilize
the enhanced skill resource provided by the individual program components. It will be necessary
to provide detailed analytical data to monitor the improvements in the quality of pupil
performance in individual schools. It is expected that, as improvements of quality become
visible, community engagement will increase. The results gained from these models, as well as
from the proposed Schooling Improvement Fund (para. 3.23), will be applied to the national
program.
Component 1: Enhanced Quality of Teaching and Learning
3.4    The FCUBE program  recognizes and addresses the need to further upgrade the
professional skills of basic education teachers, both before they take their posts as well as after
they have served in their positions. This component will promote more effective teaching by
improving specific instructional skills through revamped in-service and pre-service training
programs and by motivating teachers through the introduction of new incentive and sanction
schemes. It will support the assessment of student performance to inform teachers, students and
parents of progress and to provide the MOE with more objective criteria to evaluate the
effectiveness of basic education.  Improvement in the quality of learning and student
performance will also be addressed through the provision of instructional materials, as well as
curriculum review and revision.
3.5    In-Service Training of Education Personnel. With the assistance of participating
donors, MOE plans to develop a program for in-service teacher training (INSET) that will rely
partly on distance education methods and technology and partly on face-to-face workshops
during  school vacations.   The INSET  program  will emphasize the acquisition  and
implementation of practical skills and the use of instructional materials to strengthen the
effectiveness of teaching. School-based training for teachers will be increased and support
provided to them through the development and improvement of Teacher Resource Centers.
Teachers' Training Colleges (TTCs) will receive support to train tutors who will work with
teachers in classrooms. This initiative will also ensure that graduates of TTCs have more
practical experience and awareness of the complexities of classroom instruction before they are
charged with managing a classroom on their own. Training for headteachers will seek to
strengthen their management and supervisory skills to ensure that they are supportive of reform
at the school level and are effective in helping to improve the skills of the teachers.
Headteachers will be required to attain accreditation standards after training programs in order to
hold positions. Circuit supervisors and district education officers will be trained to carry out
effective supervision of schools and to provide necessary support to the headteachers and
teachers. Orientation and mobilization workshops for key district officials and community
leaders will be conducted to encourage their active involvement in school activities. Training for
educational personnel at the district, regional and headquarters levels, some of which will be
undertaken as part of the activities in Component 2 (para. 3.10-3.17), will seek to improve the
efficiency and quality with which education data are processed, programs are supervised,
monitoring is improved, rules and procedures are enforced, and curricula and learning materials
are developed and disseminated.



18
3.6    Pre-Service Teachers' Training.  The existing basic education teacher pre-service
training program has been criticized for its overly academic focus, and for its lack of articulation
with the school curricula and the instructional needs of students. The FCUBE program will
support the redesign of the pre-service training programs, emphasizing hands-on training
activities in schools and increasing the amount of time in practical teaching prior to certification.
Access courses will be given to teacher trainees from deprived districts who may not have the
requisite minimum  entry qualifications.  Links between the schools and teacher education
institutions or qualified teacher educators of these institutions will be strengthened. As much as
possible, trainees belonging to a district will be selected for training and contracted to stay in that
district for a minimum specified period on completion of their course. Local communities and
district education offices will be asked to sponsor trainers, so that teacher development will be
demand-driven instead of being supply-driven as is currently the case. A study will be carried
out on the 38 TTCs, to define the specific roles to be played by each institution in the redesigned
pre-service training program, and to identify those which require rehabilitation (in conjunction
with support to be provided by KfW) and others which may be closed or merged. Linkages with
the University College of Education at Winneba (UCEW) and Cape Coast University will be
explored to maximize support for the training programs. Over the longer term, FCUBE will also
support studies on alternative delivery mechanisms and evaluation of the impact of the training
programs.
3.7    Assessment and Evaluation of Student Performance. Criterion-referenced testing of
the performnance of Ghanaian students currently enrolled in basic education has given tangible
evidence to the ineffectiveness of the system (para. 2.16). To help ensure that curricula and
teaching tools are used properly, a comprehensive set of evaluation mechanisms will be
developed and put in place. The monitoring scheme will measure both student mastery of
material as well as limitations in the teachers' abilities to implement the new curricula. Results
will be employed in the on-going process of curricula improvement, and in the training of
teachers. Emphasis will also be placed on enhancing the supervisory capacity of district
education officers to monitor the instructional process more effectively and to interpret the
results of both continuous assessment outcomes and standardized tests. Greater emphasis will be
placed on the development of strategies to facilitate remedial instruction in the classrooms for
those students in need of supplementary help.
3.8    Provision of Instructional Materials. The lack of instructional materials has been
identified as a crucial factor which affects the effectiveness of teachers' delivery in classrooms
and hence the poor performance of pupils (para. 2.17). The FCUBE program will support the
provision of textbooks, teachers' handbooks, syllabi, and library books to schools. Initially,
existing textbooks will be reprinted and distributed to schools, after making provision for
adequate school storage facilities. Subsequently, new textbooks will be produced following the
revision of the curriculum (see para. 3.9 below). MOE policy currently undertakes to provide
textbooks (assuming a book life of three years) for all core subjects (6 subjects for BE 1-6 and 10
subjects for BE 7-9) at a 1:1 book/pupil ratio. Textbooks will be provided free to all pupils in
BE 1-6, while pupils in BE 7-9 will continue to be charged a user fee. This policy will incur a
very significant charge against the total incremental resources of the FCUBE program. The MOE
is unlikely to be able to sustain such a flow without substantial assistance from other sources.
MOE will undertake a study on the options for the sustainable provision of learning materials,
taking into consideration the level of available financing, the potential for private sector
contribution, the printing (whether local or foreign) and distribution capacity, the storage
facilities in schools, and the systems for encouraging and monitoring the actual use of materials



19
in schools. This study is expected to be completed prior to the first government/donor review
(January/February 1997) of the three-year rolling plan for the FCUBE program, to provide the
basis for appropriate modifications to the implementation plan. The provision of library books
will also be included in this study.
3.9    Curriculum Review and Development. The first major task of this sub-component is
to review the existing materials available in the classroom for BE 1-9 pupils and teachers, in
terms of their value as learning tools in delivering the syllabus for each subject. New textbooks
will then be prepared and tested in a sample of schools in various regions in the country. In the
meantime syllabi will be drafted for the new subjects, including environmental studies for BE 1-
3, integrated science for BE 4-6, pre-technical skills for BE 7-9, and religious and moral
education for BE 1-9. Course material for Ghanaian languages will also need to be developed.
Subject panels involving outside specialists will be set up to review the syllabus for each subject
and revise/write the textbooks. The FCUBE program will support these activities and help
strengthen the Curriculum Research and Development Division (CRDD) in the GES to carry out
its functions.
Component 2: Management for Efficiency
3.10   The over-arching objectives for this component are to improve the efficiency of the GES
and to enhance its effectiveness in implementing the FCUBE program. In particular, the aim is
to strengthen the management of human and financial resources at the district level in order to
address the needs and aspirations of communities, parents and children. The design of the
component recognizes the public sector reform imperatives of the NIRP as well as the
implications of the Local Government Act of 1993 in the process of transferring to the districts
increasing responsibility and authority over basic education.
3.11   This component will support the decentralization of responsibility and operational
decision making within the existing institutional framework of MOE/GES.  It will help
strengthen managerial capacity to enable the District Education Offices (DEOs) of GES to use
their increasing autonomy responsibly by having qualified managers, relevant skills and
improved information, personnel and financial management systems. The plan is to focus upon
early results in terms of management strengthening (especially at the district and school levels),
and to avoid undue disruption. In the longer term, this approach will facilitate the gradual
devolution of responsibility and authority to the District Assemblies as capacity is strengthened
and the appropriate legal instruments are enacted. To help achieve these outcomes, the
Management for Efficiency Component of the FCUBE program is composed of five sub-
components, as outlined below.
3.12   Building Capacity for Institutional/Organizational Analysis and Change. This sub-
component will aim at helping to develop the internal capacity to lead and manage change on a
continuous basis, to ensure that managers, supervisors and headteachers are effective in carrying
out their new responsibilities in a decentralized system, and to enable communities to participate
in the management of schools. The following activities will be undertaken to help achieve these
objectives. First, an organization structure for the MOE/GES will be devised, specifying clearly
the relationships with external bodies, opportunities for contracting activities to the private
sector, new management accountabilities at all levels as well as the scope of delegated decision
making. The MOE/GES will develop legal or other normative mechanisms as appropriate to
facilitate cooperation between GES and District Assemblies in order that FCUBE objectives are



20
achieved. Second, a human resource plan will be developed, specifying recruitment, transfer,
promotion and redundancy actions to meet the staffing requirements of the revised organization
structure. The plan will draw extensively on the results of a personnel audit of the numbers and
skills of existing staff which will update and extend the personnel database of the IPPD system.
Third. to help strengthen the agents and sponsors of change, orientation and training will be
conducted for both the technical staff of the nearly established FCUBE Secretariat and a
carefully identified core group of senior managers who will be appointed to positions of
responsibility and influence in the new organization structure. At the same time, commitment to
the revised organization design throughout the MOE/GES will be built up through a "cascading"
approach to staff consultations and briefings. Fourth, managers, supervisors and headteachers
throughout the system will be trained to exercise their new managerial roles and responsibilities
under decentralization, focusing on interpersonal, supervisory, planning and client consultation
skills. The training strategy will emphasize in-country programs specifically designed for the
GES and coaching skills for both managers and supervisors to enable them to help solve job
problems faced by their staff. The overall program design will be based upon a prior training
needs analysis. Circuit supervisors will be specifically targeted so that they are able to train the
large number of headteachers at the circuit level. Fifth, viable SMCs will be established by
initiating a dialogue with community leaders, clarifying their roles in relation to existing PTAs,
and subsequently providing them with support through both the DEOs and the District Education
Oversight Committees (DEOCs) which are in the process of being established. Finally, regular
implementation reviews of improved management structures and systems, focusing on the
DEOs, will be conducted by regional teams and supported by community representatives from
the District Assemblies and DEOCs. The FCUBE Secretariat will be responsible for conducting
reviews at the Headquarters and Regional levels.
3.13   Staffing and Personnel Management. This sub-component will help to achieve a
more efficient and equitable distribution of staff and teachers, strengthen personnel procedures
for a decentralized system and design more appropriate salary structures and incentive schemes.
It will include the following activities. First, clear and transparent procedures will be formulated
for the appointment and deployment of managers, supervisors and headteachers on the basis of
proven competence and identified potential in accordance with the manpower plan. Personnel
managers and officers will be trained in counseling skills in order to support and advise affected
staff during this difficult period. The IPPD personnel information system will be reviewed and
strengthened to ensure all staff movements are carried out efficiently and accurately. Second, the
job grade structure within the MOE/GES will be reviewed and revised to reflect new job
contents and skills within the revised organization structure for MOE/GES and to provide for
more appropriate salary differentials. This exercise recognizes Government's emerging public
sector incomes policy which aims to "de-link" the salaries of different bargaining groups. In
addition, an employee motivation strategy will be developed which emphasizes non-financial as
well as financial incentives and provides discretion for district education offices to design
locally-based schemes. Third, personnel policies and procedures for recruitment, promotions,
transfers and discipline will be revised to make them relevant to decentralized personnel
management in the DEOs. Special emphasis will be placed upon the development of a revised
code of professional conduct to support strengthened disciplinary procedures to give line
managers clear responsibility for initiating disciplinary action.
3.14   Performance Management. This sub-component will help design and implement an
education management information system (EMIS), and will introduce a performance appraisal
system which involves objective setting, regular performance review and corrective action. The



21
EMIS will be designed to support policy analysis and planning, the management review process,
and the monitoring of FCUBE program targets and standards. The design of the EMIS will build
upon the existing statistical system and the skills available in the MOE/GES, and will be closely
coordinated with other systems being used or to be developed in the context of the NIRP/CSPIP.
In addition, a school mapping exercise will be conducted to promote micro-planning. At the
same time, an improved performance appraisal system will be developed which links individual
performance to work unit objectives. This system will form the basis for establishing contractual
or other relationships with District Assemblies to ensure FCUBE goals are achieved in the
decentralization process. Mechanisms appropriate to a decentralized education system will be
established for monitoring, emphasizing performance indicators and management reports, with
clearly defined standards for different levels of management and procedures for the periodic
review of work programs and implementation plans. Financing for consultancy services for the
design and development of an EMIS will be financed under the ongoing PSDP. During
negotiations agreement was reached on a time-bound action plan for the operationalization of the
EMIS.
3.15   Budgeting and Financial Management. The objectives of this sub-component are to
ensure that MOE/GES budgets at all levels are prepared consistently in accordance with the
FCUBE program structure and established budget guidelines, to enable the MOE/GES to account
for its revenue from whatever source and expenditure on any item/activity in accordance with
established accounting standards, and to produce periodic financial management reports which
can be related to program outputs and outcomes from the EMIS. The current MOE/GES
budgeting and accounting system will be reviewed and an improved system will be designed to
provide relevant and timely management information. An agreed resource allocation formula
will be developed to facilitate the delegation of budgets to the district level by the end of 1997.
These activities will be closely coordinated with other ongoing central initiatives to strengthen
the public accounting systems, including the Government's PUFMARP and the Bank's
supporting FIMTAP operation.
3.16   District Capacity Building.  This sub-component will focus on strengthening the
capacity of DEOs and District Assemblies in planning and managing basic education, taking into
consideration the overall progress towards decentralization in the country. It will help develop
mechanisms for the GES, in association with other arms of the Government, to provide technical
assistance to District Assemblies. The performance of those Assemblies specifically targeted for
technical assistance will be closely monitored, in particular in terms of the functioning of their
Social Services Sub-committees and their use of Common Fund resources for educational
purposes. MOE will progressively delegate financial management discretion to districts having
viable education plans and administrative systems.
3.17   To help develop and strengthen capacity for the implementation of this component,
international ar,d local consultants will work closely with MOE/GES staff in specific activities.
A technical advisor with expertise in organization change will be engaged to help develop local
capacity and facilitate overall implementation of the component. In addition, consulting services
will be contracted to assist in the review and design of the personnel management system, the
EMIS, the performance appraisal system, as well as the budgeting and financial management
system. Consultancy firms which can access local expertise will be engaged to conduct the
technical work and to develop skills within GES to operate the improved systems and
procedures. Appropriate training programs will be designed and conducted for relevant staff.
Computer systems and equipment will be procured and installed as necessary.



22
Component 3. Improving Access and Participation
3.18   The overall objectives of this component are to promote wider coverage of the basic
education system through quantitative and qualitative improvements to school facilities and
through direct involvement of communities and parents in activities that will help improve the
environment for teaching and learning in their schools. Efforts will be targeted in particular to
promoting access for girls, the poor and for disadvantaged children in rural areas.  The
component will build on the experience gained in previous projects and pilot activities in Ghana
and elsewhere.
3.19   Infrastructure Development. Achieving the twin objectives of increased access and
improved quality will necessitate both a quantitative expansion of and qualitative improvement
in basic education facilities and support infrastructure. MOE will take stock of progress made
over recent years and rationalize the use of existing resources to maximize their effectiveness.
Some urban schools may need to adjust to double-shifts. At the same time, it will continue to
rehabilitate dilapidated classrooms and support construction of new school facilities including
classroom buildings and teachers' housing, based on relative need and demonstrated demand.
Initially decisions on school location and the type of facilities to be rehabilitated or built will be
based on data currently available from the school census, which will be verified through field
visits. Subsequently as data on schools and catchment population become available through the
EMIS and school mapping exercise (para. 3.14), MOE will prepare a phased implementation
plan for infrastructure rehabilitation and construction, based on selection criteria as shown in the
Implementation Manual and to be reviewed annually by MOE, district/community stakeholders
and participating donors. Indicators on poverty and girls' participation will be given prime
consideration in determining the selection criteria.
3.20   School Facilities Planning and Maintenance. With the aid of architectural engineering
firms, MOE will review and revise as necessary the existing norms and standard designs for
school facilities to enhance the opportunity for learning and to allow flexibility (e.g. multi-grade
schools, addition of classrooms).  The profile of school facilities (classrooms, libraries,
workshops, girls' boarding facilities) will be based, to the extent possible, on a common
structural module, possibly an adaptation of the three classroom pavilion currently used in
building new primary schools, to allow for flexibility in facilities utilization and efficiency (cost
and time) in construction. General guidelines will be developed to ensure proper location of
ancillary facilities on the school site, as well as to provide for future expansion. School sites will
be inspected and surveyed in advance to assess suitability (access, terrain, soil conditions, water
availability, and other critical factors) and cost for site improvements. Facilities maintenance
will be budgeted at 1.5 percent of capital costs annually; and resources (in cash or kind) will
have to be made available. In collaboration with communities and districts, MOE will prepare
draft facilities maintenance policy and operational guidelines (types of maintenance, financial
responsibilities, modalities of execution).
3.21   Increasing Girls' Participation.  The FCUBE program  seeks to enhance girls'
education through targeted interventions. Several initiatives will be undertaken at the outset.
First, a pilot study using participatory learning assessment (PLA) techniques will be conducted
in selected districts to identify the constraints to girls' participation in schools and develop
effective programs to remove such constraints. Secondly, gender experts will review the current
curriculum and existing textbooks to ensure gender sensitivity in content and illustrations, and
will continue to be involved in all phases of curriculum development. Field tests of new



23
materials will be analyzed by gender as well as other criteria. Thirdly, a study on scholarship
programs will be undertaken to assess the impact of award/scholarship schemes that have been
implemented in Ghana and in similar situations, and to recommend an action plan for providing
various forms of financial assistance to encourage girls (and possibly other low participation
groups) to attend school. Fourthly, plans will be developed to promote science and mathematics
education for girls, taking into consideration the Science, Technology and Mathematics
Education (STME) Program and adapting it to the basic level. Pending the outcome of these
efforts, a long term strategy for enhancing girls' participation in education will be formulated,
together with implementation plans for various forms of interventions. At the same time pre-
service and in-service training will seek to raise awareness in teachers of gender issues, and
efforts will be made to recruit more female teachers into the profession. Districts will be asked
to identify qualified female candidates for service in their localities, and special training
programs will be organized for such candidates in remote areas to help them attain the necessary
minimum skill levels.
3.22   Fostering Community Involvement. MOE recognizes the importance of community
and parental involvement in schooling in improving the teaching and learning environment.
Communities have an important role to play in enforcing standards, developing and maintaining
school property, and providing support and encouragement to headteachers, teachers and
students.  The ultimate goal is to develop community ownership, pride and sense of
responsibility for schools.  MOE will promote community involvement in education by
strengthening SMCs, devising mechanisms for consultation with DEOCs to ensure the equitable
allocation of resources across basic education, and establishing a system for stakeholder
consultation to provide feedback on progress towards program goals. Much of these efforts will
be undertaken as part of improving management efficiency under Component 2. Special
programs to foster community involvement will be initiated under this Component, including a
Schooling Improvement Fund (SIF) and an Information, Education and Communication (IEC)
campaign.
3.23   Schooling Improvement Fund (SIF).  In order to bring quality improvements to
schooling on a broad basis, MOE realizes that further efforts are needed to motivate communities
to become more involved in the delivery of education and take initiatives to manage and
contribute to school activities. The SIF is a flexible approach aimed at responding adequately
and promptly to the specific needs of particular school communities and encouraging initiatives
to improve the quality of teaching and learning. Instead of making uniform provision for all
schools throughout the country, the SIF will support specific requests from local communities
themselves. In this way communities will be involved in modest development projects from the
beginning, and therefore are likely to feel ownership of these projects and be committed to
sustaining them. A SIF pilot scheme will begin initially in three districts in 1996 under the
ongoing PSDP, based on the SIF Operational Manual discussed and agreed with IDA. The
Manual provides detailed guidelines for the selection criteria for school-based projects, the
ceiling for funding such projects, the procedures for project preparation, appraisal, approval and
implementation, as well as the draft terms of reference for NGO(s) to facilitate the
implementation of the pilot scheme. District Assemblies will be empowered to appraise and
approve funding requests from the schools. NGOs will be used to facilitate the process and to
build local capacity for project design, preparation, appraisal, and implementation. Based on the
experience of the pilot to be evaluated in mid-1997, the SIF will be gradually expanded to an
increasing number of districts. Depending on the pace at which districts and communities are
able to develop their capacity to manage the process and implement the school-based projects,



24
the size of the SIF is estimated to increase from $325,000 in 1996 to possibly US$1 million in
1997 under the PSDP, and may further increase under BESIC. There are similaries in approach
between the SIF scheme and the school-based activities supported by ODA, USAID and
UNICEF (para. 2.50 and 3.3), and it would be useful to explore the lessons that could be learned
from each of these programs.
3.24   Information, Education and Communication (IEC). Much more effort needs to be
made to raise awareness among communities of the need for them to be involved, and for their
children to take part, in basic education. In particular, it is necessary to promote understanding
of the social and economic benefits of educating girls and to persuade people of the intrinsic
worth of basic education, independent of economic returns.   MOE  will work with
communications specialists and NGOs to develop an IEC strategy and prepare a plan for
implementation. The plan will identify the specific issues that need to be addressed, the attitudes
and behaviors that need to be changed, the target groups most crucial to effecting such changes,
the essential messages that need to be conveyed to particular groups, the most effective means of
delivering these messages, the relative timing of each activity, and the costs. The plan will also
include mechanisms for monitoring and evaluating the impact of the activities so that appropriate
and timely adjustments can be made to the IEC strategy and its implementation.
C. PROGRAM COSTS AND FINANCING
Program Costs
3.25   The Government has declared that FCUBE is Ghana's only basic education program. All
ongoing and planned activities in basic education, whether financed solely from the
government's own resources or with the assistance of donors, will be coordinated under the
FCUBE program. Adherence to a common Operational Rolling Plan by the various supporting
agencies is thus ensured.
3.26   The total cost of the first phase of the FCUBE program (1996-2000) is currently
estimated to be about US$1.35 billion. This includes all recurrent and development costs at
central, regional, district, circuit, school and household levels, except the direct costs of privately
provided schooling. A summary of the total program costs is shown in Table 3-1 below. The
major activities under the three components of the FCUBE program (as described in para. 3.2-
3.24), which will be called "Betterment Activities", are estimated to cost about US$241.6
million, or 18 percent of the total cost of the program. Other costs of the basic education sector
over the first phase of the FCUBE program, including the projected costs of administration,
teachers' salaries, school operation and maintenance, as well as household spending and ongoing
donor-supported projects, are estimated to be about US$1.1 billion, or 82 percent of the total
cost. The overall costs of the FCUBE program will be reviewed annually as part of the joint
MOE/donor review of the FCUBE implementation plan, and will be adjusted by the MOE as
appropriate.
3.27   Of the current estimates of the total costs of the "Betterment Activities", Component I
(Enhanced Quality of Teaching and Learning) will absorb about 59 percent, Component 2
(Management for Efficiency) about 13 percent, and Component 3 (Improving Access and
Participation) about 28 percent. The composition of the costs of these three components are
summarized in Table 3-2 below.



25
Table 3-1. FCUBE Program (First Phase) 1996-2000
Total Program Costs
(US$ million including contingencies)
Component                  1996  1997  1998  1999  2000  Total
Betterment Activities 
1. Enhanced Quality of Teaching/Learning  14.0  36.9  36.2  22.4  31.9  141.4
2. Management for Efficiency                1.5  10.4   9.5   7.0   3.9   32.4
3. Improving Access and Participation      0.7   4.8  13.3  21.0  28.0   67.8
Subtotal 16.2  52.1  59.0  50.4  63.9  241.6
Other Basic Education Sector Costs                          I
1. Administration and Support             15.4  15.9  16.4  16.9  17.5   82.1
2. Teachers' Salaries                     127.4  134.2  141.1  147.7  154.4  704.8
3. School Operation and Maintenance Cost   5.5   6.4   7.3   8.5   9.9   37.7
P. Private (Household) Spending           44.9  46.9  49.1  51.6  54.4  247.1
5. Ongoing Donor-Supported Activities     27.2   9.8   0.3   0.3   0.3   37.9
Subtotal 220.4 213.2  214.2 225.1  236.5 1109.6
Total Program Costs                      236.6 265.3  273.2 275.5 300.5  1351.2
Source: MOE and Bank staff estimates.
3.28   The bulk of other basic education sector costs consists of teachers' salaries, estimated at
about 82 percent of total other costs. Administration and support takes up about 7 percent and
school operation and maintenance about 3 percent, while private (household) spending on
education is about 22 percent, and ongoing donor-supported projects in basic education 3.5
percent. Administrative costs. including both salary and non-salary items, will be limited to a
fixed proportion of teachers' salaries over the FCUBE program period, with increased spending
at the school level. The share of the total wage bill in total program costs is estimated to average
around 50 percent over the program period. absorbing almost 84 percent of the annual MOE
budget. The average salary for basic education teachers is estimated to increase in real terms by
two percent annually, allowing for relocation and severance payouts and for incentives to
motivate teachers to improve their performance. Household contributions will continue to pay
for day-to-day outlays on transportation, meals, uniform, stationery and the like, as well as
augment district capacity in the provision and maintenance of school facilities.
3.29   Ongoing donor-supported projects in basic education include IDA's PSDP (Cr. 2508-
GH), USAID's PREP, and other activities supported by ODA and UNICEF. These operations
will continue under their original design or are being restructured to fit in with the overall
FCUBE program as appropriate.



26
Table 3-2. FCUBE Program 1996-2000
Total Costs of Betterment Activities
Local and Foreign Costs by Component
(US$ million)
Component                     Local Foreign  Total % Foreign
1. Enhanced Quality of Teaching/Learning
(a) In-Service Training of Education Personnel  7.7    2.1       9.8   21.0%
(b) Pre-Service Teachers' Training             12.6   14.0    26.7   52.3%
(c) Assessment/Evaluation of Student Performance    0.7    0.9   1.5   55.9%
(d) Provision of Instructional Materials       38.7   47.7    86.5   55.2%
(e) Curriculum Review and Development           0.5    0.4      0.9   46.1%
Subtotal  60.3   65.0   125.4   51.9%
2. Management for Efficiency
(a) Institutional/Organizational Analysis & Change    12.4    3.5    15.9   21.9%
(b) Staffing and Personnel Management           4.3    1.7      6.1   28.3%
(c) Performance Management                       1.1    3.2     4.2   74.7%
(d) Budgeting and Financial Management          0.4    0.6      0.9   60.3%
(e) District Capacity Building                   1.4    0.4      1.8   20.0%
Subtotal  19.6    9.3    28.8   32.1%
Improving Access and Participation
(a) Infrastructure Development and Maintenance  22.8   22.1    44.9   49.2%
(b) Increasing Girls' Participation              1.8    0.5     2.3   20.0%
(c) Schooling Improvement Fund (SIF)            8.9    2.6    11.4   22.5%   l
(d) Information, Educ and Communication (IEC)   0.2    0.0      0.2   20.0%
Subtotal  33.7   25.2    58.8   42.8%
Total Base Costs                                 113.6   99.5   213.0   46.7%
Price Contingencies                                8.6    7.5    16.2
Physical Contingencies                             6.6    5.8    12.4
Total Costs of Betterment Activities             128.8  112.8   241.6   46.7%
Source: MOE and Bank staff estimates.
Program Financing
3.30   During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government on the proposed
sector financing plan for the first phase of FCUBE (1996-2000), as shown in Table 3-3. The
Government of Ghana (MOE and Districts) will be the largest financial contributor (about 64
percent of total program costs) to the provision of basic education, both in recurrent and
development activities. Contribution from the Government and communities (together
accounting for 83 percent of total program costs) will pay for the costs of teachers' salaries and
administration and an increasing share of non-salary recurrent costs. It will also bear an
increasing share of the sector's capital costs through budgetary transfers to the DACF.
Government and community financing capacity over the period 1996-2000 is estimated to be



27
about US$1.1 billion. This implies a total financing need of about US$230 million for the
period, to be met by contributions from a number of donor agencies which have indicated
interest in the program. About US$54 million will be met by resources already available under
ongoing donor-supported projects, including US$1.5 million recently committed by the
UNICEF. Additional financing will be provided by IDA under the BESIC (US$50 million),
ODA(UK) (US$23 million equivalent), USAID (US$53 million) and KfW/GTZ (US$25 million
equivalent). It is expected that other donors (including the European Union, Japan, Norway and
the African Development Bank) will come on stream to fill the gap of about US$25 million.
3.31   Donor support. Donor agencies which have been active participants in the preparation
stage of this program have expressed interest in supporting its implementation. USAID is
considering continuing its support for primary education through the provision of assistance
targeted at pupil performance and school management improvement in a designated number of
schools. KfW/GTZ (Germany) are preparing to assist in the rehabilitation of TTCs and possibly
other aspects of institutional support. This will complement ODA (U.K.)'s long-standing
interest in the professional training and continuing education of teachers, which it proposes to
continue with increasing focus on school-based training. UNICEF's experience in community-
based education activities will also continue, along with its programmed support for
strengthening policy and planning, rural girls' access to education and early childhood
development. Norway is interested in contributing to gender equity initiatives. The European
Union (EU) has been providing some 50 percent of MOE's non-salary recurrent budget on a
matching basis. This will continue through 1996, after which EU will consider an appropriate
form of future support. The Governments of Japan and Norway, and the African Development
Bank are among other external donor agencies likely to commit their support based on the
common framework for FCUBE.
3.32   Activities Financed by the Proposed IDA Credit (BESIC). The proposed IDA Credit
of US$50.0 million equivalent will support in-service training of educational personnel,
provision of instructional materials to schools, training and workshops for MOE/GES, DEOs and
SMCs to improve efficiency in management, rehabilitation and construction of school facilities
to improve access and the teaching/learning environment, and initiatives to encourage girls'
participation and community involvement in education and schooling activities. The level of
IDA financing of specific items and activities will be reviewed annually as part of the
government/donor review process (para. 4.13).
Program sustainability
3.33   Recurrent Cost Implications. Implementing FCUBE will have an impact both on the
ongoing and betterment activities. Preliminary estimates suggest that, except for an increasing
demand for the supply of instructional materials, the costs of continuing the betterment activities
of the FCUBE program in the second phase (2001-2005) will be significantly lowes, about 40
percent of the costs during the first phase. The average rate of growth of teachers' wage bill is
projected to be slightly lowered -- from 4.9 percent in the first phase to 4.7 percent in the second
phase.  MOE will regularly monitor the recurrent cost implications during program
implementation. The simulation model developed for the FCUBE will be used to analyze
different scenarios to cope with any deviations from the base scenario. Adjustments will be
made if necessary to the composition and structure of the program in the annual joint
donor/MOE reviews, based on agreed performance indicators.



28
Table 3-3. FCUBE Program 1996-2000
Financing Plan
(US$ million)
1996     1997     1998     1999    2000    Total
FCUBE Program Costs
1. Betterment Activities               16.2     52.1     59.0     50.4     63.9   241.6
2 Other Basic Education Sector Costs   220.4    213.2   214.2    225.1    236.5   1109.6
Total FCUBE Program Costs  236.6    265.3    273.2    275.5    300.5  1351.2|
Sources of Financing
1. Ghana
(a) MOE                            151.4    158.9    166.9    175.2    184.0   836.4
(b) District                         5.5      6.4      7.3       8.5      9.9     37.7
(c) Community/Parents               44.9     46.9     49.1     51.6      54.4   246.9
Subtotal  201.8    212.2    223.3    235.3    248.3   1120.9
2 Ongoing Donor Financing
(a) IDA (PSDP) -                    23.0     18.0      5.0                        46.0
(b) USAID (PREP)                     5.0                                           5.0
(c) ODA                              1.5                                           1.5|
(d) Unicef                           0.3      0.3      0.3       0.3      0.3      1.5
Subtotal   29.8      18.3      5.3      0.3      0.3     54.0
3. Proposed Donor Financing
(a) IDA (BESIC)                               9.8     11.3      14.1     14.7     50.0
(b) ODA (UK)                                  5.0      8.0       8.0      2.0     23.0
(c) USAID                                    10.0     13.0      15.0     15.0     53.0
(d) Germany (KfW/GTZ)                5.0     10.0     10.0                        25.0
(e) Others (to be determined)
Subtotal    5.0      34.8     42.3     37.1     31.7    151.0
Total Financing   236.6    265.3    270.9    272.7    280.3   1325.91
Financing Gap -                         0.0      0.0     -2.3      -2.8    -20.1    -25.3
Source: MOE and Bank staff estimates.
-Reflecting the undisbursed balance as of January 1, 1996, of which about US$20 million will support some of
the "Betterment Activities' of the FCUBE program consistent with the objectives of the PSDP project, and the
rest will continue to support ongoing activities in basic education.
L The European Union, Japan and Norway are expected to support the program and contribute to fill the gap.
3.34    The Government's commitment to FCUBE is solid. In its Letter of Basic Education
Sector Development Policy, the Government states that it will sustain the current budgetary
commitment to the basic education sector and increase non-salary recurrent outlays annually by
an agreed percent in real terms for the duration of FCUBE. The Letter also affirms that
MOE/GES has the authority to deploy personnel and financial resources within the education
sector, and is fully accountable for the proper management of these resources. To gain national
consensus and support, MOE/GES has been, and will continue, consulting with parliamentary
members, other ministries (in particular MOF, MLGRD and OHCS), regional and district GES
staff, district authorities, and school and community representatives.



29
3.35   The FCUBE program is based on the understanding that quality improvement is essential
to obtain parental support and hence enrollment growth. In turn, community participation will
contribute to the improvement of teaching/learning outcomes.
3.36   Financial Sustainability. The program is designed to attain its objectives within the
agreed financial framework, which requires the government to maintain its present level of fiscal
commitment to basic education. Quality basic education needs minimum essential inputs to be
in place at the school level. As for the subsectoral salary envelope, MOE's budget allocation
needs to allow for a modest pace of growth to accommodate system expansion and rewards for
excellent performance while at the same time ensuring that the share of spending on non-salary
items increases over time. The Government's policy decision to increase non-salary expenditure
by 10 percent annually in real terms will make the budget structure more robust and efficient in
contributing to the improved service. The share of teacher salary expenditure within the MOE
recurrent budget will gradually decline over the program period, keeping the compound effect of
annual increase in the number of teachers and their average salary below the projected pace of
annual MOE budget increases (see Annex 3-4).
3.37   For capital spending - the responsibility principally of district authorities - an increased
transfer of funds from the central government will be essential, especially for those districts with
severely limited resource mobilizing capacity. The DACF, for which the Government is
mandated to secure 5 percent of national tax revenues, is the only central transfer for most
districts. If the financing gap for capital expenditure is to narrow appreciably, spending on basic
education infrastructure will need to increase annually by 20 percent on average in real terms.
This implies that by the year 2005, average DACF spending on basic education will need to
reach 40 percent.
4. PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION
A. PROGRAM PREPARATION
4.1    MOE-Coordinated Preparation. A joint MOE-donor forum was set up in August 1994
to facilitate preparation of a sector-wide program to support the FCUBE objectives within a ten-
year time frame. USAID, ODA, EU, UNICEF and the Bank have been active members of the
forum.  KfW/GTZ and JICA are also keenly interested in the sector. Sector analyses were
carried out jointly by government and donor teams. The key issues were discussed in a series of
workshops involving staff in relevant departments of the MOE, specialists from Ghanaian
universities and research institutions, as well as representatives from donor agencies. The results
of the analytical work and discussions have been incorporated into the FCUBE program
documents prepared by the MOE. It has been agreed among MOE and donors that the FCUBE
program will cover the entire basic education (primary and junior secondary) subsector and will
include all ongoing and planned activities. The program will be implemented within a strategic
framework and an operational rolling plan. All support for basic education must be offered
within these parameters. BESIC will be IDA's contribution to FCUBE for the four year period
1997-2000.



30
4.2   Participatory Approach. Local stakeholders and beneficiaries will take the lead in the
implementation of FCUBE, while donors will provide technical support and financial assistance.
A sense of local ownership and commitment to the program will continue to be ensured through
systematic client consultation and consensus building, and through specific program activities
designed to encourage active community participation in education and school management.
B. PROGRAM MANAGEMENT AND COORDINATION
4.3    Since the FCUBE is a sector-wide program for basic education, implementation will
represent a major part of the regular work of the MOE/GES over the next 10 years, and will
require the active involvement of all operational and support divisions within MOE/GES.
Program management and implementation responsibility, therefore, will be vested in the
mainstream management structures of the MOE/GES. The Minister and top management of
MOE/GES will be ultimately responsible for the achievement of the goals of the FCUBE
program, and will draw upon the expertise of a Senior Management Team comprised of heads of
divisions. This management team will review progress against key indicators annually, review
and approve the annual program at the beginning of each year and monitor progress quarterly.
The Special Assistant to the Minister on FCUBE will facilitate the transition from a conventional
"project" model to the "integrated sector program" approach described in paragraphs 4.4 - 4.6
below.
4.4   The governance for the program will be provided by an Implementation Overview
Committee (IOC) which will be answerable to the Minister of Education and on which major
stakeholders will be represented. The IOC will meet regularly to coordinate the various reform
and decentralization initiatives, both within the education sector and in the broader public sector.
The IOC, comprising members drawn from the MOE/GES Management, MOF, MLGRD, NIRP,
CSPIP and GNAT, will be set up prior to Board presentation. A Consultative Panel, chaired by
the Minister of Education and consisting of selected members of the IOC and participating donor
representatives, will review past and proposed uses of resources under the FCUBE program. The
Panel will meet on a six-monthly basis, with a July/August meeting constituting the major annual
review.
4.5    Day-to-day administration of each component of the FCUBE program will require the
contribution of functional specialists (e.g. in training, curriculum, personnel, logistics) drawn
from  different divisions and units of the GES.  Special organization and management
arrangements will be introduced to ensure that program activities are well coordinated. With this
in view, the MOE has already appointed a Deputy Director-General of the GES as the FCUBE
Coordinator. His overall role will be to coordinate the work of functional specialists around the
needs of individual components and to participate in the quarterly program reviews conducted by
the Senior Management Team. The Coordinator will have the authority to review annual
component and sub-component work plans, to operate systems of control, to convene monthly
progress review meetings and to negotiate changes in staffing, schedules and work plans as
necessary. The staff involved in implementation would be identified by their managers to work
on specific program activities. Nonetheless, they would retain allegiance to their mainstream
division which would retain authority for their professional development, promotion, discipline
and appraisal of technical competence. This arrangement will enable the Coordinator to use
fully the technical capacity of existing GES divisions and units. The outline management



31
structure for the FCUBE program which reflects these organizing principles is set out in Annex
7.
4.6    Because of the complexity and size of the program, the Coordinator will be supported by
a core group of staff in the FCUBE Secretariat. The initial composition and staffing of the
FCUBE Secretariat was discussed during negotiations and staff appointments are expected to be
made within the next few months.
4.7    Under these strengthened management arrangements, the Project Management Unit
(PMU) will provide technical services in procurement, accounting and disbursement, especially
as these relate to the "banking business" relations with IDA and other donors. In line with this
revised role, a joint Government/donor review of the staffing in the PMU will be undertaken, to
ensure that adequate technical support will be provided to the management of the FCUBE
program at both the headquarters and district levels.
4.8    The FCUBE program will provide the overall basis for the coordination of donor activity
and support for basic education. Since the FCUBE Secretariat has the full knowledge of FCUBE
component and sub-component plans and their associated resource requirements, it will also be
the focal point for mobilizing donor support. The Coordinator and his staff will, with support
from the Special Assistant to the Minister on FCUBE, liaise with donors on new funding to meet
identified resource gaps as well as provide regular reports on ongoing support. These reports
would contain information on procurement status and financial disbursement generated by the
reconstituted PMU.
4.9    District Directors of Education will remain answerable directly to the GES Director-
General for the achievement of identified program indicators which relate to FCUBE.  As
decentralization proceeds, the DEOs will be strengthened to carry out their assigned
responsibilities for supervising schools, providing support to in-service teacher education and
assessing pupil-teacher performance. Since these responsibilities constitute core activities in the
FCUBE program, they will also need to be programmed in accordance with its objectives and
priorities. Accordingly, District Directors of Education will set objectives and prepare detailed
annual plans and budgets, which will be reviewed by the Regional Education Offices acting on
behalf of the headquarters of the GES. They will also need to coordinate this work with the
District Assemblies, which are legally mandated to oversee all schools within their jurisdiction.
Headteachers and SMCs will be consulted on their priorities during plan and budget preparation
at the district level.
C. PROGRAM MONITORING, REPORTING AND SUPERVISION
4.10   Since the FCUBE is a sector program  for which the mainstream  MOE/GES is
responsible, the monitoring and reporting arrangements for donors and other key stakeholders
will be a subset of those which the MOE/GES requires for its internal management purposes.
Monitoring will examine achievement and progress in relation to the identified program success
indicators, component and sub-component performance indicators, and activity plans which
would be made publicly available. It would, therefore, take place at a number of different
management levels from headquarters to the school level. For instance, SMCs would be
involved in monitoring teacher/pupil attendance and school achievement.



32
4.11   Under  the  management  component,  strengthened  procedures  for  reviewing
divisional/unit work plans would be developed and improved management information systems
introduced to support the monitoring requirements at all levels of management. In addition, the
introduction of more efficient management structures will ensure that relevant information is
transmitted directly from district to headquarters level.
4.12   A regular program planning and monitoring cycle would be established for FCUBE
linked to the Government's budget preparation process as well as plans for the rest of the
education sector. During the year,  those organizational units and individuals assigned
responsibility for implementing specific FCUBE sub-components and activities (e.g. in-service
training, classroom construction, staff redeployment) would submit regular progress reports to
the FCUBE Secretariat. As appropriate, these reports would also include information on district-
based activities. The FCUBE Coordinator and his staff will take into account the implications of
these reports in updating the implementation plans. These report updates would, therefore,
provide the basis for senior management's review of implementation progress against key
performance indicators in the Operational Plan. The decisions taken at this review would be
used as a basis for preparation of materials for reviews by the Consultative Panel (para. 4.4).
4.13   During negotiations, it was agreed that there would be semi-annual review meetings
convened by the Government with the Consultative Panel, in January/February and June/July
each year. The January/February meeting will focus mainly on the overall program performance
in the preceding year based on the progress report updates (para. 4.12). Constraints to effective
program implementation will be identified and amendments to the Operational Rolling Plan will
be made as necessary. The June/July meeting will focus on forward planning and financial
commitments for the coming year, drawing upon discussions in the January/February meeting
and implementation performance in the subsequent months. The June/July 1998 meeting will
constitute a mid-term review of the program. Donors and other stakeholders will be provided
progress report updates at least one month prior to each review meeting, and will receive, prior
to the end of September each year, a draft forward implementation plan and budget. This plan
and budget should reflect all costs and sources of financing for the entire education sector, in
particular the basic education subsector, and should include specific measures to ensure that
adequate resources will be allocated at the district level for the provision and maintenance of
school facilities.
D. PROCUREMENT
4.14   IDA-financed activities will fully follow IDA Procurement Guidelines (January 1995
edition). The procurement methods are described below and summarized in Table 4-1. A
summary procurement schedule for key activities has been prepared (Annex 5-5) and a much
more detailed schedule will be included in the Operational Rolling Plan.



33
4.15   Civil works: (BESIC supports US$13.6 million equivalent).  Civil works financed
under IDA include: rehabilitation of existing school facilities, new classrooms, and housing for
teachers. Contracts will be packaged in lots of at least US$2 million equivalent to attract
international competition under ICB. Lots that cannot be grouped into such bid packages and/or
are unlikely to attract competition from foreign bidders will be procured through National
Competitive Bidding (NCB), up to an aggregate of US$8.4 million equivalent. A number of
contracts which will require labor intensive manpower and/or use of NGOs and local labor may
be procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA.  These are mostly small
construction (works such as toilet facilities and storage) and rehabilitation works valued at
US$100,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$1.4
million.
4.16   Goods. (BESIC supports US$10.1 million equivalent). Goods financed under IDA
would include mainly roofing materials for classrooms, instructional materials, vehicles and
miscellaneous equipment (e.g., computer systems and other equipment for education offices and
school workshops). Goods valued at US$250,000 or more per contract would be procured
through ICB using the Bank's standard bidding documents. Goods which can be competitively
procured nationally and which cannot be grouped into bid packages of at least US$250,000
equivalent each will be procured through NCB under procedures acceptable to Bank. In
aggregate these will not exceed US$4.0 million equivalent. Small items and goods which cannot
be grouped into bid packages of at least US$50,000 equivalent will be procured on the basis of
price quotations (National Shopping) obtained from at least three reliable suppliers, provided
that the aggregate amount of such procurement does not exceed a total of US$1.2 million
equivalent. Limited International Bidding (LIB) may be used for the procurement of specialized
educational goods such as didactic material, software and equipment, for which there is only a
limited number of suppliers to justify open advertisement for the contract. Bids for contracts
estimated to cost less than US$250,000 equivalent, up to an aggregate amount not exceeding
US$500,000 equivelent, will be sought from a list of potential suppliers. Proprietary educational
software, spare parts and other small items which are costing US$400,000 equivalent or less in
the aggregate, may, with IDA's prior agreement, be procured by direct contracting in accordance
with IDA procedures. Local practices for NCB have been recently reviewed by IDA and found
acceptable. They will include: (a) explicit statement to bidders of the evaluation and award
criteria; (b) local advertising with public bid opening; (c) award to lowest evaluated bidder; and
(d) foreign bidders would not be precluded from participating in NCB. Government has
confirmed the above NCB principles.
4.17   Services: (BESIC supports US$2.2 million equivalent). Consultants financed by IDA
will be contracted in accordance with IDA's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants (August
1981).  The consultancy services required under the project will be mostly for project
implementation and supervision, surveys and research studies and for architectural and
engineering services. Draft terms of reference for major consulting services have been prepared
and details are included in the Operational Rolling Plan.



34
Table 4-1. Ghana FCUBE Program (1996-2000): Betterment Activities
Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million)
Categories of Expenditure            ICB        LIB       NCB       Other       NIFP'       Total
1. Civil Works                             3.1                   9.0        1.5       56.6         70.3
(2.9)                (8.4)      (1.4)                  (12.7)
L  Goods&                                 3.4        0.6        4.4        1.7       97.9        108.1
(3.1)      (0.5)     (4.0)      (1.6)                   (9.2)
. Operating Costsa for
(a) Staff redeployment                                                  2.1        2.4          4.5
(2.0)                  (2.0)
(b) Others                                                              4.5        5.2          9.7
(2.2)                  (2.2)
. Consultants' services/Studies                                           2.2        4.4          6.6
(2.2)                  (2.2)
. Training a                                                              12.3       19.5        31.8
(12.3)                 (12.3)
. Support for School Improvement '                                        10.7                    10.7
(9.4)                  (9.4)
TOTAL                                      6.6        0.6       13.5       34.9       186.1       241.6
Of which financed by BESIC              (6.0)      (0.5)     (12.4)    (31.1)       (0.0)      (50.0)
Notes:    Not financed under the proposed IDA Credit for BESIC. However, the ongoing Primary School
Development Project (Cr. 2508-GH) will finance some of the Betterment Activities in the FCUBE
Program which are consistent with its objectives, and will use ICB/LIB or other procurement
methods as appropriate.
Aggregates for direct contracting of goods are included under the "Other column."
Includes costs associated with the redeployment of MOE/GES staff, and incremental expenditures
incurred for the carrying out of the Project for travel allowances, office communication, minor
office equipment and supplies, utilities, fuel, vehicle and equipment maintenance.
ld Includes in-service training of education personnel (teachers, headteachers, circuit supervisors,
district education officers, education planning and budgeting officers at MOE headquarters and
districts, etc.) to improve pedagogical and management skills; training for members of SMCs,
district assemblies, etc. to strengthen school-level management; training for all levels of education
administration to adapt to changes in the process of decentralization; some overseas training for
specific technical skills in data management and policy planning, etc.
Mainly activities that may be included under the Schooling Improvement Fund (para. 3.23).
4.18    Procurement Arrangements. Procurement management and execution will be closely
monitored by IDA. Construction works will be supervised by experienced project engineers or
technical specialists financed by IDA. For school construction, rehabilitation and small works



35
payment will be made to contractors only when the work is completed according to
specifications. Only for major works will mobilization advance be given and this will not
exceed 20 percent of the contract value. Procurement will be carried out by experienced staff of
the procurement section of the PMU which will liaise with the MOE/GES units for handling all
matters related to the preparation, implementation and monitoring of work plans for the smooth
execution of procurement of all works, goods, and services, including the preparation of bidding
documents, launching of tenders, evaluation, and reporting the results to the government and to
IDA for review. During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government on adherence
to the schedule for key procurement steps in Table 4-2, in order to expedite project
implementation.
Table 4-2. Timetable for Key Procurement Steps
From Bid Opening to Completion From Government Approval or
or Official Submission of Bid    IDA's No Objection of Bid
Evaluation Reports to IDA  Evaluation to Contract Signing
Goods under US$250,000          30 days                    30 days
Goods over US$250,000           60 days                    30 days
Works under US$250,000          45 days                    30 days
Works over US$250,000           60 days                    30 days
Consulting services             30 days                    30 days
4.19   In addition, adequate records on procurement progress, including staff reports on site
visits, the timing of works and goods procurement, and compliance with agreed methods of
procurement will be maintained by the PMU and will be reviewed as part of the routine project
monitoring by the MOE.
4.20   A project launch workshop will be organized by the Government and IDA shortly after
Board presentation with the assistance of PMU staff. This workshop will be attended by staff
from all project entities, deal with all aspects of project implementation, and especially
concentrate on procurement, disbursement, monitoring, and reporting. A final version of the
Opertional Plan of the FCUBE program will be circulated at the launch workshop.
4.21   Bank Review. Prior review by IDA would be required for procurement of packages of
works and goods which exceed US$250,000, of consultant services to firms of US$100,000, and
to individuals of US$50,000. All terms of reference for consultants, sole source consultancies,
assignments of critical nature, and amendments to consultants contracts raising the contract
value above the aforementioned amounts will be subject to IDA's prior review. Post review of
procurement actions will be given special care by IDA and will include, as additional to Bank
supervision missions, selected review by Third Party verificiation firms. The Bank's Standard
Bidding Documents will be used for works and goods procured under ICB and for consultants.
NCB documents for works and goods will be cleared with IDA as part of the Operational Plan.



36
E. DISBURSEMENT
4.22   The activities financed under the proposed credit are expected to be completed within
four and a half years by December 31, 2000, with all disbursements made by June 30, 2001. The
estimated disbursement schedule is given in Annex 5-5.
4.23   Table 4-3 gives the categories and amounts to be financed out of the proposed IDA
credit, and the disbursement percentages in each category.
Table 4-3. Allocation and Disbursement of the IDA Credit
(US$ million)
Percentages of Expenditure to be
Categories of Expenditure  Amount              financed
1. Civil Works                  11.0  100% of foreign; 90% of local
12l Goods                               expenditures
2. Goods
(roofing sheets, instructional  8.2   100% of foreign; 90% of local
materials, vehicles/equipment)      expenditures
3. Operating Costs for
(a) Staff redeployment        2.0  95%
(b) Others                     1.7  50%
4. Consultancies/Studies         1.9  100%
5. Training                     10.8  100%
6. Unallocated                  14.4
TOTAL                           50.0
Note: / See Table 4-1, footnote /c.
4.24   Special Account.  To facilitate project implementation and reduce the volume of
withdrawal applications, a Special Account will be opened in US Dollars in a commercial bank
on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. The authorized allocation amounts to US$2.5
million and covers about four months of eligible expenditures. Upon effectiveness, an amount of
$1,250,000, representing 50 percent of the authorized allocation, will be deposited in the Special
Account. The remaining balance will be made available when the total amount withdrawn from the
credit account and/or special commitments issued amount to SDR 5.0 million. The Special
Account will be used for all payments below US$500,000. Replenishments would be submitted
monthly.  All replenishments are fully documented except for:  (a) contracts of less than
US$250,000 for civil works and goods, (b) contracts of less than US$100,000 for consulting
services - firms, (c) US$50,000 for consulting services - individuals, and (d) operational costs
which would be claimed on the basis of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). All supporting
documentation for SOEs will be retained for review by periodic Bank supervision missions and
external auditors. Overall responsibility for credit disbursement and financial management of the



37
Special Account will rest with the PMU. All disbursements are subject to the conditions of the
Development Credit Agreement and the procedures defined in the Disbursement Letter.
F. AccoUNTING, AUDITING, AND REPORTING
4.25   MOE/GES Accounts. Systems will be installed to ensure compatibility between the
accounting for Government receipts for and outlays in basic education, from all sources. Given
that BESIC is an across-the-board underpinning to the FCUBE program, the Government will
make available to IDA, on a regular basis, financial management details of the consolidated
Program Accounts for the education sector as a whole, so that a "part-whole" appreciation of
trends can be maintained.
4.26  In the interests of transparency and financial harmony, all accounts of the entire basic
education sector (notwithstanding the source of funds) will be maintained by a commonly agreed
method and at internationally accepted standards. By June 30 of each year, MOE/GES will
present to IDA and other participating donors in FCUBE an independent auditor's report
(management report and audited financial statements) for all program accounts - including those
for Government funds, BESIC and other donor contributions from the preceding
academic/calendar year.
4.27   Following previous routine audits, IDA has raised concerns about aspects of the financial
management and cash flow of existing education projects. The recommendations made during
the course of these financial audits have been helpful to MOE and will be incorporated into the
management of the planned program. The MOE will also move progressively from a line item
budget to a program budget during this initiative. This shift should result in more discretionary
funds being available within the overall MOE/GES budget. Financial management workshops
are planned for District Directors of Education and accounting personnel, with training to be
provided on guidelines stemming from the audit recommendations. Shortlisting of independent
auditors for FCUBEIBESIC, under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA will be a condition
of Credit effectiveness.
G. PROGRAM BENEFITS AND RISKS
Program Benefits
4.28   Improved Basic Education Sector Outcomes. The quality of Ghana's basic education
will improve in general. especially in terms of better teaching/learning outcomes. Government/
donor/community cooperation and collaboration will be enhanced, and some more common
procedures will be developed, because of the "holistic" nature of the Integrated sector approach
(SIP) approach. The MOE's capacity to plan, manage, and monitor a range of complementary
inputs to enhance quality and access will be strengthened. The GES will adopt new systems of
assessing school performance and rewarding/sanctioning staff. Capacity for more effective
curriculum  utilization will be enhanced.  Pre- and in-service teacher education will be
revolutionized. The operation of the whole system, including individual schools, will become
more gender sensitive. Communities will come to play a more influential and responsible role in
the management of the schools, leading to greater school effectiveness. The synergistic effect of
the various components will increase net impact.



38
4.29   Gains from Improved Efficiency. FCUBE/BESIC will produce efficiency gains both
at management and school levels. Review and reorganization of the MOE and GES institutional
structure, while developing an effective EMIS, will substantially reduce the waste and
duplication in resource use. This will enable MOE to reallocate more resources to much needed
schooling improvement activities. At the school level, reduction in dropout and repetition rates
by 10 percent annually, together with efforts to raise the PI intake rate from the present 82
percent to 94 percent by the year 2000, will allow 164,000 more pupils to study at public primary
schools and produce 33,000 more public JSS graduates during 1996-2000 than would be the case
without FCUBE.
4.30   Impact on the Poor and Girls Participation. A community with inadequate basic
education services and with low school learning outcome generally has a low demand for
education. FCUBE/BESIC has policy and program components to target funds to the poorest and
educationally most disadvantageous communities, and to raise awareness of the need and
benefits of education in such communities. The DACF is allocated by the Government having
regard to poverty, equity and needs criteria.  To complement this, FCUBE will target
supplementary  resources.  For example, when new schools are built with MOE subsidies,
priority will be given to relatively poor communities with lower enrollment, especially girls
participation, where financial capacity is low but the effort being made is fair. Teacher housing
will be available with subsidized rent in areas where incentives for teachers to serve are adverse.
JSS pupils or their families who are judged by a transparent process to be needy may receive
some public financial support during their period of basic schooling. These combined with a
demand-stimulating IEC campaign will enable more girls and poor children to go to school who
otherwise would not benefit from Ghana's basic education service.
4.31   Economic benefits of investment in basic education. The economic benefits of this
basic education improvement program can be expressed by the rates of return to investment in
education. Based on 1992 household survey data in Ghana, the private rate of return to
investment in primary education compared with no education is estimated at 28 percent,
suggesting that if $1,000 is invested in primary education, there will be an annual private benefit
of about $280 over the lifetime of the average primary school graduate, above what the same
person would have earned without attending school. Similarly, the social rate of return to
primary compared with no education has been found to be about 19 percent. The private rate of
return to secondary education over primary schooling is about 12 percent and the social rate of
return is 10 percent. The gap between private and social returns is explained by the public
subsidization of education. Subgroup analysis shows that at both primary and secondary levels,
girls in Ghana have a higher rate of return than boys, justifying targeted intervention to promote
more girls' participation. Further details on cost-benefit analyses shown in Annex 3-3 suggests
that investment for expansion of good quality basic education will have a high private and public
payoff.
4.32   With respect to the economic benefits of the quality of basic education, international
evidence suggests that the economic benefits of education are greater when a critical minimum
of education attainment across the population has been achieved. Cross-country macroeconomic
studies analyzed by the Bank have shown that the average educational attainment of the
population has a strong positive effect on economic growth, with one year of additional
schooling of the labor force possibly leading to as much as a 9 percent increase in the domestic
output for the first three years of schooling and to 4 percent a year for the next three years.



39
Program Risks
4.33   There are three main risks concerning the effectiveness of this operation. First, changing
teachers' attitudes towards working seriously will take time and thus quality improvements in
the classroom may not take place as rapidly as would be desirable. Second, the Government
could be overstretched in the early stages of the program as it manages simultaneously the full
range of necessary interventions in the basic school system. Third, despite the intervention
targeting the poor, parents in economically deprived and educationally backward districts may
still be unwilling to send their children to school because of high direct and indirect costs. The
first risk will be mitigated through a continuous participatory and consultative process during
which all parties will come to clearly understand their respective roles and responsibilities; and
the consequences of certain behavior. Furthermore, communities (through SMCs) will assume
some responsibility for recommending the rewarding or sanctioning of teachers. More effective
school level supervision and generating sense of partnership among all key players for improving
schooling also have crucial roles to play in this issue. The second risk will be minimized by
ensuring that the early years of the program focus on a manageable package of the highest
priority items; that the foreshadowed administrative restructuring and institutional strengthening
proceeds on schedule; and that ongoing Government/community/donor consultation becomes
firrmly embedded in the implementation process. For the third risk, Government/MOE will
develop special arrangements such as compensatory resource transfers to clusters of
disadvantaged schools. Further, as an experimental measure, non-conventional approaches to
basic education, with more flexible access and delivery arrangements and reduced cost impact on
families, will be introduced.
Poverty Category
4.34   Focusing on issues of quality, efficiency and equity, the proposed operation will
particularly benefit the less advantaged groups of the Ghanaian population: the urban and rural
poor; and girls. It would thus be included in the Program of Targeted Interventions.
Environmental Aspects
4.35   This operation will include limited small scale construction activities, none of which will
have significant negative environmental or social impacts. In conformity with OD 4.01, this is a
category C project requiring no further environmental analysis.
5.  AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.1    During negotiations, the Government reached agreement with IDA on:
(a)    a draft Letter of Basic Education Sector Development Policy, outlining the
Government's policy priorities, commitments and targets for the period 1996-
2005 (para. 3.1);
(b)    a draft Operational Rolling Plan, including key performance indicators, with
specific arrangements for activities to be carried out in 1996-98 (para. 3.2);



40
(c)    a Sector Financing Plan reflecting all costs and sources of financing for the
education sector, in particular the basic education subsector (para. 3.30);
(d)   the management structure for the program, including the establishment of the
Implementation Overview Committee and the Consultative Panel involving
participating donor representatives (para. 4.3-4.9);
(e)    semi-annual review meetings in January/February and June/July each year,
convened by the Government with the Consultative Panel, with the June/July
1998 meeting constituting a Mid-Term Review (para. 4.13);
(f)    Government commitment to delegate, progressively from the beginning of 1998,
financial management discretion to designated districts having viable education
plans and administrative systems (para. 3.16);
(g)    draft terms of reference for key long-term and short-term consultants (para.
4.17).
(h)    a schedule for key procurement steps (para. 4.18); and
(i)    a time-bound action plan for the design and implementation of EMIS (para
3.14).
5.2    As a condition of Board presentation, the Government will have
(a)    adopted a Basic Education Sector Development Policy statement satisfactory to
IDA (paras. 3.1 and 5.1 (a)); and
(b)    established an Implementation Overview Committee, comprising members
drawn from the MOE/GES Management Team, MOF, MLGRD, NIRP, CSPIP
and GNAT, which will meet regularly to advise on implementation issues (para.
4.4).
The first condition has already been met as of the date of this report, and the final Letter of Basic
Education Sector Development Policy is included in Annex 4.
5.3    As a condition of Credit effectiveness, the Government will have:
(a)    submitted to the Association the Operational Rolling Plan for 1996-98, to the
satisfaction of IDA (para. 3.2); and
(b)   shortlisted independent auditors for BESIC, under terms and conditions
acceptable to IDA (para. 4.27).
5.4    Subject to agreement to the above, the proposed program will constitute a suitable basis
for an IDA credit of SDR 34.7 million (US$50.0 million equivalent) to the Republic of Ghana on
standard IDA terms with a maturity of 40 years.



ANNEX I
Basic Data Sheet
ANNEX 1: Basic Data Sheet
Indicators                            Data           Year         Source
A  Social Indicators
1. Total population estimate (thousand)                      16,446         1993            a
2  School-age population as % of total pop.                  32             1990           c
3  Average annual growth rate of population                  3.1            mre            a
l   Average annual growth rate of school-age pop.            3.4          1990-95          c
5. % of population below poverty line (32,981 cedis)          43.0           mre            a
6. Total fertility rate (births per women)                    5.9            mre            a
7. Infant mortality rate (per 1,000 live births)              79.4           mre            a
B. Economic indicators
1. GDP (in billion cedis, current price)                    5186.3           1994           e
2. Average real growth rate of GDP                            4.2          1991-94          e
3. GDP per capita (US$)                                      322.7           1994           e
4. Average growth rate of GDP per capita                      1.1          1991-94          e
C. Education Indicators
1. Gross Enrollment ratios (% of school-age pop.)
Primary--total                                          78.0           1993           b
Primary--Female                                         71.7           1993           b
Junior Secondary--total                                 60.9           1993           b
Junior Secondary--Female                                51.4           1993           b
GER for 6-23 age group                                   45            1991           c
2. Efficiency indicators
Student/teacher ratio
Primary                                                  29             mre            a
Junior Secondary                                          19            mre            a
Dropout rates (% per year)
Primary                                                  3.3           1992           b
Junior secondary                                         7.2           1992           b
Repetition rates
Primary                                                  3.2           1992           b
Junior secondary                                         1.2           1992           b
Pupils reaching grade 6 (% of cohort)                       77        1989 thru 93       b
Illiteracy rates (% of age 15+ pop.)                        40            mre            a
Female (% of female age 15+ pop.)                        49            mre            a
3. Education expenditure
Average public education spending as % of GDP              4.6          1991-94          d
Average public education expenditure as % of
public expenditure (discretionary)                      38.8         1991-94          d
Share of MOE recurrent budget
Primary education                                       39.2           1996           b
Junior secondary education                              19.5           1996           b
Senior secondary education                              22.1           1996           b
Vocational/technical education                           1.6           1996           b
Teacher education                                        5.4           1996           b
Tertiary education                                      12.2           1996           b
Notee:  'mre' means most recent estimate of the single year between 1988 and 1993.
Sources: a.     Social indicatorsfor development 1995, World Bank
b.      MOE. 1995
c.      A statistical profile of education in sub-Saharan Africa, 1990-1993, DAE
d.      Govemment of Ghana, World Bank staff estimates.
e.      Ghana Country Economic Memorandum, World Bank, May 1995, Table Al, A2 & A7; Quarterly Digest of
Statistics, Ghana Statistical Service, March 1993, Tables 40 &42.



ANNEX 2-1
Participation Indicators
Table 2-1-1. Participation in Public and Private Schools, 1989-94
Total    Public  Admission  GER   Retention
Year       enrollment   (%)    rate (%)    (%)   rate  (%)
Primary (Age 6-1 1)
1989             1,805,258     94      83.3     76.4     67.1
1990              1,945,422    93      93.5     79.3     75.4
1991             2,011,602      90     89.4     79.1     78.6
1992             2,047,293      90     85.5     77.6     80.6
1993             2,135,421     90      85.5     78.0     84.3
Junior Secondary (Age 12-14)
1989               625,018     100     57.3     51.5     78.7
1990               569,343     100     60.4     54.5     83.5
1991               605,760      98     62.4     56.3     84.6
1992               644,976      98     63.4     58.2     84.4
1993               694,724      94     67.2     60.9     85.9
Source: MOE (1995).
Note:  Retention rates refer to proportion of cohort reaching final grade. The retention rates for
1989 and 1993 are based on the enrollments in public schools only.
Enrollment figures covers both public and private schools.



ANNEX 2-2
Efficiency Indicators
Table 2-2-1. Repetition, promotion, and dropout rate by grade:
1990/91-1992/93 (Public only)
Repetition rate     Promotion rate          Dropout rate
(%)                 (%)                    (%)
Primary 90/91 91/92 92/93   90/91   91/92   92/93  90/91 91/92  92/93
1   6.2  5.7  5.5    81.9    87.0    87.5   11.9   7.3    7.0
2   3.0  3.5  3.5    90.3    93.1    95.8   6.7   3.4    0.7
3   2.3  2.7  3.0    91.9    93.8   95.1    5.8   3.5    1.9
4    1.8  2.3  2.5    91.3    92.8    93.8   6.9   4.9    3.7
5    1.5  1.9  2.2    93.0    95.2    94.9   5.5   2.9    2.9
6    1.6  2.1  2.5    93.9    95.0    93.9   4.5   2.9    3.6
Primary Ave.   2.7  3.0  3.2    90.4    92.8    93.5   6.9   4.2    3.3
Jr. Secondary
1SI    1.3  1.1  1.2    89.8    92.6    92.2   8.9   6.3    6.6
JS2    1.7  1.7  1.7    87.6    90.5    90.6  10.7   7.8    7.7
JS3    0.9  0.9  0.9
JS Average    1.3  1.2  1.2    88.7    91.6    91.4   9.8   7.1    7.2
Source: MOE (1995)
Table 2-2-2. Efficiency indicators: 1989-1993 (public only)
Average   Average    Pupil/   Teacher/   Class/   % of classes
Year         school   class size  teacher    class   classroom   without
size               ratio     ratio      ratio    classrooms
Primary
1989          173        28        27       1.02      1.24        19.2
1990          170        28        29       0.99      1.24        19.6
1991          162       28         27       1.01      1.24        19.4
1992          164        27        30       0.90      1.28        21.8
1993          168       27         31       0.89      1.28          -
Junior Secondary
1989          122        27        15       1.80        -           -
1990          111        32        15       2.11
1991          115        33        15       2.25        -           -
1992          123        33        16       2.03      0.75        17.2
Source: MOE (1995).



ANNEX 2-3
Student Achievement Indicators
Table 2-3-1. Criterion-Referenced Test Results on English and Mathematics
for the 6th-Grade Students, by Region, 1994 (public only)
% of pupils reaching the
Mean score    S. D.   criterion score of 60% of the
Region                     (%)                         total score
Ashanti         English           27.8     7.6               0.6
Math           26.4     8.0               0.2
B/Ahafo         English           29.1     8.7               1.6
Math           27.0     8.7               1.1
Central         English           28.1     7.6               0.9
Math           25.8     8.2               0.4
Eastern         English           29.5     9.2               1.6
Math           26.5     8.5               0.8
G/Accra         English           40.5    15.5               13.4
Math           32.3    11.5               4.9
Northern        English           33.0    11.4               4.4
Math           28.7     9.5               1.3
Upper           English           33.9    11.9               4.8
Math           29.4    11.1               3.6
Upper West      English           26.1     6.3               0.0
Math           22.8     8.5               0.0
Volta            English          31.5    11.0               3.4
Math           28.5     9.7               1.6
Western         English           30.7     9.6               1.9
Math           28.3    10.0               1.9
Total           English           31.0    11.0               3.3
Math           27.7     9.5               1.5
Boys            English           31.1    10.9               3.2
Math           28.3     9.7               1.6
Girls           English           30.9    11.0               3.4
Math           26.9     9.3               1.3
Source: MOE (1995).
Note: Criterion referrenced tests were administered for 6th grade primary students at 336 schools, with
some 8800 pupils.
Table 2-3-2. Student Achievement on the Basic Education Certificate Examination
Administered for Students at the End of Junior Secondary Education, 1991-94
Year   No. of candidates   % of students passed
1991        149,038                81.4%
1992         165,359                83.8%
1993         181,824                84.2%
1994         198,782                84.8%
Source: MOE (1995).



ANNEX 2-4
System Outcome Indicators
Table 2-4-1: System Outcome Indicators: 1991-1994 (public only)
Transitional
(pass) rate of    Transitional
Completion     Completion    primary school    (pass) rate of
Completion   rate for 3-year       rate        graduates to   junior secondary
rate for 6-      junior        for 9-year        junior       school graduates
year primary    secondary          basic         secondary         to senior
education      education       education         school       secondary school
Year        (%)            (%)             (%)             (%)               (%)
1991       70.0            82.8            50.5            96.8              35.3
1992       70.1            82.8            51.0            93.9              33.8
1993       72.1            82.6            54.3            95.0              34.8
1994       75.4            82.4            56.8            94.5
Source: MOE (1995).
Notes: Completion rate is the ratio between the number of students in the final grade of the cycle, grade
6 in primary and grade 3 in junior secondary in a given year T and the number of students
entered grade I in year T-6 and T-3 for primary and junior secondary respectively.



ANNEX 2-5
Teacher Quality Indicators
Table 2-5-1. Teacher quality indicators, 1990-1994
(Both public and private schools)
Total No.          % of trained        Student/trained
Year                of Teachers              teachers          teacher ratio
1990/91    Primary        64,443                66.1%                     46
JSS        39,506                 59.0%                    24
1991/92    Primary        69,933                73.4%                     39
JSS        42,249                 58.1%                    25
1992/93    Primary        64,762                76.7%                     41
JSS        39,569                64.4%                     25
1994/95    Primary         70597                69.4%                     44
JSS        43,107                65.9%                     24
Notes:  1)    Total number of teachers includes National Service Personnel working
as teachers and craft instructors.
2)     Trained teachers are defined as those teachers who received pre-service training
from a Teacher Training College.



ANNEX 2-6
Manpower Indicator
Table 2-6. Ghana Education Service Manpower Statistics, May 1994
Teaching and Non-teaching Staff by Level
Level           Teaching Staff   Non-Teaching      Total
Staff
Kindergarten                18,028          766            18,794
Primary                     62,608          816            63,424
J.S.S.                      30,580         1,015           31,595
Technical                      779          786             1,565
S.S.S.                      10,851        12,831           23,682
Training Colleges              946         1,436            2,382
Polytechnics                   447          327               774
Diploma Colleges                57           91               148
Education Unit Offices         502          715             1,217
District Offices             3,867         2,219            6,086
Regional Offices               453          644             1,097
Headquarters                   222          358               580
Study Leave                  3,512           40             3,552
Total                      132,852        22,044          154,896
Source: MOE.



ANNEX 3-1
Expenditure Analysis
Table 3-1-1: Public Expenditure on Education in Ghana, 1991-94
(in constant 1994 price, million cedis)
Resources and Expenditures Indicators               1991      1992      1993     1994
GDP                                             4,581,395  4,760,726 4,998,765 4,950,379
Total public expenditure                         625,649   808,248 1,001,437 1,156,762
Total public recurrent expenditure               469,242   590,598   765,924  833,152
Public recur. expend (discretionary, including only  346,463   441,829   499,467   523,800
item 1-5 & subvention)
Total capital expenditure                        139,824   174,761   181,405   173,864
of which Development                            108,158   155,774   153,606   165,605
GDP deflator: 1994=100                              56.2      63.2      79.0       100l
Total public expenditure on education           205,470   209,551   240,668  242,114
Total recurrent expenditure on education         136,112   178,752   196,976   188,573
Basic education recurrent expenditure             82,264   112,272   124,261   112,008
(excluding administrative cost.)
Total capital expenditure on education             7,295     7,753     8,101     9,800
Total public expenditure on education               4.5%      4.4%      4.8%     4.9%
as % of GDP
Total public expenditure on education              32.8%     25.9%    24.0%    20.9%
as % of total public expenditure
Recurrent expenditure on education                  3.0%      3.8%      3.9%     3.8%
as % of GDP
Recurrent expenditure on education                 39.3%     40.5%     39.4%    36.0%
as % of total recurrent (discretionary) expenditure
Capital expenditure on education as % of GDP         .2%       .2%      .2%       .2%
Capital expenditure on education                    5.2%      4.4%      4.5%     5.6%
as % of total capital expenditure
Basic education recurrent expenditure              65.6%     68.3%     68.3%    64.6%
as % of recurrent expenditure on education"
Source: GOG, MOE
Note:  I/ Including administrative expenditure, allocated in proportion to the subsector's share in
the total expenditure.



ANNEX 3-1
Expenditure Analysis
Table 3-1-2. Distribution of MOE Recurrent Budget and Expenditure, 1993-94
(million cedis)
Budget                     Expenditure           Exp/Budg
ratio
Total    share of Salary %   Total    share of Salary %
(items 1-5) line total  of line  (items 1-5)  line total  of line
out of   total'               out of   total
Total                         Total
1993
Primary             54,877.0   41.1%    95.0%     57,726.6   37.1%   93.9%    105.2%
JSS                 22,120.8   16.6%    93.7%     40,439.7   26.0%   95.7%    182.8%
SSS                 15,184.8   11.4%   91.0%       17,593.8   11.3%   90.9%    115.9%
Voc/Tech             1,500.7    1.1%   80.0%        1,981.5    1.3%   85.4%    132.0%
Teacher Training     4,800.3    3.6%    94.5%      4,068.4    2.6%    94.4%      84.8%
Tertiary             2,226.2     1.7%   90.0%      2,104.0     1.4%   85.8%      94.5%
Other Education        764.1     0.6%    53.7%       402.2    0.3%    15.8%      52.6%
Administration      11,743.4    8.8%    73.7%      11,275.1    7.2%   73.5%      96.0%
Subvention          20,273.4    15.2%        -    20,019.6    12.9%        -    98.7%
Total              133,490.7  100.0%    77.5%    155,610.8  100.0%   80.1%      116.6%
1994
Primary             75,300.0   40.3%    96.0%     66,993.9   35.5%   95.9%       89.0%
ISS                 30,343.7    16.2%    94.7%    45,013.9   23.9%   96.7%      148.3%
SSS                 23,559.5    12.6%    81.4%    24,476.6   13.0%   83.8%    103.9%
Voc/Tech             2,138.0     1.1%    77.8%     2,350.0    1.2%   80.8%    109.9%
Teacher Training     6,683.8    3.6%    94.0%       6,245.8    3.3%   94.4%      93.4%
Tertiary             2,872.8     1.5%    88.9%      1,471.8    0.8%   78.4%      51.2%
Other Education      1,047.7    0.6%   49.9%         416.5    0.2%    15.1%      39.8%
Administration      15,847.6    8.5%    75.0%      12,956.9    6.9%   75.8%      81.8%
Subvention          29,196.5    15.6%        -    28,647.2   15.2%         -    98.1%
Total              186,989.3  100.0%    76.5%    188,572.6  100.0%   78.0%1   100.8%
Source: MOE
Note:  Total salary's share in the Total MOE budget/expenditure does not include the salary
component for the subvented institutions.



ANNEX 3-1
Education Expenditure
Table 3-1-3. Expenditures on Public Basic Education by Source. 1991-94
(In 1994 constant price, US$)
source             1991          1992           1993           1994
Total Primary Expenditure                 $76,936,830    $94,191,038   $100.783,623   $107,651,762
Total Jr. Secondary Expenditure           $50,337,797    $66,762,315    $75.449.633    $82.650.756
Primary Recurrent expenditure  Total      $73,764,954    $91,097,786    $98,401,986    $94,211,169
MOE        $52,019,734    $68,778,481    $75,301.347    $70,025,295
District       $44,322       $125,159       $160.708        $37,304
Household  $21,700,898    $22,194,145    $22,939,930    $24,148,570
Donor         $994,468       $207,037     $4,068,471    $11,468,786
JSS Recurrent expenditure     Total       $48,208,851    $64,700.147    $73,861,875    $73,690,361
MOE        $30,976,668    $46,923,800    $52,751,485    $47,050,726
District       $29,548        $83,439       $107,139       $24,869
Household  $16.539,656    $17,554,883    $18,290,937    $18,968,908
Donor         $662,979       $138,024     $2,712,314     $7,645,857
Share of contribution
Primary            MOE             70.52%         75.50%         76.52%         74.33%
District         0.06%          0.14%          0.16%          0.04%
Household       29.42%         24.36%         23.31%        25.63%
Donor            1.35%          0.23%          4.13%         12.17%
Jr. Secondary        MOE              64.26%         72.53%        71.42%         63.85%
District         0.06%          0.13%          0.15%         0.03%
Household       34.31%         27.13%         24.76%        25.74%
Donor            1.38%          0.21%          3.67%         10.38%
Primary Capital Expenditure    Total       $3,171,877     $3,093,253     $2,381,637    $13,440,593
MOE                 $0             $0            $0             $0
District    $2,820,790     $3,076,758     $1,633,865     $3,041,024
Donor         $351,087        $16,494       $747,773    $10,399,569
Jr. Secondary Capital         Total        $2,128,946     $2,062,169     $1,587,758    $8,960,395
MOE            $14,362             $0            $0             $0
District     $1,880,527    $2,051,172     $1,089,243     $2,027,349
Donor         $234,058        $10,996       $498,515     $6,933,046
Share of contribution
Primary            MOE                0.0%          0.0%           0.0%           0.0%
District         88.9%          99.5%          68.6%          22.6%
Donor            11.1%           0.5%          31.4%          77.4%
Jr. Secondary        MOE                0.7%           0.0%           0.0%          0.0%
District         88.3%          99.5%          68.6%         22.6%
Donor            11.0%           0.5%          31.4%          77.4%
% distribution of total expenditure
Primary            MOE              67.6%          73.0%          74.7%          65.0%
District          3.7%           3.4%           1.8%           2.9%
Household       28.21%         23.56%         22.76%        22.43%
Donor             0.5%           0.0%           0.7%          9.7%
Jr. Secondary        MOE               61.6%          70.3%          69.9%         56.9%
District          3.8%           3.2%           1.6%           2.5%
Household        32.9%          26.3%          24.2%         23.0%
Donor             1.8%           0.2%           4.3%          17.6%
Recurrent spending/student    Primary          $41.18        $49.37         $53.31         $50.50
iSS             $80.93        $102.76        $112.02       $104.34
Total spending/student        Primary          $42.57        $50.96         $52.76         $56.05
JSS             $84.91        $106.10        $115.08       $125.26
Source: MOE; Demery et al (1995).
Notes: The household unit cost is taken from the GLSS3 for 1992, and assumed unchanged over the period. Some part of the household
expenditure is used also for capital costs, but details are not available.
The district expenditure is derived from data available for 27 districts, assuming they represent proportionately for 110 districts.
District basic education expenditures consists of contributions by (i) the central government, including District Assembly Common
Fund, but excluding MOE budget; (ii) district own-generated resources, and (iii) NGOs and others, and are allocated to primary
and JSS by 60%:40%.



ANNEX 3-1
Expenditure Analysis
Table 3-1-4. Public Expenditure on Teacher, 1991-94
(constant 1994 price)
1991        1992        1993         1994
Total teacher wage bills
Primary               $50,662,150  $63,830,943  $70,250,037  $65,661,068
Growth index                     100         126          139         130
JSS                  $30,431,232  $44,791,844  $50,607,445  $44,834,172
Growth index                     100         147          166         147
Share of teacher salaries in
recurrent expenditure for:
Primary                     94.0%       91.5%        92.0%       93.8%
JSS                       94.8%       94.1%        94.6%       95.3%
Average teacher annual salary
Primary                   $763.24    $1,034.13    $1,127.36    $1,014.57
JSS                     $911.25    $1,361.62    $1,401.48    $1,258.61
Number of teachers (public school)
Primary                    66,378       61,724      62,314       64,718
iSS                      33,395       32,896      36,110       35,622
Notes and Sources: MOE. JSS teachers does not include National Service staff.



Annex 3-2
Equity Aanalysis
Tablel 3-2-1. Equity Indicators: Gender gaps in admission rate, GER, retention,
and repetition rates, 1989-1993
Admission Rate (%)    Gross Enrollment Rate     Retention Rate
(%)                   (%)
Year          Boys        Girls       Boys       Girls      Boys       Girls
Primary Education
1989           -          78.7         -          64.3       71.1      62.3
1990          99.4        87.6        86.7        71.9       79.0      71.1
1991          93.9        84.7        85.8        72.4       82.5      74.1
1992          89.8        81.2        83.7        71.4       83.9      76.7
1993          90.1        80.8        84.2        71.7       88.4      79.6
Junior Secondary Education
1989           -          48.6         -          42.7       80.9      75.6
1990          70.2        50.6        64.6        44.5       87.0      78.8
1991          71.6        53.2        66.2        46.4       88.8      78.9
1992          71.7        55.0        67.4        48.9       86.6      81.3
1993          75.9        58.4        70.4        51.4       88.7      82.2
Source: MOE (1995).
Table 3-2-2. Enrollment in Basic Education by Grade, Gender, and Sector, 1994/95
Public                  l              Private
Girls                                 Girls
as% of                                as % of
Grade    Boys         Girls     Total    total  i Boys    Girls    Total    total
1        199995     179705    379700    47.3%     23030    22205    45235    49.1%
2        179855     158211    338066    46.8%     23142    21698    44840    48.4%
3        174092     151360    325452    46.5% 1  22315    20957    43272    48.4%
4        169090     143843    312933    46.0%     20073    18719    38792    48.3%
5        158800     131547    290347    45.3%      17069    16197    33266    48.7%
6        153516     120789    274305    44.0%      14909    13629    28438    47.9%
Primary  1,035,348    895,455  1,920,803    46.6%    120,438   113,405   233,843    48.5%
7        137913     107607    245520    43.8%      6770      6421    13191    48.7%
8        126319     94557    220876    42.8%       5324      4999    10323    48.4%
9        113085      80370    193455    41.5%      3755      3438      7193    47.8%
JSS      377,317    282,534    659,851    42.8%    15,849    14,858    30,707    48.4%
Total   1,412,665   1,177,989  2,590,654    45.5%   136,287   128,263   264,550    48.5%
Source: PBME, MOE (1996).



ANNEX 3-2
Equity Analysis
Table 3-2-3: Equity indicators by gender, 1992
Equity Indicators                             Male Female       All
% of the population with no education         9.17%   9.95%   9.53%
% of the population completing primary education  37.43%  42.07%  39.60%
% of the population completing middle/JSS   41.71%  39.82%  40.83%
% of the population completing secondary educ.  8.34%   6.48%   7.47%
% of the population completing tertiary education    3.35%   1.67%   2.56%
Average # of years of schooling                 6.4    5.82    6.13
Average amount of scholarship received (cedis)  25,622  27,100  32,720
Average individual income (cedis)           273,411 253,130 263,827
Public subsidies per capita on education*
Primary education (Cedis)                     4,981   3,883   4,416
Secondary education (Cedis)                   5,702   3,564   4,601
Tertiary education (Cedis)                    2,119   1,166   1,628
All education (Cedis)                         12,803   8,614  10,644
Source: GLSS3. Extracted from Demery, et al. (1995).
Table 3-2-4. Equity indicators by poverty group, 1992
Equity Indicators                            Very Poor   Poor  Non-poor   All
% of the population with no education            16.11%   12.66%    8.88%  11.70%
% of the population completing primary education  49.07%  48.31%    37.75%  43.18%
% of the population completing middle/JSS       31.25%  32.53%    42.47%  37.33%
% of the population completing secondary educ.   2.99%   4.32%      8.11%   5.90%
% of the population completing tertiary education  0.57%    1.43%   2.79%   1.89%
Average # of years of schooling                    4.91     5.48      7.06    6.13
Average household education expenditure (cedis)   7,976   11,067    20,484  14,240
Average amount of scholarship received (cedis)   15,279  20,500    41,441  32,453
Average individual income (cedis)               198,736 254,910   292,961 264,254
Source: GLSS3. Extracted from Demery, et al. (1995).
"Poor group" is defined as those individuals at or below 2/3 of mean expenditure per capita;
"'very poor group" is defined as those individuals at or below 1/3 of mean expenditure per captia.



ANNEX 3-2
Equity Analysis
Table 3-2-5 Equity indicators by household expenditure quintile, 1992
Quintile   1      2      3      4       5       All
Equity Indicators                        Poorest <<<<<          >>>>>  Richest
Gross Enrollment Ratios (GER)
Primary education                         75%    91%   90%    91%    101%        88%
Secondary education                       27%    40%   38%    45%      45%       39%
Public subsidies per capita on education
Primary education (Cedis)                4,815  5,219 4,797  4,147   3,100    4,416
Secondary education (Cedis)              3,431   5,026 4,849  5,412   4,285    4,601
Tertiary education (Cedis)                485    775  1,551   1,648   3,683    1,628
All education (Cedis)                    8,731  11,021 11,196  11,207  11,067   10,644
Household spending per student on education
Public primary schools (Cedis)           5,148  6,028 7,627  8,881   10,617    7,364
Public Secondary schools (Cedis)        13,545  17,345 22,223 28,437  38,954   24,441
Source: GLSS3. Extracted from Demery, et al. (1995).
Table 3-2-6. Equity Indicators by locality, 1992
Equity Indicators                               Urban     Rural        All
% of the population with no education           7.70%    14.23%    11.70%
% of the population completing primary education  37.13%    47.01%    43.18%
% of the population completing middle/JSS      41.28%    34.83%    37.33%
% of the population completing secondary educ.  10.75%    2.83%     5.90%
% of the population completing tertiary education  3.15%   1.10%     1.89%
Average # of years of schooling                   7.39      5.34      6.13
Incidence of poverty in the population         46.44%    54.50%    51.89%
Average individual income (cedis)              351,021   215,813   264,254
Average amount of scholarship received (cedis)  41,093    20,177    32,454
Average household education expenditure (cedis)  24,135    8,806    14,240
Household education expenditure per student *
Public primary schools (Cedis)                  12,318     5,248     7,364
Public secondary schools (Cedis)                34,072    17,422    24,441
Public Tertiary education (Cedis)              105,176    66,500    95,518
Source: GLSS 3.
*      : Extracted from Demery, et al. (1995).



ANNEX 3-2
Equity Analysis
Table 3-2-7. Enrollment in Primary education by Region, by Sector, 1992
Total     % of private enrollment  GER
Region     enrollment                          (%)
Ashanti     390,238                  14.1%   88.2
B. Ahafo     208,986                   4.9%   76.7
Central     196,065                   2.7%   85.7
Eastern     287,670                   5.3%   81.6
G. Accra     280,672                  35.6%   86.5
Northern     136,328                   2.4%   51.3
Upper East      75,875                   0.2%   46.1
Upper West      48,909                   0.1%   53.7
Volta     219,301                   1.7%   90.6
Western     203,249                   4.0%   79.9
GHANA    2,047,293                     9.7%   77.6
Source: PMBE, MOE
Table 3-2-8. Equity indicators by region, 1991-92 (Public only)
Total No.    Pupil/     % of        % of
Total      % of girl   of teachers   teacher    female     trained
Region      enrollment   enrollment                 ratio    teachers    teachers
Primary
Ashanti     337,039       46.9%        11,853     28         41.4%        75.5%
B. Ahafo     186,579        46.2%        7,762     24          25.5%       64.4%
Central     187,631       46.3%        6,474     29          34.2%       74.4%
Eastern     274,162       46.4%       11,425     24          34.5%       76.8%
G. Accra     174,960       49.2%        4,776      37          72.3%       90.1%
Northern     130,338        35.1%        5,400     24          26.4%       65.7%
UpperEast       67,461       39.0%        2,153      31         35.9%       78.6%
Upper West      42,841        42.7%        1,551     28          35.8%       84.0%
Volta     205,971        46.1%        7,743     27          33.5%       84.8%
Western     200,241        45.8%        7,241     28          28.8%       55.7%
National   1,807,223       44.4%       66,378     28          36.8%       75.0%
Jr. Secondary
Ashanti     116,680       43.1%        6,267      19         24.7%        75.7%
B. Ahafo      65,877        41.9%        3,969     17          10.8%       66.0%
Central     63,573        40.1%        3,644      17         21.8%       71.4%
Eastern      88,990       41.0%        5,551     16          23.1%       75.2%
G. Accra      80,859       47.4%        3,428      24          52.0%       82.0%
Northern      27,110        25.4%        1,600     17          14.1%       61.3%
Upper East      13,162       35.0%         1,008     13          14.3%      51.5%
Upper West       11,133       38.1%          849      13         14.3%       58.1%
Volta      67,591        39.7%        3,396     20          18.1%       81.7%
Western      57,892        39.6%        3,631     16          21.9%       62.5%
National     592,867       39.8%       33,343      17         21.5%       68.5%
Source: MOE (1995).



ANNEX 3-2
Equity Analysis
Table 3-2-9. Recurrent unit cost and operating unit cost for basic education
by Region, 1992-94
._______   Primary       |JSS                     l
Region                           1992    1993    1994      1992    1993   1994
Ashanti  Unit recurrent cost   $37.70  $40.70   $38.96   $49.21   $56.35 $49.54
Unit operating cost   $0.07   $0.15    $0.16    $0.48    $0.65  $0.67
B. Ahafo  Unit recurrent cost  $15.21  $43.43   $39.44  $163.04  $121.44 $53.45
Unit operating cost   $0.18   $0.21    $0.19    $0.61   $61.33  $0.67
Central  Unit recurrent cost   $30.49  $17.68  $177.24  $158.87  $114.57 $119.55
Unit operating cost   $0.16   $0.12    $0.13    $0.41    $0.52  $0.56
Eastern   Unit recurrent cost  $38.28  $41.81   $37.53   $89.75   $90.78 $79.39
Unit operating cost   $0.13   $0.17    $0.18    $0.90    $0.81  $2.23
G. Accra  Unit recurrent cost  $29.62  $33.27   $47.19   $45.79   $47.72 $44.31
Unit operating cost   $0.10   $0.11    $0.08    $0.27    $0.31  $0.31
Northern Unit recurrent cost    $152.10  $30.69   $51.90   $66.67   $58.87 $100.57
Unit operating cost   $0.17   $0.16   $26.13    $0.73    $0.78 $51.07
U. East  Unit recurrent cost   $15.59  $24.96   $22.05   $39.96   $51.46 $50.83
Unit operating cost   $0.07   $0.14    $0.18    $0.65    $0.88  $1.20
U. West  Unit recurrent cost   $30.26  $98.08   $22.90   $68.60   $32.89 $44.81
Unit operating cost   $0.58   $0.46    $0.16    $0.85    $0.95  $0.62
Volta    Unit recurrent cost   $56.42  $51.73   $61.68   $85.56   $83.47 $65.30
Unit operating cost   $0.17   $0.12   $31.03    $0.83    $0.80 $13.55
Western  Unit recurrent cost   $62.28  $42.26    $4.47  $170.34  $127.28 $73.05
Unit operating cost   $0.26   $0.14    $0.16    $2.29    $0.66  $0.75
GHANA  Unit recurrent cost     $45.76  $39.64   $52.19   $95.42   $82.79 $67.35
Unit operating cost   $0.16   $0.16    $5.65    $0.76    $7.33  $4.96
Source: MOE.
Note: (I) Recurrent expenditure includes salary and non-salary operating costs. The operating
cost refer to non-salary expenditure (items 2-5)
(2) Figures in italics are questionable, due to possible errors in the raw data.



Annex 3-3
Cost-Benefit Analysis
Cost-Benefit Analysis: Returns to Education
Introduction
1.     Of the several important investment decision criteria such as the Net Present Value
(NPV), the Benefit-Cost Ratio (BCR) and the Internal Rate of Return (IRR), each with its own
relative advantages and weaknesses, IRR has been extensively used for establishing education
investment priorities at the margin. It has been shown that in education projects in which the
net flow of benefit stream does not change very often, multiple rates of return rarely occur, and
IRR criterion gives the same answer as NPV. The present analysis is built around the
calculation of IRR from both private and social perspectives.
Benefits of Education: Age-Education-Earnings Profiles
2.     Measurement difficulties allow, among the innumerable education benefits, only the
direct monetary benefits associated with education to be brought into the cost-benefit analysis.
In the case of Ghana, the data set obtained from the 1992 Ghana Living Standards Survey
(GLSS3) can be used for the construction of age-education earnings profiles. It is assumed that
children in Ghana do not enter the labor force before age 9 and their working life ends by age 65.
The data set on earnings are further classified into four groups by the educational background:
illiteracy or no education, primary education (those who have completed 6 years of primary
schooling), secondary (additional 6 years of schooling beyond primary level), and higher
education (additional 4 years of schooling beyond secondary level). While this four-group
classification is useful particularly for international comparison, earning profiles can also be
obtained for five educational groups dividing the secondary into two: junior secondary and
senior secondary levels according to the current educational structure: 6 years for primary, 3
years for junior secondary, 3 years for senior secondary, and 4 years for tertiary education
3.     Based on the above age and education classifications , the average age-earnings profiles
were derived by level of education. The results show that: (1) earnings are positively correlated
with the level of education; (2) a profile tends to rise with age to a peak and then fall until
retirement age; (3) profiles for more highly educated individuals are steeper than for the less
educated; and (4) the higher the level of education, the later the age at which earnings reach their
peak (Figure 3-3-1). Although the profiles of higher educational levels lie above the lower
educational levels, there is some degree of conversion of the profiles at other levels. This is due
in part to the relatively small number of observations in the sample, which places unproportional
weight on exceptional sample cases. In addition to the sample population as a whole, the age-
education earnings profiles were also obtained for subgroups: male and female, poverty group
and non-poverty group, and urban and rural areas. The summary of the profiles for all age
groups is presented in Table 3-3-1.
For the purpose of this analysis, the new education structure is used considering its comparability and
relevance, instead of using the pre-1987 structure.



Annex 3-3
Cost-Benefit Analysis
Figure 3-3-1. Age-Education Earnings Profilef of Ghana,
1992
10,000,000 _ _ - _-_  _   -----
T~~~~~~~-L7     -  -- - - -  -t - \-
1,000.000
-4-- No education
100,000                                    -    Primary
- -  --------------- - - ---------  A   Secondary
-e- Higher
_  _  es N  Cn Cn  t      CD CD uC
I    I?   I? I I  ,   I
0) N  4- _- CO'_ _  D-  O.
_  .- N  N             ' C        t  L O 
Table 3-3-1. Mean earnings by subgroup, Ghana, 1992
Mean Earmings by Level
(cedis)
Subgroup      No educ.  Primary   Secondary        Higher
Male            136,297   190,867     314,570     938,969
Female          118,655   227,406     488,867    1,466,923
Poor            109,109   177,793     369,601     461,319
Non-poor        143,586   233,763     386,402    1,247,228
Urban           150,607   314,426     432,866     581,671
Rural           115,807   169,962     213,123     796,911
All             126,594   209,103     382,426    1,075,757
Source: GLSS3 (1992)
Costs of Education
4.     Costs of education consist of two important components: private and public costs.
Private cost is defined as that part of the investment in education which is incurred either by the
pupil or by his/her parents/guardian or by both. The private costs consist of two major elements:
(a) direct household costs on education including tuition fees and non-tuition costs such as
expenditure on books, stationary, transportation, uniformns, and meals; and (b) opportunity cost,
also known as "foregone earnings" that would have been earned had the pupil not attended
school. Foregone earnings have been derived on the basis of the age-earnings profiles
constructed from the GLSS3 data. In contrast, the public costs include the spending on
education by the public sector at large. The average earnings by level of education for the whole
sample and subgroups, presented in Table 3-3-1 above, can be taken as income foregone, and
both public and private unit costs of education are shown in Table 3-3-2.



Annex 3-3
Cost-Benefit Analysis
Table 3-3-2. Unit Costs and Length of Cycle by Level, Ghana, 1992
Education Level
Unit cost (Cedis)      Primary       Secondary        Higher
Public unit cost*        24,824         65,275       392,707
Private unit cost         7,364         24,441        95,518
- tuition              1,331           5,309       25,191
- PTA fees               264            677          1,086
- clothing             1,819           3,481        6,054
- books/supplies         710           3,447       18,446
- transport              148           1,586       12,340
- food/lodge           2,126           5,544       18,852
- others                 966           4,397       17,757
Length of cycle (yr)          6               6            4
Source: Demery, et al. (1995). The incidence of social spending
in Ghana. PSP Discussion Paper # 82. The World Bank
*Note: derived from the central government recurrent expenditure, 1992.
Estimation of the Rate of Return to Education
5.     Based on mean earnings by each subgroup and unit costs presented above, the results of
estimating rates of return to different levels of education are presented in Table 3-3-3 using the
short-cut method2. Primary education in Ghana on average produces a private rate of return of
28 percent and a social rate of return of 19 percent. At the secondary level which for the sake of
this analysis combines the junior secondary and senior secondary levels, the return to education
is 12 percent and 10 percent for private and social rates respectively.
Table 3-3-3. Returns to education, Short-cut method, Ghana, 1992
Private              Social
Primary Secondary Primary Secondary
over no ed. over primary over no ed. over primary
Ghana Overall    27.7%        12.4%       18.5%      9.7%
Source & Note: GLSS3 (1992). Private unit costs or household costs per student have been
included as a part of the education costs in the calculation of both private and social rates of return
to education. Assuming 2 years of foregone earnings for primary school students.
6.     The subgroup analysis (Table 3-3-4 below) shows that females benefit more from all
levels of education than males in terms of both private and social rates of return, highlighting the
importance of investments that will increase enrollment of girls. In addition, the poor benefit
2 The alternative 'full-method' using age-earning profiles, instead of mean earning profiles, tends to
provide more accurate results, but requires more reliable data set. The existing data set with lots of
missing data does not allow sensible subgroup analysis, hence only the result of the short-cut method
is presented. The full-method according to the present data set gives lower rates of return. Further
study will be necessary to reconcile the difference in the results from the different methods.



Annex 3-3
Cost-Benefit Analysis
considerably more from primary education than from any other level of education, suggesting
that interventions for increasing the poor's access to primary education will have high payoffs.
Compared with people in rural areas, people living in urban area show higher returns to all levels
of education except higher education, mainly due to job opportunities in urban areas.
Table 3-3-4. Returns to education by subgroup, Short-cut method, Ghana, 1992
Subgroup                Private             Social
By Gender         Primary Secondary   Primary Secondary
Male                17.2%      9.6%     11.7%      7.3%
Female              38.6%     17.3%     25.3%     13.7%
By Poverty Status
Poor                26.2%     15.8%     16.7%     12.0%
Non-poor            27.2%      9.9%     18.8%      7.9%
By Locality
Urban Area         47.4%           -    33.1%          -
Rural Area          19.6%          -    12.8%         -
7.    Mincerian method. The findings in the short-cut method is largely consistent with the
results using the semi-log earning function specification, developed by Mincer. The coefficient
on years of schooling can be interpreted as the average private rate of return to one additional
year of education, regardless of the education level to which this year of schooling refers. Again,
there are higher returns to one additional year of schooling for females than males. The
Mincerian method, however, gives different results on the rural-urban investment preference:
people in rural areas have somewhat higher returns than those in urban areas, suggesting that
targeting on rural areas would have a relatively higher pay off than on urban areas.
Table 3-3-5. The coefficient on years of schooling: Mincerian mean
rate of return, by gender, poverty status, and locality, 1992
Group              Mean years   Coefficient
of schooling    (percent)
By Gender
Male                       6.4          9.3
Female                     5.8         10.6
By Poverty Status
Poor                        5.2         9.4
Non-poor                    7.1         9.3
By Locality
Urban                      7.4          8.0
Rural                      5.3          8.9
Overall                    6.1          10.5
Source: GLSS 3 (1992)



ANNEX 3-4
Fiscal Impact Analysis
ANNEX 3-4. Fiscal Impact Analysis
The FCUBE program with support of the proposed credit aims at (a) improving the
teaching and learning process and outcome; (b) enhancing efficiency of basic education
management; (c) achieving better access and participation; and (d) helping establish a financially
sustainable education sector. For FCUBE to be financially sustainable, demand-driven policy
options need to be guided by factors derived from reasonable expectations as to how much
resources can be mobilized. Among various performance objectives, a few financially important
ones are selected from each program component for this analysis. Accordingly, both demand
(access and quality) and supply factors (resource availability) have been considered.
Approach
The analysis has been done in the following process:
i.    Enrollment projections
ii.    Teacher analysis
iii.    Cost analysis
iv.    Resources analysis
v.    Analysis of different scenarios (low, medium, high)
These analyses are based on three scenarios, each presuming different macroeconomic
environments and resources available to the education sector. Some elements of sensitivity
analysis are also included in the scenario analysis, such as the impact of the class flow efficiency
under the FCUBE reform on enrollment and costs.
Low Scenario. Ghana fails to maintain macroeconomic stability and the economy grows only at
3 percent annually. However, the strong financial commitment of the Government to education
is not likely to fade, and MOE's share of the total recurrent budget is sustained. Education costs
for the poor are prohibitive, and GOG can not extend financial support to them.
Medium Scenario. The present level of economic growth (5 percent annually) is sustained.
Macroeconomic conditions are stable, and public spending including MOE's recurrent budget
stays at a constant share of GDP. The private sector's growth in providing education service
continues at the present pace until it slows at the market plateau.
High Scenario. The macroeconomic environment is favorable and the Ghanaian economy
grows at a higher rate (7 percent per year). Gains from growth are clearly visible in the
increased private provision of basic education, and increased household spending on education
contributes to improvements in children's learning achievement.
1. Enrollment projection. Ghana has a policy of automatic promotion throughout the basic
education cycle. The student flow model used is based on admission into the primary school,
promotion, repetition and dropout. It allows for measuring the impact of improvements in the
flow efficiency.



ANNEX 3-4
Fiscal Impact Analysis
Results of enrollment projections are affected by policy decisions on giving priority to quality-
improvement or enrollment expansion. Ghana's choice of quality improvement as a priority is
sound, especially if we take into account the interaction between improvements in the quality of
education and increases in enrollment. However, the quality emphasis requires increasing
contribution by the private sector to education service delivery, which in turn requires economic
environments favorable to private sector growth. The following table gives the enrollment
projections under the medium case scenario based on the combination of the policies that are
described in the following page.
Enrollment: Medium Case Scenario
1994        2000        2005
(base*)
Primary       school age pop. (6-11)    2,836,772    3,487,117   4,141,601
enrollment: public        1,920,803    2,524,360   3,574,412
private           233,843     357,155     579,919
gross enrollment ratio      76.0%       82.6%      100.3%
admission rate into PI       82.5%       94.0%      108.8%
Jr. Secondary  school age pop. (12-14)  1,177,493    1,447,440   1,719,104
enrollment: public         659,851     865,847   1,188,108
private            30,707     110,974     170,489
gross enrollment ratio      58.7%       67.5%       79.0%
2. Teacher analysis. The annual net increase in the teaching force is derived from the number
of new teachers recruited, teacher attrition rate, and a redeployment of administrative staff with
teacher's qualifications back to schools. The number of new recruits is decided by several
factors: a pupil-teacher ratio as a monitoring reference, TTCs' supply capacity, actual TTC
graduates who take teaching posts, and the impact on the wage bill. The analysis indicates that
annual recruitment of some 4,000 new primary teachers would be appropriate over the FCUBE
period, while for junior secondary, the number needs to be raised gradually from the present
level of 1,100 to 1,900. MOE should make efforts not to enlarge the size of the teacher salary
envelope beyond the rate of the overall real MOE budget increase. Given the present level of
"waste" in graduates, supply capacity of the existing TTCs is not taken as fully and efficiently
utilized, hence no additional TTCs need to be constructed in the medium term.



ANNEX 3-4
Fiscal Impact Analysis
Summary of Scenario Analysis
Scenario                                  Low                         Medium                            High
Average GDP growth rate                                 3 % p.a.                        5 % p.a.                       7 % p.a.
MOE budget growth rate                                 3 %  p.a.                        5 % p.a.                       7 % p.a.
Policy Guidelines / Key Assumptions
Growth rate of school-age                             1994:3.5%                     constant 3.5%                    1994: 3.5%
(6-1 1) population                                2005: 4.0%                                                     2005: 3.2%
................................................................................................................ .............................................. .. .......................................
P1 public intake growth                                1996: 4 %                      1996: 4 %                      1996: 4 %
2000: 3%                        2000: 7%                       2000: 8%
2005: 3%                        2005: 5%                       2005: 8%
.............................I................................................................................... .............................................. ..........................................
PI private intake growth                              1996: 10 %                      1996: 10 %                     1996: 10%
2005: 5%                       2005: 8%                        2005: 15%
................................................................................................................ ........................ ...................... .........................................
Flow rate improvement                                   constant                repeaters/dropouts                     same as
decrease by 10.0%                     Medium
yearly
Ave. teacher salary real                                constant                       2.0% p.a.                      3.0% p.a.
growth
Recurrent non-wage budget                               constant                      10.0% p.a.                      10.0% p.a.
real growth
............................ ; ~ ;............................................... ........................     .....................................I.........  ..........................................
DACF on education                                     10.0 % p.a.                     20.0% p.a.                 same as Medium
real growth
Demand for additional school   primary: 12057                                     primary: 17933                 primary: 18351
facility(public, 96-00)                       jr. Sec.:  5455                jr. Sec.:  6866                jr. Sec.:  6866
IMPACTS
Primary GER in 2005                                      75.2 %                         100.3 %                        111.1 %
JSS GER in 2005                                          65.5 %                          79.0 %                         79.6 %
........................... .............................................................................     ..............................................  ..........................................
Basic Education Costs                             1996-00: 1,252                  1996-00: 1,351                 1996-00: 1,445
$ mil                                     2001-05: 1,404                  2001-05: 1,522    2001-05:  1,871
Basic Education Financing                          1996-00: 1,062                  1996-00: 1,121                 1996-00: 1,175
(excluding donors) $ mil    2001-05: 1,245                                   2001-05: 1,404                 2001-05: 1,668
BE Financing Gap                                   1996-00:  190                   1996-00:  230                  1996-00:  270
(without donors) $ mil.                      2001-05:   159                  2001-05:   118                 2001-05:  203
... ......................................................................................................     ..............................................   ..........................................
Number of BE teachers                                    same as                   2000: 113,524                       same as
Medium                    2005: 129,078                       Medium
................................................................................................................ .............................................. .........................................
Pupil/Teacher ratio                                   2000: 29.1                     2000: 31.5                      2000: 31.7
Primary (public)                                 2005: 29.7                      2005: 39.0                     2005: 41.2
P/T ratio                                             2000: 24.9                     2000: 26.1                      2000: 26.1
JSS (public)                                     2005: 26.3                      2005: 31.8                      2005: 31.9
Class/classrm ratio                                   2000:  1.4                      2000:  1.4                     2000:  1.4
Primary (public)                                 2005:  1.4                      2005:  1.3                      2005:  1.3
Class/classroom ratio                                 2000:  1.3                      2000:  1.3                     2000:  1.3
JSS (public)                                     2005:  1.3                      2005:  1.3                     2005:  1.3



ANNEX 3-4
Fiscal Impact Analysis
3. Cost Analysis. The model incorporates all expenditures incurred at all levels (i.e., the central
and local governments, at the school and household levels). It looks at the salary of teachers;
costs of textbooks and other educational materials; administrative costs including overhead,
operation and maintenance costs; costs of building new schools and their maintenance, and
various costs to the household. The total 10-year costs of the FCUBE program implementation
will be US$2.9 billion, of which the first 5-year phase will be US$1.3 billion. Instead of a
conventional approach using a unit cost per pupil, the model uses a detailed breakdown which
allows for measuring the impact of changing the policy pertaining to each of the cost items.
Average teacher salary, including the incentive package, will not increase by more than 2 percent
annually, in real terms, and in reality, should be in harmony with the movement of other public
services salaries. To provide the necessary educational materials to all the students, about 18
percent of recurrent expenditure needs to be spent over the period 1996-2005, implying that for
the sector to be sustainable, MOE's budget structure needs to be adjusted accordingly in a
gradual manner. If successful, central administration can become leaner, and in 10 years
administrative costs can be reduced from the present level of 10.4 percent to 8.7 percent of the
recurrent costs. This can be achieved through various efforts to make sectoral management more
efficient. During the second phase of the FCUBE program (2001-2005), betterment costs of
US$205 million is estimated, of which supply of textbooks and other educational materials alone
will account for some 90 percent of the costs.
Medium Scenario Cost and Financing for FCUBE
(US$ million)
First Phase  Second Phase  FCUBE total
96-00        01-05          96-05
Betterment                        $241.6         $205.0        $446.6
Other basic education sector cost  $1,109.6    $1,316.8       $2,426.4
TOTAL COST                      $1,351.2       $1,521.8       $2,873.0
Total Ghana                     $1,120.9       $1,404.3       $2,525.2
Ongoing donor support              $54.0            $0          $54.0
TOTAL FINANCE                   $1,174.9       $1,404.3       $2,579.2
Donor additional (committed)      $151.0           $0.0        $151.0
Financing gap                      $25.3         $117.5        $142.8
Recurrent Cost Structure, Medium Scenario
1994 ave. 1996-00 ave. 2000-05
Recurrent Costs        100.0%       100.0%       100.0%
(without household)
teacher salary          82.1%        74.3%        74.0%
educational materials    7.5%        17.0%        17.7%
admin costs: salary      7.4%         6.0%         5.6%
admin. non-salary        3.0%         2.7%         2.7%



ANNEX 3-4
Fiscal Impact Analysis
4. Financing Analysis. All domestically available financial resources are included in this
submodel: the central budget, intergovernmental transfers, local government's own generated
fund, and contributions from households. MOE's budget is assumed to grow at the same pace as
the country's economic growth. Internal allocation of the budget is considered to remain
unchanged because basic education's receipt of 65% of the recurrent budget is already favorable,
and increasing pressure is expected on the secondary and higher levels of education as a result of
improved basic education. Gradual reallocation within the basic education subsector will
become necessary as the relative demand for junior secondary education increases. The total
resources domestically available to fund the FCUBE program over the period 1996-2005 will be
US$2.6 billion, and US$ 1.1 billion for the first phase. Funds to be mobilized externally are not
taken into account in here, and will be used to help fill the financing gap. Allowing further
increases in the average teacher' salary, even marginally from 2 to 3 percent annually, is justified
only under the higher economic growth scenario in which more GOG budget for the education
sector will be available relative to the low and medium scenarios. Under the Medium Scenario,
the combination of policy options requires additional US$176 million over the period 1996-
2000, annually US$40 million on average, to be mobilized externally. Of this additional
resource requirement, US$151 million has been already committed so far by the program
cofinanciers including UNICEF, USAID, ODA, and Germany, and EU and the governments of
Japan and Norway have indicated their interest in contributing to the program. The proposed
IDA credit is expected to contribute US$ 50 million.
In all scenarios, even though adequate capital costs for additional intake are estimated,
still about 30 percent of classes will have no classroom of their own. This requires continuing
the double-shifting, particularly in densely populated areas.
Overall, Ghana's FCUBE objectives of quality improvement and universalizing basic
education are attainable, for the primary level within the coming 10-year period, and up to the
junior secondary level by the year 2010. Toward the end of the 10-year program, different sets
of policies will be warranted to ensure financial sustainability. These include, among others, a
review of policies on the intra-sectoral allocation of resources, annual demand for new teacher
recruitment, and adequate arrangement to continue the provision of educational materials which
will become increasingly more costly.



ANNEX4
Page I of 11
.,., : ..j~I ,. A,,,wt +,- ................t*.        MINISTRY OF FINANCE
t.... .A ~,.ld ~.s.*P.O. BOX M 40
ACCRA
; lPUMULIC OF CTIANA
PLAN FOR FREE, COMPULSORY AND UNIVERSAL
BASIC EDUCATION (CUBE) PROGRAMME, 1996 -2005
LEITER OF BASIC EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT POLICY
MR JAMES WOLFENSOHN
PRESIDENT
THE WORLD BANK
WASHliNGTON, D.C. 20433
Dear Mr Wolfensohn.
GHA.NA: FREE, COMPULSORY AND  UNIVERSAL BASIC EDUCATIC)N
PROGRAMME: 1996-2005; LETTER OF BASIC EDUCATION
DEVELOPMENT POLICY
I am writing to you in connection with the proposed International Developmenr
Association (IDA) Basic Exucation Sector Isnprovement Credit which is designed Lo
assist all young Ghanaians to receive: at least nine years of quality schooling to ensure
that, irrespective of gcnder, economic circumstance or geographic location, they lcam
slills and develop attitudes that wvill enablc them to play a functional role in society as
inforned and productive citizens. I would lilke to inform thc Association of the progress
made in the basic education suib.sector since the start of our cducation refonn
programme in 1987, and give an outline of further policy initiatives that the
Government plans to implement in this sub-sector over the next ten years.
A. Background and Goals
Basic education is the fundamental building block of any nation. Given that the loiig-
term vision for Ghana is to become a middle-income countuy by the year 2020, a Ivncli-
pin of thc governrnent's developmnent plan is a nation-wide. susLained effort to expand.
I



ANNEX4
Page 2 of 11
suren,grhcn. and make more relevant its basic education systcm. In recognrition of this, the
Government seeks to provide quality basic educalion (8F) for all school age ch)Idrcn as
soon as is practicable.
The central goal of the BE system in Ghana is to ensure that all young people are equipped
v,ith the fundamental knowledge. attitudes and skills that will enable them to be active
participants in and beneficiaries of national development.
The policy initiatives outlined below are the Government's response to a cons-iturionally-
mandated charge. Article 39(2) c the 1992 Constitution of the Fourth Republic of Ghana
states:
The Govemment shall, within two years after Parliament first meets after coming
into force of this constitution. draw up a programme for implementation wivthin the
Following ten years, (or the provision of free, compulsory and universal basic
education.
B. Structure
The resrructuring of the educ2tion sysiem has been a k-ey element of the reform that srarred
in 1 987. The current system consists of Primary (grades l-6); Junior Secondary (grades 7-
9). togerher forming a nine-year BE cycle; followed by Senior Secondary (10-12);
Technical; and several optional forms of Tertiary Education that include universities,
polytechnics and teacher training colleges.
C- Financing
The Government's emphasis on the importance of education in the development process is
unequivocal. The proportion of the national recurrent budget (net oi debt servicing and
orher extra-budgetary items) allocated to education has increased from 31 percent in 1987
ro almost 39 percent as an average over the past five years. Intra-sectoral allocation has
been increasingly in favour of BE which is currently receiving about 65 percent of MOE's
recurrent budget (up from 60 percent in 1989). Govemment resource commitments to
education as set out in the policy document "Ghana; Vision 2020" are projected to
increase proportionately with national economic growth rates and to stay at 40 percent of
the national budget through to 2000.
D. IKey Issues in Basic Education
Key issues in basic education in Ghana mray be care,orised into four areas:
Poor Teaching and learning ouLcomes
2



ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 11
A new' education srructure has becn pul in placc. ihc propo7n0on of trainerd 5zai has grow.,
ihe volume of materials and equipmenr inco the cecror has incrc_sed, and rncre scnool
zacilities have resulted in increased enrolments- Yer the reform has had limited success in
dclivering quality teaching and leaminir7 outcomes. Pupil achievement concinues to be
very disappointing. Reasons for weak Il-arnin- rccults include: lack of learning materials,
aind even where available, teachers often do nor rnake effective use of ci ern; inadequate
funding oi non-;alary recurrent expenses: high levels of pupil and teacher absenirneism,
inefficient use of teacher. pupil instructional contact hours; outmoded pre-s-ervice teacher
training and inadequate in-service teacher development; unmorivated teachers owing to
unataractive incentives, ineffective sanctions and low social status of .eachers; an overly
ambitious curriculum, burden-some to boch teachers and pupils; and lack of suitable
phYs5cal facilities in many locations.
Access and Gcnder Sias
Across the country, conspicuous dispariry exists in access to basic education services
between boys and girls, rhe rich and thc poor, and arnong geographic regions. 8E is
supposed to be tuition-free and open to all Currentiv. insufficient access. poor quality and
financial consrraints make the policy more of a promise than a reality. Nominal gross
enrolments at the primary and junior 5econdary levels stand at 78 and 38 per cent
respeciively of the relevant age cohorts. There are also equity concerns. Enrolments in the
northern regions are up to 30 per cenr lower than the national average. In some areas,
girls comprise only 35 per cent of primary and as little as 28 per cenr of junior secondary
enrolments. Aithough primary enrolmenrs have grown by about 25 percent since the
reform programme began, expansion has come without the requisite improvement in the
quality of teachin- and leaming. Furthermore, the expansion has not been rapid enough ro
keep up with the pace of the school-age population growth resulting in a stagnating or
even declining rarios oi BE gross enrolment. Insufficienr infrastructure, family poverty,
unavailability of teachers and geographic isolation all coincide to form a complex web of
drsadvantage.
Inappropriate Management Structures and Weak Management Capacity
Effective managernent within the educarion sector depends upon rhe management
capabilities of the central Ministry, the GES. the districrs and the schools thnem5elves. With
Govemment firmly cornmitted to the process of decentralisacion of administration oi public
secior institutions, including education. capabilities have to be improved to meet The
requirements of a system under which discricis and communities themselves will have
enhanced responsibility and authority to improve the quality of and participation in
education at the school level. However, incomplete and unclear transfer of authority, lac:-:
of clarity in job descriptions, ineffective ;uff posting procedures, inadequate planning,
nmonitoring and evaluation, and inadequarely trained scaff at all levels of rnana,ement have
2l conrribured to harnperina the effcc-ive crriplen,entra7on of decenrr.rlrsacinn pcbCiv.



ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 11
Critical rnanagement issues are to be addressed: ihe managerient siruciure of 0F-S that
remains "rop heavy with rnany leveis o1 management and with sorne duplication vf
functions amonc headquarrers, regions and districts; tnadequacies in [hp supervision cd
schools and the limitation of disciplinary processes that seriously undermine effective
reachins,; data essential for planning and resource utilisation ihat are reported in .a m.anne,
of little practical utiliry; coo tew capable managers it all levels of the GES; personncl
emoluments that absorb a very high proporsion of the recurrent budger leaving very limrivd
resources at the district and school level ro improve qualicy; few incentives available to
teaching anc? adminisTrative staff to encourage and reinforce good performance; and lack of
community participation in school governance.
Inadequatc Resource Mobilisation and Inefficient Util;sation
The education sector has been receiving about 39 percent of Government's discretionary
recurrent budget; and around 3 percent of the development (capital investrment
programme) budget. The expenditure side has been constantly affected by uncertainties in
salary raises and number of staff on the payroll. MOE's actual expenditures have been
overrunning the budget, but nearly the entire overrun can be attributed to salary related
expenses. The absence of a reliable and timely expenditure monitoring system is partly
responsible for this.
Furthermore, internal resource allocation within the basic education sub-sector is heavily
influenced by the sheer size of the wage bill. Of the total MOE/GES expenditures,
personnel emoluments account for 85 percent. When looking at school-level basic
education expenditure, around 98 percent of the national recurrent allocation is absorbed
by the salary related costs and only the tiny remainder is available for teaching/learning
materials, school operation and maintenance.
11 ELEMENTS OF THE BASIC EDUCATION INITIATIVE
A. Strategic Framework
The Govemment's recently announced Free Compulsory Univer5alf Basic Education
(FCUBE ) Programme addresses Three major goals.
Qjalivy Imorony-menr of F cervics will enable the rnajority of BE 1-9 pupils to meet
,Acceptable standards of performancc; reduce repetition and dropout rates; increase the BE
completion rare as well as the pass rate for admission into second cycle senior secondarv
and technical) insrirutions.
,M.nagm ilaccj o; thrn uucarlQn Svsrirm will be improved along several
d:rnwenS.oni S',;em  nariaceneri, will bc strengThened and streamlined overall, wiir
I



ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 11
rmcreasng cielegation of decisori-rriakiti- Atihorily and respoiib iloy To she di.rri, r .nd
school levcfs.
Acces_toqjnd paririrpatjin in ha;iC edLucation services will be cxparnded progressivelv for
all school-a-e children, but especially for girls and for pupils from disadvantaged areas.
Alternativc service delivery arrangements to the traditional model will be piloted. Orie or
the most important lessons leamed since the current education reform programme is that
continuing to expand access to basic education and to increase physical inputs Into the
system are not effective unless the qualiry of activities at the school level improves
si-nificantly.
B. Key Components
The Government affirms that quality improvement will receive the highest prioriry in the
FCUBE initiative. All activities under the Programme will cover a 10-year period from
I 996-2005. and will be implemented in two 5-year phases. This initiative is the sole
programrne for basic education improvement in Ghana, and will embrace all current and
future acrivities supported from national and external funding sources. The Programme is
composed of three components which will be implemenred in a comprehensive and
carefully integrated fashion.
1.  Imgroving rhe Qualiry of Teaching and Learning
The pedagogical improvement component will promote effective teaching by enhancing
specific teaching skills through pre-service and mainly school-based in-service training
programmes, and bv improving teacher morale and motivating staff through a teacher
incentive programme. Improvement in rhe quality of leaming and student performance
will be promoted through curriculum review and adaptation; the reprinting of existing and
production of new learning materials, syllabuses and teachers handbooks; and the regular
mccsccmant of pup;l porformrxanco to inforrr tachrr., parontr 3fnd pupdlt rhemeal_koc oi t&cir
progress and to provide objective measures to evaluate basic education.
Key elements include
a)  Strengthening capabilities in curriculum and learning materials developrnent,
procurement, distribution and resupply;
b) Ensuring that the curriculum is pedagogically sound, re!evant and
implernentable in all basic schools;
cJ Designing and irnplementing a cost-effective textbook production and
distributiorn sysrem that will ensure universal coveragc of texts in all subjects and
tra.ides for every student:



ANNEX 4
Page 6 of 11
d)  Introducing low-cost reacher training and pupil instruction arrangtements u5:ing
distance education cechnology.
e)   Restructuring both pre- and in-service teacher craining and insisting on highc;r
standards of teacher cerriiication, including more emphasis on classroom-based
experiences;
2.  Imoroving mannagemont Fffiienry
The overall objective of this component is to improve both the eFficiency and effecEivcnes,
oi the Ministry of Educarion (MOE) and the Ghana EducaLion Service (GES) through
managerial reform. In order to ensure that new and existing resource invesemcnts are
wisely allocated and effectively utilised, activities will be focused on bringing greater
discretion, discipline and accountability to schools, thereby increasing reaching
effectiveness. The component will also increase the timeliness, accuracy and relevancy of
data to be used for monitoring pcrformance at the district and school levels. I here will be
targeted interventions to improve instruction and student 2chievement and to achieve a
more rational and equitable allocation of resources For inirastrucrure, materials, and
personnel.
This component will be implemented in three stagces whichi, alrthough conceptually
distincr, in practice will overlap.
Key elements include:
a)   Redesigning management srruatures which suit the roles and responsibilities or
the MOE and the CES at headquarters, regional and district leve!s and which provide
for appropriate delegation on operational maters;
b)  Improving mechanisms for monitoring performance at the district and school
levels and performance standards and targets for all agencies linked to the strategic
goals of FCUBE;
c)  Installing an Education Management Information System (Eh415) to collect,
analyse, process and report educational data for planning, decision making and
mt;nitoring purposes;
d)  Strengthening personnel management practices which motivate individuals,
groups and departments throughout the sysrern towards achieving berrer
perrormances;
6



ANNEX 4
Page 7 of 11
e)   Upg-ading rinancial management systems developed which improve budgeting
and financial control and generate information to support the delegation of budgetary
respos ibil;Iy; and
r)  Staff,ing or-anisation structures at all levels with appropriately trained and
qualfied managers and having adequate discretionary budgets in place to ensure that
rhe financ.al resources available can make significant impact on the quality of
education.
3.  Imkrov'rz Accezs and ParcicoPtian
The quanrtiative expansion and enhanced participation component will promote wider
coverage of basic education services by applying selection criteria for building new
schools; replac,ng schools with poor infrastructure; expanding overcrowded schools;
rehabilitating school physical infrastructure; providing houses for additional teachers; and
by developing alternative delivery mechanisms. Measures to increase demand for basic
education will receive special attention. Girls, poor and rural children will be targeted.
FCUBE will use a variety of approaches to increase access to schooling by girls and under-
represented groups including Infrastructural development and rehabilitation. Options
include: the provision of scholarships; incentives for female teachers and teachers in
remote areas; a pilot scheme to enable rural communities to hire local teachers; an
emphasis on gender equity and sensitivity in materials and in training programmes; and the
use of Participatory Learning Appraisal methodologies in selected regions to encourage
community involvement in and understanding of the need for schooling. On the supply
side, MOE will first examine and rationalise the use of existing resources. The challenge of
meeting the increased demand for facilities and services will be tackled from two
perspectives: using existing school facilities to maximum effectiveness; and targeting new
infrastructure to those places where careful investigation has shown there to be most
benefit in providing increased access.
Key elements include:
a)  Strengthening School Management Committees;
b)  Improving mechanisms for consultation with District Assembly committees on
education to ensure the appropriate allocation of funds to basic education, and its
deployment in an equitable manner;
c)   Enhancing the system for stakeholder consultation to provide feedback on
progress towards programme goals;
d)  Operating a school improvement fund which will be directly accessible to
schools; and
7



ANNEX4
Page 8 of II
e)    a social marketing campaign to promote education, including an
emphasis on the benefits of girls education.
III   FINANCING POLICIES
The Government will continue to provide at least the same percentage af the
discretionary recurrent budget to education sector each year during 1996-2000
as it has provided over the past five years. Within the education sector,
allocation to basic education sub-sector will be maintained at the present level,
although the distribution between primary and junior secondary levels will
changeover time.
The Government's FCUBE financing plan is the key reference document for
national resource mobilization and its effective use for BE. The plan entails
various quantitative "floor level targets' which were summarised in the table
below. Actual resources mobilized and spent, as well as the policy targets will
be monitored regularly, and possible adjustments willbe discussed at regular
review meetings of the financing partners.
Implementation of FCUBE, in particular through improving personnel, education
performance and financial management, will generate efficiency gains that will
result in savings in the budget. An understanding has been reached between the
Ministries of Finance and Education that MOE will implement the financial
management strategies outlined in its policy document to ensure sound financial
practices. This will allow MOE to re-allocate the approved budget within the
recurrent and capital/development activities respectively.
For the quality of basic education to be assured, the number of teaching staff will
need to be increased as enrollments grow. The Government will make every
effort to ensure that total number of staff and overall salary expenditure for the
Ghana Education Service (GES) staff will be consistent with the FCUBE financing
plan and national public sector salary guidelines. The ratio between the
number of teachers in schools and GES administrative staff in the system as a
whole (including GES staff in administrative posts) is presently 4.8:1. This figure
will be monitored so that the overhead cost of adminstration will be reduced by
shifting the balance in favor of teachers in the classroom.
Provision and maintenance of school facilities are the responsibility of local
government. Apart from earmarked external aid support and the nationaly
provided District Assembly Common Fund (DACF), resources are mobilized at
the district and school levels but are far from adequate. The Government will
encourage district authorities to increase the proportion of spending from DACF
for basic education steadily not only to the present guideline figure of 10% but
even beyond. Levies collected at the district and school levels must accord with
the MOE guidelines. The Government will undertake to delegate progressively
financial management discretion to designated districts having viable education
plans and administrative systems, and will consider compensatory measures
8



ANNEX 4
Page 9 of 11
where districts still face financial problems even after making an adequate fiscal
effort.
The Government maintains its policy that tuition for basic education is free for
children and parents/guardians. However, for the attainment of FCUBE
objectives, and for securing a heightened commitment and sense of community
ownership of schools, it is necessary that beneficlaries of basic education
services continue to contribute to direct and indirect costs other than tuition.
As part of the FCUBE objectives, target enrolments in private schools will
increase from the present 10.7% for the primary level to 14% by 2000 and 16%
by 2005, and from 3.0% for the junior secondary level to 6.6% by 2000 and
16% by 2005. For the time being, Government will continue the present policy
of providing the textbooks and some teachers to private schools. Meanwhile,
there will be a study on appropriate measures to subsidise the private sector,
considering the implementation for financial sustalnability of the education
system as a whole.
Basic Education Sector Performance Monitoring indicators Phase 1: 1996-2000
miditerm      Dec. 2000
_(ul. 1998)
Financial Commirmient and Sus-tainiability
Share of MOE/COG budget                           38.8% (min.)   38.8% (rnin.)
Share of gasic Educ. (BE)/MOE budget                     65%             65%
Annual real increase in BE non-salary spending            10%            10%
Annual growth rate of average GES staff salary       2% (max.)      2% (max.)
A.vcraSe per pupil MOE spending by district             t.b.m.          r.b.m.
Average district spending from DACF on basic educ.      10.5%          15 0%
Enhanced Quality of Teaching and Learning
Student Achievernent (CRT)                              t.b.m.          r.b.m.
Teacher absenteeism (year-on-year improvement)          t.b.rn.         r.b.m.
Pupil/texrbook ratio, core subjecrs. Primary & JS          2:1            .:1
PupiVteacher ratio, P&IS                               P- 29.7         P:3 1.5
JS:24.8        JS:26.1
Management for Efficiency
Number of teachers in public schools2, P&JS          P. 75177       P: 802 18
JS:32358       15 33206
Number of administrative staff as % of above            r,b.1ri.        r.b.m.
Niumber of SMC established (1% of t of schools;           40%            70%
N umber of DEOC establtshcd l% of ^ oi dis;rics)          60            1 O0-".
.Number oidistricrs with financial authoriry             t.b rrm.       r.b.n



ANNEX 4
Page 10 of 11
Improving Access and Pas-icipa:ion
C;oss Enrollment Ratio (public plus private)           P. 7/.8%        P: 82.6%
JS 66.6 1%     IS 67 5%
Pidlic enrollment                                    P.2213000       P 252.'40C
JS.50 1 200     IS.a6580C
R-rvate enrollment                                   P: 298000        P: 337200
)5:99200      Js: 1 11000
Girls' share in the total enrollment                      r.b.rn.         t.b.m
Primary I intake rate (public plus private)              87.4°a%        9g4.0%
8b1 repetition (public)                                   4.0C.           3.2 
BE1 dropour (public)                                      3.6%            2.9%
BE6 repetition (public)                                   LB%              1.5%
BE6-7 progression (pubiic)                               95.9%           96 7%
Basic education complecion rates (BE 1-6 and 7-9)        t.b.m.           t.b.m.
t b.rn. to be monitored.
7/ A sumin,g 5 % anr.ual increase in real terms in recurrenr budge!.
7/ Numbers of teacners are s5 taking into accoint tlhe targer enrollmenis and pupil teac.er raIjo
IV. COLLABORATION AND COMMITMENT
To be successful, (he effort will depend heavily upon collaboration among a number of
agencies and groups. Fundamentally, BE is, and must be, a locally supporred activity.
District officials, school heads, teachers, parents and students will share the largest burden
for the successful implem.entation of this effort and they will enjoy the grealest benefits.
fineo- 1 QA7 rhn  rnivornmPnt Kha rir ivad ;%nrnrirnqPtly tJ1;$4nrl million in sdiiratlnn
loans, grants and sector credits from international funding agencies. Annualised. funding
agency contributions has constituted 9 percent of the overall educaTion budget and 1 5
percent of basic education expenditures.
The Government has received assurances thar the following lendingfdonor agencies are
prepared to support. both fiscally and technically, the implementation of FCUBE: WorIc
Bank (IDA), African Development Bank, UNICEF. LISAID. ODA (UK). GTZ/ KfW, EU anc
JICA. The contribution of both local and international NGOs, who5e positive roles in
social rnobilisation are we!l acknowledged, will also enhance the achievement o; the
FCUBE goals.
A joinT MOE-donor forum was set up in 1994 To farililate preparation of a sub-sec.or
investment programrne in support of achieving frete. cornpulsory and universal basic
education within a ten-year timc frame. The strategic framework and the components or
the key -oai areas incorporated in the FCUBF Programme document and che Operationa'
Rolling Plan are the outcornes of inlensive analy4is r.-rried out by the joinr forum. Ir has
'u



ANNEX 4
Page 11 of 11
been agreed among MOE and funding agencies that FCUBE will: cover the etntil-C
pnmnary and junior secondary sub-sectors including all on-going and planned additional
activitics; be implcinented within the agreed strategic frameworkc; and be used bv MOE
to co-ordinatc all donor support which- must be dcployed withlin the parameters or tlw
programme framework and tle rolling plan.
In the final analysis, the succCss of this iniLiative will be a function of the willingness and
ability of diverse groups to w,ork together to mobilise resources, refine policies. plan
rationally and efficiently, implement effectively and evaluate with rigour and insight. All
of thesc skills are necessary goals wc have set. The Government is confident that Avithl
collaboration and commitment from our partners in this Programmiie, the benefits
FCUBE will be rcalised progrcssively over the next decade.
Yours, sincere
N KWAME PEP
MINISTER
I I



ANNEX 5-1
Page I of I
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
BASIC EDUCATION SECTOR IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
Program Performance Monitoring Indicators Phase 1: 1996-2000
Base Year       Midterm      Dec. 2000
(most recent)    (Jul. 1998)
Financial Commitment and Sustainability"
Share of MOE/GOG budget                             38.5% (1995) 38.8% (min.)  38.8% (min.)
Share of Basic Educ. (BE)/MOE budget                64.5% (1995)         65%           65%
Annual real increase in BE non-salary spending                           10%            10%
Annual growth rate of average GES staff salary                      2% (max.)     2% (max.)
Average per pupil MOE spending by district                              t.b.m.        t.b.m.
Average district spending from District Assembly     7.3% (1994)       10.5%          15.0%
Common Fund on basic educ.
Enhanced Quality of Teaching and Learning
Student Achievement (Criterion Rererenced Test)                        t.b.m.         t.b.m.
Teacher absenteeism (year-on-year improvement)                         t.b.m.         t.b.m.
Pupil/textbook ratio, core subjects                                       2:1           2:1
Pupil/teacher ratio, Primary &Junior Secondary     P: 30.7 (1994)     P: 29.7         P:31.5
JS:21.6 (1994)     JS:24.8       JS:26.1
Management for Efficiency
Number of teachers in public schools/2, P&JS      P: 62608 (1994)    P: 75177       P: 80218
JS:30580 (1994)    JS:32358      JS:33206
Number of administrative staff as % of above                           t.b.m.         t.b.m.
Number of School Management Committee                                    40%           70%
established (% of # of schools)
Number of District Education Oversight Committee                         60%           100%
established (% of 4 of districts)
Number of districts with financial authority                           t.b.m.         t.b.m.
Improving Access and Participation
Gross Enrollment Ratio (public plus private)      P: 76.0% (1994)    P: 77.8%      P: 82.6%
JS: 58.7% (1994)   JS: 66.6%     JS: 67.5%
Public enrollment                               P: 1920803 (1994)   P:2233000    P: 2524400
JS: 659853 (1994)   JS:801200     JS:865800
Private enrollment                               P: 233843 (1994)   P:298000      P:357200
JS:30707(1994)    JS:99200      JS: 111000
Girls' share in the total enrollment              P: 46.8% (1994)       t.b.m.        t.b.m.
JS: 43.1% (1994)
Primary I intake rate (public plus private)         82.5% (1994)       87.4%          94.0%
Basic Education grade I (BE I) repetition (public)   5.5% (1994)        4.0%           3.2%
BEI dropout (public)                                 4.9% (1994)        3.6%           2.9%
BE6 repetition (public)                              2.5% (1994)        1.8%           1.5%
BE6-7 progression (public)                          94.5% (1994)       95.9%          96.7%
Basic education completion rates (BEI-6 and 7-9)   BE1-6: 75.4% (1994)  t.b.m.        t.b.m.
BE7-9:82.4% (1994)
t.b.m. : to be monitored.
1/ Assuming 5% annual increase in real terms in recurrent budget.
2/ Numbers of teachers are set taking into account the target enrollments and pupil teacher ratios.



GHANA fCUBE PROGRAM: FIRST PHASE (1996-2000)                      SUMMARY IMPLEMENTATION PLAN                                            SAR Annex 5-2 Page 1  4/24/96
COMPONENT                       ACTIVITY                 Q1/96 Q2196 Q3196 04/96 Q1/97 02197 Q3/97 Q4/97 Q1/98 Q2198 Q3198 Q4198 1999  2000
1. ENHANCED QUALITY OF TEACHINGILEARNING                           ___
A   In-Service   A1   Headteachers'  Training   _   _   ~~~***  ***  ***         ***    ***     ***           ***    ***     ***     *****t  *****
A In-Service         Al Headteachers' Training        ___-                                                                                  **fI
Training of       A2 Teachers' Training                         ****  *****  *      * *       **             __ **
Education         A3 Training of DDEs and CSs                   **                     ******* ******* ******* **********************  ******* ****** *******
Personnel         A4 DistricVCommunity Leaders                   *****  ****** ******* ****** ****** ****** ******* ******  *****  ****** ******  ******  ****
A5 MOE/GES Planning/Mgmt                      (Includ ed in Component 2) .                                  _
A6 Needs Assessment
A7 Distance Learning Study
A8 Impact Evaluation                   _             *                                                                                  **
B Pre-Service        B1 TTC Study                                      *****        _
Teachers'         B2 Strengthen UCEW  and UCC                        ****                    _                                                       _
Training          B3 Rehabilitation of Selected TTCs                                                        ******* ******* *******
B4 Redesign Pre-Service Programs
B5 Training TTC Tutors                                       ************** ******* ******* ******* ******* ******* *******
_______________  B6 Study of Altemative Delivery
__ __ _ B7 Impact Evaluation                              __                                                                                   **
C Assessment/    Cl Revise CRT to Reflect New Curr.               _       **       __                          .
Evaluabon of      C2 Develop/Prepare Test Material                                                   **                           **                **     **
Student           C3 Test Administrabon                                                                                                  **          **     **
Performance       C4 Analysis/Report Disseminabon                  -*** _                                          ***                        **
D Provision_of       Dl Reprint Existing Textbooks              _*                  *     ******* ******* __
Instructional     D2 Distribute Reprints to Schools                                **         ******* *******                     **
Materials         D3 Procure New Textbooks
= __________ D4 Distribute New Textbooks to Sch
D5 Procure/Distribute Sch Supplies
D6 Procure/Dist Library Books                                                                    ******* ******* ****                **
D7 Storage Facilities in Schools                     ******* ******* ******* *******   -**********                               **     **
E Curriculum         El Curriculum Review
Review and        E2 Gender Review (TA)
Development    E3 Syllabus Writing
E4 Write/Trial Textbooks                                            ****** ******         ______ *
E5 Strengthen CRDD                                                    ***** ***
I~__                                                                                               



GHANA fCUBE PROGRAM: FIRST PHASE (1996-2000)                      SUMMARY IMPLEMENTATION PLAN                                          SAR Annex 5-2 Page 2  4/24/96
COMPONENT                       ACTIVITY                 01/96 Q2/96 Q3/96 Q4196 Q1/97 Q2197 Q3/97 Q4197 01/98 Q2/98 Q3/98 04/98111999  2000
2. MANAGEMENT FOR EFFICIENCY
A Institutional/    Al Organization Analysis/Design            **************                   _ _
Organizational   A2 MOE/GES-DA Relations                 ********************      _                                 _                            _
Analysis &        A3 Personnel AudiVManpower Plan               **************
Change            A4 Reform Mgt. Unit Training
A5 Selection/Training of Snr. Mgrs
A6 Change Mgt Workshops                                        ***. ****
A7 School Mgt. Committees              _****** ******* ******* ******* ******* *******
A8 Mgt/Supervisory Training                                        ******* ******* ******* ******* ******* *******
A9 Implementation Review                                           **            **             **            **            ** **  ** **
B Staffing &   _    B1 Job Description Preparation=                 =    *****
Personnel Mgt    B2 Personnel Operations
B3 AppoinVRedeploy Mgrs/Staff/HT                                                 ************** *******
B4 Redeploy Teachers                                                             ******* ******* ******* *******
B5 Job Grading & Pay Structures                                    ********__ ***
B6 Motivation/lIncentive Schemes
B7 Personnel Policies/Procedures                                                 **************
B8 Mgt/Personnel Staff Training                                             =*****
C  Performance      Cl Information Management Review
Management    C2 Monitoring & Control System                                  **************
C3 EMIS Design
C4 Performance Appraisal System
C5 Procure/Install Hardware/Software
C6 Mgt/Systems Staff Training
D Budgeting         Dl Resource Allocaton Formula
& Financial       D2 Accounting Systems Review
Management    D3 PUFMARP Relabonship                                   **************
D4 Accountng Systems Design
D5 Manuals/Financial Directives
D6 Procure/Install Hardware/Software
D7 MgVAccounts Staff Training                                                           ******* *******
E District          El DA Capacity Review                                                                           ********************.
Capacity          E2 GES TA to District Assemblies                                           =__                  ___  ____                                           o1
Building          E3 Performance Monitoring                                                                                                   ******* *******



GHANA fCUBE PROGRAM: FIRST PHASE (1996-2000)                        SUMMARY IMPLEMENTATION PLAN                                            SAR Annex 5-2 Page 3  4/24196
COMPONENT                       ACTIVITY                  Q1/96 Q2/96 Q3196 Q4196 Q1/97 Q2197 Q3/97 Q4/97 Q1/98 Q2/98 Q3198 Q4/98  1999  2000
3. IMPROVING ACCESS AND PARTICIPATION
A  Infrastructure    Al Review Selection Criteria                 * ***                               **                           **
DevelopmentV    A2 Selecton/Field Verification                      ************                      *******                       *******           **
Maintenance       A3 Issue Maintenance Policy
A4 Design/Bidding/Contract                            ******* *******                   ***                          ***             *,
A5 Construebon                                                       ******* ******* ******* ******* ******* ******* ******* ****** *******
A6 Monitoring & Evaluation                                           ******* ******* ******* ******* ****** ******* *******
B Increasing Girls' B1 Pilot PLA Study  of Districts                    ********* *******           =
Participation     B2 Review Selection Criteria
B3 Develop Targeted Imp Plan .                                *    ****                    _
B4 Implementation                                                    ***** ***                                               *
B5 Monitoring & Evaluation                                               ******* ******* *******  ********* ******* ******  ****
86 Study of Scholarship Schemes         _***
______________  B7 Adaptabon of STME to Basic               _*__
C Schooling          Cl Pilot Phase                                             *** *******
Improvement       C2 Evaluabon of Pilot
Fund (SIF)        C3 Selection Criteria: 2nd Phase                                             **
C4 Implementabon: 2nd Phase                                                   ***** *******
C5 Monitoring/Evaluation: 2nd Phase                                                 *********************
C6 Selection Criteria: 3rd Phase                                     __
C7 Implementabon: 3rd Phase                                                                                 ***** *************
C8 Monitoring and Evaluation                                                                                     ****** ******
DIEC                 Dl Design IEC Strategy and Plan.                       *******************                                                 =      t
D2 Develop Materials and Testing                                            ******* *******                  *** ****             **     **
D3 Dissemination of Messages                                         ******* ******* *******    *******    ******* ******* ******
D4 Build Institubonal Capacity                        ************** ******* ******* ******* ******* ******* ******* ******* ****** ******
D5 Impact Evaluaton                                                              ****      **                 ****      **        |      * *
0 I



ANNEX 5-3
GHANA BASIC EDUCATION SECTOR IMPROVEMENT CREDIT
Key Areas of Technical Assistance
1.    Technical assistance will be necessary to help design and implement the Betterment
Activities under the Government's FCUBE program. These include:
* redesign of pre-service teachers' training programs;
* assessment and review of in-service training programs;
* development of tests to assess and evaluate student performance;
* study on sustainable provision of instructional materials;
* curriculum review and development;
* analysis and design of MOE/GES structure;
* manpower planning;
* design personnel policies/procedures and motivation strategy;
* design and implement EMIS;
* design and implement personnel performnance appraisal system;
* review and design budgeting and accounting system;
* develop strategy and targeted plans to increase girls' participation;
* develop, implement and evaluate Schooling Improvement Fund scheme; and
* develop strategy and implementation plan for IEC.
2.    Local expertise where available will be used to help carry out the activities listed above.
In all cases where foreign expertise is considered necessary, it is envisaged that internationally
recruited consultants will work with local consulting teams and MOE staff to ensure technology
transfer. Training will be provided as part of the technical assistance to MOE/GES staff and
district education personnel to ensure effective implementation and sustainable operation of the
systems designed.
3.    A large part of the technical assistance listed above are being financed under the ongoing
Primary School Development Project (PSDP) and some will be financed by other donor
agencies. The terms of reference for these consultancy assignments will be included in the
FCUBE Operational Rolling Plan. Terms of reference for technical assistance to be financed
under the Basic Education Sector Improvement Credit (BESIC), which is expected to be
implemented at a later stage, will be prepared as the FCUBE program develops over the next two
years.



ANNEX 5-4
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
BASIC EDUCATION SECTOR IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
Supervision Plan
Supervision of implementation will be conducted (i) under the direction of the
Program Coordinator (MOE/GES) reporting to the IOC; and (ii) by the World Bank Task
Management Team, in collaboration with GOG and other funding partners.
I. Routine MOE/GES supervision will include initial review:
(a) prior to forwarding to IDA for "no objection" of:
i. Procurement documents
ii. Disbursement requests
iii. Special accounts expenditures/reimbursements and statements of
expenses (SOEs)
(b) monthly financial statements
(c) arranging for annual audits of project accounts and SOEs
II. Periodic MOE/GES supervision will involve:
(a) updating the rolling implementation plan
(b) preparing progress reports on project implementation
(c) monitoring key performance indicators
(d) liaising with the World Bank Field Office and IDA supervision
missions
III.   Bank staff will spend an estimated 6 staff-weeks per annum on average at
headquarters and the Resident Mission reviewing and commenting on procurement
documents and disbursement requests; and a further 4 staff-weeks per annum over the course
of project execution for desk work relating to progress reports and audited accounts (total of
40 s.w. for the life of the Credit).
In addition, there will be field supervision (as set out below). Semi-annual reviews
of program performance will be undertaken by GOG, IDA and participating donors in
January/February and in June/July; the Consultative Panel (CP) Meeting for 1998 will be
enhanced to become the MTR. TOR will be prepared jointly by CP members at least two
months prior to the review date. The Jan/Feb review will focus mainly on the performance
of the preceding year and the Jun/Jul review on finalizing operational plans and financial
commitments for the coming year. The MTR will assess physical, institutional and financial
progress of the first 2 years of project implementation as measured against agreed targets.
Based on the MTR, the program will be adjusted to be consistent with the targets in the light
of experience and changing circumstances.



ANNEX 5-4
Page 2 of 2
IDA Supervision Input - Through To Mid Term Review
Approximate          Activity                     Staffing               Staff
Date                                                                 Weeks
10/96      IDA Credit            Task Management Team (x3)*            10
Effectiveness        Education Specialist
Workshop (blending    Textbook Specialist
into ongoing prog. of  Organis. Dev./Managem. Specialist
activities)          Architect/Implementation Specialist
2/97      Supervision Mission    Management Team (x2)                  8
Comm. Dev./Participation Specialist
Financial Analyst
7/97      Annual Review         Task Management Team (x3)              10
(Meeting of          Organis. Dev./Managem. Specialist
Consultative Panel)    Curriculum Specialist
Architect/Implementation Spec.
Financial Analyst
10/97      Supervision Mission    Task Management Team (x3)            5
Financial Analyst
2/98      Supervision Mission    Task Management Team (x3)             5
Comm. Dev./Participation Specialist
7/98      Mid-Term Review       Task Management Team (x3)              12
(Meeting of          Disbursement Officer
Consultative Panel)    Procurement Specialist
Education Specialist
Organis. Dev./Management Spec.
Comm. Dev./Participation Specialist
Architect/Implementation Spec.
Notes: 1. All missions/reviews will be coordinated with similar activities by other
externalfunding agencies
2. (*) Task Management Team includes Educational, Financial Analysis and
Implementation expertise (Team composition will depend on the TOR for
a particular mission)
3. Field Supervision through to: MTR = 50 s.w.; End of Credit = 80 s.w.



ANNEX 5-5
Par!e 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
BASIC EDUCATION SECTOR IMPROVEMENT CREDIT
PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULES
1. Procurement Implementation Schedule
Estimated Annual Contratual and Other Payments (USS million equiv.)
N.v               ; 225- - E o    ......r.   .   t .        .
Credit Timing
Signing                          x
Effectiveness                     x
Closing                                                             x
Activities by Category
1. civil Works                        0.03   1.61   3.29   4.85   2.92    12.70 ICBANCB
Selection Criteria         xx     x      x       x      x
Prequal/Bid/Award           xx)    x       x       x      x
Construction                           xxxxxxx xxxxxox xxxxx xxxx
2. Goods                              1.11   5.13   1.10   1.23  61.00       9.17
2.1 Roofing sheets                     0.31    0.62   0.80   0.98   0.50      3.20 ICBnNCB
Bid/Award                          x       x      x
Delivery                            xx     xx      xx     xx x
2.2 Instructional materials           0.77   4.36   0.07   0.01    0.00      5.22 ICBANCB/Other
Bid/Award                   xxx xx     xx
Delivery                            xx xxxxxxx xx    x
2.3 Vehicles/Equipment                 0.03   0.14   0.23   0.23   0.12      0.75 ICBlOther
Bid/Award                   xx      xx xx
Delivery                          xx      xxx   xx      xx  xx
3. Training                           0.71   2.78   3.97   3.16   1.72    12.33 Other
3.1 Overseas training                 0.00   0.30   0.20   0.10   0.10       0.70 Other
Implementation                         xoxx   xx     xx      x
3.2 Local training/workshops          0.71    2.48   3.77   3.06   1.62    11.63 Other
Implementation                 xxooxxxx xxxxox  xxxxxxx xxxxxxx xxxx
4. Consultancies                      0.21    0.47   0.69   0.55   0.25      2.18 Other
Bid/Award                    x    xx      xx     xx      xx
Implementation                 xxxxxxx xxxxxxx xxxxxxx xxxxxxx xxxx
5. Operating Costs                    0.48   0.77   1.40   1.20   0.36       4.23 Other
5.1 Personnel redeployment            0.26   0.65    1.04   0.65             2.60
Implementation                 xxxxxxx xxxxx  xxxxxxx xxxxoxx xx
5.2 Field visits(mon/eval)            0.22   0.12   0.36   0.55   0.36       1.61
Implementation                 xxxxoxx xxxxxx xxxxxxx xxxxxxx xxxxx
6. Unallocated                        0.00   0.91    2.78   3.78   1.91      9.40 Other
Implementation                         xxxxox  xxxxxx xxxxxxx xxxxxxx
Total BESIC-financed                  2.50  11.70  13.30  14.80   7.80      50.00



DISBBE.XLS
Disbursement Profile
Disbursements                       Profile
Regional
IDA Fiscal                                                               Sector
Years and        By Semester      Cumulative             Project         Profile
Semesters       (US$ Million)     (US$ Million)           1%)             I%)
1997           1      1.25              1.25              2.5%             0.0%
2      1.25              2.5               5.0%              6.0%                      50
1998           1      6.0               8.5              17.0%             10.0%
2      5.7              14.2              28.4%             14.0%                     40
30
1999           1      6.3              20.5              41.0%            22.0%                       30  _______
2      7.0             27.5               55.0%            26.0%
2000           1      7.0              34.5              69.0%             38.0%                  "  20 -
2      7.8             42.3               84.6%            48.0%            '           0
2001           1      3.9              46.2              92.4%             58.0%
2      3.8              50.0              100.0%           66.0%                        0
a)  0
2002           1                                                           74.0%                                  a         a t              0        0
0    0
2                                                          86.0%                                   _        _        _N ..
2003           1                                                           90.0%                                           Fiscal Years
2                                                          94.0%
2004           1                                                           98.0%                               -l-Project Profile -M-Regional Profile
2                                                         100.0%
a:disb.xdx (rk5)
U,J 
O  l
a  te1
Page 1



ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 4
NMI9ISTRY OF EDUCATION
BASIC EDUCATION SECTOR PJPROVEiMTENT PROGRAMN2E
DISTRICT EDUCATION OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE
ESTABLISIZIENT AGREEMENT
This Agreement made this ................. day of ...    One
Thousand, Nine Hundred and Ninety Six (1996) between the Ministry of
Education, Accra Ghana and the ...................... District Authority
represented jointly by the District Chief Executive, the Presiding Member
of the District Assembly and the District Director of Education.
Whereas the Government of Ghana has entered into an agreement
with the International Development Association (IDA) and other Donors
to extend C'redits to support its Basic Education Sector Improvement
Pro,gramme (BESIP) to en:able her fulfil her constitutional obligation of
providing Free Compulsory Universal Basic Education for all Ghanaian
children of school going-age by the year 2005.
Whereas Section 9, sub-section 2 of The Ghana Education Service
Act 1994 provides for the appointment in every district of a District
Education Oversight Committee, by the Ghana Education Service Council.
Whereas the functions of the said District Education Oversight
Committee, as specified in Sub-section 3 of Section 9 of the GES Act
1994, shall be concerned with the oversight of:
1.   Conditions of school buildings and other infrastructual requirements
of the schools
T.lt provisions of teachers aiiu in cegular and punctual attendance
of teachers and pupils at the schools
3.   Thc proper performance of duties by staff at the schools
4.   The moral behaviour of staff of the schools towards pupils
5.   Complaints relating to or from teachers and pupils



ANN?RX 6
Page 2 of 4
6.   The environmental cleanliness of schools and facilities therein; and
7.   The supply of textbooks and other teaching and learning materials,
Whereas the Central Government has decided to transfer into the
District Assemblies Common Fund part of its annual budgetary allocation
for development expenditure on Education, to be used at the district level
exclusively for educational projects. Now the Ministry of Education and
the .District Authority agree as follows:
i)   The District Authority  shall ensure that a District Education
Oversight Committee, as specified in Section 9, subsections 2 and 3
of the Ghana Education Service Act, 1994, is established and given
the means to perform effectively the functions assigned to it by law,
by March 1996.
ii)   The District Authority shall ensure that funds sent to the district for
educational projects and programmes are used exclusively for the
purpose for which the funds were released.
iii) The District Authority shall ensure, in collaboration with the District
Assembly, that existing laws on Compulsory Basic Education are
enforced in the district.
iv)  In support of (iii) above, the District Authority shall organise annual
in the months of August, September campaigns for enrolment in BSI
and ensure that particular attention is given to increasing female
participation in BasicTPducation.
v)   The District Authority  shall ensure that scholarship  schemes
instituted by the District either for academic excellence or to assist
pupils students from poor homes are so designed as to ensure gender
parity among the beneficiaries.
iiv) The Ministry of Education shall monitor closely the performance of
the District Education Oversight Committee and shall provide the
committee with a double cabin pickup as incentive to intensify its
monitoring activities, when the Ministry is satisfied that the
Committee has been performing its functions satisfactorily consistent
improvement in the CTR results of P6 pupils in the District over 3



ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 4
consecutive years shall be the measure for performance.
In witness whereof the parties hereto have hereunto set our hands
and day and year first written herein
*.... .... .............................
For and on behalf of the Ministry
of Education.
In the presence of
SINAMEt.... :.........................
FOR AND ON BEHALF OF THE DISTRICT AUTHORITY
1.    NAME: ........................................
SIGNATURE:....................................
DISTRICT CH]EF EXECUTIVE
3



ANNEX 6
Page 4 of 4
2 NAME:.
SIGNATURE:....................................
PRESIDING MEMBER
3.   NAME: .......................................
SIGNATUREl. .. ..
DISTRICT DIRECTOR OF EDUCAIION
In the presence of Member of Parliament
NAM :...................
SIGNATNTRE
4



Proposed FCUBE Organization Structure
I    Minister
Project                                                                           mplemcntation
Management Unit                                                                         Overview
(PMU)                                                      Special Assistant       Committee
Director General             FCUBE
GES Senior                      Ghana Education
Management                        Service (GES)
Team-
FCIUJBIE                                    |Regional Director
FCUBri   n  t  o .......................................... .. ...................  of Education
Coordinator.o  dcto
Deputy DG, GES
l         FCUBE
Secretariat
Administration _-
Mapwer       ..--      ..
M_ npower  ..--District Authority
..    .            ~~~~Assembly
Chief Executive
_           .          | ~~~~~~~District Education|
.       |   ~~~Oversight  l
| Academic    i      Trnng       I| Cornmittee                           |Dstrc Dire ctor of|
Training                                                  Education
School
Management
Committee
Note: Blank boxes represent other functional units at this level.



ANNEX 8
Management Roles and Relationships
PROPOSED MANAGEMENT ROLES, RELATIONSHIPS BETWEEN KEY BODIES
AND PRIORITIES FOR INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
A.    ROLES
MOE
(a)   formulating educational policies, determining sectoral resource allocation an approving
operational objectives for implementation;
(b)    organizing educational management information system;
(c)    monitoring and evaluating the performance of the education system
GES National
(a)    setting out financial regulations;
(b)    providing support for district budgeting and determining allocation of financial resource
allocation to districts;
(c)   formulation of standards and norms as well as discipline of the educational service;
(d)    developing curricula and syllabi, purchasing and distributing textbooks;
(e)    managing technical/vocational education;
(f)    managing external training.
GES Regional
(a)    providing advice and training for district offices
(b)    monitoring and evaluating district offices
GES District
(a)    staff recruitment, development and discipline
(b)    data collection and analysis
(c)    preparation and execution of budgets
(d)    distribution and monitoring of educational materials to schools
(e)    academic and pedagogical advice to teachers
(f)    opening of new BS1-6 schools
(g)   supervision of schools and assessment of pupil/teacher performance
(h)    ensuring information is transmitted between community and district office
B.    RELATIONSEIPS
MOE-GES
With establishment of Council MOE to have performance agreement with GES specifying
service to be provided. MOE will monitor and evaluate on this basis.
GES National - District
Managerial and supervisory
GES Regional - District
Coordination to ensure district plans are prepared and implemented
Monitoring
Supporting service (collegial relationship)



ANNEX 8
Management Roles and Relationships
DEO-District Assembly
Coordination on infrastructure plans and recurrent/capital budget preparation
DA supervises and DDE provides information as advisor to DA
District Education Offices-Schools
Managerial, supervisory, coordinating, monitoring, evaluating, advisory and schools
District Education Oversight Committees-School Management Committees
Supervisory and advisory
DEOCs support operation of SMCs
C.    FUNCTIONS TO BE STRENGTHENED
(Highest priorities in order)
MOE
1 .    Information analysis and processing
2.    Policy formulation
3.    Priority setting
GES National & Regional
1.    Development, selection, purchasing and distribution of materials, equipment and
textbooks
2.    Developing manpower plans/developing staffing standards or norms
3.    Monitoring and coordinating
GES District
1.    Inspection, supervision and discipline
2.    Staff recruitment, development, in-service teacher training
3.    Financial management



ANNEX 9
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
BASIC EDUCATION SECTOR IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
List of Key Source Documents in Project Files
Ministry of Education
I. (Draft) Operational Plan: fCUBE Program, February 1996.
2. The Program for Free Compulsory and Universal Basic Education (fCUBE) by the Year
2005, February 1996.
3. Basic Education Sector Assessment School Review: Curriculum, Instruction and Teachers-
Report on Teacher Training Colleges, June 1995.
4. Enrollment Projections for FCUBE, September 1995.
5. Quality Assurance and School-level Management: A Review of Education Management
System in Ghana (draft). MOE/USAID (Nana Asare-Bediako, et al). June 1995.
6. A Tale of Two Ghanas: The View from the Classroom (draft). MOE/USAID, June, 1995.
7. Ghana Education Service Bill, April 28, 1995.
8. Program for the Provision of Free, Compulsory and Universal Basic Education by the Year
2005, December 1994. (A document presented to the Parliament)
9. Report on National Seminar on Girl's Education. June 1995
10. Report of Recommendations of the Curriculum Review Committee. CRDD, June 1994.
11. Towards Learning for All: Basic Education in Ghana to the Year 2000. April 1994.
12. PSDP: Report of the Ghana Education Service for the Mid-Term Review, October 1995.
13. Primary School Development Project: External Evaluation of Project Performance.
November 18, 1995
Other GOG documents:
1. CSPIP Diagnostic Workshop at Ministry of Education, October 1995.
2. Ghana-Vision 2020: The First Step: 1996-2000. January 1995.
3. Rural Communities in Ghana. Ghana Statistical Service. October 1993.
4. Public Expenditure Review 1994. Ministry of Finance, May 1995.
5. Report of the Education Reforms Review Committee on Pre-tertiary Education, October
1995.
World Bank documents:
I. Ghana Poverty Past, Present and Future. June 29, 1995.
2. Performance Indicators in Bank-Financed Education Operations: Second Edition. HDD.
November 1995.
3. Ghana Participatory Poverty Assessment: Synthesis Report (round 1 &2) Norton, A. et al.
December 1994.
4. The Economics of School Quality Investments in Developing Countries: An Empirical Study
of Ghana. P. Glewwe, 1994.
5. Investing in all the people: Educating women in developing countries. Washington, D.C.:
EDI (L. Summers) 1994.
6. Economic Evaluation of Education Projects: Selected Methods (a Working Draft) HDD (Jee-
Peng Tan). October 1995.
7. Africa Region Draft Guidelines for Economic Analysis of Projects. AFRSA, September 27,
1995.
8. A Review of the Quality of Economic Analysis in Staff Appraisal Reports for Projects
Approved in 1993. OED, May 5, 1995



ANNEX 9
9. A Program to Estimate the Rate of Return to Investment in Education. HCDVP, February,
1996.
Other Documents
1. Proposal for a Detailed Systems Study of the Performance of the Existing Educational
Management Information System. Oct. 1995.
2. DAE with GES/Unicef. A Study of Teacher Motivation and Conditions of Services for
Teachers in Ghana. March, 1995.
3. Budgeting and Expenditures in the Education Sector in Ghana. European Union (by Perran
Penrose). December 1995
4. Extended Poverty Study (PPA3): Access and Utilization of Basic Social Services by the Poor
in Ghana. Unicef (by David Korboe), January 1995.
5. Strengthening Information Management Capacity- Ministry of Education, Ghana. USAID
(by Simon Ju). October 1994.
6. Returns to Investment in Education: A Global Update. World Development, vol.22 no.9
pp.1325-1343. Psacharopoulos, G. 1994.
7. The Education Finance Simulation Model. (2nd ed.) Zymelman, 1988.



MAP SECTION






IBRD 28045
BURKINA FASO                                                 ul.
,g2    ozii -rals g
\%F~~~~~;;n    .           9   lt~~~~~PPER f                          okp,od-.lGHN
EAST                                            ~~~GHANA
WX UPPERS-                              L-enp .                           N ' \    '\ BASIC EDUCATION SECTOR
?  \   oY.lo                     N..i. 6'oo     -%              (  IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
WIA    BIKSg
.~ - WA \-Bulenoo . F O etshig PRIPMARY ROADS
SECONDARY ROADS
. J  NORTHERN   /  S            ipl OUX       p                       TERTIARY ROADS
a  Doboyo o         ,,gTAMALE                                                 RAILWAYS
Zabsug>   1       ®     REGION HEADQUARTERS
-/oChorch.      Domon              .... 'N/ bC  mbulgu                                                *      NATIONAL CAPITAL
Ru<ole        g°O Danasa    Ys,                                                                --     REGION BOUNDARIES             a-
-    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
The boundaries, colors,
05TE                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~denominations and any
other information shown
D'IVOIRE                                                                                p~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n this map  do  not
DRIVOIRE \ \      oshaim   imply, on mhe part of
The Word  ahGrup,
j f 2 Y@-"ooChindirl ,       aany judgment on the legal
I.  status of any territor,
( , amo  - /or any endorsement
Dambun           or acceptance of such
P,  BRONG-AHAFO                                 c,  c ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~boundaries.                            a
0 .Md /   BRONG-AHAFO                  vchw              i g         o   0o 20  30  40  50.Um
-7-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
TERN,~~~~~~~SER
/   ochimon        A        >                                t                         l          l    l    |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aI~  co
C,               06-7-'U    ,* -.                                                                                          I AHN  u, Jtr-
t  |  YUt#AS             f                                B  jaye <  ~~~~~~EOUTOGOL~C
t ::, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iyr ..wkwt su3 OrM
i'                              7                             It'                          a-         noI.V)T
>   5ewl    X     b g                7                 KO~~~~~~~~~~ ~~FORIDU7   
R Encho . U kCENTRAL 
PIt  ACCP  Sr
_   J,wi  .<xEriomo   .  X    )c A P~~~~~~~~~E COAST                                         SENE >,>\-i --_    N,GERs             /    -o
_(kSEKOSEKNDIGU                                                                                                            U N
May 1996









IMAGING
Report No:      15570 GH
Type: SAR



