Page  1
                                                     CONFORMED COPY
                                               CREDIT NUMBER 2885 GH
                    Development Credit Agreement
            (Basic Education Sector Improvement Program)
                               between
                          REPUBLIC OF GHANA
                                 and
                INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated July 16, 1996
                                               CREDIT NUMBER 2885 GH
                    DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 16, 1996, between REPUBLIC OF GHANA (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS (A) The Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the financing of
the Project;
      (B)   the Association has received a Letter of Basic Education
Development Policy (the Policy Letter), dated May 16, 1996, from the
Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies
designed to strengthen the performance of the Borrower's  basic
education sector (the Program) and declaring the Borrower's commitment
to the execution of the Program;
      (C)   the Borrower intends to contract from the Republic of Germany
(Germany), the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF), the United States
Agency for International Development (USAID) and the Overseas Development
Administration of the United Kingdom (ODA) loans and grants in an
aggregate amount equivalent to approximately one hundred and four million
dollars ($104,000,000), during the period 1996-2000, to assist in
financing activities included in the Program on the terms and conditions
set forth in the respective loan and grant agreements (the Financing
Agreements) to be entered into respectively between the Borrower and
Germany, UNICEF, USAID and ODA; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and
Page  2
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                              ARTICLE I
                   General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications thereto set forth below (the General Conditions),
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
            "Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise
            agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of
            expenditures in the territories of any country which is not
            a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or services
            supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of
            any payment to persons or entities, or for any import of
            goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the
            Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United
            Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the
            Charter of the United Nations."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth, and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Consultative Panel" means the panel comprising
representatives of the Borrower, the Association and Donors set up to
conduct reviews as provided in Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
      (b)   "Donors" means the countries or organizations referred to
in recital C of the Preamble to this Agreement and any other countries
or organizations providing financial assistance for the Program;
      (c)   "GES" means Ghana Education Service within MOE (as herein-
after defined);
      (d)   "Operational Plan" means the plan to be submitted by the
Borrower to the Association pursuant to Section 6.01 (a) of this Agree-
ment and to be used for the purposes of implementation of the Project,
as the same may be amended from time to time, in consultation with, and
with the approval of, the Association, and such term includes any
schedules to the Operational Plan;
      (e)   "IOC" means Implementation Overview Committee, an inter-
ministerial committee established by the Borrower on June 11, 1996 for
the purpose of ensuring oversight of the Project;
      (f)   "MOE" means the Borrower's Ministry of Education; and
      (g)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                             ARTICLE II
                             The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty-four million seven
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 34,700,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
Page  3
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank
acceptable to the Association on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5
to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30
of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent
(1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty
days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower
from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the
June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other rates
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a)
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from
the next payment date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of
any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in
the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section
4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant
to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual
installments payable on each June 15 and December 15, commencing
December 15, 2006 and ending June 15, 2036. Each installment to and
including the installment payable on June 15, 2016 shall be one percent
(1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in
constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank
shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Asso-
ciation may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by
them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the
Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due
until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so
requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of
such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with
the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the
Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained
Page  4
under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may,
if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment
to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a)
above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                             ARTICLE III
                      Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, management
and educational practices, and in accordance with the Operational Plan,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance
with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General
Conditions, and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
      (a)   prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six (6)
months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for
this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan for the
future operation of the Project; and
      (b)   afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said plan.
      Section 3.04. Prior to carrying out Part C.3 of the Project, the
Borrower shall consult with the Association on the recommendations of
the study referred to therein on the small-scale community-based
educational scheme.
                             ARTICLE IV
                         Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance
with sound accounting practices, the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies
of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in para-
                   graph (a) of this Section, including those for the
                   Special Account, for each fiscal year audited, in
                   accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                   consistently applied, by independent auditors
                   acceptable to the Association;
Page  5
            (ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but
                   in any case not later than nine months after the end
                   of each such year, a certified copy of the report of
                   such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
                   detail as the Association shall have reasonably
                   requested; and
            (iii)  furnish to the Association such other information
                   concerning said records, accounts and the audit
                   thereof as the Association shall from time to time
                   reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure,
the Borrower shall:
            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
                   paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
                   reflecting such expenditures;
            (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Association
                   has received the audit report for the fiscal year in
                   which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account or
                   payment out of the Special Account was made, all
                   records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
                   and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
            (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine such
                   records; and
            (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are included in
                   the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this
                   Section and that the report of such audit contains a
                   separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                   statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal
                   year, together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be relied
                   upon to support the related withdrawals.
                              ARTICLE V
                     Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Condi-
tions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   A situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable
that the Program or a significant part thereof will be carried out.
      (b)   (i)    Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph: (A)
                   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of
                   any loan or grant made to the Borrower for the
                   financing of the Program shall have been suspended,
                   canceled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
                   to the terms of the agreement providing therefor; or
                   (B) any such loan shall have become due and payable
                   prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
            (ii)   Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if
                   the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the
                   Association that: (A) such suspension, cancellation,
                   termination or prematuring is not caused by the
                   failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
                   obligations under such agreement; and (B) adequate
                   funds for the Program are available to the Borrower
                   from other sources on terms and conditions consistent
                   with the obligations of the Borrower under this
                   Agreement.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(d) of the General Condi-
tions, the following additional event is specified, namely that the
event specified in paragraph (b) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this
Page  6
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (b) (ii) of
that Section.
                             ARTICLE VI
                     Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   the Borrower has submitted to the Association the
Operational Plan in form and substance acceptable to the Association; and
      (b)   the Borrower has prepared, in accordance with the provisions
of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, a shortlist of independent
auditors to be employed under the Project.
      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
                             ARTICLE VII
             Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the pur-
poses of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Minister of Finance
            Ministry of Finance
            P.O. Box M40
            Accra, Ghana
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   ECONOMICON              2205 MIFAEPGH
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INDEVAS                 248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.         82987 (FTCC)
                                            64145 (WUI) or
                                           197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in Accra, Ghana, as of the day and year first
above written.
                         REPUBLIC OF GHANA
                         By /s/ Harry Sawyerr
                                           Authorized Representative
Page  7
                         INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         By /s/ Kaikhosrou Framji
                                             Resident Representative
                                                               Ghana
                             SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so
to be financed in each Category:
                              Amount of the
                            Credit Allocated           % of
                              (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category                SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Civil works                 7,620,000          100% of foreign
                                                   expenditures and
                                                   90% of local
                                                   expenditures
(2) Goods                       5,680,000          100% of foreign
                                                   expenditures and 90%
                                                   of local expendi-
                                                   tures
(3) Operating costs for:
    (a)  Staff                  1,390,000          95%
         redeployment
    (b)  Others                 1,180,000          50%
(4) Consultants' services       1,320,000          100%
    and studies
(5) Training                    7,480,000          100%
(6) Unallocated                10,030,000
                                _________
         TOTAL                 34,700,000
                               ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of
the Borrower;
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
      (c)   the term "operating costs" means incremental expenditures
incurred for the carrying out of the Project for travel allowances,
office communication, minor office equipment and supplies, utilities,
fuel, vehicle and equipment maintenance, and costs associated with the
redeployment of MOE and GES staff.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
Page  8
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the
date of this Agreement;
4.    The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for:
(a) goods and works under contracts not exceeding $250,000 equivalent,
(b) services under contracts with consulting firms not exceeding $100,000,
(c) services with individual consultants under contracts not exceeding
$50,000, and (d) operating costs; all under such terms and conditions as
the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                             SCHEDULE 2
                     Description of the Project
      The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to implement
a free, compulsory and universal basic education Program by: (i) improving
the quality of teaching and learning outcomes; (ii) strengthening manage-
ment of the basic education system; and (iii) improving access to, and
participation in, basic education.
      The Project, which includes activities envisaged under the Program,
consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as
the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to
achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Enhanced Quality of Teaching and Learning
1.    Improving the quality of teachers in basic education through: (a)
the provision of in-service training, (b) development and improvement of
support systems for teachers, and (c) strengthening of school supervision.
2.    Improving the quality of preservice training for basic education
teachers through the restructuring and rehabilitation of teacher training
colleges and training of tutors.
3.    Establishment of a system for assessment and evaluation of student
performance.
4.    Acquisition of textbooks and related instructional materials for
schools.
5.    Improving school curriculum for basic education through the
carrying out of a review and revision of the existing curriculum and the
development of relevant instructional materials.
Part B:     Management for Efficiency
1.    Carrying out of an institutional and organizational analysis of the
basic education system and development of changes in school administra-
tion.
2.    Improvement of the capacity of MOE, GES and district-level
authorities and staff involved in the education sector in staffing and
personnel management, budgeting and financial management, performance
monitoring and appraisal, including establishment and effective use of
an education management information system through training, provision
of equipment, vehicles and technical advisory services.
Part C:     Improving Access and Participation
1.    Carrying out of construction, rehabilitation and refurbishment of
school buildings and facilities.
2.    Implementation of measures to encourage the enrollment of girls
in schools.
3.    Carrying out of a study for the development of a scheme for
financing small-scale community-based educational activities and
implementation of the recommendations from such study.
4.    Improving the dissemination of information and carrying out of
Page  9
public awareness programs on educational developments.
                                * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2000.
                             SCHEDULE 3
                Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     General
      Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the pro-
visions of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and
revised in January 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions
of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1
thereto.
2.    The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 1 of this Part B.
      (a)   Grouping of contracts
      To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped
in bid packages estimated to cost $250,000 equivalent or more each, and
contracts for works shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost
$2,000,000 equivalent or more each.
      (b)   Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic
            contractors
      The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory
of the Borrower and works to be carried out by domestic contractors.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    National Competitive Bidding
      (a)   Goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per
contract and up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $4,000,000 equi-
valent may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
      (b)   Works estimated to cost less than $2,000,000 equivalent per
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $8,400,000 equivalent,
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the pro-
visions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.    National Shopping
      Small items of goods, equipment and materials estimated to cost
less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount
not to exceed $1,700,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.    Limited International Bidding
      Goods estimated to cost $250,000 equivalent or less per contract,
and $500,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, which the Association
agrees can only be purchased from a limited number of suppliers, regard-
Page  10
less of the cost thereof, may be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines.
4.    Direct Contracting
      Educational software, spare parts and other small items which are
of a proprietary nature and costing $400,000 equivalent or less in the
aggregate, may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
5.    Community Participation
      Works under Part C of the Project costing $100,000 equivalent or
less per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,400,000
equivalent, may be procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Association.
Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Procurement Planning
      Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding
or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project
shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the
Association and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.    Prior Review
      With respect to each contract for goods and works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.    Post Review
      With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.    Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded
in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on the
standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank,
with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the
Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been
issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Association
shall be used.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association
review or approval of budgets, shortlists, selection procedures, letters
of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, shall not
apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated
to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000
equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Association review
shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b)
single-source selection of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a
critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Association; (d)
amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising
the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to
contracts for the  employment of individual consultants raising the
contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
                            SCHEDULE 4
Page  11
                      Implementation Program
Project Coordination
1.    (a)   IOC shall be responsible for the overall coordination of
the Project under the supervision of the Minister of Education. IOC
will meet regularly to coordinate the various reform and decentrali-
zation initiatives, both within the education sector and at the
broader public sector level.
      (b)   The Project coordinator, who is the Deputy Director General
of GES, shall be responsible for the day-to-day operation of the
Project, and for that purpose, the Borrower shall maintain this position
until the completion of the Project. The Project coordinator shall, inter
alia, have the responsibility of reviewing annual component and sub-
component work plans under the Project, of operating systems of control
and of convening progress review meetings. The Project coordinator shall
be assisted by technical experts drawn from time to time from the
departments involved in the carrying out of the Project.
Operational Plan
2.    Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall, in the carrying out of the Project, apply the guidelines and
procedures specified in the Operational Plan and shall not assign,
amend, abrogate or waive the Operational Plan or any provision thereof
which, in the opinion of the Association, will materially or adversely
affect the implementation of the Project.
First Consultative Panel Meeting
3.    The Borrower shall, not later than February 28 of each year,
convene a Consultative Panel meeting to carry out a comprehensive review
of project implementation for the past year.
Rolling Plans
4.    The Borrower shall: (a) not later than May 31 of each year,
furnish to the Association and Donors for review and comments its
proposals for the three-year rolling plan for the education sector,
including a detailed operational plan for the following year; and (b)
implement the Program for such following year in accordance with the
rolling plan and operational plan agreed with the Association and
Donors.
Second Consultative Panel Meeting
5.    The Borrower shall, not later than July 31 of each year, convene
a Consultative Panel meeting to carry out a comprehensive Project
implementation review, and for the July 1998 review, a midterm review
aimed at: (i) documenting progress made in meeting the objectives of
the Program; (ii) identifying and resolving obstacles to implementation;
and (iii) adjusting, in agreement with the Association and Donors,
targets and corresponding programs to reflect progress achieved in the
implementation of the Program in the prior years and ensuring
responsiveness to changes to effectively achieve the objectives of the
Program; and (iv) thereafter confirm and update financial commitments
from the Association and Donors for the following year in light of the
operational plan for the educational sector referred to in paragraph
4 above.
6.    (a)   The reviews referred to in paragraphs 3 and 5 above shall
be conducted in accordance with indicators set forth in the Policy
Letter.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, not later than four weeks prior to each
review, furnish to the Association and Donors a report, in such detail
as the Association and Donors shall reasonably request, including an
evaluation of the progress achieved in Program implementation.
      (c)   Promptly after completing such reviews, the Borrower shall
carry out recommendations arising out of said reviews, with due
Page  12
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices,
taking into account the Association's and Donors' comments thereon.
                             SCHEDULE 5
                           Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through
(5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agree-
ment;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated
from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equi-
valent to $2,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule provided, however, that unless the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an
amount equivalent to $1,250,000 until the aggregate amount of with-
drawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all out-
standing special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed
the equivalent of SDR 5,000,000.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for a deposit
or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and
deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower
shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)     For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                    Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
                    for deposits into the Special Account at such
                    intervals as the Association shall specify.
            (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                    Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
                    documents and other evidence required pursuant to
                    paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                    payments in respect of which replenishment is
                    requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                    Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                    withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
                    the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                    shall have requested and as shall have been shown
                    by said documents and other evidence to have been
                    paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                    expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and
other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
Page  13
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably
request, furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the
Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement;
      (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Association, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
      (c)   if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of
the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to
the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
      (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special
commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of
the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwith-
drawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall
follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expendi-
tures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule;
or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so
request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of
such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless
the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower
has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case
may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association
such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
Page  14
