                                     Document of
                                  The World Bank




                                                               Report No: 26095

                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                     (IDA-28850)

                                        ON A

                                       CREDIT

                          IN THE AMOUNT OF US$50.0 MILLION

                                 TO THE REPUBLIC OF

                                       GHANA

                                       FOR A

                    BASIC EDUCATION SECTOR IMPROVEMENT PROJECT




                                     June 30, 2003




Human Development II
Africa Regional Office

                                  CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                             (Exchange Rate Effective as April 1996)

                                   Currency Unit = Cedis
                                          1 Cedis = US$ 0.000645
                                       US$ 1.00 = 1550 Cedis

                                         FISCAL YEAR
                                    January 1    December 31

                             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BAS     Beneficiary Assessment Survey
BESIP   Basic Education Sector Improvement Project
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CRDD    Curriculum Research Development Division
CRT     Criterion Referenced Test
DA      District Assembly
DCA     Development Credit Agreement
DEO     District Education Offices
DO      Development Objectives
DP      Development partner
ECD     Early Childhood Development
EdSDP   Education Development Project
EdSeP   Education Sector Project
EFA     Education for All
EMIS    Education Management Information System
ESP     Education Sector Plan
ESR     Education Sector Review
FCUBE   Free, Compulsory, Universal Basic Education
FPMU    Funds and Procurement Management Unit
FTI     Fast-track Initiative
GER     Gross Enrollment Ratio
GES     Ghana Education Service
GETFund Ghana Education Trust Fund
GLSS    Ghana Living Standard Survey
GOG     Government of Ghana
GPRS    Ghana Poverty Reduction Strategy
IDA     International Development Association
IEC     Information, Education, and Communication
IP      Implementation Progress
IRR     Internal Rate of Return
IT      Information Technology
JSS     Junior Secondary School
MDGs    Millennium Development Goals
MOE     Ministry of Education
MTEF    Medium-term Expenditure Framework
PMT     Performance Monitoring Test
PRSC    Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit
PSR     Project Status Reports
PTA     Parent and Teacher Association
PTR     Pupil-Teacher Ratio
QAG     Quality Assessment Group

SWAP    Sectorwide Approach
S&L     Supply and Logistics
SAR     Staff Appraisal Report
SIF     School Improvement Fund
SLU     Supplies and Logistics Unit
SMC     School Management Committee
SRIMPR  Statistics, Research, Information Management and Public Relations
STD     Survey of Textbook Distribution to Basic Schools
TA      Technical Assistance
TIMSS   Trend of International Mathematics and Science Study
TTL     Task Team Leader
VAT     Value Added Tax
WAEC    West African Examinations Council




                                   Vice President:    Callisto E. Madavo
                      Country Manager/Director:       Mats Karlsson
                        Sector Manager/Director:      Alexandre V. Abrantes
             Task Team Leader/Task Manager:           Eunice Yaa Brimfah Dapaah

                                               GHANA
                       BASIC EDUCATION SECTOR IMPROVEMENT


                                            CONTENTS




                                                                                 Page No.
   1. Project Data                                                                    1
   2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
   3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
   4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
   5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            12
   6. Sustainability                                                                14
   7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 15
   8. Lessons Learned                                                               18
   9. Partner Comments                                                              21
   10. Additional Information                                                       22
   Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             23
   Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             26
   Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             28
   Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             32
   Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             35
   Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                36
   Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            37
   Annex 8. Borrower's ICR Contribution                                             38

MAP IBRD 28045

Project ID: P000975                                                      Project Name: BASIC EDUCATION SECTOR
                                                                         IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Team Leader: Eunice Yaa Brimfah Dapaah                                   TL Unit: AFTH2
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: June 30, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: BASIC EDUCATION SECTOR                                   L/C/TF Number: IDA-28850
                            IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
   Country/Department: GHANA                                                              Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Primary education (88%); Tertiary education (9%); Central
                            government administration (3%)
                  Theme: Education for all (P); Gender (P); Rural services and infrastructure
                            (P); Access to urban services for the poor (P); Decentralization (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    06/14/1995                                        Effective: 10/11/1996              10/11/1996
   Appraisal:    02/20/1996                                            MTR: 07/31/1998                04/01/1999
    Approval:    06/18/1996                                         Closing: 06/30/2001               12/31/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT/MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Callisto E. Madavo                             Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:               Mats Karlsson                                  Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Manager:                 Alexandre V. Abrantes                          Ian Porter
Team Leader at ICR:             Eunice Yaa Brimfah Dapaah                      Josephine Woo
ICR Primary Author:             Lianqin Wang


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:L

Institutional Development Impact:M

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:S


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                   U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The Basic Education Sector Improvement Program (BESIP) was designed to support the Government of
Ghana (GOG) in implementing its policy to achieve free, compulsory, and universal basic education
(FCUBE), a priority development policy deriving from the country's constitutional requirement. FCUBE
had three broad objectives: (a) improve the teaching process and learning outcomes; (b) strengthen
management of the basic education system; and (c) improve access to basic education, especially of girls
and the poor and other disadvantaged segments of the population. Because it was designed to support
FCUBE, the BESIP had these same objectives. There was a fourth element of the objective in the Staff
Appraisal Report (SAR) which was stated as follows: "ensure financial sustainability of the government
program for basic education over the longer term." However, this fourth objective was not mentioned in
any of the other project documents such as the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) and the Project
Status Reports (PSRs), and there were not corresponding project components addressing this objective in
the SAR. Because it was not in the DCA and therefore was not legalized, the fourth objective will be
by-passed in the discussion of this ICR.

The three objectives were clear, relevant, and important because: (a) they reflected the Ministry of
Education's (MOE) policy priorities in basic education and responded to a constitutionally mandated
requirement that universal basic schooling be available to all young Ghanaians by the middle of the next
decade; and (b) they were consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) which placed
priority on strengthening human resources and on improving effectiveness of primary and secondary
education, as well as regional and gender equality. These objectives were achievable if the program was
implemented well and if sufficient time was given for impacts to occur.

FCUBE was proposed to be a 10-year program (1996-2005) and the BESIP was to support its first phase
(1996-2000).

3.2 Revised Objective:

The project objectives were not revised throughout the project cycle.

3.3 Original Components:

BESIP was designed to support FCUBE (1996-2000). By design, it was a sub-sector program rather than
a stand-alone project. For this reason, all BESIP components are identical with those in FCUBE. They are
as follows:

Component 1: Enhanced quality of teaching and learning, through (a) in-service training of education
personnel; (b) pre-service teachers' training; (c) assessment and evaluation of student performance; (d)
provision of instructional materials; and (e) curriculum review and development.

Component 2: Management for efficiency, through (a) building capacity for institutional/organizational
analysis and change; (b) staffing and personnel management; (c) performance management; (d) budget and
financing management; and (e) district capacity-building.

Component 3: Improving access and participation, through (a) infrastructure development; (b) school
facilities planning and maintenance; (c) increasing girls' participation; (d) fostering community



                                                      - 2 -

involvement; (e) implementing School Improvement Fund (SIF); and (f) promoting Information, Education,
and Communication (IEC).

The design of the three components was clearly related to achieving the objectives. These components were
developed to address the key issues in the basic education sector: (a) poor teaching and learning outcomes;
(b) inadequate access to basic education services; (c) weak management capacity at all levels of the system;
and (d) unsatisfactory financial management. The components and subcomponents covered almost the
entire basic education sector. Such a comprehensive approach could have been appropriate if the sector
had the capacity to implement it. However, given the weak administrative and financial management
capacity of the implementation agencies of the GOG (i.e., MOE and Ghana Education Service-GES) at that
time, such a design might be too complex and too far-reaching.

According to the SAR, the IDA credit of US$50.0 million would focus on supporting in-service training of
education personnel, provision of instructional materials to schools, training and workshops for MOE/GES,
District Education Offices (DEOs) and School Management Committees (SMCs) to improve efficiency in
management, rehabilitation, and construction of school facilities to improve access and the
teaching/learning environment, and initiatives to encourage girls' participation and community involvement
in education and school activities. However, the breakdown of US$50 million (equivalent to SDR 34.7
million) for the three components was not available in any of the documents. Below are the project costs
for 1996-2000 in the SAR.

Table 1: Original Components:
                                                            Appraisal estimate total cost*
                                                                    (US$ million)

                     Component                            Total         Foreign         Local     Ratings

1. Enhanced Quality of Teaching and Learning              125.4           65.0           60.3       S**
2. Management for Efficiency                              28.8              9.3          19.6      S**
3. Improving Access and Participation                     58.8             25.2          33.7      S
Contingencies                                             28.6             13.3          15.2
                         Total                            241.6           112.8         128.8
*   Including the IDA US$50 million.
** The "satisfactory" rating is only marginal.

3.4 Revised Components:

The original project design was very ambitious: it covered 14 areas and had 93 distinctive operations; and
the sub-sector program design required highly effective coordination among development partners. This
overly ambitious design in a context of weak administrative and financial management capacity led to
difficulties in implementation. By April 1999 at the mid-term review, the disbursement was 80 percent
behind the original plan, and the "unsatisfactory" ratings on both the Implementation Progress (IP) and
Development Objective (DO) had lasted for a year. To respond to these problems, the project was
restructured at the mid-term review to limit the scope of the project and to support a smaller number of
sub-components that were relatively well implemented. Below are the main areas supported by BESIP
after the mid-term review:

    (a) Civil Works (Construction/rehabilitation of schools)
    (b) Textbook supply
    (c) Education Management Information System (EMIS)



                                                     - 3 -

In addition, other areas proposed for support by the BESIP are: (d) Strengthened policy analysis; (e) SIF;
(f) Studies and program development in girls' education; (g) IEC; (h) Expenditure analysis in support of
the Medium-term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) process; and (i) Definitions of mechanisms for
procurement and financing arrangements.

The restructuring at the mid-term review transformed the BESIP from a too-challenging sub-sector
program to a more manageable stand-alone project, but it did not change the overall development objectives
as the Aide-mémoire (dated March 30-April 20, 1999) stated. Although the restructuring of the project
did not change the objectives and the overall categorization of the three major components, the
restructuring did change the subcomponents within these three major components, both in
substance and in credit allocation. This did affect the overall credit allocations to the three major
components (see section 5.4).

The restructuring was approved by the country director, but it was not reported to the Board of Executive
Directors because the objectives of the project were not changed.

The project closing date was extended from June 30, 2001 to December 31, 2002. This decision was made
in March 2001 when the outstanding balance of undisbursed funds was US$19.4 million ($8.1 million was
committed, $5.3 million was planned, and $6.1 million was a potential "cancelled" amount.) The extension
was mainly for completing the following activities: (i) civil works; (ii) textbook reprints and distribution;
and (iii) EMIS development.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

The positive aspects of Quality at Entry are (i) consistency of project objectives with the goals of poverty
alleviation and the priorities in the education sector in CAS; (ii) support for the priorities of the basic
education sector (i.e., FCUBE); (iii) good analysis of the issues in the basic education sector; and (iv)
consideration of lessons learned by previous projects in basic education.

The major limitations for the Quality at Entry fell into two main areas: (i) the overly ambitious design of
the project; and (ii) the insufficient implementation arrangements. The overall design was over-reaching
because it made BESIP too large and complex to implement in the weak management environment that
existed in the education sector at that time. Few arrangements were made at the time to clearly assign
management responsibilities for implementation of these operations, and to put in place supervision and
monitoring mechanisms to ensure progress or a reporting structure to ensure accountability. These two
factors are major reasons why the BESIP did not progress much during the first three years. Another
significant limitation was the unrealistic financing plan associated with the sub-sector program design. The
project cost of US$241 million to which many development partners (DPs) were anticipated to contribute
did not become a reality. Each DP adopted a separate project structure. As a result, this full-fledged
sub-sector program design and financing plan had to be restructured and the BESIP became a traditional
stand-alone investment project after the mid-term review.

Based on the overly ambitious project design, poor implementation arrangements and unrealistic financing
plan, Quality at Entry is rated unsatisfactory.




                                                      - 4 -

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The progress of BESIP after the mid-term review was much more smooth and the IDA credit was fully
disbursed by the end of the project. However, on one hand assessing the achievement of the objectives may
be affected by lacking the most recent data. Namely, there may not be a large enough time interval to see
the real impact of the project. On the other hand it is very difficult to single out the impact that would
have been made by the BESIP if Ghana's basic education had been improved, in the presence of other
operations on the ground supported by the government and other DPs. Below are only some aspects by
which one can assess the achievement of the objectives. The data suggests that some improvements had
been made, but the achievements were not great. Therefore, achievement of objectives is rated marginally
satisfactory.

Objective 1: The quality of teaching and learning has been improved

The quality of teaching and learning has been improved with the availability of textbooks and other
instructional materials and better trained teachers, as reflected by the results of two tests, namely the
Criterion Referenced Test (CRT) administered at grade 6 (started in 1992) and the Performance
Monitoring Test (PMT) administered from grade 1 to 6 (started in 1998). The results of the students'
performance in CRT showed improvement (see Table 2). The results of PMT confirmed this positive trend
in student learning outcomes.

 Table 2: Results of CRT in Public Schools

             Year                         Mean Score                       Mastery Level1
                                    English             Math          English             Math
 Base year (1996)                    33.0               28.8            5.5               1.8
 End of project2                     36.9               32.3            9.6               4.4
 1Mastery level: score 60% and above for English; score 55% and above for mathematics.
 2 Year 2002 data is not yet available. CRT was not administrated in 2001 due to lack of GOG funding for
 this exercise. The most current available data is for year 2000.
 Data source: 2000 Report on the Administration of CRT, MOE, March 2002.

According to the Beneficiary Assessment Survey (BAS) (January 2003, MOE), a majority of the students
and parents considered that teaching has improved over the past four years. They observed that (a)
teachers spend more time explaining lessons; (b) an atmosphere has been created in which students can ask
teachers for further explanations; (c) students can follow teaching more easily than before; and (d) test and
exam results keep improving.

Objective 2: Progress has been made in management efficiency

The indicators and data for the measurement of how well this objective was achieved were weak.
Pupil-teacher ratio (P/T ratio) was selected in the SAR as one of the important indicators to measure
efficiency, because Ghana's P/T ratio was too low compared with the international norm. P/T ratio
increased 2.2 points (from 30.7 to 32.9) for primary school between base-year 1994 and 2001.

Achievement of decentralization of responsibility includes enhanced roles for circuit supervisors (CSs),
SMC and DEOs. A majority of the teachers and headteachers in the BAS acknowledged: (a) the CSs now
provided more support to teachers and headteachers, and contributed to upgrading teaching standards and



                                                         - 5 -

improving school supervision; and (b) the SMC had a positive impact in school management and in raising
the performance of those schools. The responsibilities at the district level were enhanced, especially in the
areas of distribution of textbooks and supervision of civil works.

The EMIS was a source of progress for management efficiency. The EMIS data has been used for some
major documents in the education sectors such as the Education Sector Review (ESR) and Education
Sector Plan (ESP). The senior education officials have been sensitized about the importance of the data in
management, which was reflected in the ESP that EMIS will be further developed to serve as a tool for
monitoring and evaluation.

Objective 3: Access and participation have been increased

Based on the EMIS 2001 data, access and participation in primary education showed an upward trend
during the project period. From 1996 to 2001, the absolute enrollment increased nearly half a million (from
2,154,000 to 2,586,434); the gross enrollment rate increased 3.5 percentage points (from 76.5% to 80%).
Girls' participation was improved slightly: the girls' enrollment share increased 0.9 percentage point (from
46.6% to 47.5%) between 1996 and 2001. The gender gap in primary school participation was largely a
rural problem, and was most prevalent in the three northern regions. There was a large growth in private
schools.

Junior secondary schools (JSS) also increased in number and enrollment. From 1996 to 2001, the absolute
enrollment increased nearly 130,000 (from 738,057 to 865,636); the gross enrollment rate increased 5.2
percentage points (from 58.7% to 63.9%). The boys' gross enrollment rate increased 2.4 percentage points
(from 65.6% to 68%), while girls' enrollment rate increased even more at 8.7 percentage points (from
51.3% to 60%). The girls' enrollment share increased 2.3 percentage points (from 43.1% to 45.4%)
between 1996 and 2001.

4.2 Outputs by components:

Overall, the implementation of components was delayed. Disbursement lagged by 80 percent at mid-term
review in April 1999 (three years after the BESIP was launched) and very few activities had been
implemented at that time. However, the implementation progress improved significantly after the mid-term
review with the project restructuring, and the BESIP achieved a 100 percent disbursement rate at the end of
the project. The outputs below combined both before and after mid-term review. The order of the
subcomponents within each component below are based on the level of activities (from bigger to smaller).
Therefore it is not in the same order as in section 3.3.

Component 1: Enhanced quality of teaching and learning (US$ 17.7 million actual)

The overall rating for this component was marginally satisfactory. The subcomponents are rated
separately when the ratings were not consistent with this overall rating.

i.       Provision of Instructional Materials:

There are two elements under this sub-components in the original design: (a) re-printing of existing
textbooks for primary and JSS students, and (b) publishing of new textbooks after the development of new
syllabi or revision of existing syllabi. At the end of the project, a total of about 11 million textbooks were
printed and distributed (see Table 3 for the breakdown of textbook distribution and other delivery of
instructional materials). The Survey of Textbook Distribution to Basic Schools (STD) reported that the



                                                      - 6 -

target of a 1:1 ratio of pupils to textbooks in the four core subjects (Primary: Math, English; JSS: Math,
English, Science, Social Studies) has been reached in 79 percent of the schools. The original target of
pupils to textbooks ratio of 2:1 for core subjects was met. In line with the implementation of these
components, the Textbook Policy was developed and launched. Despite these accomplishments, there was
an uneven and delayed distribution of textbooks to schools. For example, districts that were further away
from the capital Accra did not receive their textbooks on time. Also, about 45 percent of the students were
not allowed to take the textbooks home. The physical quality of some of the textbooks was poor and these
books may not survive for the expected three years. The goal of publishing new text books was not
realized because of the delay in the new textbook development (see next section on Curriculum Review and
Development).

This subcomponent is rated satisfactory based on the target of pupils to textbooks ratio being met. The
rating of this subcomponent is not affected by the unsuccessful result in publishing new textbooks which is
already taken into account in the rating of the subcomponent "Curriculum Review and Development" (see
below).

 Table 3: Provision of Instructional Materials (quantity distributed)
                                           Primary                       JSS
 Textbooks:
          English                          3,417,303                  1,000,469
          Mathematics                      3,172,102                   970,323
          Science                                                     1,047,517
          Social Studies                                               972,206
              Total                        6,589,405                  3,990,515
 Other:
          Syllabi                                         96,200
          Globals (World Atlas)                           6,500


ii.     Curriculum Review and Development:

The Curriculum Research Development Division (CRDD) led the process of curriculum review and
development. A total of 10 new syllabi were written and 11 syllabi were revised. However, at the end of
the project, the new textbook development process was only at its beginning stage. Due to the
unavailability of the new textbooks, the schools had a mismatch of new syllabi to old textbooks. This has
had a significant impact on quality of learning. Therefore, this subcomponent was rated unsatisfactory.

iii.    Assessment and Evaluation of Student Performance:

Jointly with the GOG and USAID, BESIP supported the CRT of Grade 6 students' performance. The
CRT was administered annually except for 2001 when the counterpart funding was not available. The
results were analyzed, published, and used for informing the policy-makers, teachers, parents, and the
general public on Ghanaian students' learning outcomes. While contributing to the implementation of the
CRT operation, the BESIP also supported the MOE's involvement in the Trends of International
Mathematics and Science Study (TIMSS). TIMSS was on track according to the international standards at
the time the BESIP was closed. Although the MOE signed up for the TIMSS, the government did not have
strong sense of ownership of the project.

iv.    In-service Teacher Training of Education Personnel:



                                                      - 7 -

The in-service training program provided training for teachers and headteachers. It was considered useful
by the beneficiaries:
    o The in-service training program was the best tool for enhancing teaching and learning outcomes;
    o Teachers were equipped with modern techniques of teaching after the training program; and
    o It was very effective and had a great impact on the performance of both teachers and pupils.

However, the BAS also pointed out that the in-service training experienced lack of continuity and
regularity, and it was expected to have more such courses on a regular basis. Although in-service training
had a good outcome, it only happened in the early phase of the project and there were few actions later in
the project implementation.

There was not much support for pre-service teacher training by BESIP because it was already supported by
other DPs and it was not included in the IDA credit after the mid-term review.

Component 2: Management for efficiency (US$ 10.9 million actual)

The overall rating for this component is marginally satisfactory. The subcomponents are rated separately
when the ratings are not consistent with this overall rating.

i.      Performance Management:

The EMIS was designed to support policy analysis and planning, the management review process, and
monitoring of FCUBE program targets and standards. Despite a rocky implementation process, EMIS
achieved the following milestones:

    (a) the establishment of EMIS sites in 10 regions and 26 districts with training provided to the EMIS
        staff who are able to perform basic data management and data analysis;
    (b) the generation of five years of annual school census data from 1997 to 2001 in a timely manner;
    (c) the production of the key education indicators and of policy-relevant data analysis;
    (d) the sensitization of education officials in the use of data for planning and decision making.

These are significant achievements compared with five years ago when there were no computers, no staff
with EMIS skills, no electronic database system, and no systematic school census.

The original design of this component was overly complex, which made implementation very difficult in the
early stage. Then it gradually placed emphasis on its core elements and achieved some significant
outcomes. However, a few outstanding issues remained at the end of the BESIP:

    (a) the EMIS software application design was lacking which led to limited data retrieval capability and
        user-unfriendly interface (e.g., users cannot easily retrieve data without EMIS unit staff's help);
    (b) the EMIS data did not cover all levels of education (e.g., tertiary, vocational/technical, and
        non-formal education data were not captured);
    (c) financial sustainability was unlikely without continued support from DPs and technical
        sustainability was also not likely (e.g., the EMIS staff were still unable to develop the
        EMIS application independently).

ii.   Building Capacity for Institutional/Organizational Analysis and Change:



                                                      - 8 -

To strengthen management capacity, five training courses were conducted in Accra for the senior
management of MOE and GES. BESIP also supported senior managers from MOE and GES to participate
in the World Bank's "Strategic Choices in Education Reforms" course in Washington DC, and to
participate in other training in the Education Management Information System at Harvard University.
Additional capacity-building activities included strengthening the procurement system of the Supplies and
Logistics Unit (SLU) and providing training for the staff in many departments of MOE and GES in a
variety of job-related areas. The training activities were acknowledged to be very useful by the
participants. For example, the director of the SLU was proud that her unit was able to prepare bidding
documents after attending the training courses.

There was not much done in the following areas in Component 2 because they were not included in the IDA
credit after mid-term review:
    l Staffing and personnel management;
    l Budgeting and financial management;
    l District capacity-building.


Component 3: Improving access and participation (US$ 19.2 million actual)

The overall rating for this component is satisfactory. The subcomponents were rated separately when the
ratings were not consistent with this overall rating.

i. Infrastructure Development:
There were three elements in this subcomponent:

    (a) New construction

    Through three phases, the following facilities were constructed:
             o 344 four-unit Teacher Accommodation Blocks;
             o 101 Primary School (Grade 1-6) Classroom Blocks;
             o 50 Junior Secondary School (Grade 7-9) Classroom Blocks;
             o 151 dry sanitation facilities.

    The numbers of completed facilities met the original plan, although many projects took longer than
    originally planned. This was due largely to project management and inadequacies of the contractors.
    The quality level of the new construction was uneven across districts. According to the Technical
    Audit Report of December 2002, most of the work followed the specifications of the project's technical
    documentation. However, during various stages of the construction, unacceptable materials and
    workmanship were identified. The joinery, workmanship, and floor furnishings were often poor.
    Although most of these deficiencies were rectified, some defects remained.

    (b) Provision of school furniture

    BESIP financed construction of school furniture for new schools, for rehabilitated schools and for other
    schools as well. Below is a list of accomplishments during two phases of project activities:
             o 13,800 dual desks for primary schools;
             o 3,450 dual desks for Junior Secondary School;
             o 3,750 library tables and chairs;
             o 893 teacher tables and chairs.



                                                      - 9 -

    The number of pieces of newly constructed school furniture met the original plan. The Technical Audit
    found that the process was satisfactory, but that the quality level was not satisfactory regarding the
    elements of durability, workmanship, and suitability of the desks to the ages of students. For example,
    the audit report pointed out that the quality of the materials and workmanship were rather poor: most
    items were just nailed together and some were not provided with any final surface treatment.

    (c) Rehabilitation

    BESIP planned to rehabilitate 2,000 classrooms and at the end of the project a total of 2,300
    classrooms were rehabilitated. However, 14 out of 110 districts neither benefitted from the program
    nor participated in it.

    The positive impact of the civil work is visible. The BAS report noted that the new school buildings
    attract pupils, particularly in village settings, to go to and remain at school.

    A common issue in the above three elements of the infrastructure development was quality control.
    The decentralized arrangement for the technical monitoring of the project proved very appropriate in
    the supervision of scattered and widespread project sites. However, the project management capacity
    needs to be strengthened at the district level. One instance is that the Technical Audit discovered there
    were very few project files for examination at the District Assemblies (DAs), the main implementation
    agencies. Also, the level of effectiveness in quality control differed across districts. Some necessary
    conditions for supervision were not available. For example, some work supervisors were provided
    neither funds nor transportation for site visits. Some depended on the contractors for their
    transportation to the sites, which might not be an appropriate arrangement.

ii. School Facility Planning and Maintenance:
The main outputs for this subcomponent were: (a) an illustrated manual for school maintenance; and (b) a
manual of guidelines and procedures for maintenance of school structures. The manuals were completed
and distributed in May 2002. In addition, the local government--DAs and DEOs--assumed the functional
roles for school building maintenance. Maintenance was funded from deductions from teachers' salaries
for their accommodation blocks. The maintenance budget for school buildings was established under the
DAs.

iii. Increasing Girls' Participation:
While other development partners took on various programs, BESIP mainly supported the following
activities related to girls' education: a training workshop for 120 officials of Girls' Education;
identification of constraints to girls' participation and formulating effective programs to remove such
constraints in pilot districts; review of curricula and textbooks to reflect gender sensitivity; a study of rural
teachers; and a study of scholarship programs. According to the BAS, the new classrooms attracted
children to attend schools, many of whom were girls. However, much more should have been done in order
to create an impact based on the increase of girls' participation in education. For example, the school
infrastructure should have set aside special facilities (e.g., toilets) for girls. The data (see Annex 1)
suggested that girls' enrollment share in primary and secondary schools has been increasing in the past few
years. The government and development partners, including the World Bank, jointly contributed to this
positive trend.

iv. Fostering Community Involvement:
The establishing and strengthening of SMC were the main activities for this subcomponent. According to


                                                       - 10 -

the BAS estimates, 80 percent of the schools had SMCs. Others activities supported by BESIP included
the SIF and IEC (see below).

v. School Improvement Fund (SIF):
This subcomponent was rated unsatisfactory.

The SIF Pilot was started prior to the BESIP. It was financed by the previous IDA credit, the Primary
School Development Project (PSDP, 1994-1998). The MOE initiated the SIF pilot as a new approach to
fund education needs through providing assistance to communities in various ways such as basic
management training for community leaders, and financing inputs to schools based on priority needs
identified by their communities. Pilot Phase One was implemented under PSDP and the results were
positive. The SIF then became a subcomponent of the BESIP in order to scale-up activities. However, due
to serious delays, GES proposed in late 1999 to abandon further investment in SIF per se, and instead to
reallocate these funds to an assessment of the various externally financed activities going on at the
classroom, community, and district levels (of which SIF was just one part), with a view to identifying good
practices and streamlining the currently fragmented programs of support to basic education. This proposal
was approved and funds were allocated, but the study was not undertaken by BESIP closure. There was no
future plan for the SIF.

vi. Information, Education, and Communication (IEC):
The IEC program was designed to raise awareness among communities of the need for them to be involved
and for their children to participate in basic education. It was identified as one of the remaining
subcomponents after the mid-term review in April 1999, and was implemented before the close of the
BESIP. The major activities implemented include: (a) the setting-up of an IEC Desk Office; (b) the
formation of six-member national teams and three-member IEC teams in all regions and district offices; (c)
the development and dissemination of an IEC messages and training manual; (d) a variety of training
activities for national, regional, and district IEC teams and for selected headteachers and circuit
supervisors; and (e) radio discussion programs.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

Rates of Return estimates at the time of appraisal could have helped justify financing education. Rates of
Return at the time of the ICR were not estimated because it was too soon to determine the return from the
BESIP. However, an analysis of the allocative efficiency of the project by components was conducted (see
Annex 3). The analysis can be only indicative. The general message obtained from the analysis was that
the investment of the BESIP was moderately efficient in terms of costs, but not at all efficient in terms of
time compared with the current projections made in the context of Education for All's Fast Track Initiative
(EFA-FTI) or compared with the regional norm. Additional financial investment will be needed in order to
accelerate the progress in access, quality, gender equality, and the efficiency of the basic education sector.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

No financial rate of return was calculated. Please see Annex 3 for discussion on financial analysis.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The institutional development impact was marginally satisfactory. The main impact falls in the following
areas:




                                                      - 11 -

Funds and procurement management. The implementation of the BESIP was very difficult during the
first three years and disbursement had an 80 percent lag by mid-1999. Through scaling-down at the
mid-term review and the reorganization of MOE's Funds and Procurement Management Unit (FPMU), the
project regained its momentum and got back on track. FPMU contributed greatly to the successful
completion of the BESIP and gradually built its capacity to manage projects with quality, efficiency, and
professionalism.

Capacity-building in Supplies and Logistics Unit. Partly as a result of the project a new manager was
brought to the unit, and substantial job-related training to its staff was provided. In addition, the project
offered technical assistance to help build up a systematic inventory of textbooks and a computerized
database on students and schools. As a result of the intervention, the competence level of the staff was
increased and the job efficiency was considerably improved.

Decentralization. BESIP enforced the decentralization process and placed responsibilities for project
implementation and supervision at the district level. In particular, DAs and DEOs were involved in the
civil works and textbook distribution. They learned some lessons and built a certain capacity, although
further capacity-building is needed for carrying out more responsibilities in project planning,
implementation and supervision, and for better operational results.

The EMIS System. For the first time management in the education sector ­ from the central level (MOE,
GES) to the regional and district levels ­ began to realize the importance of an education management
information system in planning, monitoring, evaluation, and policy-making. Through the EMIS the MOE
was, for the first time, able to produce timely data on key education indicators with national aggregates and
regional and district breakdowns. EMIS activities achieved a considerable institutional development
impact on information generation and utilization. Although only at its beginning stage, this was a very
important first step.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

None of importance to the knowledge of the ICR mission.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

Five major factors that affected the implementation and outcome of this project:

(a) An overly ambitious design. The original subsector program design covered almost the entire basic
education sector within which was found weak management capacity. It was simply beyond the MOE and
GES's capacity to implement them all. This was the major reason that the BESIP had little progress before
mid-term review in 1999 and the project was substantially delayed. It also even affected the
implementation of the subcomponents after the mid-term review, such as the new textbooks development
which did not have enough time to be completed, because considerable time was wasted in the first three
years. Such a design was also reflected in some individual subcomponents, one of which was the EMIS.
The original design of disseminating EMIS through developing a computer network to connect the EMIS
units from the central level to the regional and district levels was not realistic, given the constraints of the
information technology (IT) infrastructure and limited financial and human resources. This was one of the
main reasons that the EMIS component was greatly delayed until 2001 when the design of networking was



                                                      - 12 -

 replaced by CD ROMs.

 (b) Lack of proactive review and intervention. The senior officials and managers did not always take a
 proactive approach to supervise the planning and implementation process on a regular basis. It sometimes
 took too long to resolve problems. For example, the project progressed very slowly in the first three years,
 but there were not forceful actions taken to accelerate the process.

 (c) Delay in counterpart funding. There were a number of activities for which the counterpart funding
 was delayed. Consequently, those activities were seriously affected.

 (d) Inadequate MOE/GES budget plan. The MOE/GES budget plan was not carefully designed to support
 the BESIP activities for ensuring sustainability. For instance, there was no budget line for EMIS at the
 national level until almost the end of the BESIP; the districts still did not have a budget line for EMIS by
 project completion.

 (e) Low staff motivation. Some staff members in MOE and GES were not motivated and committed to
 their job due to a lack of understanding of the project.

 5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

Most critical to the effective implementation of the program is the capacity of the implementation agencies
in program management and coordination. The BESIP comprised many activities implemented by different
units within MOE and GES. Each of the activities required careful planning, highly efficient management,
intense high-level coordination and strong technical skills. From the start, there was no adequate
implementation plan (see section 3.5). Most of the implementation units simply did not have sufficient
capacity to function effectively, and therefore delays and cancellations of planned activities occurred.
During the course of the implementation of BESIP, although most agencies improved their capacity in
carrying out their responsibilities, they still did not have the full capacity to achieve desired results. For
instance, the unit of Statistics, Research, Information Management, and Public Relations (SRIMPR) in the
MOE still could not carry out the EMIS activities independently at the time of BESIP closure, and the
division heavily depended on both planning and implementation technical support from the Harvard
consultants. Such a situation greatly affected the project's sustainability.

 5.4 Costs and financing:

IDA Credit. By project completion, the IDA credit disbursed 100 percent of the original SDR 34.7 million.
Because of the fluctuations of the US$ -SDR exchange rate during the project, the appraisal estimated
US$50 million credit was down to US$45 million by the end of project implementation. While the category
allocation between the actual and the revised at the mid-term review were not much different except for the
civil work (about US$4.1 million less for the actual), there were substantial differences between the actual
and the original allocation at the appraisal (see Table 3 below). The three categories--civil works, goods,
and consultants' service--increased about US$22 million and comprised a total of about US$42.3 million
(94 percent of the total credit of US$45 million). This was because the project focused on the three main
subcomponents after mid-term review and especially after the extension of the project: (a) construction of
the new schools and teacher blocks and rehabilitation of schools; (b) textbook reprinting and distribution;
and (c) EMIS development (with extensive technical assistance from the Harvard consultants).

The US$14.45 million of unallocated funds (28 percent of the total) in the original allocation was very large
(see Table 3 below), which is indicative of a well-thought-out financing plan.



                                                        - 13 -

  Table 3: Original, Revised, and Actual Allocation of the IDA Credit by Category
                                                          Amount of the Credit Allocated (USD)

                    Category
                                                   Original *    Revised at the mid- Actual at the end of
                                                                     term review*          BESIP**


  (1) Civil Works                                  10,979,827         18,011,527           13,878,000

  (2) Goods                                         8,184,438         22,334,294           24,645,000
  (3) Operating costs for:
                (a)   Staff redeployment            2,002,882           432,277             368,000
                (b)   Others                        1,700,288           648,415             107,000
  (4) Consultants' services and studies             1,902,017          5,619,597           3,779,000
  (5) Training                                     10,778,098           792,507            1,293,000
  (6) Unallocated                                  14,452,450          2,161,383                0
  (7) Support for School Improvement                    0                   0               948,000
                      Total                        50,000,000         50,000,000           45,018,000
  * Data from Development Credit Agreement.
  ** Data from FPMU.

Project Costs. The project cost was not clear in the SAR. In the Credit and Program Summary of the
SAR, it listed all government funds (including salary costs) and proposed DPs' financing, which amounted
to a large figure--US$1.326 billion; while in other places of the SAR it indicated the project cost of
US$241.6 million which constituted anticipated financing contribution to the Betterment Activities of
FCUBE from GOG, IDA, and other DPs. This figure (US$241.6 million) was also shown as project costs
in all PSRs. During the ICR mission, both the government and the Bank's task team considered that the
actual project cost for the BESIP should only include the IDA's contribution (original US$50 million) and
the GOG's counterpart funding (US$2.476 million), because the BESIP became a stand-alone project after
the mid-term review.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

Although the project has made a contribution to the education sector, the sustainability of the achievements
is an issue. Only with the continued support from DPs is the sustainability of the project likely. Since
several important operations to support the education sector are already under preparation and will be
implemented soon (e.g., IDA's EdSeP, Poverty Reduction Support Credit, other DP's support and
EFA-FTI), sustainability is rated likely.

Financial sustainability is critical to all three of the main components: textbooks, civil works, and EMIS.
Although other non-discretionary sources of funding exist, the MOE does not allocate sufficient funds to
print new textbooks that comply with the new syllabi, to replace the damaged or missing textbooks or to
increase the coverage with the increasing of enrollments; and it does not have sufficient funds to continue
the new construction and rehabilitation of classrooms and teacher accommodation blocks. EMIS finally
got a budget line in the MOE's budget, but there was no budget line for the EMIS units at the district and
regional levels at the time the project closed. The positive situation is that some funds will be channeled



                                                       - 14 -

into the education sector, which will help the financial sustainability.

Technical sustainability is mostly at stake in the area of EMIS, still fragile despite heavy and expensive
technical assistance (TA) by the Harvard consultants. The skills transfer from the Harvard consultants to
the national team was advocated by the Bank's missions long before the project's close, but it ended with a
sense of inadequacy. The national EMIS staff are still burdened by a lack of technical skills to
independently carry out various functions of EMIS and to further develop the system. The new project
EdSeP will further develop the EMIS system, and at the same time it will ensure the EMIS staff obtain
sufficient technical skills to gradually carry out all tasks independently.

Institutional sustainability remains an across-the-board issue. It is expected that the EdSeP will help with
institutional sustainability, as the capacity building component of the project will focus on strengthening
governance, management and decentralization.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

The BESIP project was designed to assist GOG's FCUBE program, and therefore it was fully integrated
into the government's operations including MOE, GES, DAs, and DEOs. However, the government is not
in a position to fully finance the activities funded under the BESIP due to resource constraints. As was
emphasized by Members of the Parliament during the BAS, the assistance of development partners would
be required--for a long time to come--to achieve the objectives of improving the quality of teaching and
learning as well as increasing access to education. The government's decision to participate in the
EFA-FTI initiative is one way to obtain the resources necessary for further developing the basic education
component after the BESIP project. The PRSC is another channel for financing basic education. The GOG
is currently preparing another IDA operation, the Education Sector Project (EdSeP), which is expected to
be approved in early FY04. The EdSeP will cover various subsectors in the education sector, including
basic education and post-basic education. It is expected that the EdSeP will help move the GOG toward
sustaining the outcomes and greatly expand the achievements of the BESIP over the next five years.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

The Bank's overall performance in identification, preparation, and appraisal of the project was
unsatisfactory.

The unsatisfactory rating was based on inadequate project design, an unrealistic financing plan, and the
lack of a sufficient implementation plan (see section 3.5). The original financing plan from the SAR was
based on the anticipation of funding from DPs and GOG, rather than solid commitments from them. As a
result, much of the anticipated funds never entered the program. None of the documentation reviewed by
the ICR mission, particularly to the DCA, showed a specific allocation of the US$50 credit across these
components. Therefore, it was not clear in the SAR what precisely the Bank would finance, versus what
GOG and other donors would finance. The result was that the Bank's responsibility was not clearly
defined. In addition, baseline data and targets for many indicators were not established.

The positive aspects during the lending phases were: the Bank worked closely with MOE during the course
of project identification to ensure the project objectives were consistent with the government's policies and
priorities and with the Bank's CAS; the Bank's previous operations in education in Ghana provided the
necessary background and experience for cooperation with the MOE and for project planning; the Bank



                                                       - 15 -

team assisting the project preparation displayed relevant analysis and knowledge of the sector issues
addressed by the BESIP; and the project objectives were relevant and appropriate.

7.2 Supervision:

The Bank's performance for supervision prior to mid-term review was marginally satisfactory;
performance for supervision following the mid-term review was satisfactory.

In general, the Bank's supervision was diligent and focused, with a clear objective of providing
implementation support to the government. The supervision efforts constituted on-going support from staff
at headquarters and in the field; and included visits of mission teams to Ghana. The Bank's task team was
responsible and responsive to the implementation matters in the on-going support; it also organized at least
two missions per year, including a mid-term review mission. The mission teams always consisted of staff
members or consultants with expertise in different component areas to ensure effective technical assistance
to the project. The missions normally held extensive discussions about issues, constraints, and possible
solutions with the government and with all main implementation agencies from the central level to the
district level; they also visited project sites to gain first-hand experience and to collect feedback from the
field. The Bank's supervision missions devoted considerable time to find out causative reasons behind
delays and other problems in implementation. Recommendations were often made to the implementation
agencies during the mission to help identify necessary appropriate actions to be taken in order to bring the
project back on track. The performance ratings given in PSRs were generally realistic. The Bank's action
taken at the mid-term review to narrow the project's scope and to transform the BESIP from a subsector
approach to a project approach was appropriate. One good practice was to advocate the FPMU to
establish a quarterly project status report system which proved very useful for project management.
Another positive aspect was the Bank's flexibility for the extension of the project. However, the Bank's
supervision prior to the mid-term review was not fully effective. The project did not progress well for a
long time, and the Bank should not have waited three years until the mid-term review to take serious and
forceful action. Supervision after the mid-term review was very forceful, proactive, and effective; the Bank
often took a proactive approach in dealing with problems and even identifying potential problems. All of
these factors contributed ultimately to a positive completion of the project.

Among the things that could have been improved during the supervision are the following: Field visits
could have been more frequent and lasted longer, especially to the poor northern regions. Although
substantial technical assistance was given during the supervision missions, the technical assistance to
different areas was uneven. As pointed out by one of the implementation agencies, there were some
inconsistencies in supervision styles and procedures as well as interpretation of the project among six Bank
task-team leaders throughout the life of the project. Such inconsistencies created some confusion for the
implementation agencies. Also, the BESIP project cost should have been revised after the mid-term review:
it was not appropriate to leave the original US$241 million as project cost on all the PSRs. Some of the
outcome indicators were not actively monitored. This was evidenced by the fact that the data for
monitoring these indicators were unavailable.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

The Bank's overall performance was marginally satisfactory based on the uneven records at different
phases of the projects.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:




                                                        - 16 -

The Borrower's performance in lending was marginally satisfactory.

The MOE took the leading role in the development of FCUBE. There was a close cooperation in the
project identification and preparation for the BESIP between the government and the Bank. The leadership
provided by the main counterparts in the MOE ensured that the program developed was suitable to Ghana's
requirements and fit into the priorities of the education sector. MOE actively involved its major
implementation agencies and counterparts in the project preparation. However, there was not enough
involvement of the stakeholders at the district level during the preparation. The project design was overly
ambitious in a weak management environment and the implementation plan was not sufficient (see section
3.5).

7.5 Government implementation performance:

It was rated unsatisfactory before the mid-term review and satisfactory after the mid-term review.
However, there were both positive and negative aspects throughout the entire life of the project.

During the first three years of unsatisfactory progress, the senior officials and managers did not provide
strong leadership and clear direction to proactively resolve the problems. There were four consecutive
ministers during the project's life, and their support was uneven. The financial commitment to BESIP was
redeemed through counterpart funding, although some delays in releasing the funds occurred. The
government was flexible in reorganization of the project at the mid-term review, and made genuine efforts
to implement the project after the mid-term review. At the time of the project closure, it was able to fully
disburse the credit with satisfactory results from the major subcomponents such as civil work and textbook
distribution. Nearly all the key conditions of the loan were fulfilled. The last minister and his senior staff
were very supportive of the project and took actions to resolve problems. This was one of the important
factors contributing to the good ending of the project.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

The performance was very uneven across different implementation agencies. Overall it was rated
marginally satisfactory.

Most implementation agencies' management procedures and technical capacity were very weak at the
beginning of the project, major factors that led to the serious delays and cancellations of activities. The
management capacity of these agencies has gradually improved, but considerable efforts need to be made to
achieve further and greater improvement towards the goal of successfully and efficiently managing
activities and delivering education services. The following issues still remain in some implementation
agencies: lack of staff understanding and commitment; limited demonstration of planning and
follow-through; and weak technical capacity and poor information-sharing and collaboration.

FPMU demonstrated strong financial and procurement management capacity after the unit's restructuring
in 1999. It appropriately and effectively handled all the financing and procurement matters, and also
gradually carried out project coordination and supervision responsibilities to ensure the project being on
track. FPMU contributed significantly to the overall achievement of the BESIP.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

The Borrower's overall performance is rated marginally satisfactory based on the mixed records at the



                                                     - 17 -

different phases of the project.


8. Lessons Learned

1) General Lessons:

    (1) Avoid unrealistic project designs. In a context of weak institutional implementation capacity, a
    complex design with many components/subcomponents and activities is bound to ensure failure. It is
    premature to design a subsector program without a full financing commitment from the government
    and development partners. Although a poor original design can be adjusted through restructuring
    during implementation, a considerable waste of time and resources would be avoided and better
    objectives would be achieved if the project were appropriately designed from the beginning. This
    proved the great importance of Quality at Entry.

    (2) Move progressively to a SWAP approach: The original design of the BESIP was close to today's
    Sectorwide Approach (SWAP). However, it failed during the implementation due to a lack of
    readiness of the GOG, the Bank, and the DPs at that time. The lesson learned is that it should move to
    a SWAP approach progressively. Undertaking a sectorwide approach is only when the country is
    clearly committed to leading the collaboration and has demonstrated at least a minimum level of
    implementation capacity, and the development partners have genuine collaboration, agreed
    responsibilities, and an implementation plan as well as mutual trust.

    (3) Involve all major stakeholders in the entire project cycle. It is important to include all major
    stakeholders (from the central level to the community level) in the entire cycle of the project, from
    preparation to implementation and finally to completion. It may hurt the stakeholders' motivation,
    ownership, commitment, and accountability if some do not become involved until the middle of
    implementation. In the case of BESIP, better results in implementation and supervision may have been
    achieved if regional and district directors of education were actively engaged--and stayed engaged--in
    the monitoring and coordination.

    (4) Ensure that core capacity is in place prior to implementation. Core capacity is what is absolutely
    necessary for implementing project components. It is very risky to move from preparation to
    implementation if the core capacity is not readily available in implementation agencies. Some of the
    BESIP subcomponents failed in implementation due to deficiencies in the core capacity such as basic
    planning, monitoring, and intervention skills. Core capacity also served as a basis for building
    additional capacity during implementation.

    (5) Ensure accountability and continuity in project management. The Bank should try not to change
    Task Team Leaders (TTLs) frequently. A change in TTLs often (a) harms the consistency in
    management approach, which may cause confusion for the counterparts; (b) affects the continuity in
    monitoring, supervision, and follow up on issues--these factors could have a negative effect on project
    outcomes; and (c) reduces their accountability to the overall project. For instance, BESIP had six
    consecutive TTLs during the life of the project. At the time of ICR preparation, there was little precise
    institutional memory about the early stage of the project because the first two TTLs had already left the
    Bank. On the government's side, divisional directors and managers who have operational
    responsibility for activities during implementation should be made to act as project managers for those
    aspects that fall directly under their control. This would improve commitment and increases the
    probability that implementation is successful. Also, if a senior official is held accountable for the



                                                     - 18 -

   project, it is easier to resolve bottlenecks and therefore to achieve smooth and successful
   implementation.

   (6) Put in place a rigorous monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system. Design a set of relevant,
   sensitive, and measurable monitoring indicators and then carefully collect information/data to monitor
   it. Education outcomes should play a strong role in the M&E systems, while inputs and outputs are
   also monitored.

   (7) Carefully analyze counterpart funding capability. Low disbursements often occur among
   activities in which the proportion of counterpart funding is high. This makes such activities very risky
   in terms of achieving the outcomes. Such a risk may be minimized if counterpart funding capability is
   carefully analyzed.

   (8) Invest more in software. It is relatively easy to implement hardware, such as civil works and
   textbook distribution. However, without substantial investment in software such as effective teacher
   training programs, curriculum reform, capacity-building at all levels of the system (from central to
   regional, down to district, and finally to individual schools), the overall quality of education cannot be
   improved significantly.

   (9) Better target the disadvantaged areas and groups. Access to education and quality of learning
   are uneven across regions and groups in Ghana. For example, children in the northern region have the
   lowest enrollment rates and poorest learning outcomes; and girls have less chance of access to
   education than boys. The design of the BESIP project failed to take enough actions to address these
   issues. In order to effectively achieve development objectives, future operations should place
   considerable emphasis on identifying and targeting disadvantaged areas and groups early in the process
   and following up with close monitoring.

   (10) Enhance communication and information/knowledge sharing and promote best practices. Some
   staff in the MOE and GES were not motivated in implementing the BESIP because they did not have a
   clear understanding of the project. The coordination among different agencies was weak due to a lack
   of effective communication. Therefore, it is absolutely crucial to establish an institutional culture in
   which inter-communication is encouraged, and in which information and knowledge are shared in a
   timely fashion (a) among units within one government agency; (b) across different but related
   government agencies and other stakeholders; and (c) from the central level to the local level.    Many
   units in MOE and GES suffered weak management efficiency, and it might be helpful to these units if
   good practice, such as FPMU's experience in efficient management protocols and capacity-building, is
   disseminated and shared.

2) Specific Components' Lessons:

   (1) Textbooks Distribution

   ·   Place a greater emphasis on quality control. The quality of the textbooks was poor (see section
   4.2) and this serious defect could have been avoided if a much stronger quality-control mechanism for
   the entire process had been in place. One of the drawbacks regarding quality-control under BESIP was
   the lack of monitoring and evaluation procedures in the early stages. It was too late to discover
   problems when the textbooks were already printed, bound, and even distributed.




                                                     - 19 -

·   Ensure a logical sequence in the development and distribution of syllabi and textbooks.
Although extensive efforts were made under BESIP to distribute the textbooks, a major deficiency was
the mismatch between the newly developed or revised syllabi and old textbooks for the core subjects
such as English, Mathematics, Science, and Social Studies. It would be much more useful if there
were sufficient time to allow the new textbooks--which comply with the new/revised syllabi--to be
developed and distributed.

(2) In-service Training

·   Transform the sporadic training to a comprehensive in-service training system. Sporadic
training activities cannot meet the goal of significantly improving the quality of teaching. A
comprehensive in-service training system must be in place to ensure training courses that are
well-designed and better-targeted with both continuity and regularity. The contents of the courses
should be improved and revised constantly according to emerging demands.

(3) Education Management Information Systems (EMIS)

·   Ensure a realistic plan and gradual expansion. Development of EMIS systems is a costly process
and needs highly skilled experts in at least three broad areas: various computer specialists and
programmers, education specialists, and statisticians. The national EMIS development plan should be
realistic and should be divided into phases. It is very important to have a pilot phase with a very
limited scope so that all the components can be tested thoroughly, and then to gradually expand the
system. Rapid and mass expansion may risk a collapse of the entire system if the institutional, human,
and financial capacity are not already in place.

·   Ensure sustainability. Without mechanisms to ensure sustainability, EMIS systems will
eventually be out of business and the investment will be wasted, a tragedy for developing countries.
One of the important elements that helps sustainability is to have technically sound designs of EMIS
software applications from the beginning with flexibilities for later enhancement when new demands for
data emerge and new technology becomes available. Therefore, it is crucial to have in-depth
consultations with stakeholders and to form a development team that comprises members with the best
skills available in the market. In addition to the technical requirements, institutional capability and
financial capacity are the other two most important factors for ensuring sustainability.

·   Create a data-driven culture. EMIS systems are only useful and sustainable when data gathered
are used by decision makers. Therefore, effort must be placed on fostering an environment at all levels
of the education system that promotes a culture of making education decisions based on data and
information. Meanwhile, a reliable and high quality EMIS system must be in place to produce accurate
and timely data. High data demands and a quality EMIS system are complementary to each other: they
depend on and provide support to each other.

(4) Civil Works:

·   Enhance the role of regional offices. The implementation of construction and rehabilitation of
school blocks was managed by District Assemblies, an arrangement which has proven to be an
effective decentralized approach. However, the quality of implementation is uneven across districts.
The role of regional offices in supervision to ensure consistency across districts should be encouraged,
while more capacity-building activities are underway and management protocols are introduced at the



                                                 - 20 -

    district level.

    ·    Involve communities and schools in supervision. The involvement of schools and communities
    (e.g., SMC, PTA) in the supervision of new construction and rehabilitation of classroom blocks would
    enhance the quality and timeliness of the project's completion. They are the ultimate beneficiaries and
    have a strong motivation and advantages (at least the convenience of proximity) to supervise these
    projects.

    ·    Ensure a transparent and fair process in identifying needy sites for new construction and
    rehabilitation of schools. Once such a process is in place, the most needy schools can receive genuine
    benefits. Also, there should be a system to reward those communities that use their own funds to
    construct/rehabilitate their schools.

    ·    Pre-screen the contractors. Performance of contractors should be regularly assessed so that poor
    performing contractors are taken off the short-listed firms allowed to bid for jobs.

    ·    Place more emphasis on maintenance. Maintenance funds have to be considered and budgeted in
    recurrent spending. Without sufficient maintenance funds, the newly constructed classrooms will
    deteriorate rapidly and jeopardize long-term sustainability.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

Following is a brief synopsis of the Government of Ghana's comments:

PROJECT OBJECTIVE: The development objective of BESIP was to improve the teaching process and
learning outcomes; strengthen management of the basic education system; improve access to basic
education; and to ensure financial sustainability.

ACHIEVEMENTS: Given the many interventions by other development partners in the same objectives as
above and over the same period, the degree of achievements that could be attributed to BESIP is difficult to
determine. Overall, steady improvements were made in quality. CRT scores showed improvements in both
English and Mathematics over the period of the project, both in mean scores and in the percentage of pupils
attaining masterly levels. Access and participation also improved, as measured by output indicators such
as Gross Enrollment Ratio, Primary School Intake Ratio and Share of Girl's Enrollment. No discernible
improvements were established for resource use efficiency.

ACHIEVEMENT OF OUTPUTS: The project procured 1,846,626 and 1,767,893 reprints respectively in
English and Mathematics for BI ­ B3; 1,560,677 and 1,407,209 copies for B4 ­ B6 and similar levels for
JSS to attain the ratio of one book per pupil. Three parallel examinations ­ QUIPS, QUATEM, CRT ­
were financed over the period for assessment of teaching and learning. TIMSS was also embarked on at
later stages. With regards to curricula development, the syllabi from B1 ­ B9 were reviewed in both
existing and new subjects. Capacity building was also undertaken in the CRDD. Phases I and II of an
EMIS project were concluded, with EMIS essentially installed in 26 of Ghana's 110 districts. A school
census is now captured from primary to senior secondary school. Management training was somehow
restricted to only five short courses for senior management of GES / MOE. The project constructed 4-unit
teacher accommodation, classroom blocks and KVIPs beyond the original targets. It also provided dual desks,



                                                    - 21 -

teachers' chairs, library chairs for newly constructed / rehabilitated blocks and other selected classrooms. BESIP's
intervention in Girl's education was somehow limited.

FACTORS AFFECTING PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMES: Generally, no serious
exogenous factors beyond the Government's control impacted on project implementation. There were also
no serious factors within Government control that adversely affected project implementation.

COSTS AND FINANCING: Disbursements generally deviated from allocations at both appraisal and at
the mid-term review, mostly due to re-allocation of unallocated funds rather than cost escalations. Cost of
civil works was US$14.13 million compared to allocation of US$13.52 million; goods cost US$23.84
million compared to allocation of US$17.0 million; further, unallocated funds of US$10.14 million reduced
to nil.


SUSTAINABILITY: BESIP cannot be sustained without further donor interventions over a long period of
time.

WORLD BANK PERFORMANCE: The Bank's performance was rated very satisfactory. It provided
technical and specialist support in project identification; provided a thorough project appraisal and offered
effective supervision over the duration of the project. Staff turnover, however, was considered too high.


BORROWER PERFORMANCE: The borrower instituted collaborative fora for the participation of
development partners and other stakeholders in project identification. Though project implementation
spanned four Ministers and two Governments, it never waned. Macro-economic and other conditions
pledged by the Government towards BESIP implementation were mostly sustained. The Borrower's
performance was generally considered satisfactory.


LESSONS LEARNED: A number of lessons were learnt including: need for stakeholder participation and
greater levels of monitoring; need to widen criteria for selection of deprived schools; and new school blocks
also to serve to attract and retain pupils while improving capacity.


(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A

10. Additional Information

None




                                                         - 22 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                     1
               Indicator/Matrix                  Projected in last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate
QUALITY OF TEACHING AND LEARNING
OUTCOMES:

(1). Student achievement to be assessed
through performance on the Criterion
Referenced Tests (CRT) administered
annually to grade 6 Primary pupils.
                                                                          - 2002 CRT report not yet completed. 2000 is
- Base-year (1996) data:                                                  the latest available data on CRT:

Mean Scores:                                                              Mean Scores:
English:    33.0                                                          English:    36.9
Math:       28.8                                                          Math:       32.3

Mastery Level:                                                            Mastery Level:
English:    5.5%                                                          English:    9.4%;
Math:       1.8%                                                          Math:       4.4%

-Target: not established

(2). Teacher absenteeism:                                                 (2). Teacher absenteeism:
- Base-year data: not available                                           Data is not available.
-Target: year-on-year improvement

(3). Pupil/textbook ratio, core subjects                                  (3). Pupil/textbook ratio, core subjects
-Base-year data: not available                                            - 79% schools reached 1:1 ratio of pupil to
-Target: 2:1                                                              text books
                                                                          (Data is based on BAS)



MANAGEMENT EFFICIENCY
OUTCOMES:

Base-year (1994) data and Target:
                                                                          -Based on 2001/2002 EMIS data.
            Base-year            Target
(1) Pupil/teacher ratios in public schools:                               (1) Pupil/teacher ratios:
   Primary:    30.7                  31.5                                    Primary:                   32.9:1
      JSS:     21.6                 26.1                                       JSS:                     18.5:1

(2) Number of teachers in public schools:                                 (2) Number of teachers in public schools:
   Primary:     62,608             80,218                                    Primary:                   64,197
      JSS:      30,580            33,206                                      JSS:                      40,011

(3) Ratio of teachers/administrative staff:                               (3) Ratio of teachers/administrative staff:
-Base-year data: not available                                            -Data not available.
-Target: to be monitored



ACCESS AND PARTICIPATION:

(1). Improving access and participation in                                (1). Improving access and participation in
primary and JSS:                                                          primary and JSS:

-Base-year (1994) data and Targets:
                                                                          Based on 2001/2002 EMIS data:
                        Base-year      Target
Primary:                                                                  Primary:
Gross Enrollment Rate: 76.0%           82.6%                              Gross Enrollment Rate:            80%
Public Enrollment:    1,920,803    2,524,400                              Public Enrollment:             2,113,749
Private Enrollment:     233,843      357,200                              Private Enrollment:             472,685
Grade 1 Gross Intake Rate: 82.5%       94.0%                              Grade 1 Gross Intake Rate:        76%




                                                       - 23 -

Grade 1 Repetition Rate:      5.5%       3.2%                                Grade 1 Repetition Rate:          N/A
Grade 1 Dropout Rate:          4.9%     2.9%                                 Grade 1 Dropout Rate:             N/A
Grade 6 Repetition Rate:       2.5%      1.5%                                Grade 6 Repetition Rate:          N/A
Primary Repetition Rate:         N/A                                         Primary Repetition Rate:          7.7%
P1 Completion P6 Rate*         75.4%     N/A                                 P1 Completion P6 Rate:            69%

Primary to JSS Transition Rate:                                              Primary to JSS Transition Rate:96%***
                              94.5%     96.7%

JSS:                                                                         JSS:
Gross Enrollment Rate:       58.7%        N/A                                Gross Enrollment Rate:             64%
Public Enrollment:         659,853     865,800                               Public Enrollment:               741,895
Private Enrollment:        30,707     111,000                                Private Enrollment:              123,741
JSS Repetition Rate          N/A                                             JSS Repetition Rate:              4.4%
JSS1 Completion JSS3 Rate**:                                                 JSS1 Completion JSS3 Rate:         80%
                            82.4%         N/A
                                                                             ***data is from Education Sector Review,
* P1 Completion P6 Rate: Share of primary                                    MOE, October 16, 2002
grade 1 students eventually completing grade
6.

** JSS1 Completion JSS3 Rate: Share of
JSS grade 1 students eventually completing
JSS grade 3.

(2). Improvement in the share of girls'                                      Based on 2001/2002 EMIS data:
enrollment:
                                                                             -Girls' share in the total enrollment
-Girls' share in the total enrollment (1996):                                   Primary:                      47.5%
    Primary:           46.6%                                                    JSS:                          45.4%
   JSS:               43.1%

-Target : not established




FINANCIAL INDICATORS: education
maintains its share of the total government
recurrent budget; basic education maintains
its share of total education budget.
                                                                             Data Source: PBME, Analysis of Actual
              Base-year (1994)        Target                                 Expenditure (2000:

(1) Share of MOE/GOG budget:                                                 (1) Share of MOE/GOG budget:          20%
                        38.5%          38.8%                                 (additional 7% to districts and others)

(2) Share of Basic Education                                                 (2) Share of Basic Education in MOE
    in MOE Budget:      64.5%           65%                                  Budget:                              58%

(3) Share of non-salary expenditure                                          (3) Share of non-salary expenditure

      Basic Education:                                                          Basic Education:                 7.4%
     -Target : not established


Note:
This project was developed prior to the new logframe indicator format; therefore, the indicators listed in the table
do not exactly fit the new logframe format.

N/A: Data not available.




                                                      - 24 -

Output Indicators:
                                                             1
             Indicator/Matrix            Projected in last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate


                                                                  Distribution of textbooks:
                                                                    English:                 4,417,772
                                                                    Mathematics:             4,142,425
                                                                    Science:                 1,047,517
                                                                    Social Studies:             972,206

                                                                  Syllabi:                       96,200
                                                                    Globals (World Atlas):         6,500
                                                                    Teachers' Bicycles:         14,400


                                                                  New construction:
                                                                    344 four-unit teacher accommodation
                                                                     blocks;
                                                                     101 primary school classroom blocks;
                                                                     50 JSS classroom Blocks;
                                                                     151 dry sanitation facilities (KVIP).

                                                                  Rehabilitation:
                                                                     2,300 classrooms

                                                                  School Furniture:
                                                                    13,800 dual desks for primary schools;
                                                                    3,450 dual desks for JSS;
                                                                    3,750 library tables and chairs;
                                                                    893 teacher tables and chairs.


                                                                  EMIS units were established in 10 regions
                                                                  and 26 districts.
Number of School Management Committee
(SMC) established                                                 80.8% schools having SMCs.


1End of project




                                               - 25 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal         Actual/Latest      Actual/Latest
                                                           Estimate            Estimate           Estimate
          Project Cost By Component                      US$ million         US$ million       % of Appraisal
 1. Enhanced Quality of Teaching and                         125.4                17.7               14.1
 Learning
2. Management for Efficiency                                  28.8                10.9               37.8
3. Improving Access and Participation                         58.8                19.2               32.7
   Contingencies                                              28.6                 0                  0
             Total Project Costs                             241.6                47.8               19.8
Note:
The large discrepancies in project costs between the Appraisal Estimate and Actual/latest Estimate were due to the change
from a sub-sector program to a stand-alone project. The project costs for the Appraisal Estimate included anticipated funding
for FCUBE from all donors, GOG and IDA; while the project cost for Actual/latest Estimate included only IDA funding and
GOG counterpart funding for BESIP.



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)

          Expenditure Category                      ICB              LIB        NCB        Other         NIFa/            Total
 1. Civil Works                                      3.1             0.00        9.0         1.5          56.6             70.3
                                                    (2.9)          (0.00)       (8.4)       (1.4)        (0.00)           (12.7)
 2. Goodsb/                                          3.4             0.6         4.4         1.7          97.9            108.1
                                                    (3.1)           (0.5)       (4.0)       (1.6)        (0.00)           (9.2)
 3. Operating Costc/ for
    (a) Staff Redeployment                          0.00             0.00        0.00        2.1           2.4              4.5
                                                   (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)      (2.0)        (0.00)           (2.0)
    (b) Others                                      0.00             0.00        0.00        4.5           5.2              9.7
                                                   (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)      (2.2)        (0.00)           (2.2)
 4. Consultants' Services/Studies                   0.00             0.00        0.00        2.2           4.4              6.6
                                                   (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)      (2.2)        (0.00)           (2.2)
 5. Training d/                                     0.00             0.00        0.00       12.3          19.5             31.8
                                                   (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)     (12.3)        (0.00)           12.3)
 6. Support for School Improvement e/               0.00             0.00        0.00       10.7          0.00             10.7
                                                   (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)      (9.4)        (0.00)           (9.4)
                     Total                           6.6             0.00        13.5       34.9          186.1           241.6
                                                    (6.0)          (0.00)       (12.4)     (31.1)        (0.00)           (50.0)
Note:
This table is copied from the Staff Appraisal Report, May 24, 1996.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
a/ Not financed under the proposed IDA Credit for BESIP. However, the ongoing Primary School Development Project (Cr.
2508-GH) will finance some of the Betterment Activities in the FCUBE Program which are consistent with its objectives, and
will use ICB/LIB or other procurement methods as appropriate.
b/ Aggregated for direct contracting of goods are included under the "Other column."
c/ Includes cost associated with the redeployment of MOE/GES staff, and incremental expenditures incurred for the carrying
out of the Project for travel allowances, office communication, minor office equipment and supplies, utilities, fuel, vehicle and
equipment maintenance.
d/ Includes in-service training of education personnel; training for members of SMCs, district Assemblies etc.; some overseas
training.
e/ Mainly activities that may be included under the School Improvement Fund.




                                                              - 26 -

    Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)

         Expenditure Category                       ICB                LIB             NCB           Others          Total Cost
 1. Civil Works                                     0.00               0.00            15.42           0.00             15.42
                                                   (0.00)             (0.00)         (13.878)         (0.00)          (13.878)
 2. Goods                                          19.74              0.340            5.73            0.00             25.81
                                                 (19.148)             (0.34)          (5.157)         (0.00)          (24.645)
 3. Operational Cost for
     a. Staff redeployment                          0.00               0.00            0.00           0.388             0.388
                                                   (0.00)             (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.368)           (0.368)
     b. Others                                      0.00               0.00            0.00           0.214             0.214
                                                   (0.00)             (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.107)           (0.107)
 4. Consultant's Services/Studies                   0.00               0.00            0.00           3.779             3.779
                                                   (0.00)             (0.00)          (0.00)         (3.779)           (3.779)
 5. Training                                        0.00               0.00            0.00           1.293             1.293
                                                   (0.00)             (0.00)          (0.00)         (1.293)           (1.293)
 6. Support for School Improvement                  0.00               0.00            0.00           0.948             0.948
                                                   (0.00)             (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.948)           (0.948)
    Total                                          19.74               0.34            21.15          6.622            47.852
                                                 (19.148)             (0.34)         (19.035)        (6.485)          (45.018)
Note:
The figures are provided by FPMU, MOE of Ghana.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan.



Project Financing by Financer (in US$ million equivalent)
     Component            Appraisal Estimate             Actual/Latest Estimate             Percentage of Appraisal

                       IDA BESIP    Govt. and    IDA BESIP
                            a/      Donors b/         a/        Govt.         CoF.       Banka/      Govt.        CoF.
GOG and Donors                        191.6                     2.476                                 n/a
IDA (BESIP)                 50                     45.018                                 90%
Note:
a/ The actual IDA disbursement level is less than the original US$50 million due to the SDR/US$ currency exchange rate
fluctuations. The original US$ 50 million was only equivalent to US$45. 018 million at the end of the project. The BESIP
disbursed 100% of the IDA funds.
b/ The appraisal estimate (from SAR) did not clearly separate the contribution between the government and donors.




                                                             - 27 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

I.       Costs, Benefits, and Effectiveness

Rate of Return

The SAR proposed a cost-benefit analysis, and more precisely, resorted to estimates of the Internal Rate of
Return (IRR) on investments in education to justify the project. Costs as well as benefits data were
derived from the 3rd Ghana Living Standard Survey (GLSS3), completed in 1992. Two alternative
methods (the "short-cut method" and the "Mincerian method") were used, and both yielded high private
(27.7%) and social (18.5%) returns for primary education; returns to secondary education were also quite
high, but lower both for private (12.4%) and social returns (9.7%) compared with primary education. In
each case, the IRR was higher for females, suggesting that investing in girls' education is even more
warranted.

Among the various well-known methodological problems with using IRR in making decisions on the extent
of public investment in education is the fact that the IRR is based on a past relationship between costs and
benefits, and that there is no guarantee that this relationship will still be valid in the future. In the case of
the BESIP, the IRR was estimated on the data prior to 1992, and it was used to justify investments to be
started in 1996, with no returns until 10 or 15 years later. This considerable time gap between the data
period and the target period makes extrapolation very questionable. Another issue with the IRR is that the
labor "market" is, in fact, largely administered, because of the size of the public sector. Because of these
issues, comparing IRR from an early period to justify investments in a much later period can be only
indicative.

A new GLSS was carried out in 1998, allowing more earning functions -- and hence more IRRs -- to be
estimated. Estimates from this new data suggested a new pattern: returns increased sharply with the level
of education; and returns for females were still higher than those for males (see Teal, F. 2001, "Education,
Incomes, Poverty and Inequality in Ghana in the 1990s". CSAE Working Paper, WPS/2001-21). The data
from the two GLSS surveys reached different conclusions on the relationship between the return and
education level, which demonstrates the strong sensitivity of IRRs.

Effectiveness

Rather than trying to bring together two monetary values of the investment (costs and benefits), and
because of the particular difficulty in attributing dollar values to the multifaceted benefits of education, it
may be more useful to analyze the allocative efficiency of the project, and its contribution to the
educational objectives sought by its interventions. These objectives in BESIP fall in three categories and
correspond to three components of the project: enhanced quality of teaching and learning; management for
efficiency; and improving access and participation.

The first method to assess whether the project was effective in reaching these objectives is to link the
benefit to the total cost of the project. The usual attribution issue makes it difficult to establish a strict
relationship between progress in outcomes and the specific contribution of the project. It is especially true
when the size of the project is only a small fraction of total investments. In the case of the BESIP, the
problem is further compounded by the confusion around the costs of the project (see section 5.4 of the main
text).

For this exercise, it might be more meaningful to analyze project effectiveness component by component



                                                      - 28 -

based on the actual costs of the BESIP (US$47.8 million), because outputs were more precisely defined
and interventions were more precisely identified at this level.

Component 1: Enhanced quality of teaching and learning (US$17.7 million)

In BESIP, the quality of teaching and learning outcomes was measured by the variation in the mean scores
of the Criterion Referenced Tests (CRT). Relating these variations to the cost of the first component gives
an idea of the project's effectiveness. US$17.7 million was spent with English mean scores rising by 3.9
points and with math mean scores rising by 3.5 points. Taking mean scores in English as an example and
assuming the same gross relationship between cost and score improvement, it would take $45.5 million and
13 years to move from the current mean score of 36.9 points to 50 points. Although the dollar amount is
not terribly large, it may not be acceptable to wait that many years before raising the average score to 50
points. As most of Component 1 was (at least in terms of costs) devoted to textbooks and as detailed
figures are available, a more precise assessment of this component can be done through analyzing
effectiveness in printing textbooks. As a result of these efforts, the project can be credited as being
effective. The average unit cost of reprints (English and Math) is $0.37 at the primary level and $0.43 at
the JSS level, and very little disparity is noted around this cost. Such costs are within the range of the price
of reprints obtained in the region, and they stand at the lower end of this range. The quality of the
textbooks has been questioned, however, which would lead to some relativization of this assessment.

Component 2: Management for efficiency (US$10.9 million)

BESIP used the conventional Pupil-Teacher Ratio (PTR) as a proxy of efficient management, because
Ghana had a very low PTR compared with the regional average. The increase of PTR at the primary level
during the project was 2.2 points above the 30.7 base, and occurred as US$10.9 million was spent.
Assuming the same relationship between cost and PTR increase, it would take US$35 million and 22 years
to move from the current PTR of 32.9 to 40 (the benchmark set by the EFA-FTI inductive framework).
Indeed, the limitation of this calculation can be seen immediately because the efficiency gain can be
attributed either to any combination of increases in the number of children or in a decrease in the number of
teachers. What actually took place during the project was that the student population increased more than
the teacher population, resulting in an improvement in the PTR. The value of the indicator itself is also
questionable: while the EFA-FTI initiative aims at a PTR of 40, OECD countries target a PTR of 25 or
less. Therefore, what is called `improvement' in a resource-scarce context would be tagged `deterioration'
in a resource-abundant context. In purely monetary terms, however, having to recruit fewer teachers by
raising the PTR results in savings for the education sector.

Component 3: Improving access and participation (US$19.2 million)

One of the outcomes of this component was the increase of both the absolute enrollment numbers in
primary education and JSS, as well as of the Gross Enrollment Ratio (GER) at these two levels. Based on
the cost of the third project component, US$19.2 million was spent to increase the GER by 3.5 points
(US$5.5 million for each point increase). The enrollment increase in Basic Education corresponded to
US$34 spent per enrollment of each new student. If this gross relationship between cost, time, and
outcome holds, it would take US$110 million and 29 years to reach Universal Primary Education
(assuming GER=100). Compared with the current projections made in the context of the EFA-FTI, this
would be efficient in terms of costs, but not in terms of time.

Another aspect for assessing access is equity. Namely, the extent to which access was more equitable
during the project, and the extent to which the project could be credited with that trend. US$19.2 million


                                                      - 29 -

was spent during the project period with the girls' share in primary enrollment increasing slightly, by 0.9
percentage points (from 46.6% to 47.5%) and in JSS enrollment increased 2.3 percentage points (from
43.1% to 45.4%). Assuming the same relationship between money spent and gender parity decreased, it
would take US$53 million and 14 years to reach the full parity for primary level, and US$38.4 million and
10 years to reach full parity for JSS level. Again, it is not possible to take this type of comparison literally;
still it suggests that more resources must be invested in order to achieve the gender parity in Millennium
Development Goals (MDGs).

                                 Summary of Efficiency Performance
     Component/Objective                         Efficiency Measure                            Cost ($)
                                    Indicator                      Measure
                                                    Increase Mean CRT score in English      4.5 million
                               CRT Scores           by one point
                                                    Reach 50% Mean CRT score in             45.5 million
                                                    English                                 (13 years)
 Quality of Teaching and
 Learning                                           Reprint one copy of textbook for        0.37
                                                    Primary school (average cost:
                               Reprinting           English + Math)
                               Textbooks            Reprint one copy of textbook for        0.43
                                                    JSS (average cost: English + Math)

                                                    Increase PTR by one point               5 million
 Management for Efficiency     Pupils-Teachers
                               Ratio (PTR)          Reach PTR 40                            35 million
                                                                                            (22 years)
                                                    Increase PGER by one point              5.5 million
                               Primary GER
                                (PGER)              Reach 100% PGER                         110 million
                                                                                            (29 years)

 Access and Equity                                  Increase girl's share in primary        21 million
                                                    education by one point;
                                                    Reach full gender parity in primary     53 million
                               Gender Parity        education.                               (14 years)
                                                    Increase girl's share in JSS by one     8.4 million
                                                    point;
                                                    Reach full gender parity in JSS         38.4 million
                                                    education.                              (10 years)




II        Financial Analysis

Conducting a financial analysis of the project is hampered by the confusion about the level of project cost
estimates at appraisal. Depending on the level at which the analysis is placed, the fiscal impact of the
project varies tremendously. Another difficulty stems from the various definitions of the sector itself, and
the various definitions of the education budget. Though it is easy to capture the budget of the MOE, the
GES and other subvented agencies, this is only part of the story (the "discretionary" part), to which at least
two other sources (both are classified as "statutory") must be added: the funds going directly to District
Assemblies and those going through the Ghana Education Trust Fund (GETFund), created in 2000, and
fueled in part by the Value Added Tax (VAT). A further difficulty results the fact that there is a



                                                     - 30 -

substantial difference between allocation and execution of the budget in Ghana. The MOE is particularly
sensitive to this issue: the bulk of recurrent costs is made up of the wage bill, and this part tends to be
under-programmed and over-executed, while the non-salary recurrent expenditures are under-executed.
With regard to capital expenditures, most are funded either by foreign aid or by the GETFund, thus
escaping regular programming and execution.

At the time of the project appraisal, 37 percent of the total discretionary budget was spent on education. At
closing, this proportion had decreased to 24 percent. However, in the same timeframe, as the share of the
state budget in the GDP was increasing, the weight of education spending also increased. With all sources
of financing aggregated, currently 6.5 percent of the GDP is devoted to education, a very high level by
international standards. Spending on primary education represented 39 percent of the education budget,
while spending on basic education (primary + JSS) accounted for 58 percentof this budget. According to
the Ghana Poverty Reduction Strategy (GPRS), spending on education is projected to increase from 24
percent to 26 percent, which is within the benchmark that the EFA-FTI has established in its indicative
framework. Furthermore, this framework recommends that 50 percent of recurrent spending on education
is allocated to primary education. Behind this variety of definitions and projections, the general pattern is
that Ghana is moving toward the Sub-Saharan African norms and averages. To that extent the BESIP has
contributed cannot be easily answered and is largely left uninterpreted.

The BESIP (or more accurately, the IDA Credit) represented about 8 percent of the annual MOE
expenditures (recurrent + capital) on basic education. The financial sustainability of the BESIP can be
assessed when comparing the actual costs of specific investments under the project and their likelihood to
be borne by the Government after the end of the project. In that respect, the situation is mixed: the
budgetary procedures are such that non-salary expenditures are always at risk. Intervention such as
textbooks and EMIS will certainly need more support from the international community; civil works, on the
other hand, are often financed under the GETFund, which acts as the domestic financer of last resort. As
the country moves quickly to a real fee-free primary education era which the BESIP in its contribution
anticipated, the overall financial sustainability of the system lies in the capacity to introduce cost-sharing at
the post-basic levels, and to strengthen the public-private partnership.




                                                      - 31 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              June, 1995


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              February, 1996


 Supervision
              February, 1997            6    1 TECH. MANAGER                  S               S
                                             3 PROJECT OFFICER
                                             1 ECONOMIST
                                             1 CONSULTANT

              May/June, 1997            7    2 PROJECT OFFICER                S               S
                                             1 FINANCIAL ANALYST
                                             1 PROCUREMNT
                                             1 HR ECONOMIST
                                             1 EDUCATION CONSULTANT
                                             1 FINANCIAL ANALYST

              November, 1997            5    2 PROJECT OFFICER                S               S
                                             1 EDUCATION CONSULTANT
                                             1 FINANCIAL ANALYST
                                             1 OPERATIONS OFFICER

              April, 1998               7    1 PROJECT MGR.                   U               U
                                             2 PROJECT OFFICER
                                             1 EDUCATION CONSULTANT
                                             1 PROGRAMMING
                                             SPECIALIST
                                             1 FINANCIAL ANALYST
                                             1 OPERATIONS OFFICER

              September, 1998           4    1 TEAM LEADER                    U               U
                                             1 EDUCATION SPECIALIST
                                             1 PROJECT OFFICER
                                             1 EDUCATION ECONOMIST

              April, 1999               5    1 TEAM LEADER                    U               U
              (Midterm Review)               1 EDUCATION SPECIALIST
                                             1 PROJECT OFFICER
                                             1 PROCUREMENT
                                             SPECIALIST
                                             1 FINANCIAL MGMT. SPEC.

              December,1999             6    1 TEAM LEADER                    S               U



                                              - 32 -

                       1 MANAGEMENT
                       SPECIALIST
                       1 PROJECT OFFICER
                       1 PROCUREMENT SPECIALIS
                       1 FIN MGNT SPECIALIST
                       1 IMPLEMENTATION SPEC.

May/June, /2000      6 1 TEAM LEADER              S    S
                       1 INSTITUTIONAL
                       SPECIALIST
                       1 CIVIL WORKS/TEXTBOOKS
                       1 PROCUREMENT
                       SPECIALIST
                       1 FINANCIAL MGMT. SPEC.
                       1 IMPLEMENTATION SPEC.

December, 2000       5 1 TEAM LEADER              S    S
                       1 EDUCATION ECONOMIST
                       1 CAPACITY BUILDING
                       SPEC.
                       1 IMPLEMENTATION SPEC
                       1 ARCHITECT

March, 2001          5 1 TEAM LEADER              S    S
                       1 IMPLEMENTATION
                       SPECIAL
                       2 EDUCATION SPECIALIST
                       1 EDUCATION SPECIALIST

June, 2001           6 1 TASK TEAM LEADER;        S    S
                       1 IMPLEMENTATION SPEC.
                       2 EDUCATION SPECIALIST
                       1 FINANCIAL MGMT. SPEC.
                       1 CONSULTANT

October, 2001        7 1 TASK TEAM LEADER         S    S
                       1 EDUCATION SPECIALIST
                       1 OPERATION OFFICER
                       1 ECONOMIST
                       1 PROCUREMENT
                       SPECIALIST
                       1 INST. MGT. SPECIALIST
                       1 FINANCIAL MGT. SPEC.

March/April, 2002    6 1 TASK TEAM LEADER         S    S
                       2 EDUCATION SPECIALIST
                       1 OPERATION OFFICER
                       1 INST. MGT. SPECIALIST
                       1 PROCUREMENT
                       SPECIALIST

November, 2002       6 1 TASK TEAM LEADER         S    S
                       2 EDUCATION SPECIALIST



                       - 33 -

                                            1 OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                            1 PROCUREMENT
                                            SPECIALIST
                                            1 FINANCIAL MGT.
                                            SPECIALIST

 ICR
                                      3     1 TASK TEAM LEADER
                                            1 CLUSTER LEADER
                                            1 EDUCATION
                                            SPECIALIST



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               20                        78,600
  Appraisal/Negotiation                  128                        352,000
  Supervision                            278                        840,514
  ICR                                      10                        49,000
  Total                                  436                      1,320,114




                                            - 34 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 35 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 36 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Aide-mémoires of Various Supervision Missions, World Bank, 1997-2002

Back-to-Office Reports of Various Supervision Missions. World Bank, 1997-2002

Beneficiary Assessment Survey Report: Basic Education Sector Improvement Programme, Ministry of
Education, Ghana, December, 2002

BESIP Project Implementation Status Report, Ministry of Education, Ghana, 1998-2002

Country Assistance Strategy of the World Bank Group to the Republic of Ghana, various version,
1995-2002

Correspondence during the project implementation between the World Bank and MOE, 1997-2002

Development Credit Agreement (Credit No. 2885 GH: Basic Education Sector Improvement Programme)
between Republic of Ghana and IDA, July 16, 1996

Education Sector Review (ESR), Ministry of Education, Ghana, October 2002

Education Sector Plan (ESP), Ministry of Education, Ghana, May 2003

FCUBE mid-term Stocktaking Report (1996-2000): Executive Summary of All the Components, GES
Headquarters, Ghana, October, 2002

Implementation Completion Report: Basic Education Sector Improvement Programme, Ministry of
Education, Ghana, December 2002

Programme for the Development of Basic Education Within the Framework of Free Compulsory Universal
Basic Education (FCUBE) by the Year 2005, Ministry of Education, Ghana, September 1995

Project Status Report (PSR), Series #1-#17, World Bank, 1996-2002

Proposal for Restructuring of the IDA Credit 2885 for Free Compulsory Universal Basic Education
(FCUBE): Prepared by the Honorable Minister of Education, Ghana, March 28 1999

Staff Appraisal Report: Ghana Basic Education Sector Improvement Program, World Bank, May 24, 1996

Technical Audit Report for the BESIP Project, ERGS Consortium (contracted by Ministry of Education,
Ghana), December 2002

Textbook Distribution Tracking Survey, Ministry of Education, Ghana, December 2002

Various EMIS documents and reports, MOE, Ghana, 1998-2002




                                                 - 37 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's ICR Contribution

Below is a summary of GOG's ICR contribution:

1.       PROJECT DESIGN AND OBJECTIVE

Within the overall context of FCUBE, BESIP was designed to: improve the teaching process and learning
outcomes; strengthen management of the basic education system through better planning, monitoring and
evaluation; improve access to basic education, especially of girls, the poor and other disadvantaged
segments of the population; and ensure financial sustainability of the Government programme for basic
education over the longer term. The project objective remained unchanged even after the mid-term
restructuring.


2.       ACHIEVEMENTS

Though the level of improvement in Basic Education that can be attributed to BESIP intervention by IDA
credit of US$50 million is difficult to delineate, given the multifaceted interventions by other development
partners in the same direction, definite improvements can be attested to in quality, access and participation
in basic schools. Some degree of efficiency has also been achieved in resource use through improved
management.


(i)      Achievement of Quality

Steady improvements in quality are obvious through assessment of outcome indicators on teaching and
learning. Criterion Referenced Tests administered to a 5% sample of Primary six population of all
categories of schools in the country showed steady improvements in both English and Mathematics. Mean
scores in English increased from 31.6% in 1995 prior to project implementation to 36.9% by 2000, the last
year for which results were available. Scores in Mathematics similarly went up from 25.1% to 32.3% over
the same period. Further, percentage of pupils attaining mastery level (60% in English and 55% in
Mathematics) went up from 3.6% and 1.8% in 1995 to 10.0% and 4.5% in English and Mathematics
respectively.

(ii)     Achievement of Efficiency in Resource Use
Based on the selected pupil / teacher ratio outcome indicator used, performance in this objective actually
deteriorated. Pupil / teacher ratio worsened from 30.7:1 and 21.6:1 in 1995 for Primary and JSS
respectively to 33.4:1 and 18.4:1. The ratio was to remain at the level of 30.7:1 for Primary and increase
beyond 21.6:1 for JSS.

(iii)    Achievement of Improved Access and Participation
There was good measure of achievement in this objective based on the outcome indicators used. Gross
Enrollment Ratio improved from 76% and 58.7% for Primary and JSS respectively before project
implementation to 79.9% and 63.9% by the close of 2001. The Primary School Intake Ratio also went
up from the 82.5% baseline figure to 94.0% by 2000. Similar improvements were recorded in Share of
Girl's Enrollment. For Primary School, there was a rise from the base figure of 46.8% to 47.5% in 2001;
and for JSS from 43.1% to 45.9% over the same period. Figures as generated on Drop Out Rate,
Repetition Rate and Transition Rate, the other outcome indicators used, did not show any such positive
improvement.

3. ACHIEVEMENT OF OUTPUTS BASED ON PROJECT COMPONENTS


                                                      - 38 -

A. COMPONENT 1 - IMPROVING TEACHING AND LEARNING OUTOCMES

(i)      Provision of Instructional Materials

Including additional procurement re-allocations during the mid-term review / project restructuring, 1,846,
626 and 1,767, 893 respective reprints of English Language and Mathematics were made at the cost of
US$357,697 and ¢551.6 million for English Language and US$738,018 for Mathematics, all at Basic 1-3
level. For Basic 4-6 level, 1,560,677 reprints were made at a cost of US$ 753,448 for English Language
and 1,407,209 copies at US$596,513 for Mathematics. The above procurements helped achieve the
objective of one textbook to a pupil in English Language and Mathematics for Basic 1-6. For JSS, the
target was one book per pupil in the core subjects of English Language, Mathematics, Science and Social
Studies. To achieve this, 1,000,469 reprints of English Language were made at a cost of UK£ 91,142 and
US$317,904; 970,323 copies of Mathematics at US$536,300; 1,047,517 copies of Science books at a cost
of US$183,627 and ¢155.520 million; and 972,206 copies of Social Studies books at a cost of
US$245,873.

Other instructional materials procured under this component were 96,200 copies of syllabi at a cost of
US$122,303; 6,500 copies of Globes (World Atlas) at a cost of US$99,515; teacher handbooks and wall
charts; and finally 14,400 bicycles at a cost of US$580,748.

The book to pupil ratio of 1:1 was not fully achieved for reasons such as new enrollments, missing and torn
books, etc. A Beneficiary Assessment Survey undertaken as part of the ICR showed that the ratio was
achieved in 78 per cent of cases.

(ii)     Assessment and Evaluation of Pupil's Performance
Three different parallel examinations were held during BESIP for formative, summative and diagnostic
assessments, which were all considered necessary to track achievements in teaching and learning. The
Criterion Reference Test (CRT), the Quality Improvement in Primary Schools (QUIPS) Achievement
Tests in English and Mathematics (QUATEM) and the Performance Monitoring Test (PMT) were
financed variously by BESIP, USAID and MOE. BESIP funded US$17,000 per annum out of CRT's total
budget of US$85,000.
BESIP also supported a fourth pupils' assessment tool, TIMSS or Third International Mathematics and
Science Study which allows analysis of learning achievement in relation to learning environment, teaching,
practice and other factors that affect quality of learning.

(iii)    Curriculum Review and Development
Over the period of BESIP implementation, syllabi from B1 ­ B9 were reviewed for all existing subjects and
the following new subjects: Ghanaian Language and Culture, Environmental Studies and Religious and
Moral Education for B1-B3; Environmental Studies and Integrated Science for B4--B6, and Social
Studies, Pre-technical Skills and Pre-vocational Skills for JSS. But the reviews were late and came after
2000, by which time BESIP could not accommodate development and printing of new textbooks before
credit closure.
Under the component, the Curriculum Research and Development Division of Ministry of Education was
also strengthened through the provision of a Resource Center at a cost of US$46,000. There was also
capacity building, with the Director benefiting from a 3-month intensive course and two other staff
postgraduate training in curriculum development.

B.       COMPONENT 2 ­ MANAGEMENT FOR EFFICIENCY


                                                      - 39 -

(i)      EMIS
EMIS was designed to support policy analysis and planning, the management review process, and the
monitoring of FCUBE program targets and standards. Phase I was completed in August 1999 and covered
installation of EMIS infrastructure, software and system in four districts of each of Central, Ashanti and
Northern regions. EMIS Phase II expanded to two districts in each of the remaining seven regions of the
country. The project also established a system of data generation in the remaining districts. By the
completion of BESIP, EMIS had succeeded in: capturing school census data from primary to senior
secondary level with only a year in arrears; establishing a GIS for mapping out school locations; and
developing FCUBE monitoring indicators in a three-year trend.
As BESIP came to a close, effective functioning of EMIS was constrained by: overly ambitious project
design, with only 26 out of 110 districts nationwide covered after 5 years and US$4 million outlay;
inadequate staff capacity to sustain it at the district level; and inadequate training at pilot sites.

(ii)     Management Training
Achievement in this component was limited, resulting from re-orientation of the project after mid-term
restructuring. Five short but high-priority training programmes were provided at a cost of US$100,000 to
senior management of MOE / GES, aimed at improving management practices.

C.       COMPONENT 3 ­ IMPROVING ACCESS AND PARTICIPATION

(i)      Construction of Classrooms / School Blocks
A total of 344 No. 4-unit Teacher Accommodation, 101 Basic 1-6 classroom blocks, 50 JSS classroom
blocks, and 151 KVIPs were constructed with IDA contribution of US$10.53 million. The targets of the
subcomponent were more than achieved. For example 151 KVIPs were provided against a target of 80
KVIPs and 344 No. 4 ­ unit Teacher Accommodations against the target of 200 No. 6-unit Teacher
Accommodations.

(ii)     Provision of School Furniture
BESIP, under the subcomponent, financed construction of furniture for newly constructed / rehabilitated
schools and some other selected schools. A total of 13,800 dual desks for Basic 1-3; 3,450 dual desks for
Basic 4-6; 832 teachers' chairs; 150 headteachers' chairs / tables and 3,750 library chairs were provided
with a BESIP contribution of US$ 1.9 million. Achievements surpassed targets as was the case with
construction of classrooms / school blocks.

(iii)    Schooling Improvement Fund and Mainstreaming of Good Practices
Nothing was done under this subcomponent. US$100,000 was allocated for mainstreaming good practices
in schooling improvement and other similar interventions such as WSP, QUIPS, CSA, Childscope was not
utilized by the time of credit closure.

(iv)     Girl's Education
The subcomponent was curtailed drastically from the original objective following mid-term review.
BESIP's intervention was only US$50,000, with other development partners taking on major activities
beyond BESIP's. Interventions generally focused on: PLA in pilot districts to identify constraints to girls
participation and formulation of effective programs to remove such constraints; review of curricula and
textbooks to reflect gender sensitivity; study on rural teachers; and study on scholarship programs.

4.       FACTORS AFFECTING PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMES




                                                       - 40 -

(i)      Factors outside the control of Government and MOE

No serious exogenous factors impinged on project implementation or outcome, though factors leading to the
mid-term restructuring could be recounted here. Soon after implementation of BESIP started, many
development partners got highly involved in FCUBE, with all requiring the attention of the same limited
capacity of MOE. Granted that it takes time to build capacity, there was nothing GOG or MOE could do
in this case.

(ii)     Factors generally subject to Government control
A high level of government commitment spanning two different governments and four ministries accounted
for the relative success in project implementation and outcomes. Political and economic stability over the
period strengthened the implementation process, though delays in counterpart funding did delay
implementation of some components.

(iii)    Factors generally subject to MOE control
Poor implementation of lessons learnt from previous projects and lack of coordination during
implementation affected project outcomes. Lessons such as lack of ownership, weak communication and
coordination were not adequately integrated into BESIP.

5.       COSTS AND FINANCING

Actual disbursement exceeded allocations, both at appraisal and at midterm review, for reasons of
increased procurements rather than cost escalations, with reallocations made from the unallocated funds.
At the conclusion of BESIP, the costs of civil works and goods were respectively US$14.130 million and
US$23.840 million, while unallocated funds were reduced to nil. This contrasts sharply with allocations of
US$11.0 million for civil works; US$8.2 million for goods; US$10.8 million for training; and US$14.4
million allocated funds at project appraisal. Final disbursements similarly deviated from the re-allocations
during the midterm review of US$13.52 million for civil works; US$17.00 million for goods; and
unallocated funds of US$10.14 million.

6.       PROJECT AUDITS

Audit reports on project implementation were sent to the bank within the stipulated six months. They were
found satisfactory and no queries were ever raised.

7.       SUSTAINABILITY

The project's sustainability appears highly unlikely, either in terms of sustaining what has been funded
under BESIP, or of the Government providing additional institutional materials and school blocks. Already
the percentage of pupils with books has fallen from 100 per cent to 78 per cent because of poor
maintenance of the books and increasing enrollment beyond replacement levels. During the Beneficiary
Assessment Survey, participants reiterated that the assistance of development partners would be required
for a long time if the objectives of improving the quality of teaching and learning as well as increasing
access are to be achieved.

8.       WORLD BANK PERFORMANCE

The Bank's performance was very satisfactory overall. Relying effectively on its previous experience in
education in Ghana, the Bank provided abundant technical and specialist support in project identification


                                                    - 41 -

and offered peer review of the process. The Bank's performance at project preparation was similarly
effective. It provided generous project preparation funds and agreed to a procurement plan to strengthen
the implementation process.

The project appraisal process was thorough. Several conditions were set for credit effectiveness to ensure
sound management of the programme. The Bank also ensured a workable implementation plan and
attainable performance indicators through several peer reviews.

Supervision was considered effective throughout project implementation. Supervisory missions by Bank's
staff and consultants on specific issues such as the civil works audit were very helpful. Field visits were
regularly undertaken as part of missions.

Staff turnover during project implementation was too high and the Bank was adjudged guilty in
introducing and funding new subcomponents ­ e.g. TIMSS ­ while original subcomponents ­ e.g. CRT ­
lacked funding.

9.       BORROWER PERFORMANCE

The Borrower, through the strategic leadership of the then sector Minister and his Special Assistant
formulated BESIP within the overall context of FCUBE. The team instituted collaborative forums for
development partners and other stakeholders to participate and to contribute meaningfully to project
identification and preparation, which eventually proved a success.

Though implemented over four Ministries and two Governments, the overall acceptance of FCUBE, and
hence BESIP, ensured effective project implementation. The government's commitment never waned over
the period. A Basic Education Development Policy was issued by the government to reinforce that
commitment. The government also sustained the macro-economic projections made over the duration of
BESIP, including economic growth of 5 per cent; stable macro-economic conditions and public spending,
including MOE's recurrent budget staying at a constant share of GDP.

10.      LESSONS LEARNT

l Stakeholder participation in the entire range of the programme is necessary for success;
l Non-involvement of Regional Directors of Education in Programme Implementation undermined
    coordination and monitoring;
l Criteria used for selection of deprived schools was too restrictive, and one-off data collection from
    districts was unreliable for decision making;
l Educating beneficiaries on interventions made on their behalf would promote better understanding and
    delivery;
l New school blocks improve capacity as well as serve as attractions;
l Work quality on rehabilitated school blocks turned out poor for reasons of poor identification of jobs to
    be done as well as poor construction; and
l Careful categorization of goods and services to be procured at the national level and those to be
    procured at the regional and district levels will enhance work delivery and quality.




                                                      - 42 -

- 43 -

