Report No. 988a-SE
Appraisal of Eastern Senegal Livestock
Development Project Senegal
May 3, 1976
Regional Projects Department                FILE     COPY
Western Africa Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
M
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without Worid Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1.00 = CFAFP 225
CFAF 1.00 = us$ o.444
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
l millimeter  (mm) = 0.0394 inches
l meter        (m)  =39.37 inches
1 kilometer   (km) = C.62 miles
i hectare      (ha) = 2.47 acres
i square
kilometer  (km2) = 0.386 square miles
i kilogram   (kg)  = 2.205 pounds
l ton        (t)   = 2,205 pounds
1 liter      (1)   = 0.26  gallons
ABBREVIATIONS
BADEA       = Banque Arabe pour le Développement Peonomiaue en Afrique
Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa
BNDS        = Banque Nationale de Développement du Sénégal
CFDT        = Compagnie Française pour le Développement des Fibres Textiles
FAC         = Fonds d'Aide et de Coopération
FED         = Fonds Européen de Développement
IDA         = International Development Association
ONCAD       = Office National de Coopération et d'Assistance pour le Développement
ORSTOM      = Office de la Recherche Scientifique et Technique d'Outre Mer
PAM         = Programme Alimentaire Mondial
pY          = Pro.lect Year
RMWA        = Regional Mission in Western Africa of the World Bank
SAED        = Société d'Aménagement et d'Exploitation des Terres du Delta
du Fleuve Sénegal
SATEC       = Société d'Aide Technique et de Coopération
SERAS       = Société d'Exploitation des Ressources Animales du Sénégal
SODEFITEX   = Société pour le Développement des Fibres Textiles
SODEVA      = Société de DéveloppemeLt et de Vulgarisation Agricole
SONED       = Société Nationale des Etudes de Développement
STN         = Société des Terres Neuves
USAID       = United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
Government: July i - June 30
SODEFITEX:   October 1 - September 30



SENEGAL                             FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
EASTERN SENEGAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ..............................  i - vi
I.    ITrRODUCTION .........................................
II.    BACKGROUND ...........................................                 2
A.    General  .........................................               2
B.    The Agricultural Sector  .........................               2
C.   The Livestock Subsector  .........................                3
D.    Pastoral Resources and Livestock Development
Strategy ....................... ..............    6
III.    THE PROJECT AREA .....................................                  7
IV.   THE PROJECT ..........................................                  8
A.    Summary Description .............................    8
B.   Detailed Features  ...............................                9
The Grazing Scheme .........................               9
Animal Health Services  .....................   12
Training  ...................................    13
Project Monitoring and Evaluation, and
Preparation of Follow-up Projects  .... ....   13
C.    Organization and Management  ......           ...............   14
Organization .........         ......................    14
The Project Unit (PU)  ......          ................    15
Pastoral Service (PS)  ......          ................   15
Department of Animal Health and Production .   16
Department of Urban and Rural Hydraulics  ...    16
Department of Rural Equipment  ...... ........   16
Ministry of Education .......... ............   17
Staffing of Key Personnel ........ ..........   17
V.   COST ESTIIATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS  ....              ........   17
A.    Project Costs ............         .......................    17
B.  Financing .......................  19
C.    Procurement .......................    21
D.    Disbursements .......              .................    22
E.    Accounts and Audits  .............            ..........    22
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal team -- Messrs. H.  Ochs,
M. Cernea, A. Kaunan and A. Rychener of IDA, P. Esmiol and C. Megas of RMWA,
and A. Martin, consultant -- that visited Senegal in May/June, 1975.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 2-
Page No.
VI.   PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND PRICES, AND FINANCIAL
RESULTS .............   .................................  23
A.   Production   ......................................  23
B.  M4arkets and Prices ..............................  23
C.  Financial Results ...............................  24
VII.   ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ..................  25
VIII.   AGREEMENTS REACIIED AND RECOMMENDATION ....  ............  26
ANNEXES
1.  The Project Area - Sociological Background
2.  The Livestock Subsector
3.  SODEFITEX
Description and Balance Sheet
Table 1 - Project Unit: Investment Costs
Table 2 - Project Unit: Operating Costs
4.  Grazing Scheme
General Description
A. SODEFITEX - Pastoral Service
Table 1 - Investments Costs
Table 2 - Operating Costs
B. Construction of Firebreaks
Table 3 - Investment Costs
Table 4 - Operating Costs
C. Construction of Watering Facilities
Description
Table 5 - Construction Costs
Table 6 - Cost of Hydraulic Team
D. Livestock Credit
Description
Table 7 - Income, Invest[nent and Operating Costs
Table 8 - Financial Projections (Individual Loan)
Table 9 - Credit Requirement
Table 10 - Cattle Herd Projection - 1 Grazing Unit
E. Functional Literacy Program
Description
Table 11 - Costs of Design, Development and Evaluation
Chart-Phasing of Design, Development and Evaluation



-3-
F. Cattle Herd Projections
Table 12 - With the Project
Table 13 - Without the Project
G. Grazing Scheme - Economic Rate of Return
Table 14 - Economic Rate of Return Calculation
5.   Animal Health Services
General Description
Table 1 - Investments Costs
Table 2 - Operating Costs
Table 3 - Cattle Herd Projection with the Project
Table 4 - Economic Rate of Return Calculation
6.   Project Monitoring and Evaluation
7.   Reporting Requirements
8.   Qualifications Required for the Project's Senior Staff
9.   Summary of Project Costs
10.   Project Cost Phasing
11.   Financing Plan
12.   Annual Disbursement of IDA Credit
13.   Estimated Quarterly Disbursement of IDA Credit
14.   Governnent's Incremental Cash Flow from the Project
15.   Herd Projections of the Project Area's Cattle Population
Table 1 - With the Project
Table 2 - Without the Project
16.   Economic Rate of Return of the Project
Table 1 - Economic Rate of Return Calculation
CHART - Proposed Project Organization and Manaagement
MAP   - Location of Project Activities






SENEGAL
EASTERN SENEGAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The Goverument of Senegal has requested IDA assistance in financing
a livestock project. Its location would be the Eastern Senegal Region which
extends to about 59,600 km2, has some 250,000 people and is very suitable for
livestock production. The region's potential for crop production is not high,
basically because of poor soils, and livestock development constitutes a
rational approach to making the best use of the region's human and natural
resources. An IDA credit of US$4.2 million is proposed. The project would
be IDA's first livestock operation in Senegal and the country's first compre-
hensive effort to increase livestock production by traditional pastoralists
through the combination of veterinary and husbandry improvements. The project
was identified by the Bank's Resident Mission in Western Africa (RMWA) and
prepared by the French consulting firm SATEC, assisted by Government services
and RMWA under a UNDP financed project.
Project Description
il.       The project would assist some 30,000 livestock owners in Eastern
Senegal -- 75% of whom fall within the categories of absolute and relative
poverty -- tO increase their inromes and living standards. This would be
achieved through the development and operation of a controlled grazing scheme
and the provision of effective animal health, extension and credit services.
The project would be carried out over the five-year period, 1976-80, and
would include:
(a) Developing and operating a grazing scheme on about 1.4
million ha of understocked grazing land in the northern
part of Eastern Senegal, involving principally:
(i) organizing some 6,500 predominantly pastoralist
families into about 65 grazing units to whom exclusive
rights to land and watering facilities would be granted;
(ii) constructing about one hundred wells 45 to 75 m
deep, and about 2,400 km of firebreaks;
(iii) granting up to 300 credits to herders for the
purchase of breeding animals, about 500 credits
for supplementary feed (cottonseed) and 30 credits
for ox-drawn carts and small farm equipment.
(iv) designing, developing and evaluating a functional
literacy program for livestock producers.



- Li1 -
(b)  Improving animal health services throughout Eastern Senegal;
(c)  Providing fellowships and opportunities for visits to
livestock development projects abroad for Senegalese graduates,
project staff and pastoral leaders; and providing agricultural
extension workers with training in livestock husbandry in order
that they can serve participants in the grazing scheme and
crop farmers alike;
(d) Monitoring and evaluating the project, and formulating
livestock investment proposals to be included in the master
plan for the development of Eastern Senegal that is to be
prepared in the context of the "Terres Neuves Il Resettlement
and Eastern Senegal Technical Assistance Project" (Credit
578-SE).
The Grazing Scheme
iii.      The project would organize 65 grazing units, which would be
established in years 2 through 5 of the project.  They would be formed after
consultations with pastoralists and local leaders. Under the scheme each
group of pastoralists would be given exclusive grazing rights to a specific
grazing unit; such rights would be granted and safeguarded by Government
and enjoyed by the pastoralists for as long as they followed range, water
and livestock management practices prescribed by Government. The project
would provide for the construction of firebreaks to demarcate and protect
each grazing unit and for two shallow wells per unit. A typical grazing unit
of 22,000 ha would accoxmmodate a group of 100 families of eight members on
average, and at full development about 2,000 cattle and 1,000 sheep and goats.
Government would issue a decree declaring the grazing scheme area a "pioneer
zone" and entrusting the administration of the zone to SODEFITEX -- which
became the regional rural development agency for Eastern Senegal -- together
with the power to grant and recommend the withdrawal of user rights to
pastoralists.
Animal Health Services
iv.       The existing staff of the Regional Animal Health Service (RAHS) is
sufficient and competent, but lacks facilities and funds. Consequently, the
project would provide RAHS with nine veterinary field offices, 40 vaccination
yards, transport, veterinary and laboratory equipment and the incremental
operating funds needed to carry out its project responsibilities. Specifically,
RAHS would carry out under the project a five-year regionwide vaccination
campaign against rinderpest, contagious bovine pleuropneumonia (CBPP), anthrax,
blackleg and bovine/ovine haemorrhagic septicaemia. Following two years of
free animal health services, Government would collect charges for vaccinations
and drugs from participating pastoralists. During negotiations, assurances
were obtained that Government would allow IDA, no later than 18 months after
the signing of the Credit Agreement, to comment on the level and methods pro-
posed for the collection of these charges.



- iii -
Project Execution
v.        The Government would entrust the implementation of the project to
SODEFITEX which itself would establish a Project Unit (PU) at Tambacounda.
SODEFITEX is a corporation (Societe Anonyme d'Economie Mixte), established in
Senegal since 1973, to which Government has alloted overall responsibility
for rural development in Eastern Senegal. SODEFITEX is under the control of
the Minister of Rural Development and Hydraulics (MDRH) and would coordinate
and supervise the entire project implementation. Key project staff would
comprise a Project Director, his Deputy and an Accountant. The unit would
have two specialist sections: (a) a Pastoral Service, headed by a Range
Management Specialist, to handle the grazing scheme, and (b) a Hydraulic
Service headed by a Hydrogeologist responsible for the project's water
development activities. The animal health component of the project would be
carried out by the Department of Animal Realth and Production of the MDRH
through its Regional Service in Eastern Senegal, and the project's water
development, rural engineering and functional literacy components would be
undertaken in close collaboration with, respectively, the Urban and Rural
Hydraulics and Rural Equipment Departments of MDRH and the State Secretariat
for Human Resources of the Ministry of Education.
vi.       Given the shortage of qualified and experienced Senegalese, ex-
patriates may have to be recruited for the following posts: Deputy Director,
Range Management Specialist, and Hydrogeologist. If expatriates are appointed,
the first two would be replaced after about five years and the third after about
three years by Senegalese whose training would be funded under the project.
The project would also provide for 16 man-months of consultant services for
studies related to project implementation and preparation of a second-phase
project.
Cost Estimates and Financial Arrangements
vii.      Project costs for the five-year period 1976-80, including taxes and
duties, are estimated at US$13.0 million. Excluding taxes and duties, which
account for about 19% (US$2.5 million) of project costs, total project costs
would be US$10.5 million. The project would be co-financed by IDA (33%),
the Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa (BADEA) (12%) and the Kuwait
Fund (31%) in a parallel financing exercise, the Senegalese Government (23%),
and livestock owners (1%). The proposed IDA credit of US$4.2 million would
be made to Government on standard terms. BADEA's loan of US$1.6 million would
be to the Government for a term of 25 years, including five years' grace,
at 2% interest rate per annum. The Kuwait Fund's loan of US$4.1 million would
be to the Government also for a term of 25 years, including five years' grace,
but at 2.5% per annum and an administrative fee of 0.5% per annum. Together,
the IDA, BADEA and Kuwait Fund contributions would cover 100% of the project's
foreign exchange costs (US$5.1 million) and 89% of local currency costs
(US$4.8 million) net of taxes. The remaining 11% of local costs would be
met from Government budgetary allocations (US$0.5 million) and contributions
from livestock owners (US$0.1 million).



- iv -
viii.      The Government and the cclenders' funds would be passed on as a
grant to SODEFITEX as project expenditures are incurred. A grant is appro-
priate because: (a) SODEFITEX will receive negligible revenues from the
projectz and (b) except for the grazing scheme, the project would involve
services normally supplied to pastcralists by Government out of general
revenues. During the life of the project, Government would explore means
of recovering costs from beneficiaries of the grazing scheme and any such
revenues would accrue to Government. SODEFITEX would channel US$1.3 million
of its receipts from Government to the Regional Animal Health Service to meet
the expense of the project's animal health component.
Procurement and Disbursements
We~ .development (USS4.9 million less taxes and duties amounting
million r-o be financed by the Government) and firebreaks develop-
.enrt rUSS2 - million less taxes and duties amounting to lS$0.6 to be
'inanced bh  the Covernment) wouild be financed bv the Kuwait Fund and
BADEA, ioans and procurement would be in line with Kuwait Fund and
BADEA procurement procedures. All other procurement would be under IDA
procedures. Contracts in excess of US$50,000 for buildings (US$0.7 million),
and vehicles and equipment (USS0.6 million), aggregating about US$1.3 million,
would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in ac-
cordance with IDA guidelines for procurement; and contracts for less than
US$50,000 would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised
locally. Goods manufactured locally would be allowed a preference of 15%
or the level of applicable import duty, whichever is lower, when comparing
domestic and foreign bids. Contracts of over US$10,000 expected to aggregate
US$0.5 million (namely for the construction of vaccination yards and extension
outposts and the purchase of motorcycles for extension officers), would be
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally. The balance
of equipment required would involve orders costing less than USS10,000 each
(which are expected to aggregate US$0.2 million), and would include furniture
for staff houses, office furnishings, and small equipment. Such purchases
would be made locally following quotations obtained from suppliers. The
services of internationally recruited staff and consultants, costing about
USS1.0 million, would be obtained in accordance with procedures acceptable to
IDA. The remainder of the project costs would be for local salaries and
allowances (US$1.3 million) and for general operating expenditures (USS1.6
million) and would be unsuitable for competitive bidding.
x.        The proceeds of the IDA credit would be disbursed to cover the
following:
(a) 70% of total expenditures for civil works (excluding well
construction) - US$0.50 million;
(b) 100% of foreign exchange costs of vehicles and equipment or,
if procured locally, 65% of total expenditures - US$0.35 mil-
lion;



-v -
(c) 100% of foreign exchange costs for expatriate personnel,
consultant services and training of project staff abroad -
US$0.57 million;
(d) 75% of total costs of livestock credits - US$0.22 million;
(e) 75% of total project incremental operating costs -
US$1.44 million.
US$1.12 million would be unallocated. The Kuwait Fund and BADEA loans would
cover respectively the costs of well construction (US$4.1 million) and Fire-
break construction (USS1.6 million).
Markets
xi.       All output of the project would be consumed domestically.  The
market outlook for the products involved is very good. Meat is increasingly
scarce due to the recent droughts, rapid population growth and urbanization;
and the strength of demand is shown by an increase in cattle prices of about
180% during the past five years. Incremental production induced by the
project at full development would be less than 5% of domestic output, and
as such should find a ready market. Incremental milk production generated by
the project would improve the nutrition of about 30,000 rural families, and
any surplus would find a ready market in Eastern Senegal. Hides and skins
are readily saleable to either the state agency SERAS or local private
tanneries. Marketing arrangements for project output are currently satis-
factory.
Benefits and Justification
xii.      The principal direct benefits from the project would be incremental
annual livestock production worth US$3.0 million in 1975 terms. About
6,500 pastoral families benefiting from the grazing scheme are expected to
increase their average annual cash incomes from their livestock activities
production from US$365 to US$670 per family, while some 24,000 rural families,
profiting only from the improved animal health services, would increase theirs
from USS250 to IJSS310. In addition, about 1,000 seasonal and 80 permanent
jobs would be created.
xiii.     The overall economic rate of return of the project is estimated at
2'31 and analysis shows it to be relatively insensitive to all but major
varïations in costs and benefits.
Risks
xiv.      A field presignature implementation mission, in January 1976,
identified three community grazing units that appear ready to participate
in the procedures, and made recommendations on lhow to faci1itate early
project implementation. However, although interviews of potential participants
in the grazing scheme have indicated that they would welcome such a scheme,
it is extremely difficult to assess at this time (a) the degree and timing



- vi -
of the response of pastoralists to the changes and commitments with which
they would become involved as a consequence of participation, and (b) whether
the participating groups and the Government would be able to prevent encroach-
ment by other pastoralists onto the grazing units. Consequently, this component
is risky and, in a sense, experimental. However, the degree of risk involved
appears acceptable given the generally successful results of similar grazing
schemes in East Africa. Such schemes also appear to offer the only practical
means to achieve significantly better use of the livestock, pasture and
human resources of the area and, at the same time, to prevent environmental
degradation through overgrazing. There are safeguards, moreover, in that
SODEFITEX would have legal powers to protect the grazing units from encroachment
and in that the potential benefits to pastoralists from participating would
be very attractive.
xv.       In order to minimize the risk of non-viable investments, funds for
the grazing scheme would be disbursed for successive phases undertaken only
following the completion and satisfactory management of previous phases.
These safeguards would enable this project component to be modified or even
terminated in the light of experience. Even if it should become necessary
to limit the scope of the grazing scheme, continuation of other project
components would be justified. In particular, the animal health component,
covering the entire Eastern Senegal Region, has a high pay-off, and because
of very low stocking rates in this region does not entail danger of overstocking
and overgrazing. In sum, although the project does involve risks, its potential
benefits are such as to warrant taking them.
Recommendation
xvi.      The project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$4.2 million.



SENEGAL
EASTERN SENEGAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Gevernment of Senegal has requested IDA assistance in financing
a livestock project in its Eastern Region. It would help about 30,000 rural
families to increase livestock production through livestock extension, credit
and animal health services, additional watering facilities, and training.
1.02      The project was identified by RMWA in June 1971 and prepared, in
the period December 1973 to June 1974, by a UNDP-financed French consulting
firm, SATEC, in collaboration with the Government and assisted by RMWA.  The
project would be IDA's first livestock operation in Senegal. So far,,the
Bank Group has provided two loans and nine credits for agricultural development
in Senegal: an agricultural credit program financed by Loan 584-SE (US$3.5
million) and Credit 140-SE (US$6.0 million) in 1969, and Credit 404-SE (US$8.2
million) in 1973; rice development in Casamance financed by Credit 252-SE
(US$3.7 million), and a small resettlement program financed by Credit 254-SE
(US$1.35 million) in 1971; rice development in the Senegal River delta financed
by Credit 350-SE (US$4.5 million) in 1973, and drought relief financed by
Credit 446-SE (US$3.0 million) in 1973. In the credit program, demand for
credit initially developed more slowly than expected because of droughts and
unfavorable terms of trade for farmers and, as a consequence, Loan 584-SE was
cancelled in 1971. However, after demand for credit picked up, IDA provided
an additional US$8.2 million for the program in 1973 (Credit 404-SE). Dis-
bursements of Credit 404-SE are proceeding satisfactorily. The two agricul-
tural credits also provided for technical assistance to Government's ground-
nut marketing and cooperative development agency, ONCAD; unfortunately, un-
like the directly productive components provided by these credits, the
technical assistance has proved of very limited value. The other projects
referred to above are progressing satisfactorily. Three other projects are
just getting under way: the Sine Saloum Development Project (Loan 1113-SE,
US$7.0 million, and Credit 549-SE, US$7 million) and the Debi Lampsar Irri-
gation Engineering Project (Credit S-18-SE, US$1 million) which were signed
in May 1975; and the Terres Neuves II Resettlement Scheme (Credit 578-SE,
US$2 million) which was signed in August 1975.
1.03      This report is based on the findings of an appraisal team -- Messrs.
H. Ochs, M. Cernea, A. Kaunan and A. Rychener of IDA, P. Esmiol and C. Megas
of RMWA, and A. Martin, Consultant -- that visited Senegal in May/June 1975.
A follow-up mission, comprised of Messrs. C. Megas and A. Bah of IDA and
M. Diallo, Consultant, visited the project area in January/February, 1976.



-2-
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      Senegal, located mostly within the Sudano-Sahelian zone on the
West African coast, has a land area of 196,700 km2. The population is esti-
mated at 5.0 million and to be growing annually at about 2.7%   Urban areas
account for about 25% of the total population, the largest being around the
capital, Dakar (pop. 0.8 million). Average per capita GDP, as derived from
national accounts estimates, was about US$445 in 1974; however, per capita
income from farming averaged only about USS85.
2.02      In 1972 the economy came under severe strain as a result of the worst
drought in this century. In 1973 there was another, although somewhat less
severe, drought and by the end of the year foreign reserves had reached an
all-time low of minus US$10 million (in the operations account of Senegal
with the West African Monetary Union), real standards of living in rural areas
had declined to the levels of the early 1960s, and Government's financial
position had become very precarious. Faced with this situation, the Govern-
ment resorted to external borrowing to avoid a slowdown in its investment
program. During 1974 the economic situation improved markedly as a result
of sharp price increases for groundnuts and rock phosphate, Senegal's two
main exports. In addition, satisfactory rainfall in 1974 and 1975 improved
crop production. Further, Senegal improved its financial situation by reduc-
ing consumer subsidies for groundnut oil, rice and sugar.
B. The Agricultural Sector
2.03      Despite relatively poor soils and erratic rainfall, the agricultural
sector is central to Senegal's economy.  It accounts for about 35% (US$650
million) of GDP, up to 70% (US$135 million) of Senegal's exports, and 70%
of all employment. Moreover, as Senegal has few known alternatives,
agriculture will continue to be the largest source of employment for the
foreseeable future.
2.04      There are several important characteristics:  small-scale farms
account for 95% of all production; groundnuts account for almost 70% of agri-
cultural exports; 60% of the rural population is concentrated within about
100 miles of Dakar in the Groundnut Basin; and large areas in the northern
and eastern parts of the country are suitable only for livestock production
under extensive grazing. Thus, there are significant variations in the
distribution of population; on the other hand the differences in cropping
patterns between different regions of the country are much less significant.
2.05      Government's efforts to develop agriculture have been directed to
(a) increasing groundnut and millet: production, especially in the Groundnut
Basin; (b) diversifying production by promoting rice and cotton in Casamance



-3-
and Eastern Senegal, and developing the irrigation potential of the Senegal
river; and (c) encouraging the migration of farmers from the heavily populated
areas of the Groundnut Basin to Eastern Senegal. To date the major component
of Government's rural development efforts has been "Programme Agricole".
Starting in the early 1960s, the program has aimed at increasing the produc-
tion of millet and groundnuts by making animal-drawn implements, fertilizers
and improved seeds available to farmers on credit, providing extension services
to promote the correct use of these inputs, and developing cooperatives to
facilitate the distribution of inputs and crop marketing.
2.06      Government policy is to use semi-autonomous development agencies,
organized on regional lines, to promote and sustain rural development programs.
These agencies report to the Ministry of Rural Development and Hydraulics and
work in close cooperation with BNDS, the national development bank, and
ONCAD, the national cooperative support, input supply, and groundut marketing
organization. For example, SODEVA, the oldest of the agencies provides
services to farmers in the Groundnut Basin, and plays a key role in "Programme
Agricole" which is supported by Credits 140 and 404-SE. Another agency, SAED
is responsible for irrigation development in the Senegal valley and for
projects financed by Credits 350-SE and S-18-SE. SODEFITEX, the ageney
responsible for rural development in Eastern Senegal has developed from a
commodity oriented agency created to develop cotton production. SODEFITEX
now a fully fledged agency, is concerned with activities financed under
Credits 254, 549 and 578-SE, and Loan 1113-SE, and would be responsible for
the project proposed in this report. In addition to the development agencies,
specialized Government departments are responsible for a variety of specialized
services; one of these is the Department of Animal Health and Productions
which mainly provides animal health services.
C. The Livestock Subsector
2.07      Livestock population was increasing rapidly prior to the 1972/73
drought, when losses amounting to about 15% of the country's herd occurred.
At the end of 1973 the cattle population was about 2.2 million.
2.08      Livestock's share of GDP is relatively modest, at about 7.5%
(US$140 million). For 1973, the total value of animal products was estimated
at CFAF 12.0 billion (US$53 million); meat and offal accounted for about
two-thirds, and milk, eggs, hides and skins for the balance. Cattle pro-
duced 42,000 t of meat and offal; sheep and goats, 8,000 t; and pigs and
poultry, 10,000 t.
2.09      Prior to the 1972/73 drought, domestic production covered about 80%
of meat requirements, with the balance coming from Mauritania in the form of
relatively cheap live cattle and sheep. However, Mauritania is now switch-
ing to the export of meat at effectively higher prices. As a result of tight
meat supplies and rising retail meat prices (paras 6.03 and 6.04), per capita



meat consumption has dropped to abcout 10 kg per year from close to 15 kg
before the drought. Per capita fish consumption is the highest in West
AFrica, at about 50 kg/year. Nonetheless, demand for meat remains very
high and there is a ready market for any forseeable increase in production.
Milk imports amount to about CFAF 2 billion (US$9 million) per year.
2.10      The Livestock Producers (Annex 2).  About 2% to 3% of Senegal's
population derive their livelihood entirely from livestock, and another 8%
depend on livestock as their main income source. The Peul, who constitute
one of the country's largest ethnic groups, raise an estimated 70% of the
cattle. While some remain fully nomadic, about 80% are sedentary and move
their herds within quite limited confines. The remaining 30% of the cattle
are raised by other ethnic groups as a complement to farming activities.
Lately, some changes have become noticeable in the attitudes to livestock
production of the traditional pastoralists. Though status and prestige are
still predominant reasons for accurnulating large stock numbers, there is a
rising awareness of the irrational:Lty of maintaining old, unproductive animals
and even a willingness to sell younger animals. Consequently, it would appear
that a transition from subsistence to production-oriented attitudes could be
substantially accelerated provided that incentives and increased marketing
opportunities are made available and programs of education and extension
introduced.
2.11      Livestock Productivity   Senegalese cattle are well adapted to the
environment, but their productivity is low. The main reason is poor nutrition,
particularly during the dry season when weight losses of 10-20% are common.
Weight gains and other technical indices are low (Annex 2); as a result,
total herd offtake is not more thani 10% annually and carcass weights are low
in the range of 125-140 kg.
2.12      The average semi-nomadic herd in the north of Eastern Senegal is
67 cattle, with annual milk and meat production equal to about 19% (US$1,390)
of the herd value (US$7,150); about 23% of this production (US$320) is con-
sumed by the family group, and the balance (USS1,070) is either sold or
represents increased herd value. Including earnings from agricultural and
other activities (estimated at US$30 per capita), a family group of about
25 people would therefore earn a per capita income roughly equal to the
average per capita income of Senegalese small-scale farmers (US$85).
2.13      Animal Health (Annex 5).  A mass iTmmunization campaign in 1964-68
brought rinderpest and pleuropneumonia under control; but these disease
will remain a constant threat untiL a more comprehensive vaccination service
is provided. Many other common diseases (blackleg, pasteurellosis, etc.) are
endemic. Trypanosomiasis occurs but can be controlled by prophylactic or
curative treatments which are becorming increasingly popular among pastoralists.
In sum, Senegal is making a reasonable effort to combat the principal diseases,
but because of inadequate facilities and operating funds, veterinary services
reach only about 45% of the country's cattle population and mortality rates
remain high.



- 5 -
2.14      Livestock Marketing and Processing.  There is a complex traditional
marketing system which involves a large number of established private traders
(Dioulas), intermediaries (Tefankes) and butchers, which handles over 90% of
the annual market throughput. There are about 20 principal and 50 secondary
cattle markets. Animals are sold on appearance only, and sales are usually
for cash. Animals are usually trekked on-the-hoof. The traditional system
performs efficiently under the prevailing conditions and efforts to improve
or change it must be undertaken with caution. Thus in general, marketing
facilities are adequare.
2.15      Taxation.  The livestock head tax suspended in 1972 because of the
drought, was CFAF 240 per adult head of cattle per year, CFAF 30 for small
ruminants, CFAF 650 for horses and CFAF 1,250 for camels. Marketing and
slaughter taxes vary; in Eastern Senegal the charge for cattle is CFAF 100
for marketing and CFAF 250 for slaughtering. Finally, traders and butchers
are charged in proportion to annual turnover. The livestock head taxes are
unpopular, and only about 30% are usually collected; however, they remain
the principal means of raising direct revenue from livestock producers and
provide about 1% of public revenue.
2.16      The Department of Animal Health and Productions of the Ministry of
Rural Development and Hydraulics has seven regional departments with a total
of about 200 veterinary field offices or centers. Considering its present
commitments, the Department is relatively well staffed with 35 veterinarians,
108 livestock officers, and 280 assistant level staff. It is responsible
for free vaccinations, supervision of slaughtering and processing, and animal
production programs. Recently, international drought relief programs have
provided vehicles and other facilities and in some cases operating funds.
Unfortunately, the Department suffers chronically from a shortage of funds
which limits its effectiveness; additionally it is rather weak in planning,
and production aspects are very much secondary to its animal health activities.
2.17      SERAS is a parastatal organization that was created in 1963 to
manage the Dakar slaughterhouse. SERAS has also marketing functions such as
export of hides and skins, and operates the 5,000-steer Doli fattening ranch.
SERAS has serious financial and management problems.
2.18      Training is carried out by the Interstate School for Veterinary
Sciences, in Dakar, which turns out fopr Senegalese veterinarians per year,
and two technical school$ which together train about 40 livestock technicians
per year. Training programs are of a high standard, and the output is suffi-
cient for Senegal's requiremente. Veterinary research comes under the National
Livestock Laboratory, Dakar-Hann, which does diagnostic work and produces
vaccines for Senegal and other West African Countries. Research on livestock
production is pursued on two fronts: (a) the Bambey Research Center, which
is involved with forage production trials and the development of mixed
systems, and (b) the Dahra and Colda livestock stations which are involved
in trials concerning the improvement of Zebu and N'Dama cattle.



D. Pastoral Resources and Livestock Development Strategy
2.19      Pasture, covering about 11 million ha, completed by about 3 million
ha of arable fallow, and the agricultural by-products from an area of 2.5 -
3 million ha of cultivated land, constitute a major national resource.
Under the present traditional system of livestock production, this resource
is grossly underutilized. By controlling bushfires, improving land and
livestock management, and making better use of agricultural by-products,
pasture-based livestock production could be substantially increased.
2.20      Senegalts pasture resource comprises two main components; the
pastures of the Sahel Zone and the pastures of the Sudan and Guinean zones.
The Sahel pasture extending to an estimated seven million ha is a relatively
limited resource even if range management and the veterinary situation are
optimized. Because of low rainfaliL and the long dry season, any significant
increase in livestock numbers appears impractical and production gains there-
fore can come only from increased animal productivity. Currently the best
estimate is that through improved range management and better animal health
care the pre-drought livestock output of the area could be increased by 20%.
Possible projects to accomplish this are under preparation; however given
the complexities involved in developing an appropriate methodology, it is
inevitable that the traditional larid use system will continue to predominate
in the short and medium run and that early productivity increases cannot be
expected.
2.21      The Sudan and Guinean zones of Senegal, in which about 90% of the
project area falls, total some 10 million ha of which about four million ha
remain under pasture. In these are as both higher carrying capacities and
better productivity are possible through improved range and livestock manage-
ment. Further, because their higher rainfall can support permanent and
relatively productive cropping systems, where soils are suitable, they offer
the opportunity for the development of small farm livestock raising and fat-
tening, and have the potential to support mixed farming systems. The develop-
ment of better pasture management and of mixed farming systems will take much
time, however, and an increase in livestock production from these areas
will necessarily be slow.
2.22      The principal problem in developing Senegal's pastoral resources is
to find ways of changing the prevailing traditional and low productivity
livestock production system. The largest failure of this system is that
there are no means of assuring that cattle numbers remain within the carrying
capacity of a given area; and thus, the consequences of "beneficial" measures
such as improved animal health and better water supplies usually result in
overstocking and degradation of pastures. Under the traditional communal
system of pasture utilization, an individual herd owner usually grazes as
many animals as he can in an attempt to maximize his share of the communally
owned pasture resource and has no incentive to control the size of his own
herd or to invest in land improvement. Thus, the problem is how the herd size
may be controlled.



-7-
2.23      It would appear that the solution offering the best prospects is
one of educating the pastoral community as to the deficiencies of the
system and offering them a package of incentives to induce them voluntarily
to control stocking rates. At this time, the concept of each separate
family being allotted its own specific grazing area must be excluded for a
lot of reasons, including social structure, land tenure and administrative
capacity. More feasible appears an arrangement in which a group of related
families is alloted grazing and water rights to a specific area, who, in
return for adopting prescribed husbandry practices and especially limiting
livestock numbers, would be provided with a range of facilities and necessary
services; security of land; stock watering facilities; livestock extension
services, training and credit. The results of similar ongoing schemes in
Eastern Africa which include these principles suggest that this approach
could be successful in the northern part of Eastern Senegal which, because
it is still underpopulated and understocked, appears to offer the ideal site
for such a project.
2.24      The goals of Governments' livestock development strategy were first
enunciated in 1970 and later specified in the 1973-77 plan. The goals'
basis is a doubling of livestock production by 1980. The drought severely
disrupted the implementation of this strategy and in 1975 the allocations
funded in the 1973 plan were revised. Planned investments are US$44 million
of which US$15 million involving some nine projects have already been ob-
tained from external services. Planned investments include improving the
vaccination coverage from 45% to 80%; the improvement of existing and the
construction of new stock watering facilities; the installation of new live-
stock slaughtering and processing facilities; the greater development of the
use of draft animals; the introduction in higher rainfall zones of integrated
livestock and crop farming into a balanced relation and the implementation
of the broad-based range management type of project described in this report.
Consequently, the project is a constituent of Government's livestock develop-
ment strategy.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
3.01      The project would cover the entire Eastern Senegal Region (Annex 1;
Map), which has been neglected in past development programs, although it is
very suitable for livestock production.
3.02      Eastern Senegal is the country's largest (59,600 km2) administrative
region, although its population density is low at only 4.1/km2. Annual rain-
fall, occurring from mid-M4ay to October, increases from about 800 mm in the
north to 1,400 mm in the south. There are about 750,000 ha of agricultural
land (about 150,000 ha are cultivated each year), 4 million ha of pastoral
areas, 415,000 ha of forest, and 740,000 ha of National Park.



3.03      The 250,000 inhabitants of the project areas live in about 1,400
villages and five small urban settlements. About 75% of the Eastern Senegal
population (roughly 190,000 inhabitants) come under the Bank definition of
either absolute or relative poverty and this majority forms the project's
main beneficiary group. It is estimated that about 30% of these 190,000
inhabitants have a per capita income of only US$47 and are therefore absolutely
poor; the remaining 70% have a per capita income averaging US$87, which is
far less than one-third of the national average of US$445, thus placing them
within the relative poverty range. This economic deprivation is compounded
by lack of health and education facilities (the illiteracy rate is about 90%),
endemic diseases (malaria, riverblinduess), and an extremely limitec social
and communication infrastructure in the villages.
3.04      Agriculture is dominated by food crops -- millet, sorghum and
(recently) rice and maize--which cccupy about two-thirds of the cultivated
areas. Cash crops comprise about 40,000 ha of groundnuts and 10,000 ha of
cotton. On the whole, the region's agriculture covers subsistence food needs
(with a surplus in good years) and generates a monetary income of about
CFAF 3,000 (US$13) per capita per year.
3.05      In 1973, Eastern Senegal had about 300,000 head of cattle, or 14%
of the national total. Trypano-tolerant N'Damas (about 85,000 head) are found
in the tsetse-infested southern zone, Gobra Zebus (about 50,000 head) in the
tsetse-free northern zone, and Zebu/N'Dama crosses (about 165,000 head) in
the intermediate zone. The average density is only five cattle/km2, compared
with the national average of about: 11/km2. The region now has less than 20
vaccination yards and only one deep-drilled well.
3.06      The grazing scheme component of the proposed project would be im-
plemented in an area to the north of the Dakar-Bamako railway where cropping
potential is relatively small.  Tlie livestock production pattern is similar
to that described in paras. 2.10-2.14. Key constraints to increasing live-
stock production are the lack of watering facilities, poor access roads, and
bushfires which afflict 50-70% of the area every year. Production is low but
can be improved considerably with the measures incorporated in the proposed
project.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Sum2ary Description
4.01      The purpose of the project is to assist some 30,000 livestock owners
in Eastern Senegal -- 75% of whom fall within the categories of absolute and
relative poverty -- to increase their incomes and living standards. This would
be achieved through the development and operation of a controlled grazing
scheme and the provision of effective animal health, extension and credit
services. The project would be carried out over the five-year period,
1976-80, and would include:



(a) Developing and operating a grazing scheme on about 1.4 million ha
of understocked grazing land in the northern part of Eastern
Senegal, involving principally:
(i)  organizing some 6,500 predominantly pastoralist
families into about 65 grazing units to whom
exclusive rights to land and watering facilities
would be granted;
(ii)  constructing about one hundred wells 45 to 75 m
deep, and about 2,400 km of firebreaks;
(iii) granting about up to 300 credits to herders for the
purchase of breeding animals, 500 credits for sup-
plementary feed (cottonseed) and 30 credits for ox-
drawn carts and small farm equipment;
(iv) designing, developing and evaluating a functional
literacy program for livestock producers.
(b) Improving animal health services throughout Eastern Senegal;
(c) Providing fellowships and opportunities for visits to livestock
development projects abroad for Senegalese graduates, project
staff and pastoral leaders, and providing agricultural extension
workers with training in livestock husbandry in order that they
can serve participants in the grazing scheme and crop farmers
alike; and
(d)  Monitoring and evaluating the project, and formulating livestock
investment proposals to be included in the master plan for the
development of Eastern Senegal that is to be prepared in the
context of the "Terres Neuves II Resettlement and Eastern
Senegal Technical Assistance Project" (Credit 578-SE).
4.02      An appropriately staffed and equipped Project Unit (PU) would be
established under the project at the headquarters of SODEFITEX (para. 4.17),
in Tambacounda, to assure the execution of the project in cooperation with
the Animal Health and Production Department, the Urban and Rural Hydraulics
Department and the State Secretariat for Human Resources.
B. Detailed Features
The Grazing Scheme
4.03      The grazing scheme (Annex 4) would introduce effective range manage-
ment on about 1.4 million ha located in the northern part of Senegal (Map),
uhich due to the lack of watering facilities is presently stocked well below



- 10 -
its potential (1 AU/14 ha, against an estimated potential of 1 AU/7-8 ha). The
subproject area would be divided by firebreaks into about 65 grazing units,
each with about two wells. Fifteen grazing units would be established in each
of PYs 2, 3 and 4, and 20 units in PY5. A group of pastoralists would be allot-
ed exclusive user rights to a grazing unit. These rights would be granted
and safeguarded by the Government (para. 4.18), and would be enjoyed by the
pastoralists for as long as they reasonably follow the range, water and live-
stock management practices prescribed and supervised by SODEFITEX. The pro-
posed approach appears to offer the only means of creating the conditions under
which efficient and stable livestock production can be maintained in the
Sahelian-Sudanian environment without the total destruction of traditional
social patterns. A typical grazing unit of about 22,000 ha would accommodate
a group of about 100 families, of eight members on average, managing at full
development about 2,000 cattle and 1,000 sheep and goats.
4.04      Pastoralist groups would predominantly originate from within or the
immediate neighborhood of the grazing scheme area. Each group of pasto-
ralists would be selected and formed by the Pastoral Service (para 4.07) on
the basis of sociological considerations after consultation with pastoralists,
local leaders and authorities. Each group would elect from its members, a
4-5 person Grazing Unit Committee, headed by a President. The division of
the subproject area into grazing uniits would proceed in accordance with a land
use plan based on ecological and hydrological studies. To achieve an efficient
use of the grazing units' land and water resources, the pastoralists would enter
into a contractual agreement to follow sound management practices--upon which
their exclusive user rights would depend--including: (a) avoiding overgrazing
through rotational grazing; (b) destocking wherever the land-carrying capacity
is excessive; (c) maintaining firebreaks and watering facilities, and combating
bushfires; (d) applying appropriate veterinary measures; (e) following recom-
mended breeding policies; and (f) participating in the functional literacy
program.
4.05      The difficulty of introduicing effective range management under the
project, however, should not be underestimated. The scheme would involve
major departures from the pastoralists' traditional ways, and at the beginning,
they undoubtedly will be suspicious of Government interference. On the other
hand, they have been afflicted by the recent drought and especially by the
increasing dilapidation of their already insufficient wells; hence they should
be more receptive than ever before to innovative practices. It is believed
that the opportunity to obtain exclusive user rights to grazing lands and
to additional watering facilities l'such facilities would be equated with the
units' grazing capacity) and the access to public services contemplated under
the project would constitute strongr incentives for the pastoralists to par-
ticipate. Indeed, it is possible that, after four or five years of experience
with the grazing units, when the pastoralists would feel that their rights
are secure, grazing and watering fees would be introduced in order to de-
crease the Government's recurrent costs in support of this subproject.  The
ultimate goal would be to create an environment in which the groups would
be prepared to invest their own labor and money in the development of their
units.



- 1i1 -
4.06      While the incentives offered to participants should lead them to
participate fully in the project, it would be unwise to rely solely upon
them. Therefore, the power and means to enforce compliance with the manage-
ment covenants are essential for the success of the grazing scheme. Details
of the enforcement procedures would have to be worked out by Government.
During negotiations agreement has been obtained from the Government on the
following main principles: (i) participants who fail to cooperate would be
warned that they may lose their grazing right; (ii) subsequent and persistent
failure to cooperate would lead to the imposition of fines and ultimately to
the cancellation of the grazing rights, with other people (including, possibly,
some of the original constituent families) invited to replace defaulters;
and (iii) the Government would act to prevent the encroachment of other
pastoralists on grazing land vested in a participating group. Clearly, of
course, it is impossible to forecast the nature of all the problems that
will arise and how they will be resolved. A high degree of flexibility will
be required.
4.07      A Pastoral Service (para 4.20) would be created, staffed and equipped
under the project to plan and organize the grazing scheme and to provide
extension to the participants. To that end, four extension posts and 65
outposts (one for each grazing unit) would be established (Map). Details on
the investments and expenditures related to the Pastoral Service are given in
Annex 4-A, Tables 1 and 2.
4.08      To implement the grazing scheme, the project would provide for the
construction by contractors of up to one hundred wells 45 to 75 m deep , at
intervals of about 12 km (Annex 4-C, Table 5). The phasing of their construc-
tion would be in line with the development of the grazing units. This dis-
tance between wells is sufficient, under the particular carrying capacity of
the area, to minimize the danger of overgrazing. Qualified project staff
would be responsible for the siting of the wells and supervision of their
construction (Annex 4-C, Table 6). The project would also provide for the
construction of 2,400 km of 8-12 m firebreaks to protect the range against
bushfires, to demarcate grazing units and to serve as access roads. In
particular, the project would finance heavy equipment for the construction of
about 1,400 km of firebreaks to be executed by the project under the super-
vision of the Pastoral Service; the balance would be constructed by manual
labor in order to give the local population additional income and to train
and organize them for the subsequent manual maintenance of these facilities
(Annex 4-B, Tables 3 and 4). During negotiations, assurances have been ob-
tained from the Government that all of the project-financed wells and firebreaks
will be properly maintained.
4.09      The uncertainties related to the execution of this essential pilot
venture in Senegal, particularly in regard to pastoralist response, calls for
a cautious and flexible approach that would involve progressive application of
the lessons of experience. Ilence, during negotiations assurances were obtained
from the Goverrment that the following conditions would be met before commencing
the first tranche of the well and firebreak program:  (i) the grazing units
would have been surveyed and demarcated; and (ii) the members of the participating
groups would have been selected and have agreed to the terms and conditions



- 12 -
of participation (para. 4.04); and (iii) a land use plan for each grazing unit
had been prepared. Furthermore, the second and successive tranches of the
well and firebreak program would not commence until the Government, IDA and
SODEFITEX had reviewed the results of implementing the grazing scheme during
the preceding season(s).
4.10      Special attention would be given to assisting a certain number of
poor pastoralists who, though experienced in animal husbandry, lack the
means to build up their own herds. Thus, during the disbursement period a
credit program would be developed which would assist: (i) 200 to 300 families
(or 5% of the families in the grazing scheme) in the acquisition of breeding
animals by providing long-term credits covering 80% of the purchase price of
two to five breeding animals per family (totaling about 950 heifers/cows and
50 bulls) for a 12-year term including a four-year grace period at 7.5% per
year (or two percentage points above the preferential rediscount rate of
the Central Bank); (ii) about 500 pastoralist families in the acquisition of
supplementary feed (cottonseed) by providing short-term credits to cover the
entire costs of such inputs totaling about 5,000 cattle annually, for a 12
months term at 7.5% interest rate; (iii) about 30 pastoralist families in the
acquisition of ox-drawn carts and small farm equipment, by providing medium-
term credits to cover 80% of the purchase price of such equipment for a 5-year
term at 7.5% interest per year. The Pastoral Service would approve the ap-
plications which would require previous endorsement by the grazing groups;
extend and manage credits; buy and distribute the animals and the above-
mentioned inputs; establish individual contracts and assist and supervise
the beneficiaries. The individual grazing groups would serve as guarantor
for the repayment of loans, and, for the long-term credits, a compulsory
cattle insurance scheme, managed by the Pastoral Service, would be established
in order to reduce financial risks to the beneficiaries and the group. The
government would cause SODEFITEX to submit to IDA for approval no later than
12 months after the signing of the Credit Agreement, detailed plans for the
implementation of the credit progr;am including a pro-forma subloan agreement.
Appropriate assurances were obtained from Government during negotiations.
4.11      The project would provide for the design, development and evaluation
of a functional literacy program for the pastoralists of the grazing scheme,
to be executed by the Pastoral Servzice assîsted by the State Secretariat for
lluman Resources (Annex 4-E, Table 11). The objective of this program would
be to reinforce the impact of the Plastoral Service on the participants in
the grazing scheme. The program would involve about 20 functional literacy
groups, which would be instructed by specially trained literacy instructors,
using didactic materials developed in the local language. At the end of the
course, the participants' comprehension and application of the techniques and
methods recommended by the Pastoral Service would be assessed.
Animal Health Services
4.12      Most of the cattle diseases prevalent in Eastern Senegal (para. 2.13),
which are an important factor in the low productivity of the local herds, are
controllable by means of effective animal health services. While the existing
staff of the Regional Animal Health Service (RAHS) is sufficient and competent,



- 13 -
it lacks facilities to provide ample and timely care to the cattle population.
Investment in the appropriate facilities would have a high pay-off in terms of
improved cattle productivity and increased incomes for a considerable number of
herdsmen. The project would therefore make available to the RAHS nine veteri-
nary posts, 40 vaccination yards (Map), transport, veterinary and laboratory
equipment, and incremental operating funds principally for the operation of
vehicles and the purchase of drugs, medicines and vaccines. Details are
given in Annex 5, Tables 1 and 2.
4.13      Specifically, the RAHS, as strengthened under the project, would carry
out a fivs-year regionwide vaccination campaign against rinderpest, contagious
bovine pleuropneumonia (CBPP), anthrax, blackleg and bovine/ovine haemorrhagic
septicaemia. Drugs against trypanosomiasis and internal parasites would also
be available. To act as an incentive for their use, all vaccinations and drugs
would be provided free of charge during PYs 1 and 2. Subsequently, to protect
against the danger of epidemics, only vaccination against rinderpest and
CBPP would be provided free. Charges for the other vaccinations and drugs,
while likely to be difficult to collect initially, are essential in order to
decrease the Government's recurrent costs. Assurances therefore have been
obtained during negotiations that Government would (a) afford IDA, within
18 months from the Credit Agreement signature, an opportunity to comment on
the level and methods of livestock owners' participation in the cost of
animal health; (b) take all necessary steps to entrust the Regional Animal
Health Services, no later than two years after the signature of the Credit
Agreement, with the implementation of the measures for animal health cost
recovery in the project area; (c) consult with IDA on any modification
in the level of said participation; (d) take steps to achieve a uniform level
of such participation throughout Senegal; and (e) take immediate steps to
ensure the continued control of major endemic diseases throughout Senegal
after the completion of the project.
Training
4.14      In-Fervice training would be conducted by senior project staff for
the livestock extension officers involved in the grazing scheme.  In addition,
the project would finance two one-year overseas training courses for Senegalese
graduates in range management; and 18 one-month trips for Senegalese project
staff and pastoral community leaders to ongoing livestock projects in Eastern
Africa, preferably the Masai grazing scheme in Kenya. In the southern higher
rainfall areas of Eastern Senegal, farmers who own livestock and already
receive extension on crop production from SODEFITEX would profit considerably
from additional advice on how to improve livestock production. To that end,
part of SODEFITEX's regular extension personnel would receive from senior pro-
ject staff training in basic livestock production practices through special
two-week training courses financed under the project (Annex 3, Table 2).
Project Monitoring and Evaluation, and Preparation of Follow-up Projects
4.15      Features of the project, such as the establishment of the grazing
scheme and the functional literacy program, would be important new develop-
ments in Senegal. Therefore, the project should be regularly monitored and



- 14 -
evaluated to assess its results and the extent to which it can be replicated
elsewhere in the country (Annex 6).  During negotiations, the following
assurances have been obtained from the Government:  (a) it would cause
SODEFITEX, no later than nine months after the signing of the Credit, to
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience, detailed terms of
reference and timetable for completion of the task, would be submitted to
IDA for approval prior to their employment (Annex 6 gives the draft terms of
reference); and (b) SODEFITEX would submit to the Governnent and IDA, no
later than three months after completion of each project year, the report
of the consultants, and such other special reports as needed. In addition,
SODEFITEX would submit quarterly and annual reports to IDA on the progress
of project implementation (pro forma reporting requirements are given in
Annex 7).
4.16       The project would also provide for 16 man-months of consultant
services to collate and analyze information leading to the preparation of
follow-up livestock projects based on the experience gained during this
project. In addition, part of the time of the hydrogeologist and support
staff to be hired for the development of the grazing scheme (para. 4.08) should
be used for making an inventory of pastoral and village wells in Eastern
Senegal and for a reconnaissance study of the Region's underground water
resources (see terms of reference in Annex 4-C, and Table 6 this Annex). The
preparation of possible follow-up :Livestock projects would be carried out in
the context of the development plan for Eastern Senegal which will be prepared
under the Terres Neuves II Resettlement and Eastern Senegal Technical Assist-
ance Project (Credit 578-SE).  During negotiations the Government gave as-
surances that the terms of reference of the consultants, as well as their
qualifications and experience, would be acceptable to IDA.
C. Organizat ion and Management
Organization
4.17       The Government would entrust the implementation of tlhe project to
SODEFITEX which itself would establish a Project Unit (PU) at Tambacounda.
SODEFITEX is a corporation (Societe Anonyme d'Economie Mixte), established
in Senegal since 1973, to which Government gave overall responsibility for
rural development in Eastern Senegal. SODEFITEX is under the control of
the MDRH.
4.18      To carry out the grazing scheme, the Government would declare the
land selected for that purpose a "Pioneer Zone" and would entrust it to
SODEFITEX. This would be achieved on the base of legislation comparable to
Law No. 64-46 of July 17, 1964, which enables the Government to entrust land
to governmental agencies for development and distribution to beneficiaries,
along tlhe lines of similar actions taken previously in regard to land under
the jurisdiction of SAED for execution of the Senegal River Delta Rice Develop-
ment Project (Credit 350-SE).  During negotiations, assurances were obtained



- 15 -
that the Government would issue a Decree: (a) declaring the grazing scheme
area a "Pioneer Zone"; (b) entrusting this zone to SODEFITEX, which would
be given authority to grant and withdraw exclusive user rights to the grazing
and watering facilities of the grazing units, in accordance with a contract
to be entered into between SODIFITEX and the grazing groups, and to issue
and enforce grazing control regulations, and (c) exchange views with IDA on
the details and timing for the transfer of SODEFITEX authority to the "Rural
Communities" to be established in the project area. Issuance of the Decree
would be a condition of effectiveness of the IDA Credit.
The Project Unit (PU)
4.19      PU would be headquartered in Tambacounda and would be equipped and
staffed under the project (Annex 3, Tables 1 and 2). It would consist of
a small staff comprising a Project Director, his Deputy (livestock specialist),
a Hydrogeologist, an Accountant plus support staff, and a special section--the
Pastoral Service (paras. 4.07 and 4.20)--to handle the grazing scheme (Chart).
PU would rely on existing public services to execute the various project com-
ponents, particularly the Departments of Animal Health and Productions, Rural
Equipment, and Urban and Rural Hlydraulics of the MDRH, the State Secretariat
for Human Resources of the Ministry of Education, and the general services
of SODEFITEX. The principal task of PU's management would be to coordinate
the activities of the Pastoral Service and the various Government services
involved in the project, in order to efficiently achieve the project's ob-
jectives with high standards of implementation. To that end, PU would
evaluate all investment plans of the project as to their technical, social
and economic feasibility, and only plans approved by PU would be financed
under the project. PU would also select and employ the consultants provided
under the project (para. 4.16). It would be a condition of effectiveness
that PU had been established, with a structure, power and responsibilities
acceptable to IDA, and that the Project Director and his Deputy had been
employed in agreement with IDA.
Pastoral Service (PS)
4.20      The Pastoral Service would be headed by an experienced Range Manage-
ment Specialist, assisted by a Community Development Officer, four Extension
Officers, 65 Extension Assistants, and support staff. Details are given in
Annex 4-A, Tables 1 and 2. As success of the grazing scheme component would
require continuing support from PS after the conclusion of the credit dis-
bursement period, the Government gave assurances, during negotiations, for
the continuation of PS activities after June 30, 1981. The responsibilities
of PS would include: (a) land use planning for the grazing scheme area;
(b) selection and persuasion of participants and their assignment to grazing
units in cooperation with local leaders and Government officials; (c) survey
and demarcation of grazing units; (d) preparation and subsequent supervision
of plans for firebreaks and for buildings and wells in collaboration,
respectively, with the Departments of Rural Equipment and Urban and Rural
Hydraulics; (e) provision of technical support to each grazing community in
livestock, range and water management by assigning (and supervising) Extension



- 16 -
Assistants to each grazing unit; (f) administration of livestock credit to
selected participants; (g) implenentation of the functional literacy program
(para. 4.11) in cooperation with staff of the Ministry of Education; and
(h) the training of extension staff and grazing unit leaders in service and
through fellowships provided under the project.
Department of Animal Health and Production
4.21      The animal health component of the project would be carried out
through the Department of Animal Health and Production of the MDRH by the
Regional Service for Eastern Senegal from its headquarters in Tambacounda.
The present staff of the Regional Service (one veterinarian, five livestock
officers, 11 livestock assistants and 31 veterinary nurses) is sufficient
and competent for the needs of the project. During negotiations, the
Government gave the following assurances: (a) the Regional Animal Health
Service would, no later than July 31, 1976, submit to PU for approval its
investment and operating budget, staffing and operating plans for the first
vaccination campaign (November 1976-May 1977); (b) the plans for subsequent
campaigns would be submitted to PU for approval by August 1 of each year,
together with the annual report and accounts of the previous campaign; and
(c) the Regional Service would also submit to PU quarterly progress reports.
Department of Urban and Rural Hydraulics
4.22      Water development under the project would be carried out in close
collaboration with the Regional Urban and Rural Hydraulics Service for
Eastern Senegal of the MDRH, through a team within PU comprising an ex-
perienced hydrogeologist, two hydraulic assistants, two drivers and two laborers,
who would operate the necessary transport and working facilities. Specifically,
during a three-year period the PU team would site the wells to be built for
the grazing scheme; prepare the detailed plans, specifications and bidding
documents; and supervise well construction. The team would also make an
inventory of wells and their state of repair and, through the Regional Urban
and Rural Hydraulics Service, would advise the Department on priorities for
well construction and repair. The hydraulic assistants would be trained by
the hydrogeologist, and it is expected that after a three-year period they
would be absorbed by the Regional Service in order to work on water development
in Eastern Senegal.
Department of Rural Equipment
4.23      The Department of Rural Equipment would prepare the plans, specifi-
cations and bidding documents for PU's offices, staff houses, vaccination
yards and other project-related buildings and construction (with the exception
of wells) and would supervise their construction. During negotiations, the
Government gave assurances that th,e Rural Equipment Department would provide
qualified staff, as required, to carry out these activities.



- 17 -
Ministry of Education
4.24      The State Secretariat for Human Resources of the Ministry of
Education would provide technical support for the functional literacy program
for pastoralists (para. 4.11). To that end, assurances have been obtained
from the Government during negotiations that (a) the State Secretariat for
Iluman Resources would make available to PU an experienced and qualified
pedagogue to help elaborate and carry out the functional literacy program;
and (b) a detailed plan for implementing the program, including the man-
power support required from the State Secretariat for Human Resources, would
be submitted to IDA for approval within 12 months of signing of the Credit.
Staffing of Key Personnel
4.25      The key project staff would comprise (i) the Project Director, (ii)
his Deputy, (iii) the head of the Pastoral Service, (iv) the Community Develop-
ment Officer, (v) the Hydrogeologist, and (vi) the Accountant of PU. A compe-
tent senior Senegalese national with appropriate experience in livestock pro-
duction but with only little managerial experience has been earmarked by the
Governnent to become Project Director. While he is acceptable to IDA, he
would benefit from the support of a Deputy with project management experience.
The post of the Community Development Officer and the PU Accountant would also
be filled by Senegalese nationals. However, as it is unlikely that suitably
qualified and experienced Senegalese would be available to fill the remaining
posts, expatriates would have to be recruited but they would have counterparts,
who would hold posts with specific responsibilities and who would replace
them in due course.  During negotiations, assurances have been obtained from
the Government that the six key project staff would have qualifications,
experience, terms of reference and conditions of appointment acceptable to
IDA.
V. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS
A. Project Costs
5.01      Total project costs for the five-year disbursement period, 1976 until
mid-1980, are estimated at US$13.0 million, including a foreign exchange compo-
nent of US$5.1 million, or 39% of total project costs. Excluding taxes and
duties, which account for about 19% (US$2.5 million) of project costs, total
project costs would be US$10.5 million. Total project costs are detailed in
Annexes 9 and 10, and summarized below:



- 18 -
SUJMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS
Percent        Percent
Local       Foreign      Total         Local     Foreign      Total           of             of
(CFAF Million)                      (US$ Million)                 total          Foreign
Base Cost      Exchange
I.   Project Unit                     180.0         157.5       337.5        0.8          0.7         1.5            17            46
II.  Gra.ing Scheme
A.   Pastoral Service           221.2           87.9      309,1         1.0          0.4        1.4             16            28
B.   Firebreaks                 196.2          155.5      351.7        0.9          0.7         1.6             19            43
C.   Watering Facilities        391.0          260.7      651.7         1.7          1.2        2.9             33            41
D.   Livestock Credit            45.0            -         45,0         0.2            -       0.2               2             -
E.   Functional Literacy         32.3            4.2        36.5        0.2            -       0.2               2            il
Subtotal                   885.7         508.3    1,394.0         4.0          2.3        6.3             73            37
III. Animal Health                    120.3          88.7       209.0        0.5          0.4        0.9             10            44
Total Base Cost               1.186.0          754.5    1,940.5         5.3          3.4        8.7            100            39
Physical Contingencies           67.5           45.0       112.5        0.3          0.2        0.5              6            40
Expected Price Increases        540.0          312.8       852.8        2.3          1.5        3.8             44            39
Subtotal                   607.5         357.8       965.3        2.6          1.7        4.3             49             39
TOTAL PROJECT COSIS           1.793.5        1,112.3    2,905.8         7.9          5.1       13.0              -            39
5.02              The cost estimates are based on mid-1975 prices.  Physical con-
tingencies include: 10% on the construction of firebreaks and watering
facilities, and 10% on investment costs for the Animal Health Service. Ex-
pected price increases have been calculated by compounding the following
annual rates of increase for both local and foreign costs: for buildings
and civil works, 8% in 1975, 14% in 1976, 12% in 1977 through 1979, and 10%
thereafter; and for all other costs, 6% in 1975, 10% in 1976, 8% in 1977
through 1979, and 7% thereafter. Total contingencies amount to almost US$4.3
million, or about 49% of the project's base costs.



- 19 _
B. Financing
5.03      The project would be financed in parallel by the Kuwait Fund for
Arabic Economic Development, the Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa
(BADEA), IDA, by livestock owners, and the Senegalese Government, as follows:
Livestock                  Kuwait
Project Component                Owners      Government    Fund   BADEA   IDA    Total
-------------------------US$ Million -----------------
Project Unit                                     0.45         -        -    1.11    1.56
Grazing Scheme
Pastoral Service                                 0.40         -        -    1.00    1.40
Firebreaks                                       0.48         -       1.09   -       1.57
Well construction                   -            0.43        2.46      -     -       2.89
Livestock Credit                   0.04          0.01         -        -    0.19    0.24
Functional Literacy                 -            0.04         -        -    0.12    0.16
Subtotal                   0.04          1.36        2.46    1.09  1.31    6.26
Animal Health Service              0.03          0.24         -        -    0.66    0.93
Total Base Cost            0.07          2.05        2.46    1.09  3.08    8.75
Unallocated                0.03          0.95        1.64    0.51  1.12    4.25
Total                      0.10          3.00        4.10    1.60  4.20   13.00
Percentage                  1%            23%         31%      12%   33%   100%
5.04      The proposed IDA credit of US$4.2 million would be made to Government
on standard terms. BADEA's loan of US$1.6 million would be to the Government
for a term of 25 years, including five years grace, at 2% interest rate per annum.
The Kuwait Fund's loan of US$4.1 million would be to the Governnent also for a
term of 25 years, including five years' grace, but would have an interest rate
of 2.5% per annum plus an administrative fee of 0.5% per annum. Excluding
taxes and duties, which amount to US$2.5 million, these three contributions
would finance about 94% of project costs. The Government's and the livestock
owners' contributions, excluding taxes and duties, would cover about 6% of
project costs (US$0.6 million). In terms of total cost net of taxes, the
IDA, BADEA and Kuwait Fund contributions would cover 100% of the project's
foreign exchange costs (US$5.1 million) and 89% of local currency costs
(US$4.8 million). The remaining 11% of the local costs would be met from
Government budgetary allocations (US$0.5 million) and contributions from
livestock owners (US$0.1 million). Essentially, Government's contribution
would consists of about US$2.5 million for taxes and duties and US$0.5 million
of budgetary allocations for local expenditures.



- 20 -
5.05      With the exception cf the contingency funds totalling US$4.3 million,
held in reserve, the Governmert's and the co-lenders' funds totalling US$8.7
million would be passed on as a grant to SODEFITEX. In turn, SODEFITEX would
use most of these funds directly for implementation of the project, the ex-
ception being US$0.9 million channelled to the Regional Animal Health Service
to cover the animal health component. To receive its funds, the Regional
Animal Health Service would subnit documentation to SODEFITEX of its invest-
ment and working capital requirements.
5.06      The decision to pass these funds on to SODEFITEX as a grant would
be based on the following:
(i)       Although it is foreseen that livestock owners would
contribute to the project costs through grazing and
watering fees and veterinary costs, it is unlikely
that any substantial income from these sources would
accrue to SODEFITEX during the first decade of the
Project.
(ii)       As the project addresses itself essentially to the
poorest sector of the country's population, an
income transfer of some magnitude can be justified
on income distribution grounds.
(iii)       The project would be carried out by SODEFITEX on the
Government's behalf; hence, except for the grazing
scheme, the project would provide services normally
supplied to pastoralists by Government out of general
revenues.
5.07      Conditions of Credit effectiveness would be that (a) conditions
precedent to disbursements under the Kuwait Fund and BADEA loans were ful-
filled, save only the condition that the IDA credit agreement had become
effective; and (b) a financing agreement providing for passing on the proceeds
of the IDA credit as a grant to SODEFITEX and entrusting to it the execution
of the project had been signed and duly authorized. Furthermore, during nego-
tiations assurances have been obtained from the Covernment that it would make
available the necessary budgetary allocations providing for its share of the
project costs over the five-year disbursement period.
5.08      Government has made an allocation of CFAF 50 million (about
US$222,000) in the 1967/77 investment budget for the project but in practice,
because of involved administrative procedures, these funds are unlikely to
be released to SODEFITEX before August/September 1976. Yet, it would be
desirable to promptly initiate the exacting, planning procedures required to
implement the grazing scheme.  Furthermore, some components of the project
such as the vaccination campaign are seasonal and delays in making funds
available promptly after the signature of the Credit would mean the loss of
a full year of work. In view of this, Government has indicated that it wishes
to avail itself of the Bank's Project Preparation Facilities and intends to
apply for an advance of US$300,000 from such facilities. IDA agreed to make
available to the Borrower, at its request, an advance of up to US$300,000



- 21 -
through the Bank's Project Preparation Facility. This amount, which could
be withdrawn before December 31, 1976, under conditions satisfactory to IDA,
would finance:
(a) up to US$70,000 for the recruitment of a deputy
director, a range management specialist (head of the
pastoral service) and a hydrogeologist;
(b) up to US$60,000 for building construction for key
staff;
(c) up to US$110,000 for purchase of vehicles and equipment;
and
(d)  up to US$60,000 for financing the first vaccination
campaign and various running costs.
C. Procurement
5.09      Well development (US$4.9 million less taxes and duties amounting
to US$0.8 million to be financed by the Government) would be financed by the
Kuwait Fund loan and procurement would be in line with Kuwait Fund procure-
ment procedures. Firebreaks development (US$2.2 million less taxes and duties
amounting to US$0.6 million to be financed by the Government) would be financed
by the BADEA Loan and procurement would be in line with BADEA procurement
procedures. All other procurement would be under IDA procedures. Contracts
in excess of US$50,000 for buildings (US$0.7 million), and vehicles and
equipment <US$0.6 million), aggregating about US$1.3 million, would be awarded
on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with IDA
guidelines for procurement; and contracts for less than US$50,000 would
be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally. Goods
manufactured locally would be allowed a preference of 15% or the level of
applicable import duty, whichever is lower, when comparing domestic and foreign
bids. Contracts of over US$10,000 expected to aggregate US$0.5 million (namely
for the construction of vaccination yards and extension outposts and the pur-
chase of motorcycles for extension officers), would be awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally. The balance of equipment required
would involve orders costing less than US$10,000 each (which are expected to
aggregated US$0.2 million), and would include furniture for staff houses,
office furnishings, and small equipment. Such purchases would be made locally
following quotations obtained from suppliers. The services of internationally
recruited staff and consultants, costing about US$1.0 million, would be ob-
tained in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA. The remainder of the
project costs would be for local salaries and allowances (US$1.3 million)
and for general operating expenditures (US$1.6 million) and would be unsuit-
able for competitive bidding.



- 22 -
D. D)isbursements
5.10      The proceeds of the :IDA credit would be disbursed to cover the
following amounts:
(a)  70% of total expenditures for civil works (excluding
well construction) - US$0.50 million;
(b)  100% of foreign exchange costs of vehicles and
equipment or, if procured locally, 65% of total
expenditures - US$0.35 million;
(c)  100% of foreign exchange costs for expatriate
personnel, consultant services and training of
project staff abroad - US$0.57 million;
(d)  75% of total costs of livestock credits -
US$0.22 million;
(e)  75% of total project incremental operating costs
except staff of the RAHS - US$1.44 million.
US$1.12 million would be unallocated. Any unspent balance would be cancelled.
Annexes 12 and 13 show, respectively, the estimated annual and quarterly
disbursements. The Kuwait Fund and BADEA loans would cover respectively the
costs of the construction of watering facilities (US$4.1 million) and the
construction and maintenance of Firebreaks (US$1.6 million) net of taxes
and duties.
5.11      Disbursements would be against import documentation, contracts or,
where documentation is not feasible, against certified statements of expendi-
ture. For disbursements against the latter, documents would not be submitted
to IDA for review, but be retained by the Project Unit for possible scrutiny
by IDA project supervision missions. All statements of expenditures would be
signed by the Project Accountant and countersigned by the Project Director.
E. A,counts and Audits
5.12      SODEFITEX would keep separate accounts for the various project
components, consistent with sound accounting practices and adequate to reflect
its operations and financial conditions, and would employ independent, quali-
fied auditors.  During negotiations, assurances have been obtained that:
(a) independent auditors with qualifications, experience
and terms of reference acceptable to IDA would be
appointed by SODEFITEX; and



- 23 -
(b)  the SODEFITEX balance sheet and profit-and-loss
statement, together with the auditors' report
thereon, would be submitted to IDA within 5 months
after the end of SODEFITEX's fiscal year.
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND PRICES, AND FINANCIAL RESULTS
A. Production
6.01      Project annual incremental production by PY5 would be about 1,600
slaughter cattle (224 t of carcass meat). At full development (PY 10), the
total incremental production would be 23,700 head (3,100 t of meat), equal
to about 70% of Eastern Senegal's present beef production, about 30% of
present meat imports, and slightly less than 5% of Senegal's present total
beef production. By PY 10, annual meat production would have increased by
11% per annum, due to improved animal health services, and by 120% per annum
for the herds involved in the grazing scheme; and Eastern Senegal's total
cattle population would have increased by 32%.
B. Markets and Prices
6.02      All output of the project would be consumed domestically, and the
market outlook for the products involved is very good. Incremental meat pro-
duction induced by the project at full development would be less than 5%
of domestic output, and as such should find a ready market. The incremental
milk production would improve the nutrition of about 30,000 pastoralist and
agricultural families, and any surplus would find a ready market in Eastern
Senegal. Hides and skins are readily saleable to either SERAS or local
private tanneries. Marketing arrangements are satisfactory (para 2.14).
6.03      During the past five years, meat prices have increased by about
180% and are expected to continue to increase. The Government nominally
controls retail meat prices, which were raised in November 1973 to the present
level, e.g., CFAF 250-200/kg for first and second choice beef in Dakar. How-
ever, the price controls are not vigorously enforced and are generally in-
effective; actual retail prices are between 25 and 60% above official prices.
Hence, meat retail prices are determined by supply and demand and are con-
sistent with the international price in the region.
6.04      Free market forces determine the price of live cattle.  Larger and
better animals are generally sent to Dakar at a price of about CFAF 135/kg
liveweight, compared to CFAF 80/kg for cull animals for local consumption.
Milk is sold at about CFAF 25-30/liter, depending on the season. These
prices are satisfactory and provide sufficient incentive to the pastoralists
to improve production. The incentives that are essential for the success
of the project and ultimately for the development of the livestock subsector
would be seriously diminished if the Government were to fix and strictly



- 24 -
enforce unreasonably low meat retail prices, or if--as cattle merchants and
retailers wish--it were to introduce price restrictions on live cattle. This
key issue of Senegal's future price policy for livestock and meat has been
discussed during negotiations, and the Government gave assurances that it
would: (a) adopt pricing and trade policies for live cattle with sufficient
incentives to promote livestock production and to safeguard the interests
of Senegalese livestock producers and (b) afford IDA, an opportunity, to
comment on its cattle and meat pricing and trade policies.
C. Financial Results
6.05      Livestock Owners.  Financial benefits to the livestock owners under
the project are difficult to quantify because of variations in herd size, the
complexity of ownership, and the greater profits accruing to herders in areas
with more intensive project activities. The entire rural population of
Eastern Senegal, about 24,000 families, would benefit from the animal health
component, which can be described as the minimal project package. A segment
of this group, about 6,500 pastoral families--who are probably the most
deprived of the areats population as they live in the northern part of the
project area where less farming is possible--would benefit from the full
project package incorporating all of its directly productive elements as well
as its social components. Assuming that about 6,500 pastoral families share
equally the benefits from the grazing scheme, their annual cash incomes from
their livestock activities would increase from US$365 to US$670 per family,
while some 24,000 rural families, profiting from the improved animal health
services, would increase theirs from US$250 to US$310. In addition, about
1,000 seasonal jobs for the maintenance of firebreaks, generating about US$50
per laborer per year, and 80 permanent jobs would be created.
6.06      Government.  SODEFITEX's earnings due to the project are negligible
(about US$20,000 per year at the end of the disbursement period) and would
require the Government to cover annual operating costs of about US$0.4 million
after the disbursement period. Because of its financial support of the project,
the Government's cash flow (Annex 14) remains negative throughout the project's
life. The estimated annual incremenatal deficit, US$0.4 million, is based on
the assumption that livestock taxes and duties will remain at their present
level (para. 2.15), and does not take into account the increased revenues from
indirect taxes--resulting from purchases of taxed goods by pastoralists, due
to their significantly increased income because of the project--which are very
difficult to estimate. The Government would thus be indirectly subsidizing the
livestock owners of Eastern Senegal.. Although this could be justified on income
distribution grounds, it must be recognized that the Government's budgetary
situation is likely to remain precarious. Therefore, during the five-year
period, SODEFITEX would examine the possibilities of generating revenues to
cover part of the Governnent deficit: in respect of the project. Assurances
have been obtained during negotiations that Government would ensure that its
livestock fiscal policies will promote livestock production, safeguard live-
stock producers interests and would give due consideration to the best means
of project cost recovery. To this end it will exchange views with IDA at the
request of either party.



- 25 -
VII. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      The project would be the first comprehensive effort to improve tradi-
tional livestock production in Senegal.  It would benefit pastoralists with
per capita incomes ranging between US$40 and US$80 equivalent, most of whom are
below the threshold of absolute poverty, estimated at US$65 equivalent in
Senegal. Quantifiable benefits would take the form of meat, hides and milk
production, which at full development (PY10) would be worth US$3.0 million
annually in 1975 terms. In the absence of the project, the animal health
situation and the watering facilities in the grazing scheme will continue to
deteriorate, resulting in a significant decrease in the present livestock
population and output for Eastern Senegal. Other benefits, which are difficult
to quantify, are that: (a) secure land rights will encourage the pastoralists
to settle, considerably enhancing their opportunity to achieve a better quality
of life, e.g., for the first time they will be able to receive elements of
formal education through the functional literacy program, and they will benefit
from easier access to more sanitary water supply; (ii) about 30,000 rural
families will improve their nutrition through increased milk production; and
(iii) the creation of institutions and staff training will permit the im-
plementation of other livestock development projects in Senegal based on
experience acquired during this project.
7.02      The economic rate of return of the project's grazing scheme is
estimated at 23%, that of the animal health component at 43% and the project's
overall economic rate of return at 24% (details and assumptions are in
Annexes 4-F, 5 and 16, respectively). The sensitivity of this rate of return
has been tested as follows: a 25% increase in costs would lower the rate of
return to 20%; and a 25% decrease in benefits would lower it to 19%. A 50%
decrease in benefits, or a 50% increase in costs combined with a 25% decrease
in benefits, would lower the rate of return to 13%. It is therefore likely
that the project could absorb a substantial amount of setbacks and still be
viable. Also, as meat prices are expected to continue rising in West Africa,
the economic viability of the project is estimated on a conservative basis.
Risks
7.03      Implementation of the grazing scheme would alter traditional herd-
ing patterns substantially and give rise to changes in social structure and
production methods. There would be consequent predictable sociological and
organizational difficulties to overcome. These could arise from reluctance
to give up the African traditional system based on free grazing, from
absence of social and economic discipline required to control stock numbers
and from lack of necessary administrative structures at the inter-village level.
Furthermore, while the required infrastructure (wells and firebreaks) could
be established during the disbursement period of the credit, it is likely that
molding group structures and building up the social cohesion necessary for
operating the grazing units on a community basis, would require more time.
7.04      The follow-up mission that visited the project area in early
1976 (para 1.03) identified three rural communities that were prepared to



- 26 -
participate in the grazing scheme (the Kolomba/Dawady, Bohe Baledie and Ngari
Aly Units), demarketed boundaries f or these grazing units and witnessed the
election of their management committees. This experience led to the recommenda-
tions for project implementation outlined in Annex 4, Para 28 to 31. Although
chere is now solid evidence of inter-est in the project among communities in
the grazing scheme area, it is still. extremely difficult to assess at this
time (a) the degree and timing of tLe response of pastoralists to the changes
and commitments with which they would become involved as a consequence of
participation, and (b) whether the Farticipating groups and the Government
would be able to prevent encroachment by other pastoralists onto the grazing
units. Consequently, this component is risky and, in a sense, experimental.
However, the degree of risk involved appears acceptable given the generally
successful results of similar grazing schemes in East Africa. Such schemes
also appear to offer the only practical means to achieve significantly better
use of the livestock, pasture and human resources of the area and, at the
same time, to prevent environmental degradation through overgrazing. There
are safeguards, moreover, in that SCDEFITEX would have legal powers to protect
the grazing units from encroachment and in that the potential benefits to
pastoralists from participation would be very attractive.
7.05      In order ta minimize the risk of non-viable investments, funds for
the grazing scheme would be disbursed for successive phases undertaken only
following the completion and satisfactory management of previous phases.
This safeguard would enable the project component to be modified or even
terminated in the light of experience. Even if it should become necessary
to limit the scope of the grazing scheme, continuation of other project
components would be justified. In particular, the animal health component,
covering the entire Eastern Senegal Region, has a high pay-off, and because
of very low stocking rates in this region does not entail danger of over-
stocking and overgrazing. In sumI, although the project does involve risks,
its potential benefits are such as to warrant taking the risks.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached with Government on the
following principal assurances that it would honor or cause to be honored:
(a) proper discipline would be enforced in the use of the
grazing units (para 4.06);
(b)  the first tranche of the well and firebreak program
would only be initiated after satisfactory planning,
and successive tranches would not commence until
Government, IDA and SODEFITEX were satisfied with the
results of implementing the grazing scheme during the
preceding season(s) (para 4.09);



- 27 -
(c) IDA would be afforded, within 18 months of the signature
of the Credit Agreement, an opportunity to comment on
the arrangements for the recovery of the cost of animal
health services in Senegal (para 4.13);
(d) SODEFITEX would propose and commence executing, no
later than nine months after signature of the Credit
Agreement, satisfactory arrangements for project monitor-
ing (para 4.15);
(e) a decree would be promptly issued declaring the
grazing scheme area a "pioneer zone" and entrusting
the execution of such decree to SODEFITEX (para 4.18);
(f) SODEFITEX would establish and maintain a satisfactory
Project Unit (PU) adequately staffed and equipped
(para 4.19);
(g) the Regional Animal Health Service would execute its
vaccination campaign on the basis of a satisfactory and
timely plan (para 4.21);
(h) the State Secretariat for Human Resources would help
PU elaborate and carry out the functional literacy
program, and would submit such program to IDA for
approval within 12 months of credit effectiveness
(para 4.24);
(i) the six key project staff would have qualifications,
experience, terms of reference and conditions of
appointment acceptable to IDA (para 4.25);
(j) SODEFITEX would make satisfactory accounting and
auditing arrangements (para 5.12); and
(k) IDA would be afforded the opportunity to comment on
the Government's cattle and meat marketing and fiscal
policies and would exchange views with IDA on means
to achieve project cost recovery from beneficiaries of
the grazing scheme (paras 6.04 and 6.06).
8.02      Conditions of effectiveness would be that:
(a) the decree referred to in para 4.18 has been enacted
and entered into force (para 4.18);
(b) the Project Director and Deputy Director had been
employed (para 4.19);



- 28 -
(c) conditions precedent to disbursements under the Kuwait
Fund and BADEA loans were fulfilled, save only the
condition that the IDA credit Agreement had become
effective (para 5.07); and
(d)  the Government and SODEFITEX had entered into a satis-
factory pass-on (grant) agreement providing SODEFITEX
with responsibility of carrying out the project (para 5.07).
8.03      The project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$4.2 million.



ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 7
SENEGAL
EASTERN SENEGAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
THE PROJECT AREA - SOCIOLOGICAL BACKGROUND
1.        The project would cover the entire Eastern Senegal Region (M2p),
which is Senegal's largest administrative region, comprising 59,600 km or
30% of the country's land area. Although very suitable for livestock pro-
duction, the Region has been seriously neglected in previous livestock
development programs. It has only one deep-drilled well, out of a total of
70 in Senegal, and less than 20 vaccination paddocks, out of a total of 225.
2.        The climate of Eastern Senegal is Sahelo/Sudanian in the north
and Sudanian in the south. Annual rainfall increases from about 800 mm in
the north to 1,400 mm in the south and occurs from mid-May to October.
Population
3.        Estimated at 250,000 in mid-1975, the population of the project
area represents 6% of the country's total. About 85% of the inhabitants are
rural dwellers; the remaining 15% live in semi-urban settlements such as
Tambacounda, Bakel and Kedougou, but are mainly involved in typical agro-
pastoral activities much like those of the village population.
4.        The population deeity is, comparatively, the lowest in Senegal:
only 4.1 inhabitants eer km , compared wlth an average national density of
21 inhabitants per km and 80-100 per km in the country's most crowded
area, the Groundnut Basin.
5.        The current low population density provides some opportunities for
immigration into Eastern Senegal from other areas of the country, but this
should be assessed carefully with a view to the livestock carrying capacity
of the grazing areas. Due to the drought which hit the Ferlo, significant
numbers of pastoralists from the zones adjacent to the north already
immigrated into Eastern Senegal and settled there, without yet being accounted
for by official population statistics. That such a migration already is taking
place on a fairly large scale is suggested by the surprising finding of the
National Statistical Bureau that Eastern Senegal has had the highest population
grawth rate among all the country's regions: 4.1 for the period between 1960-
1970, which is more than double the official national average of 1.9 and 4
times or more the population growth rate of the neighboring regions (Sine
Saloum (0.6 percent) and Fleuve (0.8 percent)). No natural/biologic causes can
explain these differences. It seems that there is a permanent population
influx from these adjacent regions into Eastern Senegal. An alternative ex-
planation could only be that some communities were altogether passed over by
mistake during the demographic survey of 1960, but later taken into account



ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 7
in the 1970 survey.  However, this does not seem very likely.  It is more
plausible that these communities did not exist as such in 1960 and were sub-
sequently created by immigrants. This should be checked further in the field,
to clarify the existing intake potential of Eastern Senegal for outside migrants.
Agriculture and Livestock Production
6.        The essential economic activity of Eastern Senegal is agriculture
and stockraising.  The Region has about 750,000 ha of agricultural land
(about 150,000 ha are cultivated each year), 4 million ha of pastoral areas,
415,000 ha of forest, and 740,000 ha which comprise the Niokolo-Koba National
Park. The agriculture sector is dominated by food crops (millet and sorghum
and, in recent years, rice and maize), which represent about two-thirds of
the cultivated area and provide an average per capita production of 250-300
kg per year. The rest of the cultivated area produces about 30,000 t of
groundnuts on 40,000-45,000 ha and about 11,000 t of cotton on 10,000 ha.
On the whole, the agriculture of Eastern Senegal covers the food needs of
its population, with a surplus during good years.
7.        In 1973, Eastern Senegal had about 300,000 head of cattle (14% of
the country's total), 240,000 head of sheep and goats (10% of the total),
about one million poultry, and a few thousand horses and donkeys. The
Region's cattle are well adapted to the existing constraints. Trypano-
tolerant N'Damas (about 85,000 head) are found in the southern zone, which
is infested by the tsetse-fly; %'obra Zebus (about 50,000 head) are dominant
in the northern zone, which is Lsetse free; and in between there is a cross
of Zebu and N'Dama called Djakoré (about 165,000 head), with a high degree
of crypano-tolerance.  The density of livestock is only five cattle per km2,
compared with the national average of 11 per km2. The number of cattle per
capita (1.2) is 2.5 times the national average of 0.5 per caDita. The Peul
are the major ethnic group involved in animal husbandry (see paras. 6-9 of
Annex 2).
8.        The key constraints tco increasing livestock production are the lack
of watering facilities, poor access roads, bushfires which afflict 50-70%
of the Region every year, traditional animal husbandry practices and attitudes
and lack of modern marketing organizations. Productivity is low but could be
increased considerably with the measures incorporated into the proposed project.
Tribal Structures
9.        The tribal structure of the project area is very heterogeneous, but
no major inter-tribal conflicts are in evidence. The main tribal entities are
the Peul, Toucouleurs, Manding, Wolof and Malinke. They are intermixed
territorially witch one another as well as with some other smaller tribal groups
(Diankhanke, Bassari, Bambara, Serer, Tanda). The single largest ethnic group
in the project area are the Peul, though precise figures are not available.



ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 7
According to a random survey sample, in at least six of the Eastern Senegal's
twelve districts the Peul and Toucouleurs constitute half or more of the
district population (up to 83.3% in the Goudiry district and 79.8 percent in
Bandafassi district). The Peul also constitute numerically significant groups
in all the other districts, except Saraya. In the latter there is a massive
Malinke concentration (95 percent); a massive Wolof group lives in the
Koumpentoum district (41 percent), a massive Manding group lives in the Maka
district (60.7 percent), and a massive Sarakole group inhabits the Ololdou
district (82.7 percent). There is a major difference in tribal-geographical
distribution patterns: while the Peul pastoralists are widespread all over
the project area, the other main ethnic groups are more or less concentrated
in single districts.
10.       Ethnic membership and local allegiance still seem important, but are
gradually being counterbalanced by many relationships that cut across ethnic
lines. Government and regional authorities stress the desitability of develop-
ing a national consciousness and of diminishing ethnic/tribal affiliation as
a criterion of social relationships. Inspite of tribal diversity, there are
also two major cultural factors which tend to counterbalance ethnic differences
and do play a unifying role within the project area: (a) language - the Poulaar
language is spoken by the majority of the population and Wolof is used as a
lingua franca; (b) religion - about 90 percent of the population is islamie
and the religious leaders strongly support the Government authorities.
Settlement Patterns and Land Tenure
11.       The main settlement characteristics of the area population are:
sedentarism, extreme dispersion and uneven population distribution. The
Senegalese Peul are mostly sedentary (about 80%), with only about 20%
seminomadic and nomadic pastoralists in the semiarid Ferlo. Most of the area's
inhabitants are sparsely scattered into numerous tiny hamlets, clusters of
huts or simply isolated dwellings of one or two families. There are about
1,400 so-called villages within the project area; more than 520 of them consist
of less than 49 inhabitants each (many are simply isolated families) and
another 400 settlements have only 50 - 99 inhabitants. This dispersion of the
population not only generates tremendous difficulties in providing social and
economic services, but also hampers development of the Region's productive
potential and will render project implementation more difficult.
12.       This dispersed settlement is mostly the product of a spontaneous and
anarchic sedentarization over time and of the lack of water. Stock raising
patterns are no longer significantly associated in Eastern Senegal with
nomadism. The gradual but definite shift of the pastoral population from
nomadic and semi-nomadic patterns to relatively sedentary settlements has taken
place mostly during the past 40 to 50 years. Seasonal transhumance has de-
creased and is now practiced on only a reduced scale; presently, the movements
of herds no longer entail family seasonal migration (see "The Livestock
Producers" in Annex 2). Families tend to be stably located and are sending out



ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 7
one or two individuals to accompany the herds. Sedentarization is also the
consequence of the increase in farming activities. The area's Peul are mainly
pastoralists, but nowadays almost every Peul family cultivates at least a
small plot for subsistence needs. However, entire hamlets are still sometimes
compelled to move to adjacent areas, abandoning their previous settlements be-
cause the water sources are drying up.
13.       The land tenure system still maintains its traditional characteris-
tics; land ownership rights originate in the clearing of land. Hence, arable
land is individually owned by the families who occupy and till it. They would
lose their rights if they should move out or cease cultivating the land. The
grazing areas are not under private or group ownership, and are free for the
use of anybody's cattle; therefore, transition to exclusive group rights on
grazing land under the project will be rather difficult and vill require in-
centives and persuasion (see analysis of social and cultural constraints and
difficulties in Annex 4). The classified forests are under state control;
settling down and farming within their boundaries is forbidden, but grazing
is allowed.
The Family Production Unit
14.       The principal operational consequence for project implementation of
the above described settlement and land tenure pattern is that the basic
social and production unit is the family compound, in which cattle ownership
and land rights are vested.
15.       The predominant family system in the project area is the extended
patrilineal polygamous family.  The large family unit is the "icarre' ("galle"),
under the authority of the eldest male member. It consists of his vives, his
younger brothers with their vives and offspring, his married sons with their
wives and children and his unmarrïed sons and daughters. Such a family com-
pound can attain up to 25 - 30 or more persons and sometimes it constitutes a
hamlet on its own.
16.       The family operates as a joint work group, within which most of the
land is cultivated in common, while the rest is cultivated along nuclear family
lines; the cattle belongs to the nuclear family heads vithin the extended
family system, but is herded together. All significant decisions in respect
of marketing or cattle exchange have to be approved by the family head. The
family appears as the natural unit of cooperation and mutuality. Thus, the
family system fulfills in a traditional way a fourfold economic function: as
a production unit, a decision-making center for the distribution of its labor
resources between farming and stockraising, a consumption unit, and a saving-
for-investment and tax-paying unit.
17.       A noticeable process in the project area is the gradual weakening of
the extended family system and separation of the younger nuclear families from
that system; therefore, the average family size (approximately eight persons)



ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 7
has been decreasing in recent years. The increasing decision-making independ-
ence of the heade of the nuclear families represents a trend which will be
beneficial for the project as well as for the modernization of production
patterns in the area; however, in respect to cattle ownership, the authority
of the extended family head is still very strong even over his sons who left
the "carre", and the project should take this into account in the livestock credit
arrangements and in the grazing scheme to be implemented.
Community Organization and Village Administration
18.       Eastern Senegal lags behind other regions of the country in its
social-administrative organization. Organization of rural communities accord-
ing to the "Reforme Administrative" Law enacted in 1972 has not yet started
in the project area.
19.       Currently, when several extended and/or nuclear families are settled
together, constituting a "village", the supreme authority is vested in the
village chief. Typically, he is the current chief of the founding family of
the village or of the most numerous among the families of noble caste. He
convenes the village assembly, but there is no definite schedule and periodic-
ity of the assembly's meetings.  The village community is generally loosely
structured.
20.       For the time being, the village in Senegal does not constitute an
administrative unit, mainly because of its small size and scattered settlement
pattern. At its lower end, the Government administrative structure in Eastern
Senegal ends at the district level. Above the district there are three
levels (the department level, the region and the central level), but no formal
and standardized administrative structure exists downstream of the district
administration. That explains, inter alia, the weak impact of centrally pro-
moted policies on the grassroot rural population.
21.       The Law on the Organization of Administrative Rural Communities, to
be implemented in Eastern Senegal during the project period (1977-79), is ex-
pected to bring about a major social-territorial reorganization of the area's
population. The creation of the new and more structured communities is ex-
pected to be completed throughout the region by 1979. This will aloo bring
about a significant progress toward decentralisation. In each community a
Rural Council will be elected, will act as an administrative and planning body
and will control a budget.
Social Stratification and the Target Group
22.       The project target group comprises about 187,000 of the Region's
250,000 inhabitants. Representing 75% of the total population, this group
falls within the categories of absolute and relative poverty, as explained
below.



ANNEX 1
Page 6 of 7
23.       There is not sufficient information available on income distribution
among the rural population in Senegal and in particular on the pastoral popu-
lation's incomes.  However, on the basis of 14 different farm budgets in
Senegal, it is estimated that 30% of this target group of rural poor have a
per capita income of only US$47, thus placing them within the absolute poverty
range. The remaining section, which comprises about 45% of the area's rural
population, have a per capita income averaging US$87, which is less than one-
third the average national per capita income (US$445), thus placing them with-
in the relative poverty range. Some corrections should be made for Eastern
Senegal, taking into account the fact that its pastoral population is the least
involved in the cultivation of cotton, the country's most profitable cash crop;
this tends to rank the area's farm income below the national average. On the
other hand, its pastoral population enjoys additional benefits from livestock
(in cash and in kind) which partially compensate for the comparatively reduced
agricultural incomes. However, there are some villagers who have no cattle and
some are working as hired herdsmen for the larger livestock owners. Marketing
activities represent a specialized function, fullfilled by a distinct social
group - the Dioula and the Tiefanke.
24.       The poor economic standard of living of the area's population is com-
pounded by a high illiteracy rate of about 90%, a lack of education and health
facilities, endemic diseases (malaria, riverblindness), and extremely limited
social and economic infrastructure in the villages. The traditional cattle
keeping practices and the belief and value system of the target group generate
distinct socio-cultural constraints on livestock development (see para. 25 -
27 of Annex 4, on project constraints) and require a change in attitudes and
social organizational patterns in order to take advantage of the project pro-
visions.
25.       The project area's population includes an upper stratum of livestock
owners, who are above the relative poverty level (the animal/man ratio in this
stratum is roughly above 2.5 head of cattle per family member). Some families,
particularly in the Koumpentoum district, own herds of more than 100 cattle.
However, because of the intricate social and political relationships between the
majority of poor farmers and the minority of relatively better-off farmers residing
in the project area, and also because of the political and administrative leader-
ship positions usually held by the better-off farmers, it would be difficult as
well as unrealistic to attempt to dliscriminate against and exclude the medium-
sized and better-off farmers from benefiting from the project in order to foeus
exclusively on the poorest farmers. It is therfore desirable that the project
does not confine itself to the main target group, comprising the poorest 75%,
but instead attempt to benefit in some degree all segments of the area's rural
community.  By thus avoiding opposition from a powerful and influential segment
of the area's population, the project would benefit the main target group even
more effectively.



ANNEX 1
Page 7 of 7
26.       The multiple project components would benefit the area's population
in various degrees. The entire population would benefit from the anilmal
health component and the livestock extension system, which can be described
as the minimal project package. A segment of the main target group, totaling
45,000-50,000 poor pastoralists, would benefit comprehensively from the full
project package. This sub-group, who are probably the most deprived of the
area's population as they live in the northern part of the project area
where less farming is possible, would benefit from a comprehensive program
incorporating all of the directly productive elements as well as the social
components of the project.



ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 5
SENEGAL
EASTERN SENEGAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
THE LIVESTOCK SUBSECTOR
General
1.        In spite of relatively favorable conditions -- suitable climate,
large rangelands, substantial numbers of stock, well-adapted animals, and a
large local demand for meat -- Senegal has not taken advantage of them for
livestock development. Until about 1970, neither agriculture nor livestock
was given a high priority by Government. Between 1962/63 and 1969/70 the
livestock subsector accounted for only 1% of the central Government's current
budget and did not keep pace with the increase in livestock numbers; current
allocations to the rural sector as a whole amounted to only 6% of the total.
Lack of extension field personnel and equipment has hampered the service's
capacity to improve livestock-raising methods and animal health. While
substantial foreign aid has helped to maintain animal health standards
through a successful vaccination program (JP 15), coverage has remained
inadequate and a mass epidemic is still a possibility.
2.        Investments in infrastructure for livestock (veterinary outposts,
wells, firebreaks, etc.) have likewise lagged, adding another constraint to
production. From 1965 to 1971, only 1 - 3% of Government capital expenditures
vere for livestock development; foreign aid financed the rest.  The Third
Plan (1969/70 - 1972/73) originally included 28 projects in the livestock
subsector, for a total of CFAF 2.5 billion. This program was reduced to 1.6
billion in the Readjusted Plan, and by the end of 1972 less than one-third
of the Readjusted Plan projects in this subsector had been implemented. The
Fourth Plan (1973-77) foresees CFAF 10 billion for 21 livestock development
projects, with 13% Government participation (para. 20, this Annex). Most
of the projects are already two years behind schedule, and it is doubtful
that 50% of them will be implemented by the end of 1977.
Livestock Numbers, Output and Imports
3.        Prior to the 1972/73 drought, the number of livestock had been
increasing rapidly: the annual rate of increase for cattle was 3.5%; for
sheep and goats, 7.5%; for horses and donkeys, 6%; for pigs,25%; for poultry,
9%; and for camels, a negative rate of 23%. Losses during the 1972/73
drought were most serious in the cattle population, with about 15% of the
country's herd lost, and by the end of 1973 the livestock population included
2.2 million cattle, 1.7 million sheep, 800,000 goats, 400,000 horses and
donkeys, 180,000 pigs, 6,500 camels, and 6 million poultry.



ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 5
4.        Livestock's share of GDP is relatively modest, at about 7.5%, and
amounts to about 10% of the value added by agriculture. For 1973, the total
value of animal products vas estimated at CFAF 12.0 billion (US$ 53 million),
of which meat and offal accounted for almost CFAF 9.0 billion (US$ 40 million),
and milk, hides and skins, and eggs for the balance. For the same year,
total meat and offal production was estimated at 60,000 t, including 42,000 t
from cattle, 8,000 t from sheep and goats, and 10,000 t from pigs and
poultry.
5.        Until the 1972/73 drought, domestic production covered about 80%
of meat requirements, with the balance coming from Mauritania in the form
of relatively cheap live cattle and sheep. Unfortunately, however, in
addition to the depletion of Senegal's own livestock resources, Mauritania
is switching to export of meat, for which there is a strong and competitive
demand from West African coastal countries, the Mediterranean/Middle East
countries, and the Canary Islands. As a result, meat supply is tight and
meat retail prices have already risen to 25 - 60% above the official prices.
Per capita meat consumption has dropped to about 10 kg per year, from close
to 15 kg before the drought; fortunately, this low meat consumption is
compensated for, to some extent, by the highest fish consumption in West
Africa - almost 50 kg/person/year. There is also a milk deficit which is
covered by milk imports of about CFAF 2 billion (US$ 9 million) per year.
Livestock Producers
6.        About 2 - 3% of Senegal's total population derive their livelihood
entirely from livestock, and another 8% depend on livestock as the main
income source. The Peul, who together with the Toucouleurs comprise the
country's second largest ethnic group (22%), raise an estimated 70% of
Senegal's cattle; the remainder are mostly owned by the Volof, the largest
ethnic group (36%) and by the Sarakole and Manding, as a complement to their
essential farming activities. These farmers, however, frequently hire Peul
herders.
7.        The family herd, vhich may surpass 100 head in the more specialized
northern grazing zones, has on average only 16 head in southeastern Senegal
and lesa in other areas; however, small cattle owners often herd their
animals in multi-family herds. Small farmers usually possess only 1 - 3
animals. There are two fattening enterprises near Dakar, and a parastatal
fattening ranch in Doli; all of these commercial enterprises experience
periodic difficulties in finding regular supplies of suitable and cheap feed
and lean cattle.
8.        Currently, 80% of the Senegalese Peul are sedentary, largely con-
centrated in the middle valley of the Senegal River, in northern and north-
eastern Senegal and in the Upper Casamance Region. The Peul who remain
nomadic or semi-nomadic live mainly in the semiarid Ferlo. The main factor
in the sedentarization of the Peul was the drilling of deep vells, which



ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 5
offer a constant and free water supply. During the rainy season, calves and
milking animals remain at the homestead, while the other animals are herded
at distances of 10 - 80 km. When the rains cease, the animals use water
from temporary ponds until they dry up or the pastures become poor; then the
animals are brought home to subsist on small permanent water supplies and
some crop residues. Sheep and goats usually are kept in small flocks around
the villages.
9.        Lately, some changes have become noticeable in the value system of
the traditional pastoralist and in his herding practices. There seems to be
a growing awareness of the irrationality of maintaining large numbers of old,
unproductive animals and a marked willingness to sell even young animals.
Although a subsistence-oriented mentality is still predominant (maintenance
of livestock for acquisition of status and prestige, for dowry, etc.), there
are indications that the emphasis is increasingly being put on marketing
possibilities. The transition to new attitudes and herding behavior could
be substantially accelerated provided that proper incentives and opportuni-
ties are made available, in associaition with adequate education and extension.
10.       Livestock productivity is low.  The main reason is poor nutrition
during the dry season -- weight losses of 10 - 20% are common -- and the
lack of proper feeding afterward. Senegalese cattle have a high aptitude
for compensatory growth if well fed, but they gain only about 40 kg live-
weight per head per year, compared vith 150 - 200 kg in Europe. Moreover,
calving rates are around only 60%; calf mortality is high, at up to 35%, and
adult mortality is 5 - 6%. Total herd offtake is therefore not more than
10% and at low carcass weights of 125 - 140 kg.
il.       Animal Health.  A mass inmiunization campaign in 1964-68 brought
rinderpest and pleuropneumonia under control, but they remain a constant
threat until a more comprehensive vaccination service is provided. Other
diseases such as anthrax, blackleg and haemorrhagic septicaemia are endemic;
and trypanosomiasis and botulism occur but can be controlled by prophylactic
or curative treatments, which are becoming increasingly popular among pastor-
alists. Internal parasites are prevalent, particularly in the south, but
as yet few controi measures have been taken. In sum, Senegal is making a
reasonable effort to combat the principal diseases; but as veterinary services
reach only 45% of the country's cattle population, because of inadequate
facilities and operating funds, surviving animals sustain corresponding
reduced yields, fertility rates remain low, and mortality rates remain high.
Livestock Marketing and Processing
12.       There is a complex traditional marketing system which involves
a large number of established private traders (Dioulas), intermediaries
(Tefankes) and butchers, and handles 99% of the annual market throughput.
There are about 20 principal and 50 secondary cattle markets. Animals
are sold on appearance and are not weighed, and sales are usually for cash.



ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 5
llowever, the larger and better animals command higher prices and usually are
sent to the larger consumption centers, whereas the poorer quality animals
are sold for local consumption. Animals usually are trekked on-the-hoof, as
transport by truck and rail is more expensive and there is a long waiting
time for cattle wagons. The traditional system may seem cumbersome and
complex, but as it performs at high efficiency and is competitive with a
parastatal system, any effort to improve or change it should be undertaken
with caution.
13.       All the important urban centers have a modern slaughterhouse or one
being rehabilitated or under construction. Local markets depend on small
slaughter slabs. Meat retailing is handled by a multitude of small private
butchers; in Dakar there are also supermarkets and large European owned butcher
shops.
14.       Taxation.  The head tax suspended in 1972 because of the drought was
CFAF 240 per year for adult cattle, CFAF 30 for small ruminants, CFAF 650 for
horses, and CFAF 1,250 for camels. Marketing and slaughter fees vary from
place to place: in Eastern Senegal the charge per head of cattle is CFAF 100
for marketing and CFAF 250 for slaughtering. Finally, indirect taxes are
levied on traders and butchers in the form of a lump-sum payment in proportion
to annual turnover. The direct livestock taxes are unpopular and difficult
to collect -- in fact, usually only about 30% of the head tax is collected --
but they constitute the only proven way to raise revenue from livestock; for
example, in 1971/72 they provided about 1% of public revenue.
Institutions
15.       The Department of Livestock and Animal Industries of the Ministry
of Rural Development and Hydraulics has seven regional departments, sub-
divided into 32 sectors, about 90 subsectors, and 200 veterinary posts.
Given its present commitments, the Department is relatively well staffed
with 35 veterinarians, 108 livestock officers, and 280 veterinary assistants.
It is responsible for free vaccinations, supervision of meat and milk
processing operations, and animal production aspects, but is essentially
oriented toward veterinary medicine. Recently, international drought relief
programs have provided vehicles and other facilities, and in some cases
operating means; but the Department suffers from a lack of funds and the
limited focus of its activities.
16.       SERAS (Sociét4 d'Exploitation des Ressources Animales du Sénègal),
a parastatal organization created in 1963, manages the Dakar slaughterhouse
and has marketing functions, including a monopoly of the export of hides and
skins; it also operates the Doli fattening ranch with a yearly output of
5,000 - 8,000 steers. SERAS has serious financial and management problems
and so far has been unable to achieve important goals set for it by Govern-
ment, namely, destocking over-grazed areas and providing Dakar with sufficient
meat to constrain erratic price fluctuations during periods of shortages.



ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 5
17.       Training is carried out by the Interstate School for Veterinary
Sciences in Dakar, which turns out four Senegalese veterinarians per year,
and by the Agricultural High School of Bambey and the Technical College of
Saint-Louis which, respectively, train about 10 and 30 livestock technicians
per year. The training programs are of a high standard, and the output is
adequate for Senegal's requirements.
18.       Veterinary research comes under the National Livestock Laboratory,
Dakar-Hann, an important research center which does diagnostic work and
vaccine production for Senegal and other West African countries. Research
on livestock production is pursued by (a) the Bambey Research Center, which
is involved with forage production trials and mixed farming models; and (b)
the Dahra and Colda livestock stations which, respectively, are testing Zebu
and N'Dama cattle.
19.       Livestock Development Projects.  Several aid agencies are assisting
Senegal in developing its livestock industry. FED is providing about CFAF
4.7 billion for 154 watering points, two abattoirs (Saint-Louis and Thies)
and two livestock development projects in the Sylvopastoral Zone and in
Casamance. Canada has decided to finance CFAF 4.5 billion for 295 watering
points, the equipping of several cold-storage facilities, and a livestock
development project within the Groundnut Basin. The Federal Republic of
Germany is providing CFAF 815 million for 64 watering points, four abattoirs
(Diourbel, Louga, Tambacounda, Ziguinchor) and a dairy farm in M'Bao. USAID
is providing CFAF 450 million for a grazing scheme project in the Bakel area.
FAC intends to provide CFAF 456 million for a dairy farm in Sangalkam (near
Dakar) and new livestock marketing facilities in Dakar and Thies. Iran is
providing CFAF 500 million for 65 watering points and has promised CFAF 2
billion for the renewal of 64 deep-drilled wells in the Sylvopastoral Zone.
Promising contacts with Saudi Arabia and the Peoples Republic of China may
result in financing, amounting to CFAF 2.4 billion, for some 340 new watering
points.
Five-Year Plan (1973-77)
20.       The Plan originally allocated CFAF 4.8 billion (US$ 21 million)
for the livestock subsector, but this was roughly doubled in May 1975 to
CFAF 10 billion (US$ 44 million). The list of development projects has been
increased from 12 to 21, and inflation has been taken into account. The
Government has already obtained foreign assistance for nine projects amount-
ing to CFAF 3.35 billion (US$ 15 million) and further discussions with
foreign aid agencies are under way. The Government's provisional contribution
would cover about 13% of the total costs. The shortage of well-prepared
livestock projects and the lack of qualified project managers are, however,
the key bottlenecks in implementing the livestock development goals of the
Five-Year Plan.



ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 2
SENEGAL
EASTERN SENEGAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Societe pour le Development des Fibres Textiles (SODEFITEX)
Responsibilities
1.        SODEFITEX was created in October 1973 to take over the activities
of the Compagnie Francaise pour le Developpement des Fibres Textiles (CFDT).
SODEFITEX's primary responsibilities are:
(i)  the marketing and ginning of cotton in Senegal; and
(ii)  the provision of extension services to farmers for all
crops in the major cotton-growing areas, which are located
in Eastern Senegal, Eastern Casamance and Sine Saloum.
Organization
2.        SODEFITEX is a joint venture in which the Government and its Caisse
de Stabilisation hold 86% of the shares and CFDT and its Board members the
remaining 14% (Societe d'economie mixte). Representatives of Government
ministries, CFDT, ONCAD and BNDS comprise the Board of Directors, who appoint
SODEFITEX's Director General. Located in Dakar, the headquarters has three
divisions: Management, in charge of general administration and reporting
to Government; Technical, in charge of ordering fertilizer and agricultural
implements; and Financial, in charge of accounting and salary administration.
Accounts are kept in Dakar for all of S0DEFITEX's operations and in
Tambacounda for the regional activities.
3.        Most of SODEFITEX's 410 personnel are assigned to the five regional
field offices in Tambacounda, Kaolack, Kedougou, Velingara and Kolda. Each
field office is headed by a director, supported by technical and administ-
rative staff responsible for the region. Day-to-day activities are managed
by section chiefs who assign extension officers at village level (about one
extension officer for 200 farmers).
Operations
4.        In the Regions of Eastern Senegal, Eastern Casamance and Sine
Saloum, SODEFITEX's 100 extension officers provide extension services for
the cultivation of cotton, rice and (recently) maize. In addition, they are
charged with the implementation of a FED-financed scheme for the intensifica-
tion of cultivation of about 21,000 ha of cotton in these three Regions
and about 716 ha of rainfed rice in Eastern Senegal. SODEFITEX is also in



ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 2
charge of assigning and distributing agricultural implements and fertilizer
purchased by ONCAD under a farmers' credit scheme, and is responsible for
the nationwide commercialization and ginning of cotton.
Management
5.        SODEFITEX's Director General is a Senegalese national.  He is
assisted by an expatriate deputy seconded by CFDT. Each regional field office
is headed by an expatriate regional director, assisted by his Senegalese
counterpart. So far, SODEFITEX's managerial performance has been good, and
it is expected that the organization can absorb the integration of the
Project Unit and the expansion of the agricultural extension service, as
proposed for this project, without major difficulty.
Financing
6.        During its first years oi operations, SODEFITEX's considerable
working capital requirements were met to a large extent by the Government's
Caisse de Stabilisation. The funds were provided by delaying the refunds due
the Caisse de Stabilisation under an agreement reached between the two
organizations stipulating that:
(i) Caisse de Stabilisation would authorize SODEFITEX to
act as a sales agent for cotton lint on foreign (European)
markets after supplying domestic needs;
(ii)  in turn, SODEFITEX would agree to purchase farmers' cotton
crops at farmgate prices, carry out all sales operations
stipulated in the agreement, and refund any excess of cash
which would result from sales made at a higher price than
the cost price.
7.        Other sources of short-term capital are advances from CFDT, in the
form of seasonal credits, and advances from customers for extension services
to be rendered by SODEFITEX.



SENEGAL
EASTERN SENEGAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
SODEFITEX
Balance Sheet as of 9/30/74
(CFAF Million)
ASSETS                                                                              LIABILITIES
Current Assets                                                                      Current Liabilities
Current receivables                                                                 Short-term debts - banks                                            146,3
Deposits                                                7.3                         Loans'                                              62.3
Seasonal credits and notes                         84.0
Accounts Receivable                                      525.1
Customers                              251.4                                     Accounts payable                                                  1.661.6
Government contracts                   258.9                                        Suppliers                                          413.1
other                                   14.8                                        Advances                                           217.0
Other                                               0.7
Prepaid expenses                                          58.9                         Caisse de Stabilisation                          1.030.8
Inventorv                                             1.770.3                       Accruals                                                             210.4
Finished goods                         616.1
Raw materials                          124.1                                     Long-term debts                                                     428.2
Work in process                      1.030.1                                        Loans:  CCCE                                        88.5
BEI                                       182.7
Fixed Assets                                             700.1                                  CFDT                                      157.0
Buildings                              213.6
Agricultural equipment                 225.0                                     Net worth
Vehicles                               163.1                                        Capital:                             750.0                       615.2
Office & Factory installations          94.2                                            not yet paid in                  232.5         517.5
Construction in process                  1.4                                        Reserves                                            52.4
Profit FY 73/74                                     45.3
Guarantees                                   2.8
Total Assets                                3.061.7                                 Total liebilities                                       3.061.7
If   SODEFITEX was established in September 1973.



SENEGAL                                    ANNEX 3
EASTERN SENEGAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT                         Table 1
Proiect Unit
Investment Costs
(CFAF '000)
Unit            Project Year 1
Cost            No.         Cost
Buildings and Construction
Offices  1/                                                 6,000            1            6,000
Staff house  2/                                             9,600           1            9,600
Staff house  3/                                             8,400           2           16,800
Staff house  4/                                             5,400           1            5,400
Workshop store  5/                                          4,000            1           4,000
Elaboration of construction plans, bidcding
documents, contracts and supervision of
construction works  6/                                       -              -             1,250
Furniture for offices and houses  7/                         -              -             4,800
Subtotal                                         47,850
Vehicles and Equipment
Staff car  8/                                               2,200            1           2,200
Four wheel drive vehicle  9/                                3,800            1           3,800
Four wheel drive vehicle  10/                               3,100            1           3,100
Lorry-7 t                                                   8,500            1           8,500
Motorbike                                                      100           2              200
Calculators                                                     60           2              120
Typewriters                                                     60          2               120
Workshop equipment                                                                        1,000
Miscellaneous equipment                                                                   1.000
Subtotal                                         20,040
Total Investment Costs                                                                  67,890
1/   120 m2 (including 6 of ices, 1 meeting ro m. toilets) at CFAF 50J000/m.
2/   With 4 bedrooms; 160 m2  at CFAF 60,000/i.
3/ With 3 bedrooms; 140 m2 at CFAF 60,000/m,.
4/   With 3 bedrooms; 120 m 2at CFAF 45,000/m.
5/   100 m2 at CFAF 40,000/m.
6/   3% of construction costs; will be carried out by Genie Rural.
7/   Includes air-conditioners; CFAF 1.0 million for senior staff houses; CFAF 0.5 million
for junior staff houses; and CFAF 0.8 million for offices.
8/   Peugeot 504 station-wagon or equivaient.
9/   Long wheel base - station-wagon.
10/   Long wheel base - pick up.



SENEGAL
EASTERN SENEGAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Proieci [Tnit
Op.erating Costs
(CFAF '000)
--------------------------------------------- Project Y    ---------------------------------------------__
Uoit            1                    2                    3                    4                     5                  6-20
Co00        No.     Cost        No.      Cost        No.    Cfot         No.       Cost        No.      Cost        No.      Coat
Salaries
Director  1/                                                     1,800       I        1,800      1        1,800       1        1.800       1         1,800       1        1,800       1       1,800
Deputy Director  1/ 2/                                          12,000       1       12,000      1       12,000       1       12,000       i        12,000       1       12,00W       I       1,400
Comuusnity Oevnlopnet Offic-r  1/                                1,200       1        1,200       1       1,200       1        1,200       1         1,200       1        1,200       1        1,200
Acouontant  1/                                                     960       1          960       1         960       1          960       1           960       1          960       1          960
Socreîary  17                                                      480       2          960      2          960       2          960       2           960       2          960       2          960
llech-ni   17                                                      750       1          750       1          750      1          750       1           750       1          750       1          750
Driver  1/                                                         550       4        2',200     4        2,200       4        2,200       4         2,200       4        2,200       2          ,100
Storekeeper  V                                                     450       1          450       1         450       1          450       1           450       1          450       1          450
Subtoto1                                                                  20,320              20,320               20.320                20,320               20,320               8620
Consul tate for pro1ect  Preoacaitio
Man-nonths  3/                                                1.600                -          -         -          -         -         16        25,600       -         -          -        -
Mainten-nce
floildinge and Coestrnctio..   4/                                 -          -         -         -       2,400        -        2400        -         2400        -        2.400       -        2.400
Runniag Co0t of Vehicles
St5ff c-rs  /, 1,000                                                        1        1,000       1      1,I00                             I 1,000  1  1I,OW 1            l'WC        1        1,0OW
Four vheel drive v-hicle  6/                                     1,250       2        2,500       2      2,500        2        2.500       2         2,500       2        2.500                1,250
Lorry 7 t 7/                                                     2,000       I        2,000       1      2,000         1       2,000       1         2,000 1              2,000       1        1,000
motorbikea  8/                                                      40       2           80       2          80        2          80       2            80       2           80       2           86
subtotol                                                                   5,580              5,580                 5.580                 5.580                5.580                3.330
Replncnnnt
Vehicles  9/                                                      -          -        3,520       -      3,520         -       3,520       -         3,520       -        3,520       -        2,900
motorbikes  10/                                                   -          -           66       -          66        -          66 66                  6       -           66       -           66
Subtotal                                                                   3,586              3,586                 3.586                 3.586                3.586                2,966,
Othar Exp.nres
Off i-e Enpenee                                                   -          -          500       -         500        -         500        -           500       -         500         -         100
Daily alloances for Dakar  l1V                                   210       3          630       3         630        3          630      3            630       3          630        3         300
Renting of Staff Dellinge  12                                               -        5,400       -         -          -         -          -           -         -         -           -        -
Electricity aed W-ter                                              360       4        1,440       4       1,440        4        1.440      4          1,440       4       1,440         4      1,440
Auditing                                                          -                     250       -         250        -          250       -           250       -          250        -        250
M'nnitorirg   d Evoluetion  13/                                   -          -        2,030       -       2,030        -        2,030       -         2,030       -        2,030                  -
Training of Exteniion Offiears  ,j/                                 12      50          600      50         600       50          600     50            600     50           600                -
Mlorellaneooo                                                     -          .          2DO       -         200        _         200        -           200       -          200       -           on0
Subtotal                                                                       11.050               5,650                 5,650                 5.650                5.650                2 190
TOTAL OPERATING OOSTS                                                          40,536              37.536                37.536                63.136               37.536               18 506
1/    Includes f  ily, nedi.al, leave and other  11se-noanc
2/    Includes international ..  r-îravei, fmsily, nedical, lave and other ul-.anceu.
3/    For preparatios cf o 2nd phase, includes  one econo ni-    t (6  .onths), one liveetock speci.li.t (2 menths), one narketi.g speciali.t (3 nonths), one sociologist (2 menthe), nd
others (3 -sonth.).
4/    57 et construction coats begi-niog year folloing co. .truct.on.
5/    25,000 k.n/year et CFAF 40 per kn, for fuel, oil, greae, spure purti, repair nnd ind urance
7/    25,000 Ie/y.-r at CFAF 50 per kn, for fuel, oil, greane, spare partt, rpair and fneo.s. e2
7/    20,000 Iosyeet et CFAF 100 per km for fuel. oil  grease, epare partt, repeir *nd insuranre.
6/    CFAF 40,000/ye.r for fuel, oil, spare parts and repirt.
9/    207 of original rou-  beginning vith yenn of .oqui.ition. .                                                                                                                                                      w
10/    337 of origin.I ceat b      sginsing vith year of acquisition.
11/    For senior staff only.
_/    Foer dvellings nt CFAF l0O,OOO/suoth, and one dvelling et CFAF 50,000/-oath.
f3/    Will be carried ouitoneeîtant   inludes par y-ur one ecenenist (4  tonthi,) one vstarioarten (4 nooth.), ose seciologit (t  enth).
*nd investigacors (6 -seth.).
4/     Teo ene veek enninare in livestock production for .sch SODEFITEX' extension officer; coures siill be given by SODEFITEX staff; includee geerl sexin-r coste and living Cnet
alIo.ecas.



ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 10
SENEGAL
EASTERN SENEGAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
GRAZING SCHEME - GENERAL DESCRIPTION
Background
1.        Rangelands are areas which grow natural vegetation and, for ecolo-
gical reasons (low rainfall or poor soils), are lar§ely unsuitable for culti-
vation. Senegal's rangelands cover some 110,000 km , or about 55% of the
country's total land area, and are mostly in its north and east (the Sylvo-
pastoral zone and the northern part of Eastern Senegal), where annual rainfall
is less than 800 mm. These rangelands contain about one million people (25%
of the national population) and about 65% of the country's total animal popu-
lation, equal to about 1.3 million cattle, 900,000 small ruminants, 300,000
horses, and 7,000 camels.
2.        Over the centuries, nature has maintained a balance between man and
his domestic animals. In this century, that balance has become more precarious,
as both the human and animal populations have increased to a point where there
is a lack of adequate grazing and watering, with widespread livestock losses
and human deaths from starvation during drought years. Senegal's rangelands
are presently in a generally deteriorated condition; but as a whole they have
good potential for livestock expansion and sustained production, with the
advantage that relatively small additional capital inputs would be required.
The rangelands could therefore make a significant contribution to the future
development of the livestock subsector and to the diversification of the
national economy.
3.        The first major factor contributing to deterioration of the rangelands
is the traditional system of exploitation under which communally owned lands are
grazed by individually owned livestock. Consequently, each livestock owner
grazes as many cattle as he can in an attempt to maximize his share of the
common resource.
4.        The second factor contributing to rangeland deterioration has been
an aggressive policy of deep-well construction, without any attempt to control
the number of stock. This development began 25 years ago with the provision
of about 65 deep wells in the Sylvopastoral zone. Free water all the year
round improved the conditions of livelihood for the graziers in these areas
over the first decade or so, but as ever larger numbers of stock settled near
each well severe overgrazing became the rule, and livelihoods have become
precarious.



ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 10
5.        A third important factor has been competition with agriculture for
land, as farming has taken over the best dry-season grazing areas, namely,
north of the Groundnut Basin.
6.        Finally, a substantial buildup of stock numbers occurred, due to an
efficient campaign against rinderpest, and there have not been any substan-
tial improvements in marketing infrastructure nor in sales-stimulating price
and tax policies.
Future Rangeland Development
7.        There are three major alternatives to achieving better use of
Senegal's rangelands. The first one would be to split the communal rangelands
into individual holdings. This would possibly provide some incentive to indivi-
duals to improve the productivity of their land and to keep stock numbers in line
with the carrying capacity of the land. Nevertheless, experience in other
parts of Africa -- with the exception of irrigated land for cropping and of
some rangelands in Kenya -- has shown that individual land tenure has not yet
proved to be a sufficient inducement for investment. Furthermore, individual
holdings would make the provision of facilties (water, fencing, dips, etc.)
prohibitively expensive.
8.        A second alternative would be for the Government to assume complete
responsibility for land improvement and for imposing the appropriate rate of
stocking. Although this might appear feasible for the administration of land
and pasture improvement, the task of counting livestock and associating their
number with a particular group of people, in order to limit stock numbers,
would be very difficult.
9.        A third alternative would be to form an association of people
having joint exclusive grazing rights to a given piece of land, collectively
maintaining agreed stocking rates, herding their livestock throughout the year
on the same tract of land and yet continuing to own the livestock as indivi-
duals. Such a system would make such units creditworthy and would give some
incentive to individuals to increase the productivity of the land.
10.       Since there is still no fully tested satisfactory solution to the
problem of developing rangeland on a large scale, Senegal will have to imple-
ment pilot projects that will provide answers and guidance on how best to use
rangelands and promote livestock. The above-described third alternative seems
to be the most advantageous solution.
The Proposed Grazing Scheme
Project Area Description
11.       The grazing scheme will cover about 1.4 million ha, representing
23% of Eastern Senegal, 35% of the Region's rangeland, and 7% of the country's
total land area. The area is located north of the Dakar-Bamako railway and



ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 10
lies within the district boundaries of Koumpentoum, Tambacounda and Goudiri.
There are relatively good rangelands with 600 - 800 mm annual rainfall (from
May to end of October) and a low human and animal dens ty of roughly four inhabi-
tants and eight domestic animals, respectively, per km . With the exception of
about 32 concrete wells, newly constructed or under construction (all in the
western part of the project area), watering facilities are scarce and there are
no permanent access roads. The area has a relatively low agricultural potential
for Eastern Senegal standards due to preponderantly poor soils and unreliable
rainfall; but its potential for livestock production is important and can
be developed through effective range management as a technically superior
alternative to the present traditional system of livestock production.
12.       The vegetation cover is woody savannah in the south and scattered
trees and open grass areas in the north. Combretum, Bombax, Ficus and Ptero-
carpus are the mest common trees.  The variety of grasses ranges from peren-
nials, such as Hyparrhenia and Andropogon sp., to annuals such as Aristida,
Eragrostis, Cenchrus biflorus, Chloris pilosa and Pennisetum pedicellatum.
Uncontrolled fires burn 50 to 70% of the area's vegetation each year.
13.       The area has about 53,000 rural inhabitants living in 500 small
villages. Livestock is their predominant activity, but almost all of them
grow traditional cereals (millet and sorghum) in addition to some maize and
cotton grown in the south of the area. The mest important ethnic groups are
the Peul, Toukouleurs and Wolof, together representing 90% of the total
population. Peul are predominant in the northern part of the area. The
pnresently available agricultural area is estimated at 170,000 ha, with only
one-fourth under annual cultivation (0.8 ha per capita). Twenty years from
now, without immigration, the human population is expected to reach 79,000
inhabitants (at an annual increase rate of 2%) and annual farming, increasing
at the same rate, is expected to reach about 80,000 ha each year.
14.       All land is "owned" by the state, but there are well-defined and
understood rights regarding the use of land at the village level. There,
land is held by related family groups and is handed down to the next genera-
tions. Water rights appear to be more specific, so that access to water
linked to a system of control might be easily understood and accepted by the
pastoralists.
15.       The animal population is estimated at 120,000 cattle and 60,000
smlll ruminants. They represent a density of about eight animal units per
km and a stocking rate which is at least two times below the estimated
carrying capacity of the rangeland as a whole. The value of these herds is
estimated at CFAF 2.5 billion (US$11 million).



ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 10
16.       Cattle are of the Zebu type in the north and a crossbreed with
N'dama is found in the south. Due to lack of water, annual fires, poor manage-
ment and endemic diseases, production coefficients are low. The weaning rate
is only 30 - 35% and the annual offtake not more than 10 - 11%. Adult animals
have about 350 kg liveweight at the age of five to six and first calving takes
place at the age of four.
17.       Except for animals being milked (which are kept near the villages),
all cattle are herded away from the villages during the rainy season. After
the raina, the animals move back, using water from temporary ponds as long as
it is available. When the water dries up, they are taken to the villages
where permanent water is available or to the Faleme or Gambia Rivers (outside
the project area).
Summary Project Description
18.       The project would consist of development of an integrated range
management system for about 65 "grazing units" covering about 11,500 km2,
through construction of permanent watering points and firebreaks; the carrying
out of a comprehensive animal health program; and the provision of technical
assistance, extension servicès, livestock credit, and training (paras. 4.03-
4.11, main text). The project would be implemented over a five-year period.
Preparation of a Land Use Plan
19.       Under an existing Senegalese Law (no. 64-46 of July 17, 1964) called
"the law of national domain", all non-registered land belongs to the state,
with individuals having only user rights. To limit and define the use of the
project land, an Administrative Decree will be required, setting aside the
land as a "pioneer zone" and describing in detail the land use under the
project. The initiative should come from SODEFITEX (Annex 3) through sending
the Ministry of Rural Development and Hydraulics a letter and map showing
the project area and explaining the project's purposes. A draft of the Decree
would then be prepared and forwarded to the Ministries of Justice, Finance
and Plan to the Prime Minister for approval. A draft of such a decree including
as an annex a pro forma contract between SODEFITEX and a grazing group is
attached to this Annex. The final step is presentation to the President,
whose signature makes the Decree effective. The land would be entrusted to
SODEFITEX, and the identified rural communities would then receive from
SODEFITEX and under its supervision exclusive land use rights.
20.       After registration of the project land, which would take about three
to four months, a land use plan should be drawn up for the area. Plans would
necessarily vary from one part of the project area to another according to
differences in vegetation, water supply, existing facilities, tribal customs,
etc. Much information needs to be collected and processed, such as (a) a
complete inventory of permanent water points with their capacity at different



ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 10
times of the year; (b) an inventory of vegetation resources, including the
potential carrying capacity under improved management; (c) an inventory of the
human and livestock populations; and (d) detailed information on transhumance,
its causes, extent, timing and frequency.
21.       A land use plan or plans would allow the identification of land that
could be cultivated without damaging the productivity of the rangeland as a
whole. Once the land use plan has been drawn up, an integrated rangeland
development program would include: (a) organization of the people into
legally constituted bodies, each with defined user rights for a specified unit
of land in order to generate community responsibility and direct involvement
for the management of the land and its resources; (b) demarkation of grazing
units; (c) development of permanent watering facilities, with a concomitant
agreement by the pastoralists to limit the number of livestock using these
facilities to the carrying capacity of their land; (d) restrictions on burning
and protection against fires through construction of firebreaks, which at the
same time would allow access to remote areas; (e) disease control through an
extended veterinary program; (f) design of an extension program to encourage
increased offtake; (g) the training of pastoralists in improved husbandry
techniques, range management, disease control practices, etc.; (h) credit to
herders who are herding someone else's cattle and who do not possess livestock
to build up their own breeding herd; and (i) a functional literacy program
(Annex 4-E) focused on the various aspects of livestock production.
Organization and Management
22.       Senegal is in the process of implementing, through pilot projects,
an administrative reform aimed at developing regional planning and greater
decentralization. "Rural Communit:Les" (Communautes Rurales) are being
established with financial autonomr, and a management budget is foreseen as
a means of financing the necessary equipment and supplies for local projects 1/.
The proposed grazing scheme could be integrated into this administrative
reform as a Rural Community.
23.       Therefore, and also because it is believed that the project will
function at maximum efficiency only, if the community members are associated
in the management of their own affairs, an internal organization of the agro-
pastoralists in the project area has been foreseen. During the five-year
project period, about 65 "grazing units" would be set up, each covering a
demarked land area (by firebreaks) of about 22,000 ha, with two concrete wells
(existing or new) and a human and animal population, respectively, of about
800 agropastoralists, 2,000 cattle and 1,000 small ruminants. From what is
presently known, no removal of population or villages is foreseen. It is
possible, however, that in some entirely empty areas some controlled immigra-
tion from the northwest should take place. Each Rural Community of a grazing
1/   This is included in Senegal's Fourth Development Plan (1973-77).



ANNEX 4
Page 6 of 10
unit would elect a "committee" and later would create a precooperative.
Committees would enable agropastoralists to become active participants in the
planning, development and management of their area, over which they would have
exclusive user rights. Each committee would appoint from among its members a
President and a Vice President, who would be responsible in association with
the technical staff to see that grazing and livestock management plans are
adhered to and that trespassing by members or outsiders does not take place.
The committees would have to approve and guarantee the eligibility of those
members receiving individual development loans.
24.       At the project level as a whole there would be established a
"Council" or assembly of about 15 to 20 members selected from among the
Presidents of the 65 grazing units. This council would work closely with the
Range Management Specialist and his Assistants and would deal with matters of
common interest. It would advise on matters relating to policy, overall area
management, development plans, disputes, enforcement and other matters as
deemed appropriate.
Social and Cultural Constraints and Risks
25.       The implementation of the grazing scheme and the creation of about
65 grazing units constitutes a major social and territorial reorganization,
as well as an important change_in the traditionally entrenched herding patterns.
Such a change bristles with difficulties. Therefore, particular attention should
be given not only to fulfill the technical requirements for organizing the
grazing units, but also to increase the social and cultural feasibility of this
new production pattern.
26.       The basic condition would be to get the voluntary agreement of the
pastoralists for their involvement in the grazing scheme and to build a strong
group structure within the grazing units. However, the project would be con-
fronted in that respect with a series of social risks and socio-cultural
constraints, among which the most important are likely to be the following:
(a) The grazing units, based on exclusive grazing rights on a certain
piece of land, constitute a major departure from the traditional,
customary African pattern based on free grazing.  Range land is
traditionally considered as open to anybody (except some tribal
priority rights) and the herds are used to move freely over the
area. Thus, implementation of the new system should rely on pro-
viding incentives, on patient persuasion work and on gaining the
support of local informal leaders.
(b) The creation of the grazing units and of their managing bodies
can not rely on any administrative village structure before the
implementation of the 1972 Administrative Law, because such a
structure does not exist in Senegal. There is no previous



ANNEX 4
Page 7 of 10
experience with formal administrative authorities at the village
level. The creation of the grazing units out of several small
hanlets should therefore go hand in hand with the demarcation of
rural communities under new Administrative Law.
(c) Past experiences show that any community building process, even
under the most favorable conditions, requires more time to achieve
the molding of viable and coherent human grouDs than the project
allows for the creation of the grazing communities during the
disbursement period. The project should therefore rely as much as
possible on the use of existing traditional institutions (kinship
systems, ethnic/tribal affinities, family and kinship authority
structures, village headmen) in order to facilitate the organization
of the grazing communities along lines which are culturally more
easily acceptable to the target group as authority enforcing
mechanisms. Building the new production oriented community
organization upon existing traditional institutions would minimize
disruption and accelerate development. Grouping the pastoralists
from several adjoining settlements along kinship affinities
and systems may increase confidence and coherence.
(d)  Enforcing rational grazing requires a certain amount of social and
economic discipline and self-restraint, in addition to acquiring
new pastoral know-how by an illiterate and backward population.
There is no experience or evidence in Senegal of this type of
grazing and there remains uncertainty regarding the pastoral
society's response. Therefore, a strong emphasis should be put
on extension work, defined in a broad sense. The 70 man extension
task force should not only confine itself to explaining the technical
rules of rational grazing, but should undertake responsibility for
the social and organizational effort involved in creating the
grazing communities. A broadened understanding of the very concept
of "extension work" is needed so as to cover the requirements of
"social extension" and "of self management extension", as well as to
undertake the patient organizational effort involved in building
the grazing communities.
(e)  The project's direct leverage for eliciting the expected response
is, except for the provision of water, relatively modest. Moreover,
where water points already exist, the project's leverage for change
will be reduced. This should be compensated by patient persuasion
work to be carried out by the extension agents, pointing out to the
immediate and long-term economic advantages of rational grazing and
to increasing marketing possibilities. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that the Pastoral service would continue to
endeavour for the strengthening and development of the grazing com-
munities after the disbursement period.



ANNEX 4
Page 8 of 10
(f)  After a grazing unit would be created, the project should expect
some external pressure on it, from pastoralists who are outside
the project area and have not comparable access to water. This is
more likely to happen at the northern border of the grazing scheme
area and might result in penetration of external herds and over-
stocking. State and administrative support should back up the new
grazing units against external pressure.
(g) The project should expect also pressure from within the grazing
units, against the established rules. This pressure would be
probably produced by some conflict of interests between the
members when decision on destocking should be made or when some
pastoralists would find that they incur disadvantages because
some grazing areas are restricted. Continuous assistance should
be given by the extension network to the management of the new
grazing units in strengthening the new organizational patterns
through community imposed rules and discipline and by encouraging
a more market oriented animal husbandry. Fostering the market
orientation will allow them to perceive clearer the advantages
of rotational grazing and of increased livestock productivity.
(h)  The current lack of cadastral information will not only slow down
implementation and make it difficult to trace the "borders" of
the grazing units, it will also possibly set the stage for some
subsequent disputes between the grazing communities. This risk,
however, can be controlled and diminished provided good preparatory
work will be done by the regional and district authorities in
cooperation with the project management.
(i) The creation of 65 grazing units and the need for 65 authoritative,
prestige-carrying and competent management bodies (councils) will be
confronted with the lack of appropriate cadres. These councils
should be organizationally capable of enforcing rotation rules,
stock levels, settling disputes, diffusing new methods, possibly
keeping some records, etc. Competent local leaders and administrators
are a scarce resource in the area. This vould be a major social
constraint, since the absence of competent and progressive stock-
raisers to undertake responsibility for the new units may basically
bring about a breakdown of these units. Training of local leaders,
(possibly by expanding existing training programs) as well as mass
functional literacy efforts, as initiated under this project, is
expected to help alleviate this risk.
27.       While the social and cultural changes invplved in the implementation
of tte grazing scheme are admittedly difficult, they are achievable and
constitute a definite prerequisite for project success. These changes could
be successfully elicited provided the project management and the local author-
ities would view their task not just as a merely technical one, but also as an
effort for institution building and will pay appropriate attention to the
social and cultural variables of the project work.



ANNEX 4
Page 9 of 10
28.       The Project Unit's and Pastoral Service's first task in dealing
with the socio-cultural aspects oi the grazing scheme will be to identify
the existing authority structures, ethnic and kinship affinities and inter-
village relationships within the grazing scheme area. To that end it is
necessary to visit village after village in order to:
(a)  explain in detail the project's components and the
advantages and duties to participating communities.
Emphasis should be put on the importance of the grazing
unit's managing committee, the election of its members
and particularly its president;
(b) identify, following an appropriate survey, the ethnic
and kinship structure of each settlement and its
affinities with neighboring villages; assess eventual
prestige/influence conflicts between villages; and
sketch collected inforn.ation on a 1/100,000 scale map;
and,
(c) propose the election of one or more delegate(s) per village
(in proportion to its importance) for an intervillage
meeting, which would take place later in a village of the
population's choice and during which they would elect the
members and the chairman of the unit's managing committee.
29.       In order to have a precise idea of the intervillage affinities
aimed at showing a suitable demarcation of homogeneous communities, it is
necessary to visit several dozen villages, in particular in the southwest
where ethnic groups are intermixed. Assuming a possible visit of about 15-20
villages per week, this investigation/information work should take about
four months to cover the west part of the grazing scheme area (Koumpentoum
and Koussanar districts) and three months for the east (Goudiri district).
The Community Development Officer and his staff, who ought to know perfectly
the project contents and be closely associated from the beginning in the
investigation/information work, should: (a) remain or return to the village
to complete or correct information given to the villages during the first
visit, (b) collect complementary information, and (c) assist in the election
of villages' candidates in order to verify villagers active participation in
that election.
30.       Once the PU and PS staff are convinced that villages have a clear
understanding of the project components, and have showed their interest in
participating in project imnplementation by electing their candidate(s),
a second visit to each village is necessary to:
(a) census the human and anirnal populations and pre-
identify potential candidates for the Credit;



ANNEX 4
Page 10 of 10
(b) measure existing cropping and fallow areas and estimate
the areas needed for future agricultural land expansion;
(c)  inventory existing permanent or temporary watering points,
particularly ponds, with the quantity and duration of their
output/delivery and the number and origin of animals
coming to those watering points during a given season
or period of the year;
(d)  verify present situations of pastureland, particularly
around ponds, and accordingly correct existing Agrostologic
cartographic documents. The results of the above (a),
(b), (c) and (d) inventigations sketched on a 1/100,000
scale second map should show:
(i) the carrying capacity of pasturelands per season,
the existing watering facilities and their output
for a period of time. the necessity for complementary
wells and their siting and construction phasing;
(ii) the present animal density in a given point over the
pastureland for a period of time (rainy and dry season)
and the eventual necessity to shift animal pressure from
one watering point to another;
(iii) the suitable rotation system to be enforced within each
grazing unit.
Completion of the above inventory should take about the same time as spent in
identifying and mapping of the pastoral communities. In superimposing the
two sketched maps mentioned above, it would appear convenient to demarcate
grazing units (and consequently to delineate the firebreaks) having a maximum
regard for community homogeneity and reducing to a minimum the cattle move-
ments in the implementation of rational rotational grazing.
31.       Once the demarcation of a grazing unit has been established in con-
sultation with the participating pastoral population, PM/PS should invite
the delegates of each Unit's villages to a meeting to elect the members of
the Unit's managing committee, its President and the central village. The
signature of the contract on exclusive land-use rights could then take place
between SODEFITEX/PU and the Unit's committee.
32.       The carrying out by the Pastoral Unit's extension staff of the
complex process of grazing community building would require a clear under-
standing of the sociological difficulties and problems involved in this
process. Appropriate and continuous training should be provided for the
70 men extension staff during the entire project period concerning both
the objectives and the methodology of building and managing the grazing
units. Special attention should be given to evaluating the early lessons
from the creation of the first units and to feeding them back into the
gradual process of developing the entire grazing scheme.



SENEGAL
EASTERN SENEGAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Grazing Scheme
SODEFITEX - Pastoral Service
Investment Costs
(CFAF '000)
---------------------------------------- Project Year ----------------------------------------
Unit               1                     2                     3                      4                 Total
Cost         No.      Cost        No.       Cost         No.      Cost         No.       Cost        No.       Cost
1. Buildings and Constructions
Office  1/                                      1,200        1         1,200                                                                         1         1,200
House  2/                                       9,400        1        9,400                                                                          1         9,400
Extension Posts  3/                            3,500         1        3,500        1        3,500        1        3,500        1         3,500       4        14,000
Elaboration of construction plans,                           -           380       -          100        -          100        -           100       -           680
bidding documents, contracts and
supervision of construction works 4/
Extension Outposts  5/                            200       15        3.000      15         3,000       15        3,000       15         3.000      60        12.000
Subtotal                                                        17,480                 6,600                 6,600                  6.600               37,280
2. Vehicles and Equipment
Four wheel drive vehicle  6/                    3,800        1         3,800                                                                          1        3,800
Four wheel drive vehicle  7/                    2,600        1         2,600       1        2,600        1        2,600        1         2,600       4        10,400
Motorbike  8/                                     100       15         1,500      15         1,500       15       1,500       20         2,000      65         6,500
Camping equipment (sets)  9/                      300        2           600       1          300         1         300        1           300       5         1.500
Subtotal                                                         8,500                 4,400                 4.400                  4,90Q               22 200
Total Investment Costs                                          25,980                l,o000                il,000                 11.500                59.480
1/    20 m22at CFAF 50,000/m2. includes CFAF 200,000 for furniture and office equipment.
2/    140  2at CFAF 60,000/q 2; includes CFAF 1.0 million for furniture and air-conditioning.
3/    80 m  at CFAF 40,000/m ; includes CFAF 0.3 million for furniture.
4/    3% of construction costs; will be carried out by Genie Rural.
5/    Will be constructed exclusively with local materials.
6/    Long-wheel base station wagon; for head of grazing scheme.
7/    Short-wheel base; for Extension Officers.
8/    For extension Assistant.
9/    One set per Extension Officer.



SENEGAL
EASTERN SENEGAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Grazina Schoe
SODEFITEK - Pastoral Service
operating Costs
(CFAF '000)
_-----_----------------------------------- Project Year ---------------------
Unit               1                       2                       3                       4                      5                       6-9                      10-20
Cost         No.      Cost           No.       Cost           No.      Cost           No.     Cost          No.       Cost           No, COBt                  No.       Cost
1. Salaries and Wages
head of Grazing Scheme                     10,000        1        10,000         1        10,000         1        10,000         1        10,000        1         10,000         1          1,500          1          1,500
Extension Officer  1/                         960        1        1,000         2          1,900         3         2,900         4        3,900         4         3,900          4          3,900          2          1,950
Extension Assistants  2/                      420       15        6,300        30         12,600        45        18,900        60        25,200       65         27,300        45        18,900          20          8,400
Clerk/Storekeeper                             450        2          900         3          1,400         4         1,800         5         2,300        6          2,700         4         1,800           4          1,800
Drivers                                       550        3         1,700        4          2.200         5         2.800         6         3.300        7          3.900         5          2.800          3          1.650
Subtotal                                                    19,900                   28.100                 36.400                  44.700                  47.800                   28.900                    15.300
2. Maintenance
Buildings  2/                                                        _                        800                  1,100                   1,500                   1.500        __          1,500             _       1500
3.  Runnina Costs of Vehicles
Four wheel drive vehicle  4/                1,250        2         2,500         3         3,750         4         5,000         5         6,250        6          7.500         5          6,250          3          3,750
Motorbike  5/                                  40       15           600        30          1.200       45         1.800        60         2.400       65          2,600        45          1.800         20            800
Subtotal                                                     3.100                    4.950                   6.800                   8,650                  10.100                   8.050                      4.550
4.  Replacement
Vehicles and Equipsient  6/                                        2,300                    3,400                  4,500                   5,600                   5,770                    2,250                     1,700
5. Training
One-year Pellowship  7/                     1,000        -           -                      1,000                   1,000         -           - 
One-osonth Trip to East Africa  S/            400        -           .           6          2.400         6        2.400         6         2.400        -             -
Subtotal                                            -           -                     3,400                   3.400                   2.400        -            -                        -                         _
6.  General Administration                                                  SO0                      600                     700                     800                     800                      400                       200
Total Operating Costs                                       25.800                   41.250                  52.900                  63.650                  65,970                   41.100                    23.20
1/   Would be an "Ingenieur des Travaux d'Elevage"; includes fanily, medical, lsave and other allowances.
2/   Would be an "Infirsier veterinaire"; includes family, mdical, Ieave and other al1owances.
3/   5h of construction cost begimning with y0ar following construction.
4/   25,000 klm  per year at CFAF 50/ks for fuel, oil, grease, spars parts, repaire and insurance.
5/ For fuel, oil, spare parts and repaire.
/   20%oef original cost for vehiclese and 337h for   torbikes beginning  aith year of acquisition             d
7/   One-year fellowship for Senhalese gradu3tes in range mbanagement and agrit ultural economics; in. ludes living cost allances and tranport cost.
8/   One-month trips for Senagalese project staff and pastoral cOmumity leaders for visiting ongoing livestock projects in Saut Africa.



SENEGAL
EASTERN SENEGAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Grazing Scheme
Construction of Firebreaks 1/
A. Investment Costs
(CFAF '000)
-------------------------------- Project Year ---------------------------
Unit              1                      2                      3                  Total
Cost         No.     Cost         No.         Cost         0,      Cost        No.      Cost
Vehicles and Equipment 2/
Bulldozer  3/                                   13,250       4        53,000                                                    4       53,000
Grader  3/                                      11,700       2        23,400                                                    2       23,400
Four wheel drive truck - 5 t  3/ 4/              8,200       4        32,800                                                    4       32,800
Workshop Equipment                                                     1,000                                                    1         1,000
Handtools for construction of firebreaks                               1,000                                1       1,000       2         2,000
Local Tents                                        100       5           500                                5         500      10         1.000
Subtotal Investment Costs                                      111.700                                        1.500               113,200
Physical Contingencies (10%)                                          11.170                                          150                11,320
Total Investment Costs                                         122.870                                        1,650               124.52D0
1/    Assumes that about 1,300 km of firebreaks (580 km of external and 720 km of internal firebreaks) will be constructed by heavy
equipment and about 840 km by hand.
2/    Two teams each with 2 Bulldozers (e.g. Caterpillar DS), Grader (e.g. Caterpillar H 115), and 1 truck.
3/    Residual value at the end of PY 5 is estimated at one third of purchase price, or CFAF 36.4 million.
4/    One truck for each heavy equipment team and two trucks for transportation of laborers.



SENEGAL
EASTERN SENEGAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Grazing Scheme
Construction of Firebreaks
B. Operating Costs
(CFAF '000)
---------------------------------------------- Project Year-
Unit             1                    2                     3                     4                     5                 6-20
Cost       No.      Cost        No.      Cost         No.      Cost         No.      Cost         No.      Cost        No.      Coast
Running Cost of Vehicles  1/
Bulldozers  2/                                          4        7,400       4        22,100       4        22,100       4        22,100       4        22,100
Graders  3/                                              2       3,300        2        9,800        2        9,800       2         9,800        2        9,800
Four wheel drive truck - 5 t  4/                         4        1.500      4         2.900       4         3.900       4         3.400        4        4,000                 -
Subtotal                                                   12.200                34.800                35.800                35.300                35,900
Replacement of Vehicles  5/                                          3,280                 3,280                 3,280                 3,280                 3,280
Salaries and Wages
Manual construction of firebreaks  6/                             5,000                6,000                 5,800
Maintenance of firebreaks  7/                                                           2,100                 5,700                 9,200                11,040               11,040
Head Mechanic                                1,200       1          400       1         1,200       1         1,200       1         1,200       1         1,200                  -
Bulldozer/Grader Drivers  8/                   300                  -         6         1,800       6         1,800       6         1,800       6         1,800
Truck drivers                                  600       4        1.200       4        2.400        4        2.400        4         2.400       4         2.400
Subtotal                                                    6.600                13.500                16.900                14.600                16.440               11,040
Subtotal Operating Costs                                   22,080                51,580                55,980                53,180                55,620               11,040
Physical Contingencies  (10%)                                     2.210                5.160                 5.600                  5.318                 5.560               1,104
Total Operating Costs                                      24.290                56.740                61.580                58.498                61.180               12,144
1/   Assumes that each heavy equipment team constructs one kilometer of firebreak per 8 hour working day or 150 km per year during a 6-7 months period; 100 km in
py 1, 300 km in PY 2 and PY 3, and 220 kls in PY 4.
2/   CFAF 4,600 per working hour for  fuel,  oil, grease, spare parts, repairs,and driver's salary.
3/   CFAF 4,100 per working hour for  fuel,  oil, grease, spare parts, repairs, and driver's salary.
4/   CFAF 100 per km.
5/   20% of purchase price of 2 trucks starting in PY 1.
6/   50 man-days per km at CFAF 400 per day; 250 km in PY 1, 300 km in PY 2, and 290 km in PY 3.
7/   15 man-days per km at CFAF 400 per day; 350 km in PY 2; 950 km in PY 3; 1,540 km in PY 4; 1,840 km in PY 5; and 2,140 in PY 6 through PIY 20.
8/   6 months of driver's salaries are included in the construction costs of firebreaks, and during the remaining 6 months each driver receives CFAF 50,000 per month.
- s-



ANNEX 4-C
Page 1 of 3
SENEGAL
EASTERN SENEGAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
GRAZING SCHEME
CONSTRUCTION OF WATERING FACILITIES
General
1.        Eastern Senegal can be divided into two distinct hydrogeological
units:
(a) The Sedimentary Basin in the west, covering about two-thirds
of the Region, has a well-known continual underground water
system ranging between 150 and 500 m in depth and another
ranging between 20 and 30 m in the west to 60 - 70 m in the
east. The former is under pressure; if tapped by very costly
deep-drilled wells, the underground water rises to 15 - 40 m under
the surface. The latter can be exploited by simple open wells,
which are four to five times cheaper, less delicate and more
long-lived than deep-drilled wells and which, under prevailing
hydrological conditions and traditional water drawing methods
(by hand or by draft animals), deliver the same water yields
as deep-drilled vells. For these reasons, open wells only
40 - 75 m in depth would be constructed under the proposed
livestock project.
(b) The "Socle" in the east, covering about one-third of the Region,
has anticambrian and primary formations. A continual under-
ground water system does not exist there, and potential under-
ground water is risky to obtain and too poor for watering of
livestock. Superficial water for watering purposes is sufficient
only in the southern higher rainfall part of this area. In its
middle and eastern parts, however, permanent watering facilities
could be created with small dams and ponds. There is a need to
identify potential sites and construction methods in this area.
2.        The Faleme and Gambia Rivers provide the most reliable permanent
water resources along the eastern and western boundaries of the Region.
Shallow (up to 45 m in depth) hand-dug wells in villages, the exact number
of which is not known, provide the remaining watering points. Temporary
water in a few natural depressions are also available during the rainy
season and the first part of the dry season; but during the main part of the
dry season, water for both people and livestock becomes scarce in most parts
of Eastern Senegal. To make proper use of the range resources, substantial
supplies of water must be developed for both the human and livestock popula-
tions.



ANNEX 4-C
Page 2 of 3
3.        The existing traditional wells vary in width from 1.2 to 2 m and in
depth from a few meters up to 45 m. They may be divided into two types.  The
first is a well dug in dry, sandy stream beds; these are enlarged and water
is trapped in the sand. Each dry season the wells must be re-dug as they fill
with sand during the rainy season. The second type îs a pernmanently dug well,
cased with cement and going down 45 m or more. These vells have been cons-
tructed by the Government and have a cross-beam/pulley arrangement for hand
extraction with a bucket. The water yield of the wells varies, but the lowest
yield is about 3 m /hour.
Ongoing Well Construction Programs in Eastern Senegal
4.        Several external development agencies are carrying out watering
facility programs in Eastern Senegal; namely, in its western part and with
emphasis on village water supply:
-    FED is financing, in 1975-76, 10 deep-drilled wells
(one of which will be equipped with a motor-pump) and
31 open wells;
-    the Federal Republic of Germany is financing, in
1975-76, 25 open wells and 20 wells with hand-pumps;
-    Saudi Arabia is financing one deep-drilled well; and
-    the People's Republic of China has agreed in principle
to finance four deep-drilled wells and six open wells.
In addition, IDA under its Drought Relief Fund Project (Cr. 446-SE) has re-
inforced the Regional Hydraulic Service of Tambacounda with well-construction
equipment and operating funds to construct 45 wells.
Water Development Under the Project
5.        Under present price/cost conditions of the grazing scheme area, open
concrete wells for water extraction by hand are the most appropriate source of
permanent water. Hence, the project would provide for the construction of 100
wells. The wells would be spaced 12 km apart, each serving about 11,000 ha
of pasture.  Their3depth vould range from 40 to 75 m, with an estimated minimum
water yield of 3 m /hour. Each well would provide sufficient water for about
1,300 cattle and 1,000 small ruminants, thus necessitating about 12 hours per
day of manual extraction during the dry season.
6.        Under the project 100 wells (30 in PY2, PY3 and PY4 and 15 in PY5)
would be constructed by contractor; and selection of the well sites, prepara-
tion of bidding documents, selection of the contractor, and the supervision of
construction would be undertaken by a team consisting of one Hydrogeologist,
two Hydraulic Assistants and support staff.



ANNEX 4-C
Page 3 of 3
7.        An inventory of the present water supply in the middle and eastern
parts of Eastern Senegal is not available, nor is data available on present
and future needs and the economically feasible means to obtain permanent vater
there. It is certain, however, that very little permanent water exits,
compared to the estimated needs. During their planned three years' stay in
Eastern Senegal, the above-mentioned team would therefore (a) make an inventory
of existing wells in the Region, (b) evaluate present and future water needs,
and (c) identify the sites and estimate the costs of possible small dams on
the bedrock of Eastern Senegal.



SENEGAL
EASTERN SENEGAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Construction if Watering Facilities
Construction Costs
(CFAF' 000)
___________________________--__---------------Project Year---------------------------------------------------------___________
1                 ~~~                                 ~~2  3       4                       5                       Total
Unit Cost         No.         Cost         Nu.         Cost                                 No.        Cost         No.         Coset        No.          Cost
CATEGORY
A. Preparatory Works 1/
B. Well Construction 2/
Well - 60-75 m deep                                 7,800            -            _           17       132,600          6        46,800        -         -             10        78,000         33       257,400
Well - 50-60 n decp                                 6,200            -            -           13        80,600          8        49,600       16       99,200           -          -            37       229,400
WeIl - /0-50 m deep                                 5,500            -            _-                      -            16        88,000       1,4      77.000           -          -            30       165.000
Subtotal                                                                              30       213.200         30       184,400       30      176.200          10        78.000        100       651.800
C.  Supervision of Construction Works  3/
D. Maintenance  4/
E.  Physical Contingencies  5/                                           -            _            -        21,300           -       18.400         -       17.600                    7.800          -        65,100
TOTAL CONSTRUCTION COSTS                                                                       234.500                  202.800                193.800                   85.800                  716,900
1/    Will be done by the hydrogeological team of PU (Table 6 Annex 4-C).
construction sites and preparation and evaluation of bidding documents.
2/    Details of cost estimates are included in a comprehensive report prepared by the hydrogeologist-consultant to the appraisal missions.
3/    Will be done by the hydrogeological temm provided under the project to the Regional Hydraulic Service (for details see Annex 6, Table 1).
4/    2.5X of cost of construction works beginning in year 10 following construction (approximately CFAF 14 million per year).
5/    10% of cost of construction works.



SENEGAL
EASTERN SENEGAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Construction of Watering Facilities
Cost of Hydrogeological Team
(CFAF '100)
Unit           --------------------------------------- Project Years -----------------------------------
Cost                  l                               2                            3                            Total
No.           Costs           No.            Costs            No.          Costs           No.             Co6ts
A.   Investment Costs
Four-wheel drive vehicle  1/                  3,800           1             3,800           -                 -             -                             1              3,800
Four-wheel drive vehicle 2/                   3,100           1             3,100           -                 -             -              -              1              3,100
Camping equipment (sets)  3/                    300           3               900           -                 -             -              -             3                 900
Misc. technical equipment   4/                  -             -             1,100           -                        -              -                     -              1,100
Total Investment Costs                                                  8,900           -                -             -               -             -              8,900
B.   Operating Costs
a)   Salaries - tydrogeologist5/             10,000           1            10,000           i             10,000            1            5,000                          25,000
- Eydraulic Assistants 6/   1,200             2              2,400           2              2,400            2            1,200                          6,000
- Driver  6/                    550           2              1,100           2              1,100            2              550                           2,750
- Laborer   6/ 7/               400           3              1,200           3                200            3              600                           2,000
b)  Rent for staff dwellings  8/                -             3             2,400            3              2,400           3            1,200                           6,000
c)  Running coStS of vehicles  9/             1,200           2             2,400           2               2,400           2            1,200                           6,000
Total Operating Costs                                                  19,500                         18,500                         9,750                          47,750
10/
C.   Physical Contingencies                                                       2.000                          1.900                           950                           4.850
TOTAL INVEST2ENT AND OPERATING COSTS                                       30.400                          20.400                       10J700                          61.500
1/   Long wheel base - station wagon.
2/   Long wheel base - pick up.
3/   Includes tent, refrigerator end other misc. camping equipment.
4/   Includes 3 Limnemeters, 3 Resistivitymeters, 3 laboratory kits, etc.
5/   Includes international air travel,family1medical, leave and other allowances,
6/   Includes family, medical,leave and other allowances.
7/   Are required in PY I for 12 months, PY 2 for 2 months and PY 3 for 6 months.
8/   Hydrogeologist a CFAF 1.2 millionlyear and each hydraulic engineer = CFAF 0.6 million/year.
9/   25,000 Ikm per year at CFAF 50/km for fuel, oil, grease, spare parts, repairs and insurauce.                                                                                                 t'
10/   Approximately 10%..



ANNEX 4-D
Page lof 3
SENEGAL
EASTERN SENEGAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
GRAZING SCHEME
LIVESTOCK CREDIT
1.        Combining output and equity goals, the project would give special
attention to assisting through credit the poorer pastoralists who, though
experienced in animal husbandry, lack the resources as well as savings with
which to start building up their own herds. As the overall credit requirements
would be low (about US$220,000) and the credit program would be carried out
in the remote and difficult accessible grazing scheme area, which would
be already controlled by the project's Pastoral Service, the latter appears
to be the most adequate setup for implementing, supervising and administering
this project component.
2.        During the project period, a credit program would be developed from
PY 2 through PY 5, to assist: (i) 200 to 300 families - about 60 per year-
or 5% of the families, in the grazing scheme area in the acquisition of
breeding animals by providing long-term credit, covering 80% of the purchase
price of about four heifers/young cows per family (totaling about 950 heifers/
cows and 50 bulls) for a 12-year term, including a four-year grace period,
at 7.5% interest per year; (ii) about 30 pastoralist families in the acquisi-
tion of ox-drawn carts and small farm tools, by providing medium-term credits
to cover 80% of the purchase price of such equipment, for a five-year term
at 7.5% interest per year; and (iii) about 500 pastoralist families in the
acquisition of supplementary feed (cottonseed) by providing short-term
credits to cover the entire costs of such inputs to feed about 5,000 cattle
annually, for a 12 months term at 7.5% interest rate.
3.        Families benefiting from the credit program would be proposed to
the project management and guaranteed to be creditworthy by the local "com-
mittees". The project management would decide on the eligibility of candidates,
establish individual contracts, buy the animals and the farm inputs, provide
technical assistance to, and closely supervise, the beneficiaries and collect
payments. While it is the first time that credit would be disbursed for
livestock operations, agricultural credit institutions in Senegal are already
familiar with medium and short term credit. Thus, loan applications, dis-
bursements and recovery for medium and short term credits would follow
standard patterns. IHowever, the long-term credit for livestock, constitutes
an innovation for the Senegaleese agricultural sector and special precaution
should be taken in order to scale down financial risks to the beneficiaries
and the group; therefore, to reduce mortality risks a compulsory mortality
risk insurance scheme would be established for the animals bought under the
project and would be maintained until the credit has been completely reimbursed
(PY 12).



ANNEX 4-D
Page 2 of 3
4.        The families would be expected to make an initial contribution of
20% toward the cost of the long and medium-term credits (respectively CFAF
180,000 or US$800 and CFA 250,000 or US$1,110). The individual amount of
short-term credits would be about CFAF 120,000 or US$535. Loan recovery for
long-term credit, including 7.5% interest, would take seven years after
four years' grace. In PY 12, following complete reimbursement of the credit,
a family's cattle herd's residual value would be CFAF 555,700 (US$2,470) with
an annual revenue of about CFAF 66,000 (US$293), and in PY 20 the family
herd's estimated value would be CFAF 961,000 (US$4,270), with an annual
income of about CFAF 139,000 (US$617). Loan recovery for medium-term credit
including 7.5% interest would take five years, after one year grace.
Loan Applications
5.        Farmers proposed by the local committees for a long term loan would
obtain an application form from the field extension staff and with their
assistance fill it out. The extension staff and the responsible lechnical
Officer for the grazing unit would ascertain that the candidates belong to a
properly constituted grazing unit and have the necessary skills for cattle
raising but do not own any cattle. The application forms would be signed by
the President and Vice President of the grazing unit, thereby certifying that
the applicants are of sound character and have good standing in their local
community. The completed forms wotLld then be forwarded to the Range Manage-
ment Specialist, who would thoroughly scrutinize them to ensure that the
applications are in order. Applications not fulfilling all requirements would
be rejected and returned to the applicants.
Loan Disbursement
6.        The Range Management Specialist would write a letter of notification
to the applicant for a loan that his application had been approved. The
original copy of the notification would go to the field credit supervisor
(Technical Officer), who would file the document in the individual file kept
for each farmer. A copy would go to the extension staff and another copy would
remain in the book at headquarters for auditors to check. A loan agreement
would be signed by the applicant, with his signature witnessed by the Technical
Officer. The loan agreement, to be carefully explained before signing, would
set out the terms and conditions of the credit. These would be:
(a) 20% personal contribution of the market value of
up to four cows/heifers (about CFAF 36,700 or US$163);
(b) 7.5% annual interest rate;
(c) strict obligation to follow the project's veterinary
program;
(d) branding of all animals;
(e)  adherence from the beginning to a mortality risk
insurance scheme inaugurated under the project,
until complete reimbursement of the loan;



ANNEX 4-D
Page 3 of 3
(f)  obligation for supplemental feeding of all animals
with cottonseed to be furnished under the project;
and
(g) obligation to reimburse the loan and its interest
in seven annuities after a four-year grace period
in cash or in kind. This grace period would be
extended to five years for those grazing unit members
that have had no sales until the fifth year of the
grace period.
7.        Every farmer would be given an identity card with his picture and
account number. After the signing of the loan agreement, the cows/heifers
would be bought by the project management.  The farmers would assist in this
transaction. The animals would first be vaccinated, treated and branded and
then given to each farmer.  Close supervision by the field staff would then
commence. Each year, the field staff would prepare for each grazing unit a
request for cottonseed and minerals before cotton sales commence. SODEFITEX
would deliver the feed to the village in requested quantities, which would be
shared among the involved farmers. The farmers would sign a receipt and the
field staff would give the original to the farmer and send a copy of the signed
document to the credit supervisor for the individual file and two copies to
headquarters, one of which would remain in the book for the auditors and the
other within the individual filing system for each borrower.
8.        At headquarters, the efficient operation of the credit mechanism
would be supervised mainly by the keeping of an adequate accounting and
recording system of all transactions.
Loan Recovery
9.        Each year, after the grace period, the credit section staff would
draw up payment demand notes that would be delivered to each borrower. The
payment demand note would clearly set out the amount of principal and interest
due for repayment and would relate this to the number and category of animals
required to make the payment. Copies of the payment demand note would be
forwarded to the credit supervisor and field staff for action and for the
farmer's personal file. A book copy would remain at headquarters for the
purpose of checking and auditing. As the proposed credit scheme for breeding
stock would not be directly involved in cattle marketing, it should be
flexible -- repayment would be accepted both in kind (particularly breeding
heifers) and cash. In addition, as a general rule no borrower would be
allowed to dispose of any of his cattle to anyone else before he had cleared
the amount due to the project.
10.       From PY5 onward, all proceeds of loan repayments would be deposited
in the project's revolving credit fund account at the Bank. The revolving
credit fund would be built up from the loan repayments and be used as capital
for the continuation of the credit scheme. It might eventually be decided that
unused funds of the mortality risk insurance be distributed to the farmers
after complete recovery of their loans.



SEtiEGAL
FSTERN SENROAL LlVE8TOC  P040J1CT
GrazipR Sc0      - Livetocl.  Credlt
Incozse   Isevsstsleelt a=d OPerait it Cobta
(FlIy budget)
(CFAf)
Unit         ----------------------------------------------------------------------- Projeot Yer  -----------------------                   -------------------------------------------
vales          1           2            3         4             5           6           7           8           9           10          il           12          13          14          15
Sale. 1/
C.1u  Cc     2/                                  40,000          -           -            -        23,300       26,700      33,300      33,300      50,000      46,600       47,700      33,300      33,300      42,200      44.400      47,000
Steers 3 - 4 yaare  r/                            46.000         -           -            -                                 11,200      12,800      23,000      280100       36.600      33 200      34 ,500     5s,ioo      33,7000
Stacr. 4 -    yearsAF                            54-000                                                         56.20       6  îff      23000_ *.4L40           42.0_00     4200        4010         ., 30       .  0.        .a..       *     O7
Total Sales                                                                                   23,300      82.900      97.000      B8.100    115.000    116.700    120.300         108 500    109,800    119.900    122,100  -I3.3Q
lnvastvnmts
Btoediog anImtal.  5/                              45,000      183,600
OpstSting CgDte
Anisal dea1th  6/                                                  490        630          770        910          1,120     1,190       1,260        1,330       1,330       1,400       1,470       1,610       1,610        1.820       1.960
Cottos Sesd  7/                                                 9,600       9,600       14,400    24,ooo         26,400    24,ooo       26,400      26,400      28,800       28,800      31,200      31,200      33,600      36.,fD       38,400
Misacrais  8/                                                      700        800        1,100      1,300         1.600      1,700       1,800        1,900       1,900       2,000       2,100       7,300       2,300        2.600       27800
Thanrasrce  9/                                                  7 340      7 2340        7 -U0 3      6 an 60     7 5û°        6n0       6 5 n       R Sno        . 600       O 6nn
S.btotl1                                                 201 780    18 370        23,610    31 710 _        34 620    32.390       34.960      35.130      37 530      37 700       34 770    3a 110        37,510      40 420      43 160
Labor  10/                                                       2,450      2,800        3,850      4,550          5,0im0    S,95W       6,300        6,650       6,650       7,000       7,350        8,050       8,050       9,100       9,800
Total Oovaa12oant rrnd Opr*Ati.9 Conts                   201,780    18.370        23,610    31,710          34.620    32,390       34.960      35j130      37 530      37 700       34.770      35,110      37.510      40.420      43.160
1/    The val1e of nilk productioP ie excluded aince it ia aelf-cosuodor u-.d for paying herd..en.
2/    ND Chlli.8 65 be.fore Y-Cr 4,
3/    328 kg lvisight *t CFAF 140 per kg. 7he inomas froo  saloe h'.h  been ca..        slc. i  td by devtdi   the liveth oc.   sold by the gromis unit by 16  '-noa.br of seetbers). Ecaver, *r    embers .iII have Sa rrla    _          e io Yrr-re 4 a.d 0
4/    385 kg livaevitft t CFAP  140 pex kg.                                                                                                          in these casas tha repaymest sohedule for oan and intarett vill bu poàsd hy q e year.
5/   FOO-  pregnant heifera 3-4 yaars old  -nd 1/16th b31(...e b1l1 for 25 ccv. )
6/    All .se.t ot vaelmas  ndo dtup smolodl.o  vstsrirry aarvt.s   aaeo, *t tA781 70/ytar/a/oîtal.  (Ail mnimlai  acd of th. year pls .11 -lI  d m.i.1. d.rftg ri th. ysr).
f/   150 kg -0tt-n .s.d pe.  ye-r P., anmi1l, for all animais older th. 2 ye-a- d  riso 115 d.oy  cor vear tdr- ...on) ac tFAP 16 .a. kilo (Pecond qal-r sit   2,400  .FAF/vren/cnl,el 5 -No, ,,0 r                      8..r.,A-s .rrarly sla.
8/    3 kg salt per yert per *sl.Jl at CpAF 33 pr kg  (100 CFA7  peF atit par ynr,)  (All stesils end at thh  voor. l&a  .lwn »lwu  »slu  durOa th  Yaitr.
9/    4g0 ofh valus ni ail bteadina animi  p., yea,  ,,tîl Yesr 10.  N0 Oass.rtelity Os i. ea e.d -n,l YTar 11.  Se- l-erd Prn -ecr1t    -n-e 4-D  Trble 1n.
10/    No salarias  ,i1l be paid for libaratice lIbor le osally pstd in kind (<illk).O.e  hardian for 35 atnias At CFAF 12,00 p7r yar (or oeAP  363  par arnÏrl par ysrao> (No. of  astl1I  sud  if th. yvar l_e bat£ ai the
caiv-a  -a  of y_r pl"  -  of *.l.d raaila durfag th. ya*r).



SEtlEGAL
EASTERN0 SEUGAI LTVESTOCK PROJECT
GeaMaO Sch4te - Livestodk Credit
Elaaaoial Pro1ection (Individ-l Lotn)
(CFAF)
1    2          2,            4           5           O           7           8           9           1.          il          12          13          14          15          16           17          18          19          2
Cash On4 10w
Sales  V/                                                           23,300      82,900       97,000     88,100    115,000    116,700    120,300    108,500    109,800    119,900    122,100    135,500    145,100    155,900    171,800                  186,500    198,600
oa. n0165,080    18,370                                23,610       11,710
Faretes' Coeetlibtioo  20%    36j70
Total Cash Onflos,        201,780    18,370       23,610       35,010      82,900      97,000      88,100    115,000    116,700    120,300    108,500    109,800    119,900    122,100    135,500    145,100    155,900    171,800                  186,500     198,600
Cash Outf îsw
Inv  t_tent                    183,600
Oper-ting Cost   I/              18,180    18,370      23,610        31,710      34,620      32,390      31,960      35,130      37,530      37,700      34,770      35,110      37,510      40,420      43,160       43,330      48,470      51,380      54,290      59,360
Loao payl.ent
Interest 1OZ 2/                  -         -           -                     21,240      19,740      17,490      15,240      11,490       7,740       3,990          240              -           -                 -           -           -            -           -
Pincipal  _/                                                                 20,000      30,000      30,000      50,000      50,000      50,000      50,000        3 180                                             -           -           -
Total Cash Outflo.         201,780                 1 _ filn    i1 710      7  Afin     P7 10      79 450    100 170       98 920       95 440     RR 76n       3R 530      17 510      40 470      41 160      43 330      48,470       51 ,8055    54,290        360
C.sh B.a1eee                        (12,380) (14,690)   (17,560)    (19,760)         7,040      14,870       8,650      14,63D      17,780      24,860      19,740       71,270     82,390       81,680      92,340     101,770     107,430    120,420       132,210     139,240
Lsaor Coat                            2,450    2,800        3,850        4,550       5,600       5,950       6,300       6,650       6,650       7,000       7,350        8,050       8,050       9,100       9,800      10,150      10,850      11,900       12,950      13,650
C.ttle Herd Resid.-l V-lse  _/         -         -           -            -           -           -           -           -            -          -            -       555,700         -           -           -                        -           -                    961,600
2/    InAre-sO during the 4oron Eout CeOIt is coOnolsted D,7.5Z    14e oT.btl.doC   ee.ly bhalacce and total CFAP64,390  - lt ha- been added to the .                nt of the lest ..d is i.tl.ded ine th0 Peicipl oapents f    YSea- 5 te Ye-e  12.
3/    l    e ca   of iebers  o a grat-g unit tiai have h       od no sale  in YTear  4 and 5, this  tchedule  till bh  postpned hy osa  -ase0
Z/    A,Y 001 02:  Co m                 (1.28) at   CFAP40,000    =    291.200                    At  -eat 20:    COlO            (12.069    et               40 000           54.200
Calot-             (4.39j aI          10,000   -       43,900hs                                               171 (7425    at            210,        _      4200
Heife-e 1-2 y      (1.94)  an    "   25,000   =        48.500                                 B.1f050  1-2 y  (3.33)    at               30,000            90.900
Heifers 2-3 y      (1.72) at          30,000   _       51.600                                 Heif.- 2-3 Y (3 03)   at
St.-rs  1-2 y      (1.92)  at   2",000                 38.400                                 8teers  1-2 Y (3 33)       t               20,D00      =     66,600
Snoers  2-3 y      (1.69) at          26,000   =       43.900                                 stee   2-3 Y  (3.03)    aI                 26,00             78.800
Steers  3-4 y      (0,83)  ct "    46,000   _          38,200                                 Steer-  34 Y (1.39)    at                  46,000      =     63.900
555. 700                                                                                            961.600



SENEGAL
EASTERN SENEGAL LDIESTOCK PROJECT
Grazing Scheme - Livestock Credit
Credit Requireme.t
(CFAF ' 000)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-~~~~~~~~~-------------  Proect-Yea------------------------------------------   ____ --______-
---  - - -  - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - --  - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - -  - - - Project    Yeatr    - - - - - - - -              21                    4
1          2             3                4                5             6         7         8         9          10         il        12         13        14         15
Number of Farmers                -          (60)      (60 + 60)       (120 + 60)       (180 + 60)        (300)
Credit Disbursement
Stage I                                9,905         1,102            1,417              703
Stage II                                             9,905            1,102            1,417          703
Stage 111                                                             9,905            1,102        1,417        703
Stage IV                      _       _                                                      i 109             1,417        703
Annual Credit Disbursemeent               9,905        11,007           12,424           13,127         3,222     2,120        703
Loan Repayment
Stage 1                                                                                              1,700     1,800      1,800     3,000      3,000      3,000    3,000         191
Stage Il                                                                                                       1,200      1,800      1,800     3,000      3,000    3,000       *,000        191
Stage 111                                                                                                                 1,200      1,800     1,800      1,800    3,000       3,000      3,000         191
Stage IV                                                                                                                            1.200      1.200      1.800    3.000       3,000      3,000       3,000
Annual Credit Repayment                                                                                 1,200      3,000     4,800      7,800      9,600    10,800   12,000        9,191     6,191       3,191
Annual Credit Requirement                 9,905        11,007           12,424           13,127         2,022



Crenfan Onhan  - îdotn    rdtO              d uo Uit  1/
Cattia Rend Projection - 
1   2         3          4           S                       7           8           9        J&..         il          12          13          14          13          16          17           8          .J9L          20
InUit                             6         6        6 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~17    17                 8    O                                    9         10          SI          12          12          13          14          15          16           17           18
CnW                                                  144      144       144        17          19          187         193         201         210         225         245        21612       272          294         314         335         358        385          407           434
Calne                                                102        84       89          92         110         117         123         129        131         135         145         158         172         182         192         206         219         235          250          267
Hiiafn-rs- 2ye*r                                                49       40          43          44          53          56          59         62          63          65          70          76          83          88          92          99         185          113          120
Hiafer-2 -3 yaar                                                        47          38          41          42          51          54         57          59          60          62          67          73          79          84          88          95          loi          289
'tan-sî2yaana                                                   49       41          43          44          52          56         39          62          63          64          69          76          82          87          91          99         105          112          120
'tanrs2  3y'eaa                                                          47          39          41          42          50         54          57          59          60          61          66          73          78          85          87          95          101          108
ontar  3-4 y-ar                                                                      45          37          30          30          30         30          30          30          30          30          35          40          45          55          50           50           50
M2-~  Total                                        252      332       414         474         303         531         531        594         818         639        -673         723         775         834         891         950      1.015       1.582         L.150        1.226
tcm    3/                                                                                                                                                                S           3           6           6           6           7           7           8            8             9
Cal1-                                                  18       14       15          15          16          18          19          20          20         20          22          24          25          27          29          32          33          33           38           40
Heifa...-2  Y"-r                                                 2         2          2           2           2           2           2           2           3          3           3           S           3           4           4           4           4            4             4
leifa ..2-3 y.ar                                                                      2           2           2           2           2           2           3          3           3           3           3            3          4            4          4            4             4
st-s 1-2 y ar                                                    2         2          2           2           2           2           2           2           3          3           3           3           3           4           4           4           4            4             4
Steana 2-3 ysana                                                                      2           2           2           2           2           2           3          3           3           3           3           3           4           4           4            4             4
St.rat  3-4 ysara                                                                                 I           I           I           S           I           I          1           I            1           1           1          i            S          i             t            S
Steras 4.5 Ya..a                                                                                              1           1           1           1           I          1           1            1           1           I          1            I          I             1            I
Total Mottality                                  18       18        19         23          25          28          29          30          30          34         36          38          45           47          31          57          38          61           64           67
salas
coOIl Haifars/Coso                                                                   21          24          38          30          45          42          43         30          30          38          40           43         46          49          32            56           68
st-ar   3-4 yaara                                                                                             9          10          18          22          24         26          27          28           28          30         29           29         33            41           47
ostr-  4-5 yaar-   V                                                                             44          33          28          28          28         28          28          28          28          28           33         38          43          48           48            48
Total Sales                                                                    21          68          74          68          91          92          93          84          85          94          96         106         113         121         133          145          133
Tanhniocl Coaffinianta
Calcina Rate (7.)                                      80       65        67         69          70          70          70          70          70          70          70          70         70           70          70          70          70          70           70           70
M-tîality Sata.   CalVn (.)                            15       14        12         il          10          Il          10          10          10          15          10          18          10          10          10          10          10          10           10           18
-Cattîel-iyaar(l                     5        S        4           4           4           4           4           4           4           4           4           4           4           4           4           4~          4'                         
-Adula(.)                            3        3         2          2           2           2           2           2           2           2           2           2           2           2           2           2           2           2            2            2
Total ofitaka                                                                         4.4        13 .5       13.9        11.9        15.3        14.9        14.8        13.2        12.4        12.1        11.3        11.9        11.9        11.9        12.3         12.6         12.6
Cot   in total tard (7)36.2                                                          36.7        36.9        36.7        35.9        35.2        35.4        56.0        37.0        37.7        37.1        36.7        36.7        36.7        36.7        36.7         36.8         36.8
Cullino rata nov   (Z)                                                               12          12.9        15.4        14.6        21.5        19.2        18.7        13.9        12.8        13.1        13.1        13.1        13.2        13.1        13.0         132          13.2
VeI.a cf Salas (CPAM   0003   5/
Com                                                                                 630         720         906         900       1,350      1,260       1,290          900        900       1.140       1.200       1.290       1,380       1,470       1,560         1,680        1,800
Sacr-  3 -4 yeaa-                                                                                           414         460         828      1,012       1,104       1,196       1,242       1,788       1,280       1,380       1,334       1,334       1,518        1,685         2,062
Stsar   4 -    yaar.                                                                          2.376       1.890       1.512       1.512      1.512       1312        1.312       1.512       1.512       1.512       1.782       2.052       2.322       2.592        2.592         2.392
Total Velue cf Solea                                                                    3,098       3,204       2,822       3,690       3,784       3,906      3,608       3,654       3,940       4,000        4,452      4,766        5,120       5,670        6,158        6,554
Valsa cf Slas par fmsily                                                              8.4       41.3        42.7        38.3        49.2        50.4        52.0        48.1        48.7        52.5        33.3        59.3        63.5        68.3        75.6         82.1          87.3
Milk production ('000 lt)   6/                                  18.0      15.0        13.3       18.3         19.5       20.5        21.3        21.8        23.0        24.1        26.3        28.7        30.2        32.1        34.3        36.6        39.1         41.7         44.5
Value cf M11  Produeclon (CPAM  '000)                          450       375.0      387.5       437.5       487.5       512.5       537.5       347.5       373.0       602,3       657.5       717.5       755.0       802.5       857.5       915.0       977.5      1.042.5      1,112.5
velu  cf. N£ilk, Srds-tine pan ffily                             6         3           5.2         6.1         6.5         6.8        7.2         7.3         7.6         8,5         8.7         9.6        10.0        10.7        11.4        12.2        13.0          13.9         14.8
1/    Ou.rn.itaduocO  .c..iiu   36 Oc-ili-e nll condo   144 hcifnrs/y-cg nou  or 4 haiffr-/ycu n...ag Ia-  fanioN cd 6 bo11s  p.r on It.
3/  il1 dead nov    iltl ba raplanef by cantla inaurana netil tha so  cf ban rapay-aet On PT 12.
)/  ll et.ean ra ac ld bafora naanlhlg 5 yuec  cf ag..
1/ CPA  40,050 po- hatfarfns  and CPMF 46,000 par atea  3 - 4 yaar, CPAF 54,000 pan star 4 - 5 yaars nid.
com   4e  nilk (ic11oicg nalving nana) 150 It par lactation  et tFPS  25 par lit-r.



ANNEX 4-E
Page 1 of 4
SENEGAL
EASTERN SENEGAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
GRAZING SCHEME
FUNCTIONAL LITERACY PROGRAM
Background
1.        The purpose of functional literacy programs is to address some of
the sociocultural constraints to development in traditional societies where
progress is hampered by very widespread adult illiteracy. Functional literacy
depends on a minimum package of skills in reading, writing and counting.
This package is put together and conveyed in such a manner as to be instru-
mental in facilitating immediate understanding of the technical and/or social
innovations involved in a development program, accelerating thetr cultural
and practical acceptance, and enabling the beneficiaries to operate these
innovations themselves.
2.        Functional literacy programs have been started in several West
African countries during the past eight or ten years.  Bilateral and inter-
national agencies (including UNDP, UNESCO, IDA and ILO) have collaborated
with the national authorities in these programs.  So far, relatively satis-
factory results have been obtained only in certain countries, inter alia
tn Mali and Niger.  Some of the projects have suffered from organizational
difficulties, delays in evaluation, etc. In Senegal, functional literacy is
still at a less mature stage and hence no evaluation can be made as yet.
Currently, adult literacy courses are being conducted in Senegal on an experi-
mental basis within certain agricultural development schemes: the Societe
pour l'Amenagement du Delta and SODEVA groundnut extension areas.  The
functional literacy component of the Eastern Senegal Livestock Project would
be a pilot program undertaken in one-fourth the project area, whose results
should indicate the best way to expand the program in the rest of the Region
and, possibly, in other parts of the country.
Institutional Organization
3.        The Ministry of Education delegates responsibility for functional
literacy programs to the State Secretariat for Human Resource Development for
Literacy, which has developed most of the educational tools and equipment
used in these programs, in three of the local languages:  Wolof, Peul and
Manding. Its staff includes one expatriate specialist working full time.
The Applied Linguistics Center of the University of Dakar also provides
methodological assistance for functional literacy program design.  So far,
there is no specialized functional literacy unit at the regional level in



ANNEX 4-E
Page 2 of 4
Eastern Senegal. Development of a program in this Region would be the direct
responsibility of the central State Secretariat for Human Resources. Imple-
mentation would rely on the Regional Department for Human Resources in Eastern
Senegal, and would gradually develop a special sub-unit for functional literacy
at Tambacounda.
Program Objectives
4.        Almost 90% of the adult population in the project area is illi-
terate. Furthermore, the current low primary school enrollment rate in the
Region -- about 18% of achool-age children -- gives little promise of
decreasing illiteracy unless special measures are taken. To diminish cul-
tural constraints on economic development, a strong effort to spread basic
education at a low cost is required. A functional literacy program could
significantly enhance the social feasibility of the livestock project and
thus contribute to its more efficient implementation. The need for such a
program derives from the specific requirements and objectives of the live-
stock project, as discussed below:
(a)  The project aims to foster the diffusion of modern techniques
for animal health and improved breeding, grazing, milking and
weaning procedures. This requires the cooperation of the
pastoral population, which in turu stems from an increased
cultural capacity to understand and hence accept modernizing
procedures. The functional literacy program would contribute
to a better explanation and acceptance of the new techniques
involved in the project.
(b) The project would help to implement new social arrangements
of groups of stockraisers within the grazing scheme, which
would set up 65 community-controlled grazing units. Foeused
on range management concepts, the functional literacy program
vould contribute directly to motivating the pastoralists in
favor of these new social (group) arrangements and to eliciting
community support.
(c) The Peul pastoralist is subject to a set of traditional values
and attitudes, some of which are disfunctional to productivity-
criented and market-oriented livestock development schemes.
By conveying new concepts, the functional literacy program
would point up the consequences of the old concepts and attempt
to induce new values and attitudes and a more market-oriented
rationality.
(d) The project would provide for the creation of territorial
units; they should be managed by elected councils organiza-
tionally capable of enforcing grazing rotation rules and stock



ANNEX 4-E
Page 3 of 4
levels, but competent local leaders and administrators are a
scarce resource in the villages. By providing some basic
education and training at the grass roots, the literacy program
would help to develop an effective organizational and manage-
rial local capacity for administering the grazing units.
Phasing of the Functional Literacy Program
5.        For program content preparation, the Department of Literacy would
cooperate closely with the experts of the Livestock Division of the Ministry
of Rural Development and with the Project Management Unit. Special audio-
visual means and learning materials would be designed, predominantly with
veterinarian and range management themes, and would include radio broadcasts
to pastoralists. The entire literacy program would be designed in the Peul
language; at a later stage the program could be expanded into other languages.
6.        A functional literacy course would be established in a village
only when requested by the villagers, after appropriate information has been
given them and discussions have been held with the village elders and family
heads. The villagers would be invited to designate the participants in the
course and to select one or two literate villagers to be trained as literacy
instructors under the project. The village would be required to build a
simple shed to house the literacy class. The instructors would be paid, as
an incentive, a modest salary of CFAF 12,000 per year. The preparatory work
would be done by the regional and departmental staff of Promotion Humaine,
Maisons Familiales and CEP (Centre d'Extension Rurale), currently operating
in Eastern Senegal.
7.        The functional literacy classes would meet three times weekly for
about two hours each session, for seven to eight months per year (during the
dry season). Although the teaching process would touch on everyday aspects
of living, the course would focus on the various aspects of livestock produc-
tion, and the technical aspects of the project would constitute the course
content. Thus, the villagers would have an opportunity to discuss and be
given a full explanation of every aspect of the project.
8.        Implementation of the functional literacy program would be in four
phases:
Phase I   PYl:  Pre-project preparation, to be undertaken by the State
Secretariat for Human Resources: recruitment of a linguist
(Peul), a photographer, an illustrator, and field supervisors.
Phase II  PYl:  Preparation of educational materials and the functional
literacy curriculum; training of regional functional literacy
staff by central specialists; identification of villages and
preparatory work in the villages; recruitment of 20 volunteer
functional literacy instructors.



ANNEX 4-E
Page 4 of 4
Phase III PY2 and PY3: Three months' training of the 20 instructors;
Year I of the functional literacy course, taught by regional
staff; refresher short courses for the instructors before the
start of Year II of the course; Year II of the course;
supervision and follow up.
Phase IV PY4 and PY5: Start of a new two-year cycle of functional
literacy in the same rural communities, with the same
instructors but with new trainees; expansion of the func-
tional literacy program into the remaining 45 communities
of the grazing scheme by recruiting an additional group of
45 instructors (same sequence of activities as in Phase III).
9.        Implementation of Phase IV would be based on the conclusions of an
evaluation study of the program which would be undertaken at the end of
Phase III, as described below.
Evaluation
10.       By the end of Phase III, the project would provide for the services
of an expatriate consultant for three months (February-April, 1979) to carry
out the evaluation study of the impact of the functional literacy program.
The study should assess the effects reached in the participating villages,
compared with villages which have not yet entered the program. Possible
shortcomings should be identified as well as the achievements, in order to
improve the program's design for the last two project years. If the results
prove satisfactory, an extension of the functional literacy program outside
the grazing scheme's area vould be considered in order to benefit other
districts within the project area. The evaluation should specifically
consider the increase in motivation and participation of the target group in
terms of the general strategy of the livestock project.
11.       If ve assume that each village functional literacy course will have
an average of 25 participants, the program will have reached about 500 adult
Peul pastoraliste by its third year. If the results by PY3 warrant the con-
tinuation of the program, during Phase IV an additional group of 1,650 adult
pastoralists will have been reached. Assuming a dropout rate of 15 - 20% for
various reasons, by the end of the project period a total of about 1,800 Peul
pastoralists will have been trained through this program.
12.       Implementation of the functional literacy program would complement
directly the efforts of the extension agents, as these two components would
be mutually reinforcing. An additional benefit would be derived from subse-
quently using the community-operated courses for the next stage envisaged by
the Government: implementation of EMP centers (Enseignement Moyen Pratique).
The Governnent has requested and IDA has agreed to provide financing for
experimental EMP centers under a separate Education Project in Senegal (Cr.
530-SE).



SENEGAL
EASTERN SENEGAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Functional Literacy Program in Peul
Costs of Design, DeveloPment and Evaluation
(CFAF '000)
-------------------------------------------------------------- Project Year -------------------------------------------------------------------
Unit                                            2                          3                           4                          5                           Total
Cost         No.          Cost          No.          Cost           No.          Cost          No.          Coat          No.           Cost          No.               Ceet
Salaries and Wages   /
Livestock Specialist 2/
Community Development Officer 2/
Pedagogue 3/
Specialiste in Peuhl                               450            1            450           2            900            2            900           2            900            2            900           9               4,050
Illustrator  4/                                    200            -             -            1            200            1            200           1            200            1            200           4                 800
Photographer  4/                                    200           -             -            1            200            1            200           1            200            1            200           4                 800
Pield Supervisera                                   660           1            660           2          1,320            2          1,320           2          1,320            2          1,320           9               5,940
Herder-Instructors                                   12           -             -           20             240          20            240          20            240           20            240          80                 960
Enqueteurs                                         420            2            840           5          2,100            5          2,100           5          2,100            5          2,100          22               9,240
Secretary/Typi.t                                    480           1            480           1            480            1            480           1            480            1            480                           2.400
Subtotal                                                               2.430                       5.440                      5,440                       5,440                      5,440                          24,190
Troai in,
Field Supervisors  5/                               300           2            600                                                                                                                          2                600
Herder-Instructors  6/                              100          20          2.000                                                                                                                         20              2.000
Subtotal                                                               2.600                                                                                                                                          2,600
Buildings and Constructions 7/
Equip,ent
Motorbikes  8/                                      100           3            300           4             400                                                                                                                700
Camping Equipment (sets)                            300           2            600                                                                                                                                            600
Equipment for Functional Literacy Groupa:
(i)  initia1  9/                                100                          -           20          2,000                                                                                                              2,000
(ii)  recurrent                                   20                                                                 20             400          20            400           20            400                           1,200
(iii)  printed brochures  10/                                                                             40                          40                         40                          40                              160
Subtotal                                                                  900                      2.440                        440                         440                         440                           4.660
Running Costs of Motorbikes  11/                        40           3             120           7            280           7            280            7            280            7            280                           1,240
Replacement of Motorbikes                                                                                     100                        200                         300                          -                              600
Evaluation 12/
Social Economist-Consultant                                                                                                                                                                3.200                            3.200
TOTAL COSTS                                                             6.050                      8.260                       6.360                      6.460                       9,360                          36.490
1/    Iucludes family, medical, leave and other allowances.
2/    See TOR'. of SODEFITEX's Deputy Director and Community Development Officer (Annex  8).
3!/    Will be made available from  tie to time by the National Functional Literacy Service as required.
71    Three months per year.
5/    Will be trained by the National Functional Literacy Service during six months.
6/    Will be trained by the National Functional Literacy Service and Project Management during three months.
7/    None assumed.
8/    For Field Supervisors and Enqueteurs. 
9/    Consists of blackboards, copybooks, pencils, etc.
10/    Partly covered by the National Pumctional Literacy Service.
11/    For fuel, oil, spare parts and repairs.
12/    CFAF 1.6 million per man-month; includes international air travel, insurances, report writing, etc.  Will be done in collaboration with the National Functional Literacy Service.



SENEGALA
ANNEX 4-E
EASTSKN SENEGAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT                   Chart
Functional Literacy Program in Peul
Phasing of Design, Development and Evaluation
--------- Project Years ---------------
1       2         3        4       5
1. Determination of Content
of Program; Sample Design,
etc.
2. Design of lst Year
Materials
3. Organization of Field
Experiment and Training
of Field Personnel
4. Exmerimentation with
lst Year Materials
5. Design of 2nd Year
Materials
6. Experimentation with
2nd Ye-r Materials
7. Evaluation of
Experimentation and
Control Groups vis-à-vis
Project Objectives



SENF,GAL
EA3TE8N SENE1AI. LIVESiUI- lROJECI
Coorîno Sc6}nem
C.s1511 OcrO PîoiOoîLon - itI, *he Vrru(ct
('000 h-ad)
-eOe   ------------------------ --------------------------------------------- End ot Year  ------------------------- ------------------- ------------~----------~~~----
Orvelopoors.    i           Z           3           4                       6           7           8           9             10            11           12             13          14-20
IlelO Ctsomatoafîo (No.)
Boita (ov   4 y-lr)                             4.7         4.7         3-7         3.2          2.7         2.8         3.0         3.2         3.1         3.5           3.5           3-5           3.5           3.5 35.
C_a                                            49.3        49,3        50.7        51.8         52.7       54.2         56.6        59.4       62.4         65.3          65.3          65.3          65.3          65_3          65.3
C1-vea                                        1.0         18.0        19.4        21.3        23.1        24.4        25.2         26.2        27.6        29.0          30.4          30.4         30.4           30.4          30.4
Haifer_   I - 2 yaaoa                           9.0         9.0         9.0         9.7        10.7         11.6        12.2        12.6        13.1        13.a          14.5           15.2         15,2          15.2          15.2
Oef-rra  2 - 3 ypala                            8.1         8.1         8.3         8.4         9.2         1           11.0        11.6        12.0        12.4          13.1           13.8         14.4          14.4          14.4
Ilere-    I - 2 year                            9.0         9.0         9.0         9.7        10.6         11.5        12.2        12.6       13.1         13.ô          14.5          15.2          15.2          15.2          15 2
stears       2 - 3 y8aae                        8.1         8.1         0.3         8.4         9.2        10.1        10.9        11.6        12.0         12.4          13.1          13.0          14.4          14.4          14.6
Steara   3 - 4 yeart                            6.a         6.8         7.8         8.0         a.1         B.9          9.8       10.6         11.3        11.6          12.0           12.7         13.4          14.0           14.0
Sterrc   4 - 5 îy,ae                            3.4         3.4         3.5         3.6         3.7         5.0          5.0         5.0        5.0          5.0           5.0            5.0          5.0           5.0            5.0
Steers   over 5 yaora                           3.0 3.0     3.0         3.4   ,     3.5         3.0         4.          4.0         4.0         4.0 40 4.0                 4.0                                         0.
rosol Aoi-olr                            11.        119.4       123.1       122.6       133.0        142.7       149.9       156.8       164.0       170.8         175,4          178.9        180.8         181.4          181.4
Totel AniO.alS U.nIs 1/                  101.4       101.4       103.7       106.3       109.9       118.3       124.7       130.6       136.4       141.8          145.0         148.5        150.4          151.0         151.O
Bïrths (No.)                                      27.6         27.6        28.6        30.4        32.1        32.6        33.6        35.0        36.8        38.7          40.5           40.5         40.5          40.5           40.5
Mortality (No.)
Bulls                                           0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1          0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1           0.1            0.1          0.1           0.1            0.1
C-ws                                            2.0         2.0         1.0         1.0         1.0          1.0         1.0         1.1         1.2         1.2           1.3            1.3          1.3           1.3            1.3
Calvat                                          9.6         9.6         9.2         9.1         9.0         8.2          8.4         8.8         9.2         9.7          10.1           10.1         101           10.1           101.
OoîIer, 1 - 7 varr                              0      9     n 9  0.9    7»         0.6          o .         0.5    0     .6         0.6         2.6 0.7 0.7                              0.7 0.8 0.8                               0.8
Otîleos 2 - 3 yeorî                ~~~~        ~~~~0.4  0.4  0.3        0.3         0.3          0.3         03          0.3         0.3         0.4           0.4            0.4          0.4            .4            0.4
SUre 2 -                3 y ear t               0.9         0.9         0.7         0.6         0.5          0.5         0.6         0.6         0 6         0.7           0.7            0.7          0.0           0.8            0.4
saetrt 2 - 3 yr...                              0 4         0.4         0.3         00.3          . 3...3                             3         0.3          0.4           0.4            0.4          0.4           0.4            0.4
Steerr. 3 - 4 yaalr,                            0.3         0.5         0.2         0.2         0.2          02,00.2                  .2         0.2         0.2           0.2            0.2          0.2           0.2            0.2
SIrota 4 - 5 y'_rs                              0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1          0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1           0.1            0.1          0.1           1 0            0.1
.-.r. over- 5yeaî-                              0.1         0.1         0.1          0.1        0.1          0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1           0.1            0.1          0.1           0.1            0.1
ro1t  0001011 15                         14,9         14.9        12.7        12.4        12.1        11.3        11.7        12.2        12.7        13.6           14.1          14.1         14.3           14.3          14.3
Saîro (No.>
c1Il 3ulls                                      0.6         0.6         0.9         0.4         0.4          0.3           3          ..3          3         0.4           0,             06           0.6            0.6           0.6
CL11 Co-os                                      5.7         5.7         5.4         5.9         6.2          6.4         6.5         6.8         7.1         7.5           9.1            9.1          9.1           9.1            9.1
Beifers 3 yîoo-                                                                                                                                                             1,6           2.3          3.0           3.6            3.6
Steert  3 - 4 yerr                              0.6         0.6
Sîrera  4 - 5 year3                             2.6         2.6         3.1         4.0         4.1          2.4         3.1         4.0         4.7         5.6           5,7            6.1          6.8           7.5            8.1
SIelîs  over 5 years                            3.2         3.2         2.0         3.2         3.9          2.5         4.8         4 4.8        .8         4.8           4.8            4.8          4.8           4.8            4.8
Tor1t  Sale.                              12,7        12.7        12.2        13.5        14.6        11.6        14.7        15.9        16.9         18.3          21.8          22.9          24.3          25.6           26.2
rechnicel Coafficiert.
Calving  rate "Il)                             56          56          58          60          62          62           62         62           62          62            62             62           62            62             62
Porîoîiîy RotR    - Cal"ve  ('2                35          35          32          30          28           25          25          25          25          25            25             25           25             25            25
. -l. 11     2 1      ^^514  10          10            8           6                       I           5           5           5           5              5             5             5             5             5
.Catle2    3 ye-rs (27         5                       4            3           3           3           3           3           3           3              3             3            3              3             3
-Adu1la(/.)                    4           4            2           2           2           2           2           2           2           2              2             2            2              2             2
20151 010106e (73/.                            10.6        10.6        10.0        10.6        10.9         8.1          9.8        10.1        Lu.3        10.7          12.4           12.8         13.4           14.1          14.4
Cosoa in tofai lo R  (.)                       41.3        41.3        41.2        40.6        39.6         38.0        37.7        37.9        38.0        38.2          37.2           36.5         36.1           36.0          36.0
Culling rate coo.o                             11.5        11.5        10.9         11.6        12.0        12.1        12.0        12.0        12.0        12.0           13.9          13.9         13.9           13.9          13.9
Value of Sales (LiîOion CFAF) 2!
CL11 Bs,II                                     23.4        23.4        35.1        15.6         17.7        13.2        13.3        13.3        13.3        17.7          26.5           26.5         26.5           26.5          26.5
CuLL Coea.                                    131.1       131.1       124.2       135.7        186.0       192.0       195.0       204.0       213.0       225.0         273.0          273.0        273.0          273.0         273.0
Col1 Holfara                                                                                                                                                              57.6           82.8        100.0          129.6         129.6
SIeer  3 - 4 y.-rs                             21.0        21.0
Sters 4 - 5 yeors                             109.2       109.2       130.2       168.0       215.3        124.8       162.8       2106.       246.8       294.0         299.3          320.3        357.0          393.8         425.3
SLaerr  over 5 yetrt                          144,0       144.0        126.0      144.0        210.6       135.0       259.2       259.2       259.2       259.2         259.2          259.2        259.2          259.2         259.2
Tota1 Cattle Sales                      428.7        428.7       415,5       463.3       629.6       465.0       630.3       686.5        732,2       795.9         942.1         961.8       1,023.7       1,082,1        1,113.6
Tofai Milk Salee  3/                     103.5       103.5       110.3       116.6       122.5       1260.       131.6        138.1       1.1 1       151.8         151.8          151.8        151.8          151.8         151.8
TOTAL SALES                              532.2       532,2       525.8       579.9       752.1       591.0       761.9        82b.6      877.3        947.7       1.093.9        1.113.6      1.175,5        1,733,9       1.265.4
1/    1 A,U. = a1  cattle older than I year  O aga.-
2!    B.llaF  300 kg îIvir-ight tt CFAy 130 per kg = 1.AF 39,000 p-r head  uetil PY 3; 340 kg at CFAF 130 per kg = CFAF 44,200 p-r hegd thareafter; Co-a: 230 kg li-eoright aIt CFAF 100 per kg = CFAF 23,000 p-r h..d                          t ,
until PY 3; 250 kg tr CFAF 120 pao kg = CFAF 30,000 par head therrofter; lleifers: CFAO 36,000 peo head; Steer-: 3 - 4 yeaos  270 kg livevalght at CFAF 130 par kg = CFAF 35,100 par ha.d; Sfar. 4 - 5 yaa.r.:
300 kg liv-eight ft CFAF 140 per kg    CFAF 42,000 pe  h-ad until FY 3; 350 kg at CFAF 150 = CFAF 52,500 par head theresfter; Steerrs 0ve  5 yeart: 320 kg lioaaigho at CFAF 140 par kg = CPAF 44,800 par h.ad
unti pr 3; 360 kg .r CFAF 150 = CFA1 54.000 pro head oh--rft-r.
3/    Carra in milk follrIr1g -alvaig rate; 150 litera ailk p.r cot_ p-r y-r  for huano coraaa.ptioî vo lod at CFAO 25 per liter.



02                            'Q            Xg0  v  ar     bô*'' -  innO  GGi,r0  -                              0W -        
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~G G                                          Gl GH        W-1C           r n t  r  an
2          O- o                     Or- nn                                                      - e o2  a
ir~~~ re          G                  rr
w- ,.11                                  11
S~~~~~~~~ ~~~                            OR                                    10 QQ O               0-0.» >or@     rS    FFPbF wwS beno< 
~~o  . o                                     iW- 
n         P0 10 2   °10  r 000010w                 r010  - Fr      w  0220020.210          o  w        »W,aS              0 0220J« 
a        0000 ;00.0. 1VI                          10Ii.        0.                                                    r r'W  V  P
2bG       Q. 0 W 0100             22F9  OH '20000. F' 01010,2 2201 -FFFp>                      - o. 5102102r             |Q
G         10   °   OPC%          IS AWP
H     QSS=SQ AQWW»Fr' 2  F0.01  1010.0     O F000F.        O  F00.220             O0.0000010                    F0           n      BOQ  AÔ
01 0.2000                  201   .00.                        r1100001               022         00      21



045T0E03 SEtlKGAL LIVESTOCK PR0JEor
î,,ei80 S*1.,
Econ-el  Ente of Rtur
(C0A17 `000)
_  -  -   -  -  -   - _____________  ___-                                   -     -     - _ _ _ __ _ _ Project  Y _- ------------- ------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------   -------------------
1           2           3            4          5           6           7            8           9           10          il          12         13          14           15          16          17           18          19           20
03fTS l
Oroltît - 1 it0 2/
ln8588t8,11 1C,8t0                 24,785                                  -                      -           -           -            ----                                           --------
Op-raîliAg Co.tî                   16,760       15,410      15,410       25,650    15,410        7,18        71818       7,818         7,818       7,818 7,818             7,816 7,818            7,818                   7.818       7.818        7,818       7,818        7,818
8ODEFlllX - P          Sttoral Servic   3/
I  westenî 00810                   19,035        N,2s               8,Z85                   -           -           -                  -           -           -           -          -           -            -
opRteratOo  10,1' 20,900                        34,690      44,890       54,200    56,010       33,259      33,259      33,25        33,259      18,/30      18,730      13,730    18,730       19.730       18,730      18,730      18730      18,730       18730       18,730
8o8A1 he1nh S.ervices 4/
Inve.8ts1ent CI t1                 11,040      16,060        6,280         -          -           -           -                  -           -
operati.g Co.t                      6,4,90       7,500       8,000        7,200      7,300       7,500       7,950        8,350       8,700       8,940       9,025       9,200      9,225       9,225        9,225       9,225       9,225        9.225       9,225        9,225
Firebreekb 5/
C-OoRtr,.Ct     C..t.              91.630      40,627       40,765       33,892    48,350         -            -           -           -           ---                                -----
Mninten,n,,  C=tt2 0 -                           2,443       6,625       10,713    12,830       01,, 7      11,5';       11,537      11,537      11,537      11,537      11,537     11,537       11,537      1.,537      11,537      11.537       11.537      il,5"7      15l 7
Wet808% Fatilities
Prepar.tory Worka nnd
S      rsv18e  f011
Con tOrttiofl  6;'              17,32S      12,701       6,705
Ie,,stCeat,  7/                -        199,325    172,380        164,730    81,51C         -            -           -                          
M3net.-seî CD  t     / t                          -           -         1           81,51C-                                            -         11,760      11,760      11,760    11.760        11,760      11,760       11,760      11.760      11,760      11,760        11,760
LiveatoIk - Credit  S/                   -          4,203       4,821        5,669      6.052          187
Func..ot  l lit-ercy  9/                5,540       7,440       5,860         5,920     8,300         -
-erdeman  10/                             400       2,040       4.140         6,417      9.415      11.875      14.070      16.170      18.210    19,410         20.270      20.730    20.850       20.850       20.850      20.850      20.850       20.830      20.850       20,850
TOTAL CS0TS                     215.318    350.724    324.161         322.976   245.177       72,216      74,634      77,134       79,524    78,195        79,135      79,775    79920                                    .92 7.920  799       20 792n 79,920
BENEFITS
Incra,e,stel Production fr0,,
Cattle nnd Milk                      9,100     (46,700)    19,800       192,700    64,100    278,100    377,600    480,200    567,900   760,800             792,100    865,600   924.000    955,500    955,500           955,500    955,500    955,508        955.500   3.817,500  11/
Salv -ge   value of W6ter
Fcite   12/                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                145120
70TAL 0 E1T70310                  9.100     (46,700)    19.800        192,700    64.100    278.100    377,600    480.200    567.900    760,.80            792.100    865,600   924,000        955.500      955.500   955.500    955.500    955.50O    955.500   3.962.620
îcoao,e.1 Uztc o0 6etur=   24.65
il    u8e  of ta8e,, dutieS  nnd prîit .oftleOenttes,
2/    50O/ of co.t. lAnnes 3 , Tbles 1 nnd 2).
/    Tnbles 1 And 2 this A0D,K.
5/    doser 4, 1.ble, 3 -6d 4
6/  .    ,r ...t r  751 o  lo b.   for the Oogloool  Ovdraul    c oervce (Arns s   4, Tobl  6)
7/    Anac-  4, T,ble 5.
_/    AAner 4a   Tble S.
9/    A-mss  4, Teble 11.
10/   Adoceser I hbed-en per 60 caI tle nt C7A7 12,000 pet year.
Il/    Iclue.O   1,,c-8eeota1 berd value.
12./    25. of  -o.sttcton  10011 of oells.



ANNEX 5
Page 1 Of 5
SENEGAL
EASTERN SENEGAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
ANIMAL REALTH SERVICES
The National Livestock Service
1.        The Department of Animal Realth and Production under the Ministry
of Rural Development and Hydraulics and headed by the Director of Livestock,
is concerned with animal health services and livestock developuent at the
national level. One of the oldest national services, it has a well-distributed
infrastructure and adequate staffing. With about 15 Senegalese and 20 expatriate
veterinarians, Senegal is West Africa's best endowed in terms of veterinarians,
both in absolute and relative terms.
2.        Headquarters, at Dakar, includes six technical divisions.  In the
field, the Department is represented in each of the seven regions by regional
inspections, who operate under the direct authority of the National Director
of Livestock. Each inspection is subdivided into sectors at the district
level, and the sectors are divided into two to four subsectors, each having
one or several veterinary posts. Support staff consiste of 108 livestock
officers, 280 at the assistant level, and 140 technical and clerical staff.
3.        Most of the Department's attention is directed at control of the
major epidemic and endemic cattle diseases. Vaccination campaigna against
rinderpest and pleuropneumonia (CBPP) were carried out on a broad scale
during 1963-67 under the JP 15 program, which resulted in the almost complete
eradication of these diseases. However, failure to continue the vaccination
coverage efficiently, due to shortage of finance, led to a reappearance of
CBPP. Furthermare, the difficulty of controlling animal health is related
to animal transhumance and imports; and uncontrolled animal movements in
drought years from neighboring countries constitute a constant threat to the
national herd. The present animal vaccination coverage of about 45% of the
national herd for CBPP and 25% for rinderpest are insufficient. A greater
vaccination effort is necessary, if rinderpest and CBPP are to be eliminated.
The same applies to all other common endemic diseases such as pasteurellosis,
blackleg and anthrax. There is also a need to increase control measures
against trypanosomiasis and internal parasites.
The Regional Livestock Service in Eastern Senegal
4.        A veterinarian heads the Ragional Livestock Service (Inspection)
at Tambacouuda.  Other staff include five livestock officers, 11 livestock
technicians, 30 veterinary nurses, six drivers, two administrative officers
and 11 laborers.



ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 5
Distribution of Veterinary Staff of Eastern Senegal
Livestock  Livestock   Veterinary
Veterinarian   Officer    Technician  Nurse
Regional Inspection                 1               2          2         3
of Tambacounda
Sector of Tambacounda                               1          3
Vet. Posts - Dialakoto                                                   2
Koumpentoum                                      1          2
Missira                                                     2
Maka                                                        2
Koussanar                                        1          3
Sector of Kedougou                                  1          1         2
Vet. Posta - Salemata                                                    2
Bandafassi                                                  2
Fongolimbi                                       1          1
Saraya                                                      2
Sector at Bakel                                     1
Vet. Posts - Kîdira                                            1         2
Belle                                                       1
Goudiry                                          1          2
Bala                                                        2
Total:          1              5         il        30



ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 5
5.        There are 11 vaccination yards in Eastern Senegal, of which six
are operational; the other five are in such state of disrepair that they need
to be rebuilt completely. The following outbreaks of diseases and vaccinations
have been recorded by the Livestock Service in Eastern Senegal during 1970-75:
1970                1971                 1972
Outbr.  Vaccin.     Outbr.  Vaccin.      Outbr.  Vaccin.
Rinderpest            -        NA          -      62,000       -      94,000
CBPP                  -        NA          -    151,000        -     225,000
Pasteurellosis         6       NA         12    183,000        8      193,000
Anthrax                1     1,248         2      10,000       3       4,500
Blackleg              16     2,377         6    177,000        3     233,000
Botulism               1       NA          -        -         13       11,000
1973                1974                 1975
Outbr.  Vaccin.     Outbr.  Vaccin.      Outbr.  Vaccin.
Rinderpest            -    88,000          2      79,000      NA     148,000
CBPP                  -   221,000          -    145,000       NA     222,500
Pasteurellosis         4    40,000         2       6,300      NA       26,000
Anthrax                6     3,500          1      3,000      NA       10,000
Blackleg               3   228,000         2    164,000       NA      227,000
Botulism               7    28,000          1      4,000      NA        -
6.        This relatively good vaccination coverage is a result of substantial
assistance to the Senegal livestock sector by FAC, FED, FRG, IDA, UNDP and
USAID which, since 1973, have contributed about US$2 million per year to
enable Senegal to continue and increase the necessary vaccinations and treat-
ments in order to help alleviating the consequences of the recent droughts.
As this assistance has phased out to a great extent by end 1975, replacement
funds are required for carrying out the most essential animal health services.



ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 5
The Subproject
7.        The proposed project would enable the Regional Animal Health
Service to continue with the carrying out of an animal health program aiming
at combating the most important diseases efficiently. About 80% of the
cattle in the project area would be vaccinated against rinderpest, CBPP,
pasteurellosis, anthrax, blackleg and the drenching of young stock against
worm infestations would be introduced. Thus, the project would provide for:
(a) the construction of nine new veterinary posts and 40 new vaccination
yards; (b) additional cooling facilities for the storage and transport of
vaccines from the laboratory to the regional inspection in Tambacounda and
to the field; (c) transport, veterinary and laboratory equipment; and (d)
incremental operating funds principally for the opeation of vehicles and
the purchase of vaccines, medicaments and drugs. Additional staff would
not be required. As the cattle herds are relatively small (less than 50
cattle) and often widely dispersed, particularly in the south of the project
area, an efficient vaccination program would need to last at least three
months per year.
8.        During PY 1, about 70% of the cattle population would be vac-
cinated; and 80% thereafter. Animals living in areas with frequent blackleg,
anthrax and pasteurellosis outbreaks would be vaccinated before the beginning
of the rainy season. About 40,000 calves and young animals would be dewormed
each year within a well-defined area, in order to evaluate and monitor the
results, and, most important, to convince cattle owners of the efficiency
and desirability of such treatments.
9.        By removing the hazard from contagious diseases and internal
parasites, this project component is expected to improve the weaning rate
of calves by 5% and to decrease the mortality rate of adult cattle by 2%,
thereby increasing the offtake rate from 10.7% at present to 12.4%.
10.       For the calculation of this project component's economic rate of
return, incremental investment and operating costs for strengthening the
Regional Animal Ilealth Service over a f ive-year period (Tables 1 and 2 this
Annex) have been weighed against the incremental meat and milk production
between a cattle herd projection model without the project (Annex 15,
Table 12) and a model (Table 3, this Annex) which profits from improved
animal health services. The economic rate of return has been estimated at
43% (Table 4, this Annex).
Cost Recovery
11.       With the exception of antitrypanosomiasis treatments, which is
paid by cattle owners, the Government does not ask cattle owners to pay for
any other veterinary service. First, because vaccinations against rinderpest
and CBPP are compulsory, efficiency is proportonal to the cattle numbers
vaccinated and free service assumes higher adhesion to the program; second,
because pastoralists are among the poorest pe c4le, and already pay
several other taxes (the poll and livestock ta'xes), it has been considered
irrelevant to ask for a tax for veterinary services while they receive so
little, if any, from the revenues (water, school, medical care, etc.,);
third, Government has found until now, from its own budget or from outside the
necessary funds to provide strict minimum sanitary protection which, by



ANNEX 5
Page 5 of 5
chance, has avoided epidemic catastrophy. Thus, pastoralists may continue
to expect free veterinary services. However, in order to reach a maximum
number of cattle --ith limited available funds, the Government should decide
to ask payment for all treatment costs by PY 3 and progressively thRreafter
for all vaccine and medicine costs, excluding or including the operating
costs of the veterinary services. By that time, the results of similar
policies in Upper Velta and Mali should be available for guidance.



SENEGAL
EASTERN SENEGAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Animal Health Services
Investment Costs
(CFAF ' 000)
------------------------ ---------- Project Year -----------------------------------------
Unit                1                            2                         3                          Total
Co8t         No.         Cost            No.          Ce6t           No.  Cot
Buildings and Constructions
Veterinary posts  1/                          5,000          2         10,000           5          25,000           2          10.000           9          45,000
Vaccination yards  2/                           500         10          5,000          20          10,000          10           5,000          40          20,000
Repair of vaccination yards  3/                 100          5             500          -             -             -             -             5             500
Sub total                                                         15,500                      35,000                     15,000                      65,500
Vehicles and Equipment
Four wheel drive vehicle  4/                  3,100          2          6,200           2           6,200           -             -             4          12,400
Motorbike 5/                                    100         30          3,000                                                                  30           3,000
Freezer  6/                                     250         10          2,500                                                                  10           2,500
Refrigerator  7/                                260          3             800                                                                  3             800
Insulated container  8/                          20         10            200                                                                  40             200
Thermos bottles  9/                               8         20             200                                     20             200          40             400
Veterinary kit                                1,000          1          1,000                                                                   i           1,000
Camping gear                                     50        40           2,000                                                                  40           2,000
Furniture for veterinary Posts                1,000          2          2,000           5           5,000           2           2,000           9           9,000
Sub total                                                         17.900                      11,200                      2.200                       31,300
Physical Contingencies (10%)                                             3.340                       4,620                       1,720                       9,680
Total Investment Costs                                            36,740                      50,820                     18,920                     106,480
1/  70 m2 per veterinary post and 60 m2 for housing of Veterinary Assistant at CFAF 38,500 per m2, located at LUMBI, DIANKE-MAKAM (BALA), MAXA, SERAYA  SALEMATA, BALA
KOMPENTOUM, MISSIRAH and BANDAFASI.
2/ Will be constructed vith local materials; 15 vaccination yards vill be located within and 25 outside the grazing scheme.
3/ For vaccination yards at KOUSSANAR, SENEDEBOU, MALEMLINI, METE BOULON AND BAKEL.
4/ Assumes that one mobile unit consisting of 3 long wheel base-pick-up vehicles operates only during 4-5 months per yesr.
/ Two motorbikes per veterinary post
6/ One per new veterinary pont plus one for KOUSSANAR.
7/ One per Department for conservation of vaccines.
81 Manufactured locally;for transportation of vaccines from TAMBAOOUNDA to veterinary pesto.
9/ For transportation of vaccines from veterinary posta to the field.
- 'J,



SENEGAL                                                                Table 2
EASTERN SZNECAL .L1VESTOCf; PROJECT
Abnail iecith Services
Operating COSta
(CFAF '000)
------------ --------------- ------------------ Project Year ----------___--- _
Unit             1                        2                          3                        4                          5
Cnet      Ne.        Cnet          No.         Cent          No.          Cost          No.         Cnot          No.         Cnet
Salaries and Waaes  1/                            60         40         2,400         40          2,400         40          2,400          40          2,400         40          2,400
Maitenance
Exist-g and nev beildinge  2/                                        1,500                     1,800                     2,600                      2,900                     2,900
Vancinctien ya-ds  3/                          53                     -            15            800         35          1.800          45          2,300         45          2.300
Sobtote1                                                        1.500                    2,600                      4.400                     5.200                     5.200
Running csnt nf vehiclen and ePsi,nent
Fcur wheel trioe vehicIn  4/                  750          2         1,500          4          3,000          4          3,000          4           3,000          4          3,000
Mcterbike  5/                                  40         28         1,100         28          1,200         28          1,200          28          1,200         28          1,200
Fretenr sod Rofrignerter  6/                              22         1,600         22          1,600         22          1,600         22           1,600         22          1,600
Miscellaneous  7/                                                      500                       600                       800                        ô00                       800
Subtotal                                                       4.700                      6.400                     6.600                     6,600                     6,600
Replacenent of vnhicles  8/                                             2,100                     3,400                      3,400                     3,400                     3,400
Vaccines and Drug
Rindorpeot  9/                                                       1,800                     1,900                     2,000                      1,000                     1,100
CBPP 10/                                                             2,100                     2,500                     2,600                      2,800                     2,900
Anthra;, Bleckleg, Paltearniietin   1/                               1,200                     1,300                       600                        600                       600
Drcgs  12/                                                           2,300                      -                         -                          -
Adeit ant calf drenchhig  13/                                        2,000                     2.000                     2.000         _
Subtotal                                                       9.400                      7,700                     7.200                     4,400                     4.600
oOfc fxe Epensea
sta-.ocar-                                                             100                       250                        100                      -
utilitint                                                              100                       200                        200                       200                       200
Subtotal                                                          200                       450                       300                       200                        200
rotal Operating Cents                                         20.300                    Z2.950                     24.300                    22.200                    22,400
1/   Ne in -cene=alesff is eneded.  Salarie  are paid by Covernnt.  Th. peajent p.yy  enly field alleca   duricg the -c-ination canpyignn: I vtenternian 20,000 CFAF/
recth X 6 =ntts; 9 veterinarian  senintant 18,000 CFAF/nenth X 6 .n.th.; 26 vnet.inariai  nurse 7,200 CFAF/,nonth X 6  -nthe; 4 driver 7,200 CFAF/n-nth X 6 mn.the.
2/   37. pe  year oE existing buildings valsod at CFPA  50 nillion; and 37. nf noe  beildings beginning with year feliving cenetructin,
3/   10  pen yecr ef enintina vaccinanien yards valued at CPAP 2 nillion; aod 10b nf nov - ananne yards beginning winh year follovingncoan=rcnin.
4/   15,000 kn por ye0r per vehicIe at CFAF 50 pen kl  for fuel,nil, grea., spare parte, nepeirn  and iectance.
5/   40,000 CFAF por stonrbike por year for fus1, nil, spare parte, and repaire.
t/   2 Ire  f ker orenn  par day at CFAF 100 per liter; inctldeo  9 already existing refrigeratore.
7/   Fer spare parts for freezers ad refrigeratorn, tonls and wprkshop equipsaent, etc.
8/   20b eo original cent beginning  nith year ni anquisition for vehiciae, and 337. for netrbikea.
9/   Antsunes cnnel vaccination ef 257, of th. Regien'  nattle herd  fers deveIopnyent, 40'b i  PY'i 1, 2 and 3, and -oly y.o.g anitnal  thereafter at CFAF 15 pen enirai.
10/   Asoees  -noual naccinaton et 407 ef the RegioP's cattle htrd betote  doveloynent, 70b in PYn I and 800. thereafter et CFAF 10 per animal.
11,/   Asts   s annusl caccination cf ail nantIe in endenic arean repr.eenting 50o. cf the Regien's cattle herd ie PY   and 2 and 207 theranfter et CFAF 6 pe- aninal.
2/  F7r in.t, al purchase ef 30,000 desce ef Berenil which vill bh  .eld te livceteck oc-era at CFAF 75 pen dten; thia caie'  revene.  will canon later ce et rolvcning
fnfoot fe  pyrcthcng Onroni.
13/  DOewrning ef 40,000 calves per year for 3 years.  Druge will be aold from   f 3 on-ard. et CFAF 50 pen calf year.



SEIBEGAI.
44871RN SENISAL IVEST017C PR874E17
Sefral 8eai4 Service
faitlle lard ?eeleeli-e - Wilth th. Feieat
('888 Ilede)
Deveîueseeî  1  2  3   4             S            6             7             8             9            88            il           12            13           14            15            16            13           15-28~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10Il  2  1-2
fous                      12~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~3.9  823.    i12.          118.         11l8          11.2          115.          115.          1143     34                 12.           12.1        1.4           11.            1.           11.8          11.            150818.
cult1410                                           5.           46.4          48.8         46.6          45.           45.4          4.4           45.          434.8         4.4.4         44.2          431.8         4(3.64.                    43.1           3.           403.1         43.1
Heifera  1 -2 yeare                 22.5          22.25         262.5         236.2         23.46        23.'3         22.9          2'2.7         225.7        22.           22.4          22.2          22.1          21.8          21.8         21.17         81.6          21.6          21.6
-l l    3' Y"ar                28.4         28.4          28.5          28.5          21.3         21.5          21.4          21.1          28.9         28.9          28.7          28.6          28.4          28.3          28.1          28.8         19.9          19.8          1.9.8
7uea1 -2 yae225                               22.5          22.5          23.2         23.4          23.3          22.8          22.2         22.7          22.5          22.4          22.2          22.1          21.9         21.8          21.6          21.5          21.5          21.5
SIteer  2 -3 yeur                   28.4          28.4          28.5          20.5         21.3          21.5          21.4          21.1          2.           20.9          2.                   20.62.4              28.3          28.12881.                                19.7          19.2
Strate3 -4 yra-                     12.1          17.1          16.           15.8:         14.8         13.8          13.8          13.8          13.8         13.8          13.8          13.8          13.8          13.0          13.8         13.8          15.0          13.0          13.0
O tu.r  4 -    ye-r                  8.4           8.4           8.8          57 .8          6.8           5.8          5,8           3.0           5.8          5.8           5.0           5.8           5.8           5.8           5.8           5.8          5.0           5.8           5.8
__uîsue   Syce-                      8.7           8,7           2.8          8.8           5.8           4.0           4.8           4.8          4.0           4.0           4.0          480           48            1             i 4804        40I 48                      48            48à
Total Anùuel                 288.4         299.4         283.1         289,6         288.5        282.1         288.2         288.8         277.8        275.5         273.8         272.4         278.7         269.1         267.6         266.9         266.4        266.2         266.3
Total Auiue1 Tulle  Il    254.4            254.4
BirLhs                                  69.1          69.1         69.4          67.8          66.6          65.5         85.8          64.8          64.4          64.8          83.5         63.1          82.7          62.3          61.9          61.6          61.6          61.6          61.6
Murtlaîty
BuIlle                               84            0.4           8.3           8.3           8.3           0.3          0.3           8.3           8.3           8.3          0.3           0.3           8.3           0.3           8.3           0.3          8.3            0.3           0.3
focs                       ~~~~          ~~~~          ~~~~~4.9  4.9  37  3.6      3.6           3153.5                     13.5         13.5           3.5           34            13.4         134           134           13.3         13.3           3.3           3.3          13.3
falva                               24.           24.1          238           21.8         21.           89.7          19.6         91841.4     14               182           9.           1851.                        871.                        851.                        851
Hcîflte  1 -2 year                    2.1           2.1          2.8           2.8           1.8           1.      .9                 1.8           1.8           1.8           1.8           1.8          1.8           1.8           1.8           1.8           1.a           1.8           18
ulae2-3yeer                   1.8           1.8          8.8           1.8            1.           1.            11            1.1          1.1           11            1.1           1.1          1.1           11.0                               1.8     .            1.8           1.
Steee-1-2 y-ar                       2.1           2.            2.8           2.8           19            1..                        1.8           1.8           181.8                      1.8           1.8           1.8           1.             .             .8           lu            t
Stoute  2 - 3 ocare  1.8  1.8      8.9           t ~~~~~~~~~t  1.8           1.7          1.1           1.1           l.a           1.1          1.8           1.1           1.4           7.1-          1.8           1.8           1.8           1.8           1.80.0  1.    0  1.
Oseee3   4 yuîe                      8.             8.7          0.5           1.5           1.5           8.4          8.4           0.4           8.4           8.4           0.4          8.4           8.4           8.4           8.4           o.4           0.6           0.4           8.4
Stee4 -   ye-r                    8.0          8.4           8.3           8.            8.2           8.2          8.2           8.2           8.2           8.2          8.:2          8.2           8.:2          8.:2          8.2           8.2           8~.2         8.2            8.2
Steev-  ove- SY yur.3                               8..    3       3           8.: 2         8.1          8.1           8.1           8.1           .1            8.1          8.1           8. 1          8.1           8.1            O.1          8.1           0.5           0.1           8.1
Tuta1 Muv-lity                 37.0         37.0          33.7          38.9          30.5          30.0         30.1          29.7          29.7          29.5          29.3          29.1         29.1          28.9          28.5          28.4          28.4          28.4          28.4
fe11 Bull                             8.8           8.9           1.           1.            15.5 1.5                    15                         185 1:1.515                                             1. 5         11.5          1. 5          1.5          11.5          11.5          11.5
CoOl face                  14.~    ~ ~~~~~~~~5 145     886          18.2          17.8          176          174           17.4          1.            172           1.16.9                     14.8          16.7          16.6          1581571.61.
Ciea3 -4 yea..                        2.1           2.1          3.8           4.5           5.5           7.3           7.4                 7.3     .            6.8           88            6.8          6.5           6.3           6.3           6.'1          6.8           5.8           5.7
Strae4 -   y-ae                       8.1           8.1          8.6           6.7           67            6.             .             .            .8           5.8           5.8           5.8          8.            5.8           5.8            5.8          5.8           5.8           5.8
st.. e  .r ove  S y-at                6.5           6.5           9.5          8.5           7.7           6.7           4.7          4.7           4.7           4..7          4.7          4.7           4.7           4.7           4.7           4.7           47            4.7           4.7
Tuta1 Sales                    32.1          32.1         42.0          39.4          39.2          39.9          36.8          36.7         36.3          36.0          35.8          35.5          35.3          35.0          34.9          33.9         33.7          33.4          33.2
Tuchuleal Cuaffui.iete
fa1vlag  rate (Y.)                  56            36            56            56            56            56            56           56            56            56            56            56            56           56            56            56            56            56            56
l-tîellty Ital
CelveaîT)                        35            35            33            31           38            38            38            31            30            30           30            30            30            30            30            30            30            30            30
fetla~ 1 -2 yeat  (7.)           1o            18             9             9             8            8s                   8             8             8             8            8             8                    S      8             8                    B             8             8
fCIle1  2 .3 yuatr74              S             S             3             S             2                          S5                          5                    5                   5                           5                                         55 
Adelt(.)M                         4             4                           33                                                     3                                                       3                           3 3  3  3
Tuta1 afîatee                        18 .7        18 .7         14.3          13.6          13.6          14.1          13.1          13..2        13.1          13.0          13.8          13 .0         13.0          13.8          13.0          12.7         12.6           12 .5        12.4
fCe. 8e  utel hard 17)              41.3          41.3          41 .3         41.8          40.8          41.2          41.3         41.3          41.3          41.2          41.2          41.1          41.1          41.1          41.1         41.2          41.3          41.3          41.3
faîl 8o11s                 ~~~~    ~ ~~~~35.1  35.1    66.3          58.5          58.3         58.5          58.3           83           5. 58.3                     58.15  58       .5           85585 58.5                 5a.5                5        5.5  58.5                 58.5
faltce                             333.5         333.5         427.8         448.6         489.4         484.8        488.2         400.2         378            95.6         311           38.            8. 384.1                   381           3634361                     358.8         356.5
Irsle3 -4yas73.5                                  73.5         126.8         157.5         192.5         295.5        258.80         255.5        2'45'.8        3.3 23231.8                              27.           225            28.5        21.21.288195
Otee4 -   yrave                348.2         348.2         361.2         281.4         28 1.4        285.6        243.6         243.6         243.6         243.6         243.6         243.6         243.8         243.6         243.6         243.6        243.6          263.6        243.6
Stue-  uve  O Yea-                 292.5         292.5         427.5         382.5         346.5        381.5         211.5         211.5         211.5         211.5         241.1         211.5         211.5         217.5         211,5         211.5         211.5         211.5        211.5
Total fatI1u  Salue        1,874.8       1,874.8       1,408.8       1,298.5       1,288.3       1,385.9       1,172.8       1,169.3      1,156.5       1.147.2       1,142.6       1,133.3       1,127.5       1,118.2       1,115.9       1.898.5       10886.7       1.875.4       1,869.6
Totl-11  Salie S1-            255.1         259.1        268.3         254.3         249.8         245.6         243.7         243.8         241.5         248.8        238.1         236.6         235.1         233.6         232.1         231.0         231.0       2-31. -2~31.8
TOTAL SALIS                L333.9        1.333.9       1.669.1       1.552.8       1.538.1      1.351.5       1.416.5       1.412.3       1.398.0       1.387.2       1.388.7       1.369.9       1.362.6       1.351.8       1.348.0       1.321.5       1.315.5      4.5386.4       1.300.6
1/ 1 A.8.: cil attlle u1due thr ave ya-v
2/ Belle 380 kg et IFAP 130/kg1i aweght - 39,080 CrAP8 Caca: 258 kg aI 488 TFOPIlg 1i.-waght = 23,888 C1PPA Sist  3 -4 y,at: 278 kg  ti TrOP 130/k5 lîv-eight = 35,888 CFAP, Sterre  4 - 5 y-.r: 3008k   t 5  1  218l40/kg Ilvamlght = 42.800 TUAF;
Staa-  vea  S year: 328 kg et TrAP 1401kg Jlvewaghtî - 48,8080 TAP.
3  TCs lu ailk fullulag e1alveg rate: 158 litare silk pet ac par yev at cFAP 25.                                                                                                                   ~j



ANNEK 5
Table 4
SENEGAL
EASTERN SENEGAL LIVESTOCK PRDJECT
Animal Health Service
Economic Rate of Return 1/
(CFAF   000)
YEAR                     COSTS  2/                    BENEFITS                      NET BENEFITS
1                      86,620                                                        (86,620)
2                      100,755                        (10,500)                      (111,255)
3                       77,590                         75,100                         (2,490)
4                       59,930                         85,600                         25,670
5                       60,110                        212,400                        152,290
6                       60,860                        225,300                        164,440
7                       61,735                        300,900                        239,165
8                       62,735                        325,000                        262,265
9                       63,610                        322,200                        258,590
10                       64,210                        325,700                        261,490
il                       64,360                        304,900                        240,540
12                       64,860                        297,600                        232,740
13                       64,920                        286,800                        221,880
14                       64,920                        283,000                        218,080
15                       64,920                        256,500                        191,580
16                       64,920                        250,700                        185,780
17                       64,920                        241,400                        176,480
18                       64,920                        235,600                        170,680
19                       64,920                        235,600                        170,680
20                       64,920                        235,600                        170,680
Rate of Return 43.29%
1/    Net of taxes, duties and price contingencies.
2/    Includes Investment and Operating Costs, Annex 5  , Tables 1 and 2; plus Operating
Costs of existing Animal Health Service (FCFA 47,000/year).



ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 3
SENEGAL
EASTERN SENEGAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
PROJECT MONITORING AND EVALUATION
Purpose
1.        Livestock projects of the size and scope of the proposed project
can have important effects on participants, on the economy of Eastern Senegal
and the country as a whole; and possible consequences cannot be foreseen
with precision. It is therefore essential that, during the implementation
period, appropriate investigationis and studies be undertaken that focus on the
economic, social and environmental issues. This monitoring and evaluating
of the project would have as objectives to:
(a) guide project management;
(b) measure the effectiveness and efficiency of project
activities;
(c)  measure the impact of the project on the project area's
environment and on the quality of live of its population;
(d) permit continuous reappraisal and modification of project
goals and assumptions involved in the project's design,
particularly with regard to the carrying out of the
grazing scheme including its livestock credit and
functional literacy programs;
(e)  inform Government, the Eastern Senegal Administration
and IDA of positive and negative changes steming from
project activities in order to provide an opportunity
to undertake corrective action as appropriate, including,
if necessary, an alteration in the project's composition
and design; and
(f) assess the extent to which the project can be replicated
elsewhere in the country and, generally speaking, to which
it can provide know-how for future investments in the
livestock sectors of Senegal and other West African
countries.



ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 3
I4onitoring and Evaluation Responsibility
2.        Responsibility for monitoring and evaluation would be given to
an experienced consulting firm. A consultant-team, subject to a yearly
budget and consisting of an economist (four months about per year), a
sociologist (about one month), a range/livestock specialist (about four months),
and six investigators (about four months each) would carry out the monitoring
and evaluation (see cost estimates in Annex 3, Table 2, Footnote 13) assisted
by SODEFITEX extension staff, who would undertake basic data-collection and
record-keeping. The qualifications of the consultant-team members would be
subject to IDA-approval. Consultant would prepare a summary analysis report
for the project at least once each year, and such other special reports as
needed or when available information may suggest. The summary report would
be reviewed with the project management and subsequently made available
to Government and IDA. A final summary project evaluation would be prepared
at the end of the implementation.
Project Key Indicators
3.        In order to accomplish meaningful and cost-efficient monitoring
and evaluation, the following general indicators which focus on the most
crucial factors to the success of the project, should be assessed:
(a)  changes in incomes of participants;
(b)  changes in volume and value of production;
(c)  changes in efficiency and effectiveness of the marketing
system;
(d)  changes in tax revenues;
(e)  changes in economic and social indicators such as patterns
of consumption and spending, participation in education and
health programs, and other measures of human well-being in
the project area;
(f)  changes in land tenure and land use;
(g)  changes of the project area's ecology due to increased
population and stock numbers, grazing and fire-control
measures;
(h)  changes in the bio-economic parameters of cattle
and small ruminants and;
(i)  information on project affairs such as:  stockowners
perceptions of rights to range occupancy and water
access; who receive such rights; who should be elected
to the local committees; who needs to borrow money and
who guarantees debt; how should enforced payment of
fees, penalties, etc., be organized; and what assistance
should the Government provide.



ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 3
4.        Precise types of measures to be made and methods of data collection
and analyses would be developed by consultants. Some of the data needed would
be generated by project records and other data would be collected by consultants
surveys and from secondary sources outside the project area. During PY 1,
consultants would prepare detailed terms of reference and a timetable for comple-
tion of the monitoring and evaluation task which would be sent to IDA for
approval no later than one year after the signing of the Credit.



ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 3
SENEGAL
EASTERN SENEGAL LIVESTOCK PROJECr
REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
1.        This Annex is intended to serve as a guide and checklist for
progress reports on the Eastern Senegal Livestock Project. It provides
the essential headings, types of information needed, and pro forma tables.
The reports are not necessarily to be restricted to the items listed; other
major problema encountered, expected to be encountered, measures taken,
or proposed solutions to the problems should also be mentioned.
2.        The progress reports are to be submitted quarterly, and an annual
summary submitted at the end of each calendar year. The reports should
reach IDA within 60 days after the close of each reporting period. They
should be addressed to:
Division Chief, Agricultural Projects Division II
Western Africa Projects Department
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Reporting entity: SODEFITEX - Project Management Unit.
Proposed Outline of the Progress Reports
3.        Set out below is the outline proposed for the progress reports.
Part I.   Basic Project Data
Date of Credit Agreement:
Closing Date:
Total project costs at appraisal:  US$        million
Most recent project cost estimates (date):  US$         million
Amount of IDA Credit:  US$       million
Amount disbursed at end of quarter: US$
Appraisal estimate of amount disbursed at end of quarter: US$
Exchange rate at appraisal: US$1 - CFAF 225
Current exchange rate: US$1 - CFAF
Part II.  General Comments
Briefly discuss current conditions, including Government
actions, economic conditions, veather, etc., which affected
or may affect project implementation.



ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 3
Part III. Physical Progress
Action taken and results obtained since last IDA supervision
should be noted, as follows:
(a)  Buildings, wells and firebreaks construction.  Comment on
bidding and procurement, delivery of equipment and civil
works, etc. Complete Forms 1, 2 and 3, this Annex.
(b)  Establishment of grazing units.  Comment on identification of
rural communities, land use preparation, implementation
of pastoral groups, immigration , livestock inventory,
functional literacy design, livestock credit, etc.
Complete Form 4, this Annex.
(c)  Animal health service.  Comment on purchase and use of
equipment, drugs and vaccines; at the end of the first
year's vaccination campaign, submit a plan for the next
year's campaign.
(d)  Hydraulic aspects.  Comment on inventory of watering
points, identification of potential well and dam sites,
well construction and their work supervision. Complete
Form 1-6 and 7, this Annex.
(e)  Training and extension.  Summarize the number and nature
of training courses undertaken and staff participating.
Briefly comment on extension activity and its effectiveness.
Complete Form 7, this Annex.
Part IV.  Project Organization and Management
Briefly discuss project organization and management, staff
appointments, changes in personnel, and any problems encountered
with terms and conditions. Briefly describe headquarters
activities and major resolutions at committees and council/
range management meetings.
Part V.   Expenditures/Disbursement
Give details by category of project expenditures for the
quarter on Forms 3, 6 and 7, this Annex. Also give appraisal
estimates noting the main reasons for important differences.
Refer to any delays in clearing disbursement applications or
in receiving funds.



ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 3
Part VI. Response to Project
(a) Grazing scheme management. Outline any important trends
occurring in grazing unit management policies and practices.
Discuss the impact of the project on stockowner income
by herd size.
(b) Livestock credit. Loans made and recovery performance
are to be recorded on Forms 5, 6 and 7, this Annex.
Problens, if any, with loan approvals and flow of funds
for participants should be commented on.
(c) Marketing. Briefly describe the market trends for
cattle. Comment on eventual changes in marketing channels,
prices for cattle and meat, etc.
Part VII. Outstanding Problema
Define and discuss remedies tried or solutions proposed.
Indicate any particular assistance or intervention required,
and comment on any proposed alternatives, giving full
justification. A brief forecast for the next quarter's
performance should `also be presented.



SENEGA
EASTERN SENEGAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Quartezty Progres. Report for Quarter ending o-
PROGBESS OP TENDERS
INVITATION                                                                          EVALUATION                                                                DELIVERY                                          RuISS
NNVe of iteno                            I)A approval      IDA approval            Tender invitation      Bide          Bid.            Evloaution approved                Ordere           Delivered Co.pletio-
beinR procured            Propoe.d       reg.e.ted         received                     ieeued            received      evaluated       y_    v IDA                         pla.cd                   due
(Give datea for a11 equip.ent, civil works let out under cosipetitive bidding
indicating whether ICB or local).



SENEGAL
EASTERN SENEGAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Quarterly Progress Report - Quarter ending on
PFRGCHASE OF EQUIPMENT AND LIVMSTOCK
Name of   Model /   No. of Units  No. of Units  CIF value  Import duty   Delivered Cost per
Name of Items   supJir  Cspacity  ordered            received      per Unit   tax paid              Unit               Remarks
per Unit
1210



Pomn 3
r.]a
r. r
Or
o.I
r. D  I
S~ ~~~~r `'               or r. or o
X      o         .-Q



SENEGAL
EASTERN SENEGAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Quarterly progress report for period ending on
GRAZING UNITS IMPLEMENTATION
Numbers and Age Units
Less than   Between    Between   Between   Between   Between    No. of existing    Human and    No. of Grazing
yr. old   ½ - lyr.   1 - 2yr.  2 - 3yr.  3 - hyr.  h - 5yr.   Grazing Units           Animal Popu- Units abandoned    Re-
under theProject   lation per   as failures            marks
to date        Grazing Unit       to date
0
4>
-J



SENEGAL
EASTERN SENEGAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Quarterly Progress Report for Quarter ending on
STATUS OF LOAN APPLICATIONS
Loan amount           Loan amount            Total disbursements
A.  During the Quarter              No.     for Cows/Heifers      for supplements             to date              Remarks
(i) Applications
submitted by
local conmittees
(ii) Applications
approved by PU
(iii )Applications
rejected by pu
B.   Cummulative position
(i) Applications
submitted by
local committees
(ii) Applications
approved by PU
(iii)Applications
rejected by PU
-J



SENEGAL
EASTERN SENEGAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Cumulative Progress Report from start of
Project to quarter ending on
BREAKDOWN OF NUMBERS AND COSTS OF APPROVED INVESTMENT ITEMS
During the Quarter                To Date
No.          Costs           No.          Costs           Remarks
A. Grazing Scheme
Civil Works
Wells
Vehicles and Equipment
Bulldozers
Graders
Lorrys
CowsJHeifers
Minerals and Supplements
Furniture
Other
B. Veterinary Service
Civil Works
Vehicles and Equipment
Cooling Equipment
Veterinary Kit
Vaccines
Drugs
other
I a



ANNEX 7
SENEGAL                                             Form 7
EASTERN SENEGAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Cuxmulative Progress Report from start
of Project to quarter ending on
OPERATING EXPENDITURES FOR PROJECT ADMLMISTRATION
AND CENTRAL SERVICES
During the Quarter               To date              Remarks
A.    Project Management Unit
(1)    Salaries and Wages
(2)    Vehicles and Equipment
(3)    Consultants
(4)    Traininfg
(5)    Functional Literacy
(6)    Auditing/Monitoring
(7)    Maintenance of Infrastructure
(8)    Other
B.    Pastoral Service
(1)    Salaries and Wages
(2)    Vehicles and Equipment
(3)    Manual Firebreaks
(4)    Training
(5)    Maintenance of Infrastrusture
(6)    Credit- Cottonseed and Minera].s
(7)    Other
C.    Veterinary Service
(1)    Salaries and Wages
(2)    Vehicles and Equipment
(3)    Maintenance of Infrastructure
(4)    Vaccines
(5)    Drugs
(6)    Other
D.    Hydraulic Services
(1)    Rent of Housing
(2)    Salaries and Wages
(3)    Vehicles and Equipment
(4)    Maintenance of Wells
(5)    Other



ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 2
SENEGAL
EASTERN SENEGAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
QUALIFICATIONS REQUIRED FOR THE PROJECT'S SENIOR STAFF
Director
An experienced livestock production specialist, preferably with
formal training in agriculture, economics, livestock production, livestock
economics, or veterinary medicine. Experience as a senior manager with live-
stock production and development programs in Africa is also necessary. He
would be required to direct an interdisciplinary team of Senegalese and
expatriate staff, to discuss and liaise with Government Departments and
international agencies; to assume responsibility for issuing quarterly and
annual reports; and to be responsible for a US$2 million annual budget. He
must be able to command respect and have an understanding of pastoral people.
He should be conversant in French and preferably in English.
Deputy Director
A graduate in agriculture, animal production or veterinary science
capable of providing technical and administrative support to the Director
and, when necessary, assuming full responsibility for the work of an inter-
disciplinary development team. He would also assume primary responsibility
for collecting and analyzing project-related statistics. He should have at
least ten years' experience in livestock production in tropical/sub-tropical
areas, preferably in Africa. Previous responsibility for development programs
including livestock extension, credit and training would be highly desirable.
He should be conversant in French and English and be between 40 and 55 years
of age.
Hydrogeologist
A graduate in hydrogeology (or in hydrology with a working knowledge
of hydrogeology) and a broad understanding of rural water development in Africa
with at least six years' post-graduate experience. He would be assisted by a
small team consisting of two hydraulic assistants, two drivers and two laborers.
In close collaboration with the Regional Hydraulic Service, he would be res-
ponsible for: (a) identifying sites for 100 wells to be built for the project's
grazing scheme; (b) preparing detailed plans, specifications and bidding
documents for well construction; (c) supervising the well construction; (d)
preparing an inventory of the existing wells in Eastern Senegal; and (e) ad-
vising the Regional Hydraulic Service on priorities for well construction and
repair. He must be able to function effectively in remote areas and under
harsh conditions. He must also be conversant in French.



ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 2
Range Management Specialist
A graduate in a biological science and experienced in range management,
with an intimate understanding of the ecology of arid and semi-arid lands in
Africa. He must be fully competent in aerial photo interpretation and be
able to assess the livestock carrying capacity of land, range conditions and
trends. Previous experience with livestock development programs is a
necessity. He would head a Pastoral Service to establish the project's
1.4 million ha grazing scheme. lie would also be responsible for: (a) land
use planning of the grazing scheme's area; (b) survey and demarkation of
grazing units; (c) selection of pastoral groups and their assignment to grazing
units; (d) provision of technical support to the grazing units; (e) adminis-
tration of livestock credit; and (f) training of the extension staff and
grazing unit leaders. He should be willing to accept extended periods of field
work under harsh conditions, and be conversant in French and preferably in
English.
Community Development Officer
A graduate in a social science or in education, or have experience
as a rural extension officer. The essential requirement would be ability to
collect and interpret socioeconomic data related to pastoral people. An
understanding of cooperative and corporate organizations adapted or adaptable
to African pastoral conditions is desirable. Knowledge of the theory and
practice of teaching functional literacy is also a requirement. He would
participate in interdisciplinary surveys, collect census data, evaluate social
organizations and attitudes, and assist in designing, implementing and evalua-
ting types of cooperative organizations for the project's 1.4 million ha
grazing scheme. He would also provide liaison with the National Functional
Literacy Service in designing, testing and evaluating a functional literacy
program for pastoralists. He should be prepared to undertake long periods of
field work under harsh conditions, and should be conversant in French and
preferably in Peul.



7  ToTal                                                          o.          boit ~~~~~F.-.  .IlCoc- Icacts             oo-g
Tooccoseol Cocor   -OooldIog, aod OOOTTTToT 1~~~~~0  15,023           4)'13                 850      125>          O 1,61             0.4             106.o            212.6        (2)           49.)3
- olbc,   cc   qooooqg,024                                                     2100         (4)             8 lT             4.               49.0            00.          <40          <35.6                                        55
Oparaîliog Ocde  -SalarIes asi lag-ao,4                                         35,360            l10:1,0      (~14)          114,220)         293.4            158.2           451.6         (14>          (63.2)3
- Pco(eoo FoeOaraTcoO                 1~~~~~ ~      ~~~0,024'0  13,360   25000       1281             5,120>          45.6             68.2            113.6         (20          (02.0                                       60
-  loe0oeo  BildL.dlog  co                 6,330            2,000              3,603      (118              19600          20.9             1'2.8          462.1         110)            4.31                                      30
-onn Cosof Tehtols,                      2,400u           25,433             15,830      î35î          (16,0431           90.3            113.3           203.7         (35)         111.3>                                      51
aid lsplsosooeco                                                        1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 00        1                  -              133         I                                                          -
- 101001,13                  3,030              -               3,1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O600       (153)~  13.
-otheaCpoe,1.1                                                     4600Q             3060        (0                 05            0.                0              136l 2        10           (3611
lottotol                                          ~~~~~~~~        ~~~~~~~~           ~~~~~~165-390  118,780  284.170  121<  150 1301  735.1        12.0.           1.263.1        0211         243                      15                  40
A. Pîoa   eoc
IcaîrtCoas     -oldosco   oooooo                                   124)            12,143            23,2800      (5              6,320)           16.2             56.2             1124        0251         120.1)                                       5O
-  upcs2.01                                                          -1,0                         (1-)            1,00             533               -                33         104153
- Tel.Ooîoc col Eqclpaooc               0~~~~    ~ ~~~~,190  12,210      10.2000     (40)           I  ,0)            044.3            54.3              90.37        4>          (3.155
OetlgCc, -..s.s  odlg1 40,830                                                      30,0 70           10090         ( >           (15,0201          6)25            1330              780.2        I9)          110.81                                      17
- MsInoOT300 T-    lîJrf                            3,430           1,47)              4:,007û    >0                490            13.3              6,5              21.0       (Del          I 2.2)                                     30
- RoocITo Cooos o) Tahlol,,           ~~~~~~~21,030   30,340             35,173       (3)>           1,-)             110.4           134.8             243.2        0331         (85.6)                                      55
- îrcl,,Ocg                             0~~~~     ~      ~~~~            ~~~~~~~,740  46  ,0 0 (5)1461,                30.7              1.2             48.9        (5>            30
- Tocorul 2d,,ioOTtoirloo      2.720             626             3~~~~~     ~~~~ 600  110<    110              2.130131                                     (3           I1310
ii4tot,,l                                                            221.L00         82 070            309 050       1171          (52 9201          983,1            390.3          1.373.6        (17)        1035.2)                  10                   28
oooaîocooooo ouste - TahOolea                         ~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~40,6110  00,060n   138,100      (40>          (43,600)          010.4             266.9           483.2        (403         1094.121                                     55
-Eqcipooao                                          230             1700               4, 000      il1(70                          10.2               2.              157.8       10>8         I 3.2                                       43
- OooocTg Costa23 Val,tolea    (0,330         33.320            ~~~~~~~~ ~~~~151,650  131   (3150)            303.7             371.2           674.9        13)         (136.2)                                      5
-dactr  o   cs                                40,000                             40,000      I s)             2 î.ooo>       177.0               -              177.8         s>            8.9>
osclcoe,occoa Goals   -e.iiilog Cors, oo vehIolco       0,~~~~~8310    10.2)0             00,530      135>            4,490>           37.1              49.3             82.4       1351          (28.8>                                      55
-dîaie   o   Zrge                             20.040            -28.041                                       1 -  I4001     124.6               -              104.0 6       55            6.231
lîbTîcal                                           ~~~~~~~~       ~~~~~~~~           ~~~~~~100 060  155  0034   60 31   <0  61-401  871.8             696.0         1.562.8        130         17.118                                        44i
C.   lrOaFclt,
Coc.ooiotloo Costs-~~eparatory brio, co                         5,490          31,160             56,857 4/  (16)             9 ,300)         113.3             138.5            25T.0  4>   (16)          140.31                                      ss
-  el  oOtpoîo                                      O 39100       260-720            65  e0 151                 1-73701l        1.738.1           1.258.8          2.0896.9      1151         1434.51                                      40
loltittl                                            400 570        251 1000           7110 65T~~~~~~~~~41.51  1151 (080          1.651.4            1.187.3         3.148.7        u1            47.)37                                      42
D.  Liveecook OrOT-dil0                                                                    -                 5  0          -              -             010. o                              2400                                              2    
1.   o,olalLlt-r-c                                                        3239             1,131            30,490       110>            3,651)          143.7              18.6            162.1       (18)          (16.2)                  2                   il
Sooceoocc  Coas    -SoOdoos ic  Ci,oto,oo Io                      120.5lT         2,533             4500                                         lm1 c,20  100    100.0            2008          2>          (00                                          50
-Volioo   il                              -2,3                                  2830'0'                                      Il1 I  ,25  12-                    91.'2       I 5          T  .8>
-Vebhoos  -do Eqolp,erco                            14,085          13,015             31,300      4043          112 ,5101          61,6              76.5            339.5       >40)          133.01                                      55
ope...oîog Cco ..c. o.oscd lage-                                           12,011                            1 2,0271     0î(601                            3                 -              53:3        Il 5             2.~71
- Slalococccor ot loolIlInge sol  13,231        5,677            ~~~~             ~            ~~~      ~ ~~10,0  1> f189'0>  5:8.  23.2          84.0        1)             8.>30
-  cco    oî   f Tohtol,,                   30,9(0         05,630             46,600       >351          116,3101           93.2             113.9           007.1        (35)          170.51                                     35
-  oooo   e  Droos                             15.900          17,400             33,300      I 91             2,89            70.               0 7.3           148.         f 8I(3.3>                                                 Il
G--Oecl                                                                               -     Lmncrclc100   7     350 110  ;11351      4.0               1.2              6.0        13           I0.0)                  10                   20
îoboorsl                                            ~~~~~~~~        ~~~~~~~          ~~~~~~~170.005  88.615  208-050  1)0'  (4666303  534.0           394.1            528.7       1225         (007.7>                                       42
T0100   MJE310  001TS 81F0RE COTINTIlOEblîIE                                             7  0 46.846     1-943.750       150>         1376.9Ao>        5,359.7           3,319.3           8.679.0       (501      (l,678.l(                 100                  I
toton   Co- j---                                                          61 533          47,300            i04,0o0   ~ 151             (17,2121         300 .0            210 2            510.2       (151           763                     4                  40
60   CoocO,oooo  -                                    ~~~~~~~~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~529.594  3814 03.1   111       -11410              2,5.              T,143            3764          î8>           09.6(                    48                  39
SLoool Toc ,  0>0000  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~__9659658                     965S,454___ 960, O05)            1181         (1o1.3723        2,851.1           1,604.2          4,275.3      (110          (086.11                  47                   39
GRAND3 TOTAL. 00R00E3 cO-                                              1,093,500       1,112,3)0          2.933,800U      (110         (550,352(       0,010.8           4,943.5         10,956.3       (191       (2,462.21                                       99
1 3oc, icioolclsl  10 loaoI    c
2/  To, tooco6-I T,(e, 94; Soo-  4.1 Taîl-a 5, 6; -d loc  5 Tubiejl.
3/  Polo  luotogeociîs05-05, iIIflaco..o  000s  161, Oc 10)3, 140  . 1(78, 127. io 1977-1979 sd 103.oeOcocO  1c2              do0   coo,,li o ..d 121 6  1975, 100. To 1978, 85 To 1977-0979, ccd 75, aheroo-ft                      ai-cleepaa
[l/    ,-IR-t, 1rloo DIb,corTlootyhoI0)00o0.i






ANNEX 10
SENfGAL
RASTRRN SZIEGAL L1VESTOCK PlUlJECT
Prolect Cost Phasi&
c AF '000)
------------------------------ Project Year ----------------
2             3              4              5             TOTAL
I. Proiect Unit
Invest,sent Costs - Buildings and Construction                                   7,850           -             -              -              -             478508
- Vehieles and Equipment                                       ?0,040           -              -             -              -              20,040
Operating Costs  - Salaries and Wages                                           20,320          20,320        20,320         20,320         20,320        101,600
- Project Preparation                                            -              -              -            25,600          -              25,600
- Maintenance sf Buildings and Construction                      -              2,400          2,400         2,400          2,400           9,600
- Running Costs of Vehisles and Replacemset                     9,166           9,166          9,166         9,166          9,166          45,830
- Training                                                        600             600            600           600            600           3,000
- Othier Fxpensos                                               1]0.450         5.050          5.050         5.050          5,050         30,650
Subtetal                                                                  108.426          37.536        37.536         63,136         37.536         284.170
Il. Grazing Schene
A. Pastoral Service
Investtment Ctsts - Buildings and Construction                                  14,480           3,600         3,600          3,600          -             25,280
- Outposts                                                       3,000          3,000          3,000         3,000                         12,000
- Vehicles and Equiptent                                         8,500          4,400          4,400         4,900          -              22,200
Operating Ctsts  - Salaries and Wages                                           1.9,900         28,100        36,400         44,700         47,800        176,900
Maintenance of Buildings and Construction                      -                800          1,100          1,500         1,500           4,900
-Runing Ctsts of Vehicles and Replacement                      5,400          8,350         11,300         14,250        15,870          55,170
Training                                                       -              3,400          3,400          2,400         -               9,200
- GCncral Administration                                          500             600           700            800            800           3,400
Subtotal                                                                   51.780          52.250        63.900         75,150         65,970        309,050
B. Firebreaks
Construction Ctsts - Vehicles                                                  109,200           -             -              -              -            109,200
Equipment                                                    2,500          -              1,500          -             -               4,000
-anning Costs ef Vesicles and Replacement                   15,480         36,690         35,315         32,475        31,890         151,850
S- Baleies and Wages                                          6,600          11,400         11,200         5,400          5,400          40,000
Maintenance Ctsts  - Running Ctsts ef Vohicles anù Replacement                   -               1,390         3,765          6,105          7,290         18,550
- salaries and Wages                                          -               2.100          5.700         9.200         11.040          28,040
Subtotal                                                                  123.780          51.580        57.4B0         53.180         55.620        351.640
C. Waterins Facilities
Construction Costs - Preparatory Work and Supervision of Well Construction      28,400          18,500         9,750          -              -             56,650 2/
- WM1 Construction                                            -             213.200        184.400       176.200         78.000        651,800
Subtotal                                                                   28.400         231.700       194.150        176.200         78.000        708,450
15. Livestock Credit                                                             -               9.905        11,007         12,424         13,127         46,463
III. Animal liUealth Service
lTvestmant Costs - Buildings aud Constructions                                  10,000          25,000        10,000          -             -              45,000
- Vaccination Yards                                              5,500         10,000          5,000         -              -              20,500
- Veshiles and Equipsoent                                       17,900         11,200          2,200         -              -              31,300
Operating Ctsts  - Salaries and Wages                                            2,400           2,400         2,400          2,400          2,400         12,000
- Maintenance of Buildings and Construction                     1,500           2,600          4,400         5,200          5,200          18,900
- Running Costs ef Vehicles, and Replacescent                   6,800           9,800         10,000        10,000         10,000          46,600
- Vaccines and Drags                                            9,400           7,700          7,200         4,400          4,600          33,300
- General Adcainistration                                         200             450            300           200            200           1,350
Subtotal                                                                   53.700          69.150        41.500         22.200         22.400        208,950
IV. Functiotal LiteracY                                                               6.050          8.260          6.360          6,460         9.360          36.490
TOTAL PROJRC  COSTS BBFORE C(0NINGENCIES                                       382.136         460,381       411-933        408.7,5Q        282.OL3   1S945,213
Contingencies
Physical Contingeneas                                                           18,720          32,980        26,820         22,920        13,360         114,800
Price Contingencies  V'                                                         PR n9         170,58-        1853977        221.598       186.585         R52.780
Subtotal Contingencies                                                    106 759         9na Ses       212 77         244.51R       199.945         467.580
CRAPD TOTAL PROJECIT COSTS                                                     LaRRs a        cas  .         624 730        653.268       481j958       917793
V    See Annex 9  , footnote 3.
2/   Sec Annme 9, feotnote 4.






ANNEK Il
SENEGAL
EA8TERN SENIGAL LIVESTOQC PROJECT
Finaneing Plan
(US$ ' 000)
Livsstomk        Xaasen          uEsit
LtvS . o          ___nt             PFnd             BWE6              IDA              TOTAL
1.   Prolect Unit
Investsent Costa - Buildings and Construction                                                     141                                                119              260
- Vehicles and Equipient                                                         35                                                50                85
Operating Costa  - Salaries  and lises                                                              93                                                360              453
- Project Preparation                                                            26                                                 90              116
- Maintenance of Buildings and Construction                                       8                                                 3                43
- Running Costs cf Vehicles snd Replacecent                                      80                                               124              304
- Training                                                                        1                                                12               13
- Other Expenses                                                                 16                                                1                136
Sabtotal                                                                     -               400              -                                 910            1,310
Il. Grazing Scheme
A. Pastoral Service
Investment Costs - Buildings and Constructions                                                      34                                               104              138
-Oulpuets                                                                       10                                                44                54
Vehicles and Equipnent                                                         43                                                56                99
Operating Casts  - Salaries and Wages                                                              218                                                568              786
- Maintenance of Buildings and Construction                                       4                                                 18              22
- Running Costs of Vehicles and Replacement                                      89                                               156               245
- Training                                                                        1                                                40                41
- General Administration                                                                                                            14               15
Subtotal                                                                                     400                                              1,000            1.400
B.  Firebreake
Construction Casts - Vehicles                                                                     179                               211                                390
- Equipment                                                                    4                                14                                 18
- Running Coste of Vehicles and Replacemnt                                   224                               355                               579
- Salaries and Wages                                                          24                               154                                178
Maintenance Costs  - Runaing Coests o  Vehicles -id Replacement                                     30                               52                                 82
- Salaries and Wages                                                          19                               Ina               -_              125
Subtotal                                                                     _              480              -              1.092                              1,572
C.  Watering Facilities
Construction Costs - Preparatary Warks and Supervision af                                           50  _/                                           200  1/           250
Well Coastructian
- Well Construction                                                          435           2.462                -                 -            2,897
Sabtotal                                                                                     485           2.462                                200            3.147
D,  Livestock Credit                                                           40                  10              _                                  190              240
E.  Functional Literacy                                                                             40                                                120              160
III. Animal Health Service
Investment Coste - Buildings and Constructions                                                      58                                               165              223
- Vaccination Yards                                                              13                                                 78               91
- Vehtcles and Equipnent                                                         59                                                80               139
Operating Costs  - Sclaries and Wages                                                                7                                                 46               53
- Maintesance of Buildings and Construction                                       9                                                 75               84
- Running Casts cf Vebicles and Replacement                                      81                                                126              207
- Vaccines sud Drugs                                        30                   14                                                 81              125
- Ceneral Administration                                                          1                                                 5                 6
S8btotal                                                                 30                  242                -                               656              928
TOTAL PROECT COSTS BEFORE CONTINGENCIES                                        70                2,057          2,462             1,092             3,076            8,757
Contingencies                                                                  30                    sc-        1  cao              slc             1,120           4,273
GRAND TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                                      00     .             007         L  i9q            I 802            4,196            13 030
1/  This work would be carried ont by the Project Unit.  The Gcvernment financing would be US$ 450,000 while IDA financing will be US$ 110,000.  Total
financing under Project Unit will be US$ 1,560,000.



ANNEX 12
SENEGAL
EASTERN SENEGAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Annual Diabursement of IDA Cre'dit _
( us$ '000)
PY i     PY2      PY3      py4      PY5      Total
I.  Project Unit                   460       182      157      200     113    1,11z
II. Grazing Scheme
A.  Pastoral Service           164       164      210     290      175    1,003
B.  Livestock Credit            -         44       49       54      43       190
C.  Functional Literacy         29        25       20       20      29       12.
Subtotal                   193      233      279      3        247    1,316
III.  Animal Health                   168      216    130         69       69      652
Subtotal                  821       631    566       633      429    3,080
Unallocated                  _298        230    206        231     155    1,120
TOTAL IDA CREDIT             1.119       861      772      86      5       4.200



ANNEX 13
SENEGAL
EASTERN SENEGAL LIVESTOCK PR0JECT
Estimated Quarterly Disbursement of IDA-Credit
(US$ '000)
Disbursement       Cumulative Disbursement
Project Year        Quarter       per Quarter        at End of Quarter
1                 1             100                    100
2            300                     400
3            300                     700
4            420                   1,120
2                 1             150                  1,270
2             150                  1,420
3             200                  1,620
4             360                  1,980
3                 1             150                  2,130
2             150                  2,280
3             200                  2,480
4             270                  2,750
4                 1             200                  2,950
2             200                  3,150
3             200                  3,350
4             270                  3,620
5                 1             150                  3,770
2             150                  3,920
3             150                  4,070
4             130                  4,200



EASTERN SE 7GAL -.IVESTOCK PROJECT
Covaraen  'a Incremental Cash FIl.  fran 1he Proiect  '/
(CFAF  nil lio    F        T)
- - __ -   __ - _ __ -  ____ __ --  __ -  __ __ __ -___    -------      - -- __ - _--- - - - - - -- - -- - - - -- - -, - -- - - -- - - - - - - - - -- - - -   Pr--c Ya     - - - - - - - -- - -- --- - - - - - - -- - - - --- - --- - - - - -- - - - - - -- - - - - - - -- - - - - - ~- -- - -  -- - - -~- - - - --  -  -- --
1               2               3                4               5                6               7               8                9                10              1l               12              13              14-20
IDA-Credit  2/                                      252.0              193.7           173.7            194.4            131.4                                             -                                                                 _                _ -
8AD7SA  -c  d~ 2/117.7                                                  51.9            60.7             61.4              68.2
-ed2i                                      -                261.8           253. 9          271.1             135.9
K-arit-Fofld   Iran  2/                                                                                                   _ _ _ _
Total Credits snd Loan                        369.7              507.4            488.3           526.9             335.5           ,                -                -               -
Revenues fron Taxation
- of Froject Opara_ton.   3/                         66.2               84.4            81.8             81.9             62.5             23.2           23.2             23.2               23.2            25.5           25.5             25.5             25              25.5
- of C.ttln  4/                                       6.6                5.4              8.6             4.8              18                 n               3             56.8              57.3            62.3           62,              62.3             62              62. 5
ToI-l  novon ,, fr'. T7vti                      '2.8              8.               9.              ùb./              73.             4  2l           71  n           _0.1               80.6             87_8          87,        _      87.8            87.8            J7.8
TOTAL 1NFLOW                                  442.5              597.2           578.7            613.6            409.0             41 7           71 6              80.1              80.6             87.8          87.8              87.8            87.8             87.8
Cranta to SODEFITEX                                 369.7              507.4           488.3            526.9            335.5                 _                                                                             -                -               - _
GOvnrnaent Conttribtian ta Project Cantn            112.1              153.7            147.9           159.6             101.6             95.1           95.1             95.1              95.1             91.3          91.1              91.1            91.3             91.3
net of Prire Cantingencies    5/
Sobtatal                                      481.8              661.1           636.2            686.5             437.1              95 1         95.1             .95.1              °5 1             9X            9                 95  s            a     _
DEBT SE0VICE
IDA-Credit                                            0.9                2.5              3.8             5.1               6.3              7.1            7.1              7.1               7.1               7.1         16.5               16.4           16.3              16.3 - 15.9
eUEA  -Credit 6/                                       1.2               2.9              4.0.2 2                           6.5            22.0            22.0             22.0              22.0              22.0         22.0               22.0           22.o              22.0 - 22.0
ICanait-Forol  0.oarn 3>                               -                  5.9            5.1.6           19.5              25.6         .  27.7            56.4              56.4              56.4             56.4         56.4               56.4           56.4              56.4  - 56,4
S.btatal                                         2.1               9.3             19.4            29.8              38.4            56.8            85.5              85.5              85.5             85.5         94.9               94.8           94.7              94.7 - 94.3
TOTAL OLTFLOW                                 483.9              670.4            655.6           716.3             475.5            56.9            85.5             85J5              85.5              85.5          94.9               94,8           9,.              94.7 - 94.3
AnnuaI Defi.il                                          (41.4)             (73.2)          (76.9)          (102.7)            (66.5)          (15.6)         (13.9)            ( 5.4)            ( 4.9)            ( 2.2)       ( 7.1)               7.0)         ( 6.9)            ( 6.9)-( 6.5)
Cuula tive                                               (41.4)           (114,6)          (191.5)         (294.2)           (360.7)          (376.3)        (390.2)           7395.6)          (400.5)           7398.3)       7405.4)           (412.4'         1459.39           r426.251-432.73
1/    Atmidterms 1975
2/    Includes phyiai  nantingenciee.
3t    .&innaas 4 and 5.
4/     Innirda taxes par head (collented  an an eatimat.d 60X of the intremental herd), marketiag ard  1la6ghter t-xes in TAsb.oonda and Dakar.
5/     Onniad.a phyoira1  .antlngnnlas., t-ans End dutiea.
At a term  of 25 yaans iacluding 5 yaars oCf g-ne and 22 intere-t par annum.
7/    At a term af 25 ynona including 5 yeans or grant, and 3% inter-at ianclding  1 of IX adstnin%  ative   fees per an.n.



SEI1EGALU
EA5TERY SENEGAL LIVESlOCK PROJEC1
latd  la  sîc  c   c   tir.rcacMa   sa4            oc asf l-1IO   li 0r.ie0ct
( ' ll9Uii là c Pds         h
--- --- ---            -------------------------~~~~~-~~-- ----------------  End    of  Y -a  -------------------------------------_____--______________
Ocvclcvviesî       i               2               3               4               5               b                7               8               9            10-20
Hferd Gaoo It)icaol
e11s (ovec 4 years)                                2.             10.3             9.3              8.2             7 .2            7 .2            7.2             8.0             8.0             8.0              8.0
Braedis8 CGaF                                     123.9           126,0           129.3           132.4           136.6           142.5            150.2           150.2           150.2           150.2            150.2
Cslves                                             45.0            48.0             53.0           57.0            59.0             60.0            62.4            65.8            65.8            65.8             65.8
Heif-es I - 2 year                                  22.5            22.5            24.0            26.5            29.0            30.0            30.0            31.2            32.9             32.9            32.9
eifers 2 - 3 years                                20,4            20.5            20.7            22.3            24.6            27.0             27.9            27.9            29.0            30.6             30.6
Stees  I - 2 years                                 22.5            22.5            24.0            26.5            28.0             29.0            30.0            31.2            32.9            32.9             32.9
S eer   2 - 3 yegrs                                20.4            20.5            20.7            22.3            24,6             26.0            26.9            27.9            29.0             30.6            30.6
SLeets  3 - 4 years                                17.1            16.0            16.0            16.0            180              19.0            20.0            20.0            20.0             20.0            20.0
ô teers  4 - 5 yeara 8Y4                                             7.5             7.5            8.0              .0             10.0            11.0            12.0             12.0            12.0            12.0
Sseers  over 5 yearc                                8.7             8.0               . 8.0           .9.0                                                           9.0             9.0             11.0            01.0
Total Anisais                                299.4           302,0           312.5           326.2           343.0           358.7           374.6           383.2            389.8           394.0           394.0
lAIaî Animal OndeS  1/                       254.4           254.0           259.5           269.2           284.0           298.3           312.2            317.4           323.0           328.2           328.2
dilehs                                                 69.i            70.6            75.6            78.0            80.0            82.0             85.5            90.1            90.1            90.1            90.1
11S                                               0.4             0.3             0.2             0.2             0.2             0.2              0.2             0.2             0.2             0.2              0.2
Ca                                                 24 9              3s7             2.5      '      2.6             22. 2.7                         2 .9            3 .0            33.0             3,8               0
Calves                                             24.1            22.6              2             21.0            21,0             22.0            23.1            24.3             24.3            24.3            24.3
heifs  I - 2 years                                   2.1             2.0             1.3             1.7             1.9             2.0              2.1             2.1             2.2             2.3              2.3
iviterer  2 - 3 years                                1,0             1.0             0.8             0.8             0.9             1.0              1,0             1.1             1.1             1.2              1.2
Steers  I - 2 years                                 2.1             2.0              1.8             1.7             1.9             2.0             2,1             2.1              2.2             2.3             2.3
Stears  2 - 3 ycars                                  1,0             1.0             0.8             0.8            0.9              1.0             1.0              1.i             1.1             1.2             1.2
Staes_   3 - 4 ye,s                                 0.7              0.5             0.3             0.3             0.3             0.4             0.4                              0.4             0 4             0 4
Stears  4 - 5 years                                 0.4             0.3              0.2             0.2             0.2             0.2             0.2             0.2              0.2             0.2             0.2
Sta_te aver 5 yaars                                 0.3              0.3             0.2             8.2             0.2             0.2             0.2             0.2              0.2             0.2             0.2
Total  karîaiity                              37.0            33.7            31.2            29.5            3?.1            31.7             33,?            34.7            34,9            35,3             35.3
Salve
CGa1 Salis                                          0.9              1,0             1.0             0.9             0.8             0.7             0.7              0.7             0.0             0.8             0.8
Culi CGas                                          14.5             13.6            13.9            14.2            14.6            15.0            15.4             23.8            23.8            24.8            26.4
St-ees 3 - 4 years                                   2.1             3.4             3.7             3.9             3.4             4.6             5.0              5.8             6.8              7.8             9,4
St-ese  b - 5 yesrs                                 8.1              9.1             8.2             7.7             6.7             6.7             6.7              5.9             6.6             6.6              6.6
Stetrs avetr 5 year                                  6.5             7.2             7.1             8.1             7.6             7.6             8.6             10.6            11,6             9.6              9.6
Total  Sales                                  32,1            34.3            33.9            34.8            33.1             34.6            36.4            46.8            49.6             49.6            52.8
TcnclCoefficients
Gîl -sg rate G.                                    56              57               60              60              60              60              60               60              60              60               60
Matality  rast- CGsics (7.)                         35              32              30              27              27              27               27              27              27               27              27
- Catlet   I - 2 years (7.)       10               9               8                7                7              7               7                7               7               7                7
- Csttls 2 - 3 yease  (1)          5               5               4               4                4               4               4                4               4               4                4
- Ad1lts (4)                       4               3                2               2               2               2               2                2               2               2                2
T.aai  offtake (Y.)                                10.7            1i.3             10.8            10.6             9.6             9.6              9.7            12.2            12.7             12.6            13.4
CGas il  toala  h-rd (%)                           41.3             41.7            41.4            40.5            39.8            39.7             40              39.2            38.6             38.3            38.1
atocki.S ratc Aill
Value of Sales (Million CFAF) 2/
Cull B3uls                                         39.1             39.0            39.0            35.1            31.2            27.3             27.3            27.3            31.2             31.2            31.2
Cuel Coas                                         333.5            312.8           319.7           326.6           335.8           345.0            354.2           547.4           547.4            570,4           607.2
Otetrs 3 - 4 years                                 73.5           119.0            129.5           136.5           119.0           161.0            175.0           203.0           238.0           273.0            329.0
itgers  4 - S ye-s                                340.2           382.2            344.4           323.4           281.4           281.4            281.4           247.8           277.2            277.2           277.2
Stses avat 5 years                                292.5           324_0            319.5           364.5           342.0           342,0            387.0           477.0           522.0           432.0            432.0
Toala  C.Gtls Salas                        1,074.8         1,177,0         1,152.1         1,186.1         1,109.4          1,1.6.7         1,224.9         1,5C2.3          1,6153.         1,5S3.8         1,676.6
Ttals  ilk Slaie    3/                      259.1           264.7           283.5           292.5           300.0            303.5           52(,.6          337.9            337.8           337.8           337.8
TOTAL SALES                                1.333.9         1.441.7         1.435.6         l.478.6         1.409.4          1.464.2         1,545.5         1.840.4          1.953.6         1.921,6         2.014.4
1/    1 A.U = all cattle olde  th-   yne ye.
2/    Buls 300 kg v 130 0FAF/kg liveweight    39,00a CFAP, Cos-  230 kS   100 CFAF/kg blcewill( = 23,20Q  CFAF, Steest   3 - 4 yast-  270 kg v 130 CFAF/kg liveasigOl = 35,000 CFAF;  sers 4 - 5
yeara 300 kg a 140 CFAF/kg lOvaviglgb  = 42,000 GEAI; and lssas cccl 5 ysars 320 kg c   1 0(1 'FAFj   lrigbt = 45,000 CFAF.
3/    Caows in milk following calvig rate; 150 litr milk pst cas pet year fat hbaa  casaavptlla  va1lad at C-AF 25 pet ilote.



SENEGAL
EASTERN SENEGAL LIVESTOC% PROJECT
Perd Proleolsor ut tue ProjeOt Aroa_s carne PoruP arioe -w                  tho t tho ed
('000 Heade)
Before             -----------------------------_- _______-------- EBd if YT- ----------------------T----------------------------
Beveloppeot           1               2               3               4               5               6               7               8             9-20
He rd Comp=oKeltlioo
Bulle  (ruer 4 yroo                                  10.5            10.5            0.5                              7.9             8.0             8.0             8.0             8.0              8.0
Cors                                               123.9            123.9          123.2            120.9          116.4            115.0           115.0           115.0           115.0           115.0
Calves                                              45.0            45.0            44.4            42.6            41.2             39.7            39.2            38.2             39.2           39.2
Heifers O - 2 yearr                                  22.5            22.5            22.5            22.2           21.3             20.6            19.9            19.6             19.6            19.6
Heifers 2 - 3 years                                  20.4            20.4            19.8            19.6            19.1            18.3            17.7            17.1             16.9            16.9
Steers  I - 2 yerri                                 22.5             22.5            22.5           22.2            21.3             20.6            19.8            19.6             19.6            19.6
Steero  2 - 3 years                                 20.4            20.4             19.8            19.6           1911 18.3                        17.7            17.0             16.9            16.9
steers  3 - 4 yearr                                  17.1            17.1            15.0            14.0            13.0            12.0            12.0            12.0             12.0            12.0
Steers  4 - 5 yeîrr                                   8.4             8.1             7.0             6.0             5.0             4.P             4.0             4.0             4.0              4.0
Steers over S yearo                                   8.7             8.7             6.0             5.0             4.0             3.0             2.8             20               2.0             2.0
TutBI Anieals                                 299.4           299.4           288.0           280.1           268.3           259.5            255.3           253.5           253.2           253.2
Total Animal Cuits  1/                        254.4           254.4           244.3           237.5           227.1           219.8            216.1          215.3            214.0           214.0
Births                                                  69.1            69.1            69.4            67.7            66.5            64.0             63.2            63.2            63.2            63.2
Mortalite
Bulls                                                 0.4             0.4             0.4             0.3             0.4             0.4             0.4             0.4              0.4             0.4
Co-s                                                  4.9             4.9             5.0             4.9             6.0             5.8             5.7              5.7             5.7             5.7
Calves                                              24.1             24.1            25.0            25.1            25.3            24.3            24 0            24.0             24.0            24.0
Peifers 1 - 2 yeorB                                   2.1             2.1             2.7             2.9             3.1             3.0             2.9              2.8             2.7             2.7
Belfero 2 - 3 peara                                   1. n            1 0              .2             1.2             1.2             1.1             i.U              1,0             1.0             1.8
0t..r.  I - 2 years                                   2.1             2.1             2.7             2.9             3.1             3.0             2.9              2.8             2.7             2.7
8teers  2 - 3 yeare                                   1.0             1.0             1.2             1.2             1.2             1.1             1.0              1.0             1.0             1.0
Steers  3 - 4 ye,rs                                   0.7             0.7             0.7             0.6             0.7             0.7             0.6             0.6              8.6             0.6
Steers  4 - 5 years                                  0.4              0.4             0.3             0.3             0.3             0.2             0.2              0.2             0.2             0.2
Steers  over 5 yesre                                  0.3             0.3             0.3             0.2             0.2             0.2             0.1              0.1             0.1             0.1
Total Moretliy                                37.0            37.0            39.5            39.6            41.5            39.8             38.8            38.6            38.4            38.4
5ales
Coll Bulls                                            0.9             0.9             1.6             1,3             1.0             1.1              1.2             1.2             1.2             1.2
Cull Cors                                            14,5            14.5            14.9            16.0            16.9            13.6            11,6             11.0            10.4            10,2
8trera 5 - 4 ysars                                    2.1             2.1             4.2             4.6             5.4             6.0              5.3             4.7             4.0             3.9
Steers 4 -   y -eara                                  8,1             8.1             9.4             7.3             7.0             6.7              5.8             5.8             5.8             5.8
steers over   5 pers                                  6.5             6.5            10.5             7.5             6.5             5.6             4.7              3.7             3.7             3,7
Totr1 S1oes                                    32.1            32.1            40.6            36.7            36.8             33.0            28.6            26.4            25.1             24.8
Technical Coaffitrerr-
Colrfag peso (a)                                     56              56              56              55              55              55               55              55              55              55
Mott.iity ratr - CoSsues V47                         35              35              36              37              38               38              38              38              38               38
Cattle 0-2  yrars (7,)           10              10               12             13               14              14              14               14              14              14
Catlte 2 - 3 years (7)            5               5                6               6               6               6               6                6               6               6
Adults  M%)                       4               4                4               4               5               5               5                5               5               5
Tote1 offtake (Y)                                    10.7            10.7            14.0            13.1            13.7            12.7             11.2            10.4             9.9              9.8
Cors io total herd (%)                               41.3            41.3            42.6            43,1            43,3            44.3             41.0            45.3            45.4            45.4
Valie of Sales (Million CFAF) 2/
Coll Bulls                                           35.1            35.1            62.4            50.7            39.0            42.9             46.8            46.8            46.8            46.8
COll Crws                                          333,5            333.5           342.7           368.0           388.7           312.8           266.8            253.0           239.2           234,6
steers 3 _ 4 yeare                                   73.0            73,5           147.0           161.0           189.0           210.0            185.5           164.5           140.0           136.5
Steers  4 -   y -Tars                               340.2           340.2           394.8           306.6           294.0           281.4            243.6           243.6           243.6            243.6
Steers ruer 5 years                                 292.9            92.5           472.5           337.5           292.5           252.0            211.5           166.5           166.5            166.5
Toril Coolie Sre-                           1,074.8         1,074.8         1,419.4         1,223.8         1,203.2         1,099.1            954.2            874.4           836.1           828.0
Total Milk Sales  3/                          259.1           259.1           260.2           253.5           249,3            240.0           237.0           237.0            237.0           237.0
TOTAL SALES                                 1.333.8         1.333.9         1.679.6         1.477.7         1.452.5         1.339.1          1.191.2         1.111.4          1.073.0         1.065.0
1/    O A.U. = ail rattle older rho ire ysear.
2/    Bulls 300 kg liveweight    CFAF 130/kg - 39,000 CFAF: Cors 230 kg i>uersigiil  ar CFAF 100/kg - 23,000 CFAF; 8teera 3 - 4 years: 270 kg liveweighl at CFAF 130/kg   3 5,000;
rStera 4 - S yeorr  300 kg lierriïght ot CFAF 140 - 42,000;  S               _teers rer   y -err  320 kg iivBrripkO et CFAY 140 5 45,000 CFAF.
3/    Cous ir  eilk 1   ollorop caluing ruts; 150 litii r       ilk per roi por ye-ir for hOisea  creau- pei-n -ied at CFAF 25 por liter.



ANNEX 16
Page 1 of 2
SENEGAL
EASTERN SENEGAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return Calculation
Project Life
1.        The economic rate of return calculation is based on a project
life of 20 years.
Costs
2.        The investment and operating costs have been calculated with
prices based on iaid-1975 market conditions in Senegal. Total costs include
10% physical contingencies on investment costs of firebreake, animal
health services and wells, but exclude price contingencies, taxes and
duties. Foreign exchaage costs have been couverted at the prevailing
exchange rate of CFAF 225 = US$1. Further, the following cost adjustments
have been made:
-    KAll consultant costs related to the preparation of a
second-phase project have been excluded from the
project costs.
-    One additional herdsman for 60 cattle at a subsistence
salary of CFAF 12,000 per year has been assumed.
Benefits
3.        Benefits have been derived from incrementai cattle and milk
production.
4.        As the 100 vells to be constructed under the project are expected
to have an economîc life of 50 years, provided they would be adequately
maintained, a residual value of 25Z of the construction costs has been
added to benefits in PY20.
Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
5.        On the basis of the above assumptions, the project's economic
rate of return ls 23%. Increasing and reducing project costa and benefits
would have the following effects on the rate of return:



ANNEX 16
Page 2 of 2
Economic Rate of Return (%)
Costs plus 25Z                                  20
Costs plus 50%                                   17
Benefits minus 25%                               19
Benefits minus 50%                               13
Costs plus 25% and benefits minus 25%            16
Costs plus 50% and benefits minus 25%            13



SENEGAL
EASTERai SENEGAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Econoaje Rate of Return
(CFAF '000)
--j                                                                                          e------O----------------------------------------------------- --------------  ------------------
1          2           3            4         5          6          7           E           9          10         il         12           13         14            15         16        17           18         19             20
Co ts
1.    toleot Unit
Oave-taret Clst$              49,570       -            -           -          -          -          -            -          -           -          -          -            -
Opee-taig Coate               33,523      30,820     30,820        51,300   30,820      15,636    15,636        15,636     15,636      15,636     15,636    15,636       15,636      15,636        15,636    15,636    15,636       15,636      15,636        15,636
Il. Grazing Icheme
A. Pastoral Service
Inve-tEent Co-ts              19,035       8,285      S,285         8,585      -          -          -            -          -           -           -         -            -                                     _                                - 
Operatins Costa               20,900      34,690     44,890        54,200   56,010       33,259   33,259        33,259     33,259      18,730      18,730    18,730      18,730      18,730        18,730    18,730    18,730       18,730      18,730        18,730
B. Firebreeke
Cenatrution Costa             92,630      40,627     40,765        33,892   48,350                               -           -           -                -           -           -            -           -                -         -           -              -
Maintenance Golts                -         2,443       6,625        10,713   12,830      11,537    11,537       11,537      11.537     11,537      11,537    11,537      11,537      11,537        11,537    11,537    11,537       11,537      11,537        11,537
C. 0(serleap FacOlitCLe
Preparato-y Work and           17,328     12,701       6,705          -        -           -         -            -           -          -           -         -            -           -            -           -         -            -
SepereiCta oOf leil
Conlt-uttion
levesttant Colts                 -       199,325    172,380       164,730   81,510        '          -            -           -          -           -          -           -           -            -           -        --
OlsO.tenanee Coata               -          -           -             -        _           -         -            _           -          -           -          -            _          _            _           _         _           _             
D. Liveatoek Credit                 -         9,905     11,007        12,424   13,127         2,022     -            -                    11,760      11,760    11,760       11,760     11,760       11,760      11,760    11,760       11,760      11,760       11,760
E. Fuutional Litatv                5,540      7,440       5,860         5,920    8,300                         -                             -          -          -           -            -           -           -         -            -          -              -
III. AaL.sl Health Service
Isaveatmeet COSts             27,600      40,140      15,710                         -           -          -                            -           -          -            -          -            -           -         -            -          -              -
Operftitg Coate                17,160     18,755      20,020        18,070   18,250      13,250    18,250       18,250      18,250     18,250      18,250    18,250       18,250     18.250       18,250      18,250    18,250       18,250      10,250        18,250
IV. Perdaren                              519      4.759       9,220        14.940   19.840      23,860    25.940       27.120      28.160      28.160     28,160    28,    _       ,160      28,160 28,160           28,160    28,160       28, 160     28.160        28,160
TOTAL C0STS             283.805    409,884    370 277        374.744  289,057    104.564   104.622        105.802    106,842    104,073    104,07073 107.07 3 103                            104073   10 1043   104,073        104,073    104,073       104.073
Bn-fit.
I.   Increental CCttl  and Milk                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1
FrodoctOna        _          107,800   (244,000)         900       (43,100) 125,100    354,300   729,000       880,600    856,600    949,400    949,400   949,400    949,400    949,400           949,400   949,400   949,400    949,400    949,400    3,953,900
15. Ree0deal V'alue of Oeteroag
FacIliliiea-                            _               -             _        -           -         -            -           -          -           -          -            -      I                 -           -        -           -           _          145.120
TOTAL BENE171           107,800   (244,000)         900     S 43,100) 125,100    354,300   729,000        880,600    856,600    949,400    949,400   949,400    949,400    949,400           949,400   949,400   949,400    949,400    949,400    4,099,020
Ecerai. RBata of  aturt, 23 35%
1)   Includea Iaceemeatel Herd H  alued






SENEGAL
ESTERU SENEGAI 4IVESTOCIC FPRET
PROPOSED PRBEC  0      IOI AND TMUN T
Mi2isTR  OF EDUrCATION                                                               ISTiTY OF  L  DEVEWL4EN-
ANDI HDWLICS
STATE SE RSTAIALTE                                                                                                         N |  SODSFflXX    |ATInNAL LIVEST  DE T[M|NATsnOAL HrDUiC DËP     |
1 IEST ;C EXESO                                      POC IIIPUI                                 ---- EPL ANtL HÈAi5R S=ERVICE 
I r(GRBZI1 sCm=ïwmE)I






FASTERI SENEGAS. LIVESIACK PEGJECP
giA2ING SOChIE }
INITIAL IMPIEMRETATION SCMELE
grititol Stars
------___------------------------------------------- Mpnths ------------------------------------------------------ - - - - --
Main acf foitts iraespo=sible dAsthority                                            1            2            ;            4            S           6             7           8            9            10             11           t
I,  Propare ood Issue D-tr-n              Minist-y  if RaI DSev-
en--atiog Gra.ing ochran              lopoet aùd Ilydrtalia.
orna go SODEFIT-X andobtain           (MDS)
efFettiveness of tV-ait and fadea
fonds.
2,  Rono-t o, d oppoont PU'n                MRL3
.iroctor, eputIy Director
3.  niro-it and appoint Goazing            hMTg
Sohb    '  M _anagat   2 TO
15 assistants ond Aocounoa t
4.  Rgt-oit oad appoint hydro-              MigDf
gaoloni"t, 2 Sydnaolit
AsLtns       C-[uity
dennlolnnnt Offier-
5,Etalsi  llSOff- ics                  Pli
aad noosini                            Dirtntn,   It 1     iptynpot
6    Inite bida  f-o  vehicIso  pnd          PLI
dqoipatoot, onaluato Il bido           Pitent-r   d hia dpaty
diocoas tenon, obtain IEA                         a      S     u
appronal and order the PU
and Vot.  _roiera
7.  Praporo Lord Uro  Plan                  SODEFTTgt
aod  ottabliot 15 grootng              intotin-o  S-ariae
Ulina                                  Rnoga Monog-r
i.  Id-oiify 100 titra for weol             Reiional hydr=oi
-oattnantioo within Graoiog            S-rnion
saheoe area, proparo bido ond           gydrogoologiat A 2
i-nito  to bid.                        hydronlic Asaistant 
9.  Prepar  TOn fto  Projotta                Connaitaons aod PV
=ooitoning ond Eloolttios              lVJ drputy  Oirertor
fi. Preparetrantingcourse for               SoDEFl`IEX  -tennsion
Gfooing Scheme iOn atd A-ois-          -orvi- PV  DIioetor
atan   and  -recycl  SODIEA  X        + bAn depty, Rag
finId  ntnnion Dffi-ero                    ugDt, Ee
Agpoonniant
I . - teritn  contontof progrtg-             S-tnt  Dep,t.
design  -mplotc.   for fon-            f-rP     ation
tionl litn--ôy                         hAnn  Kanoarnon
12. trolooto IC bida lirone1               PV
nonott-,tioo, dio--na toron            Hydrogeologit
obtain OF ood  IDA Appro-ol
and aig -ootracts
2/
13. Inita to bid fon Bnilding              pU'a  Dirr       ad
conat    ton.  nnblt.nte IC             epcptrgot sn
bids, diacuss toron obtain             nenerinsspsrrnicen
IDAoappnoooiand ign onntronl
for I Offine, I housa, 4 on-
tension ponts, 4 Vtt-rioary
Posts, 40 vac-nattiooyaodo
If  Cponos th. soin ilttial ortinitie   ro   nagotitio               ti  th t-ia  ens _i nL                      t l
2/   WitA IDA'. peltisinzry aErenaent building  noostorution ro..            As ne-otistrd vith  'noosorios dst 'reprias' if -thn 1Ftet
maintalas sth.  aun qotatotI-s os i  its Npvember 1975 bide.






IARD 11823
oVzlino:rz  \  14  yToMotem  13-   1°°  momrt tMVAURITANIA   12-                SENEGAL                  SEPTEMBER 1915
EASTERN SENEGAL REGION
B -   -/IGEASTERN SENEGAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
SAOU 1           i 0Â U R- 'B E; L F L E1 Ub VR ES Rf E                                                                                                                                                                                 odhll0n
REINREGION;  0                                                                {!;-           f                         X(E)02   -._                                                                                                  Rcyue
N e1i f' ,.   f ..
New  acrrTo  y.r,d
LOU                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   A M  B..- 40~ ad 60. d.p
... th., 40 n  0, d   eep
R >Et                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GIA^  A    « $_J<\    ONadj R..k
f.  '0                            Lose fhan 40rest - eep
t,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-.
z,t,.~~~~*                                                                                                                                                                                                                          N.,o. Pd, bTuhdad,ï@2¢   ISU\-Crunon_J2t*kaéit<onimi    .P   g _>
.; . 0 0 00>   bl'iSAUe GUINEA-   <  WoHtfrA ml~~~~~~~~afftsrs   j                                         ]?                                                \,_                         12- faff
f  '0       ,                 FOreOt resorbes    40      5
lê                                                                                                          100~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i10000  oo,bodr
EGAL ~        B$SL4GIEI                              4



