CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 633 SE
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
(Eastern Senegal Livestock Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 17, 1976


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 17, 1976, between REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association, the
Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa (hereinafter called
BADEA), and the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development (here-
inafter called the Kuwait Fund) to assist in the financing of
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
(B) By an agreement dated April 19, 1976 between BADEA and
the Borrower (hereinafter called the BADEA Loan Agreement), BADEA
has agreed to assist the Borrower in financing Part A (3) of the
Project by making to the Borroer a loan (hereinafter called the
BADEA Loan) in an amount equivalent to one million six hundred
thousand dollars ($1,600,000); and
(C) By an agreement to be entered into between the Kuwait
Fund and the Borrower (hereinafter called the Kuwait Fund Loan
Agreement), the Kuwait Fund intends to assist the Borrower in
financing Part A (2) of the Project by making to the Borrower a
loan (hereinafter called the Kuwait Fund Loan) in an amount of
one million two hundred thousand Kuwaiti Dinars (KDI,200,000);
and


﻿-2-
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-3-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following ad-
ditional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "SODEFITEX" means the Societ pour le Dfveloppement
des Fibres Textiles, a corporation (Socigt6 anonyme d'Economie
Mixte) organized and operating under the laws of the Borrower;
(b) "Project Area" means an area of about 59,600 km2 in
the east of the territory of the Borrower;
(c) "Project Unit" or "PU" means the unit to be established
by and within SODEFITEX pursuant to Section 3.03 (a) of this Agree-
ment;


﻿-4-
(d) "Pastoral Service" means the service to be established
within the Project Unit pursuant to Section 3.03(b)(iii) of this
Agreement for the purpose of day-to-day implementation of Part A
of the Project;
(e) "RAHS" means the Regional Animal Health Service in
Eastern Senegal, a service of the Department of Animal Health
and Production of the Borrower's Ministry of Rural Development
and Hydraulics;
(f) "URHD" and "RED" mean the Urban and Rural Hydraulics
Department and the Rural Equipment Department, respectively, of
the Borrower's Ministry of Rural Development and Hydraulics; and
(g) "SSHR" means the State Secretariat for Human Resources
of the Borrower's Ministry of Education.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set
forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
four million two hundred thousand dollars ($4,200,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services re-
quired for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the goods, works or services (other than consultants' services) for
the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall
be procured in accordance with the provisions set forth or referred
to in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1982 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a ser-
vice charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)


﻿-6-
per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and out-
standing from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each April 15
and October 15 commencing October 15, 1986 and ending April 15,
2026, each installment to and including the installment payable
on April 15, 1996 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Condi-
tions.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Project to be
carried out by SODEFITEX with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, livestock,
agricultural and engineering practices.
(b) The Borrower shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities and other resources required for the purpose; the funds
required by SODEFITEX for the Project, including the proceeds of the
Credit, shall be provided in the form of a grant under an agreement
satisfactory to the Association, under which SODEFITEX is charged
with the responsibility for carrying out the Project.
(c) Without limitation or restriction upon the above provi-
sions.of this Section, the Borrower shall assist SODEFITEX in car-
rying out Parts A (2) and (3) and E, and A (5), and Part B of the
Project by making available to SODEFITEX, as and when required,
the services of URHD and RED, of SSHR, and of RAHS, respectively.
More specifically, the Borrower shall ensure that:
(i) qualified URHD staff shall be provided to assist
in defining the sites of the wells to be construct-
ed and in carrying out an inventory of watering
facilities in the Project Area;
(ii) qualified RED staff shall be provided to assist
in the construction of firebreaks and for the


﻿-8-
preparation of plans, specifications and bidding
documents with respect to Part E of the Project
and for the supervision of said Part of the Proj-
ect; and
(iii) a qualified SSHR pedagogue with experienced assis-
tants shall be provided, as and when required, to
assist in the carrying out of Part A (5) of the
Project.
For the purpose, the Borrower shall second to SODEFITEX suit-
ably qualified senior and middle-level staff in adequate numbers
to meet SODEFITEX's needs for Project staff; SODEFITEX will be en-
titled to reject or return to their respective administrations
those of such staff which in SODEFITEX's judgment would be unsuit-
able for the Project.
(d) (i) The Borrower shall cause SODEFITEX to carry out
Part A of the Project in four successive Phases,
Phase I to include the development of about fif-
teen individual grazing areas, Phase II about
fifteen additional such areas, Phase III about
fifteen additional such areas and Phase IV the
twenty additional such areas.
(ii) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall cause SODEFITEX not to carry
out or permit to be carried out (1) Phase I of
the construction works included in Parts A (2)
and (3) of the Project unless (A) individual


﻿-9-
grazing areas have been topographically surveyed
and have been demarcated, (B) the locations of,
and the specifications for, said construction
works have been determined in agreement with the
Association, (C) the respective pastoral groups
referred to in Part A(1) of the Project have been
organized and have indicated their agreement on
the terms and conditions on which they shall re-
ceive user rights on said grazing areas and (D)
a land use plan for each grazing area has been
prepared; and (2) Phase II, III and IV of said
construction works unless the results of the de-
velopment and operation of the grazing scheme
referred to in Part A of the Project, during the
preceding Phase, shall have been found satisfac-
tory by the Borrower, the Association and SODEFITEX.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall take all necessary mea-
sures, including the publication of a decree upon terms substan-
tially similar to those set forth in the draft thereof furnished
by the Borrower to the Association, for the purposes of granting
to SODEFITEX the sole authority to organize the grazing scheme
referred to in Part A of the Project, including inter alia the
authority to grant and withdraw exclusive user rights to pastoral
groups on the grazing and watering facilities of individual graz-
ing areas.
(b) For the purpose of granting to pastoral groups the user
rights referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower
shall cause SODEFITEX to enter into contracts with individual
pastoral groups on terms and conditions substantially similar to


﻿- 10 -
those set forth in the form of contract furnished by the Borrower
to the Association.
(c) The Borrower shall cause the appropriate authorities
within the Project area to exercise, in consultation with or on
the advice of SODEFITEX, such grazing control activities as
shall be required in carrying out Part A of the Project.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall ensure that:
(a) For the purpose of the carrying out of the Project,
SODEFITEX shall establish and thereafter maintain within SODEFITEX,
a project unit, to be located at Tambacounda, having such structure,
powers and specific responsibilities as are set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended by agreement be-
tween the Borrower and the Association, and shall provide said unit
with suitably qualified staff, as shall be required to enable it to
efficiently carry out its functions.
(b) As part of PU's staff, SODEFITEX shall appoint and main-
tain (i) a Project Director, (ii) a Deputy Project Director, (iii)
a Range Management Specialist to head a pastoral service to be es-
tablished within PU for the purpose of day to day implementation
of Part A of the Project, (iv) a Community Development Officer who
shall be responsible to the above mentioned head of the Pastoral
Service and who shall, inter alia, have specific responsibility
for Part A(5) of the Project, (v) a Hydrogeologist who shall,
inter alia, have specific responsibility for Part A (2) of the
Project and (vi) an Accountant, whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Association.


﻿- 11 -
(c) In order to assist SODEFITEX in carrying out, under Part
D of the Project, an evaluation of the effects of the Project,
SODEFITEX shall employ, not later than nine months after the date
of this Agreement or such other date as the Association may agree,
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association, and
whose timetable for carrying out said evaluation shall be submitted
to the Association for approval prior to such employment.
(d) In order to assist SODEFITEX in the identification and
preparation, under Part D of the Project, of follow-up livestock
projects, SODEFITEX shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Association.
Section 3.04. Without any limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 3.09 (b) of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall cause SODEFITEX to furnish to the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, not later than a date fifteen months after the Effective
Date, and thereafter by the same date in each year, or such other
date as the Association may agree, during the execution of the
Project, the report on the effects of the Project prepared by the
consultants referred to in paragraph (c) of Section 3.03 of this
Agreement.
Section 3.05. Except as the Association may otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall ensure that:
(a) SODEFITEX shall, not later than one year after the date
of this Agreement, submit to the Association for approval a de-


﻿- 12 -
tailed plan for the implementation of the Credit program referred
to under Part A (4) of the Project, including forms of contract
setting forth the terms and conditions of the credits.
(b) Such Credit program shall assist:
(i) two to three hundred pastoralist families in the
acquisition of breeding animals by:
(A) providing long-term credit to cover about
eighty percent of the purchase price of
two to five breeding animals per family,
totalling about 950 heifers or cows and 50
bulls, for a term of twelve years includ-
ing four years of grace and at an interest
rate which shall exceed by at least two
percentage points the preferential redis-
count rate of the Borrower's central bank
in effect on the date of execution of the
respective credit agreement, and to be
guaranteed by the pastoral group to which
the beneficiaries shall belong; and
(B) introducing a compulsory insurance scheme
for the above cattle;
(ii) about five hundred pastoralist families in the
acquisition of supplementary feed inputs by
providing short-term credits to cover the entire
costs of such inputs for a total of about five


﻿- 13 -
thousand cattle annually, for a term of twelve
months at the annual interest rate referred to
in sub-paragraph (i) above; and
(iii)  about thirty pastoralist families in the acquisi-
tion of equipment by providing medium-term credits
to cover about eighty percent of the purchase price
of such equipment for a term of five years at the
annual interest rate referred to in sub-paragraph
(i) above.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be fur-
nished to the Association for approval, within one year after the
date of this Agreement, or such other period as the Association
may agree, a detailed plan for the implementation of the function-
al literacy program referred to under Part A (5) of the Project,
including the manpower support required from SSHR.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall cause RARS (i) to submit to
PU for approval, not later than July 31, 1976 or such other date
as the Association may agree, its budget of investment and operating
expenses and its staffing and operating plans for the first vaccina-
tion campaign (November 1976 - May 1977) under Part B of the Proj-
ect; (ii) to submit to PU for approval, not later than July 31 in
each subsequent year, the budgets as well as the plans for its
subsequent campaign and to furnish to PU, by the same dates, a
comprehensive report, including accounts, on the previous cam-
paigns; and (iii) to submit progress reports on the campaigns
to PU at the end of each calendar year.


﻿- 14 -
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall make or cause SODEFITEX          W
to make adequate provision for the insurance of the goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards inci-
dent to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to
the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any in-
demnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by SODEFITEX
to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, the Bor-
rower shall ensure or cause SODEFITEX to ensure that all goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit be used ex-
clusively for the Project.
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower shall cause SODEFITEX to fur-
nish to the Association promptly upon their preparation, the plans,
specifications, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall cause records to be maintained,
adequate to record the progress of the Project (including the cost
thereof) and to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and to disclose the use thereof in the Proj-
ect; (ii) shall enable the Association's representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project, and
to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish
or cause to be furnished to the Association all such information
as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project,


﻿S- 15 -
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.


﻿- 16 -
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall cause SODEFITEX: (i) to
maintain separate records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices, its operations, resources and expenditures in respect
of the Project; (ii) to have such accounts for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles con-
sistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (iii) to furnish to the Association, as soon as
available, but in any case not later than five months after the
end of each such year, (A) certified copies of such accounts for
such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and (iv) to furnish to the
Association such other information concerning such accounts and
the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause SODEFITEX at all
times:
(i) to manage its affairs, maintain its financial
position, plan its future expansion and carry
on its operations, all in accordance with sound
business, financial, agricultural and livestock
practices and under the supervision of experi-
enced and competent management, assisted by
qualified staff in adequate numbers; and


﻿w'                                        - 17-
(ii) to operate and maintain its installations, equip-
ment and other property, and promptly as required
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof,
all in accordance with sound business and engi-
neering practices.
(b) The Borrower shall cause and enable SODEFITEX to ensure,
after the completion of the Project, the continuation of the opera-
tions of its Pastoral Service and to maintain adequate staff in
its Pastoral Service, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
resources required for the purpose, on conditions satisfactory to
the Association.
(c) The Borrower shall ensure that SODEFITEX shall not re-
cover more than the actual cost incurred in carrying out the Proj-
ect and in exercising its Pastoral Service activities.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall:
(a) within eighteen months from the date of this Agreement,
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to coment on the
level and methods of livestock owners' participation into the
costs of animal health protection activities of the Animal Health
and Production Services throughout the Borrower's territories dur-
ing the execution of the Project;
(b) take all such actions as may be necessary to entrust
RAHS, not later than two years after the date of this Agreement,
or such other date as the Association may agree, with the imple-
mentation of the measures for livestock owners' participation
into the costs of animal health protection activities in the
Project Area;


﻿- 18 -
(c) consult with the Association with respect to any modi-
fication in the level of said participations;
(d) take 3teps in order to achieve a uniform level of par-
ticipations in respect of animal health protection throughout the
Borrower's territories; and
(e) take immediate steps in order to ensure the continued
control of major animal infectious diseases throughout the Bor-
rower's territories after the completion of the Project.
Section 4.04. (a) The Borrower shall adopt pricing and trade
policies for live cattle with sufficient incentives to promote
livestock production and to safeguard the interests of livestock
producers in the Borrower's territories.
(b) The Borrower shall, from time to time, afford the
Association a reasonable opportunity to comment on its cattle and
meat pricing and trade policy.
Section 4.05. (a) The Borrower shall ensure that its live-
stock fiscal policies would promote livestock production and
safeguard the interests of livestock producers.
(b) The Borrower shall give all due consideration to the
best means of recovering the cost of the Project and shall, for
this purpose, exchange views with the Association at the request
of either Party to this Agreement.


﻿- 19 -
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall ensure that the wells and
firebreaks provided for under Parts A (2) and (3), respectively,
of the Project, shall at all times be operated, maintained, re-
newed and repaired, in accordance with appropriate engineering
and management practices.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall cause SODEFITEX to take
out and maintain with responsible insurers, or to make other
provisions satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against
such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appro-
priate practice.
Section 4.08. The Borrower and the Association shall exchange
views on the details and the timing for the transfer of SODEFITEX's
authority and rights referred to in Section 3.02 (a) of this Agree-
ment to "Communautes rurales" to be established in the Project Area.
Section 4.09. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not take any action, or sell, transfer or other-
wise dispose of any substantial part of its holdings of the stock
of SODEFITEX if as a result of any such action, or sale, transfer,
or other disposal, the Borrower would lose effective control of
SODEFITEX.


﻿- 20 -
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) The Borrower or any authority having jurisdiction shall
have dissolved or disestablished SODEFITEX or have suspended its
operations, unless the Borrower shall have taken such steps as
shall be necessary to ensure the due carrying out of all obliga-
tions under this Agreement.
(b) The Statuts of SODEFITEX shall have been amended, sus-
pended, terminated or repealed so as to affect adversely the due
carrying out of the Project and the performance by the Borrower
of its other obligations under this Agreement.
(c) SODEFITEX shall have become unable to pay its debts as
they mature or any action or procedure shall have been taken by
SODEFITEX or by others whereby any of the assets of SODEFITEX
shall or may be distributed among its respective creditors.
(d) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of the BADEA Loan or the Kuwait
Fund Loan shall have been suspended, can-
celled or terminated in whole or in part,
#e


﻿- 21 -
pursuant to the terms of the BADEA Loan
Agreement or the Kuwait Fund Loan Agree-
ment, or
(B) any such loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity
thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if the Borrower establishes to the satis-
faction of the Association that:
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termina-
tion or prematuring is not caused by the
failure of the Borrower to perform any
of its obligation under such agreements,
and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are avail-
able to the Borrower from other sources
on terms and conditions consistent with
the obligations of the Borrower under
this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and


﻿- 22 -
(b) any event specified in paragraph (d) (i) (B) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿- 23 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Borrower and SODEFITEX have entered into the agree-
ment referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement;
(b) the BADEA Loan Agreement and the Kuwait Fund Loan
Agreement have been duly signed Id conditions precedent to
initial disbursements, if any, under such agreements, save for
the effectiveness of this Agreement, have been fulfilled;
(c) the decree referred to in Section 3.02 (a) of this
Agreement has been enacted and entered into force; and
(d) the Project Director and Deputy Director referred to
in Section 3.03 (b) of this Agreement have been employed.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be fur-
nished to the Association, namely that the agreement referred to
in paragraph (a) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified and signed on behalf of the Borrower and
of SODEFITEX and is legally binding upon the Borrower and
SODEFITEX in accordance with its terms.


﻿- 24 -
Section 6.03. The date October 15, 1976 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Article
IV of this Agreement and the provisions of paragraph (a) of Sec-
tion 5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date
on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date twenty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.


﻿- 25 -
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minist4re des Finances
Rue Charles L&ing
Botte Postale 4017
Dakar, Sinegal
Cable address:
MINIFINANCES
Dakar
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿- 26 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
By Is/ Andrd Coulbary
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is/ Roger Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 27 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of
the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage
of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expresse;I in       Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Civil works (ex-           500,000           70% of total
cluding works                               expenditures
under Part A (2)
and (3) of the
Project)
(2) Vehicles and                350,000           100% of foreign
equipment                                    expenditures or
65% of total
expenditures
for items pro-
cured locally
(3) Expatriate per-             570,000           100% of foreign
sonnel and con-                              expenditures
sultants' ser-
vices, fellow-
ships and study
tours abroad
(4) Livestock credit            220,000           75% of total
expenditures


﻿- 28 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(5) Operating expenses        1,440,000          75% of total
(excluding RANS                             expenditures
staff salaries)
(6) Unallocated              1,120,000
TOTAL     4,200,000


﻿- 29 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule: (a) the term "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country
other than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than the Borrower; provided,
however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of
another country from the territory of which goods or services
are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such goods or
services shall be deemed to be "foreign expenditures"; and
(b) the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate of
foreign expenditures and of expenditures for goods produced in,
or services supplied from, the territories of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in re-
spect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, ex-
cept that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the


﻿- 30 -
equivalent of $300,000 may be made on account of expenditures
before that date but after April 15, 1976; and
(b) expenditures in respect of Category (4) until the plan
to be submitted pursuant to Section 3.05 (a) of this Agreement
shall have been approved by the Association.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that
the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expendi-
tures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent re-
quired to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expen-
ditures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the es-
timated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage than appli-
cable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures there-
under shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restrict-
ing or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Associa-
tion under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the


﻿- 31 -
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associa-
tion's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expen-
ditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing
out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 32 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is a five-year (mid-1976-mid-1981) program of
the Borrower to assist livestock production in the Project Area
through the development and operation of a grazing scheme and
the provision of effective animal health, livestock extension,
livestock credit and training. The Project will assist about
30,000 livestock owners in the Project Area.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A.   The development and operation of a grazing scheme
by the Pastoral Service on about 1.4 million ha of
understocked grazing land in the northern part of
the Project Area, including:
(1) The organization of about 6,500 predominantly pas-
toralist families into about 65 pastoral groups,
each of which shall receive user rights on an in-
dividual grazing area.
(2) The construction of about 100 wells with a depth
of approximately 45 to 75 m.
(3)  The construction of about 2,400 km of firebreaks.
(4)  A credit program to assist herders in acquiring
livestock production factors, including breeding
animals, supplementary feed and equipment.
U


﻿w                            33
(5) The d'esign and development of a functional literacy
program for pastoralists and the evaluation of the
results thereof.
Part B.   A program to provide improved animal health services
by making available to RAHS: (i) 9 veterinary posts,
(ii) 40 vaccination yards, (iii) necessary transport,
veterinary and laboratory equipment, and (iv) incre-
mental operating funds. Such program shall consist
principally of vaccination campaigns against rinder-
pest, contagious bovine pleuropneumonia, anthrax,
blackleg, and bovine and ovine haemorrhagic septi-
caemia.
Part C.
(1) Provision of in-service training for SODEFITEX ex-
tension officers to assist in the execution of Part
A of the Project and of special training in basic
livestock production practices for SODEFITEX exten-
sion officers assigned to the southern part of the
Project Area.
(2) Provision of overseas fellowships for selected pro-
fessionals in range management.
(3) Provision of study tours for local SODEFITEX staff
and pastoral group leaders to ongoing livestock
projects in Eastern Africa.


﻿- 34
Part D.   Monitoring activities including, inter alia, the evalua-
tion of the progress of the Project and its effects on
the population and ecology of the Project Area, and the
identification of follow-up livestock projects.
Part E.   The expansion of SODEFITEX's facilities at Tambacounda
for the purpose of accommodating PU and the provision
of other facilities required for carrying out the
Project.
*         *                           *         *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1981.


﻿- 35-
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods, works and ser-
vices shall be procured under contracts to be awarded in accor-
dance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Part A
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and
IDA Credits" published by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter
called the Guidelines), on the basis of international competi-
tive bidding.
G      2.   Contracts shall be grouped so as to permit bulk procurement
consistent with appo..priate technical standards and procurement
practices.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Any contract for buildings, vehicles and equipment and for
the construction of vaccination yards and extension outposts, or
any bulk contracts for such items, estimated to cost less than
$50,000 equivalent, may, up to an aggregate amount of $400,000
equivalent to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, be
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally
and in accordance with local procedures acceptable to the
Association.


﻿- 36 -
2.   Furniture and equipment for staff houses and offices, and
office supplies, estimated to amount to less than $10,000 equiv-
alent, may, up to an aggregate amount of $80,000 equivalent to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, be purchased after
having obtained quotations from local suppliers.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the
ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured goods; (ii) cus-
toms duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be ex-
cluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and
other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the
place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Senegal may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that
will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:


﻿- 37 -
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Senegal if the bidder shall have established
to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the
Association that the manufacturing cost of
such goods includes a value added in Senegal
equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid
price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manu-
factured in Senegal.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first com-
pared among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other
import taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar
taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the
lowest evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids
shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of
this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest,
it shall be selected for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this fur-
ther comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of cus-
toms duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in


﻿- 38 -
such group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts.
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish or
cause to be furnished to the Association, for its comments, the
text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other
bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising
procedures to be followed for the bidding, and shall make or cause
to be made such modifications in the said documents or procedures
as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further modifica-
tion to the bidding documents shall require the Association's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association or cause the Association to be informed of the
name of the bidder to which it intends to award the contract and
shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the Association, in


﻿-39 -
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, and such other infor-
mation as the Association shall reasonably request. The Associa-
tion shall, if it determines that the intended award would be
inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly in-
form the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Eorrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the Asso-
ciation, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission
to the Association of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Credit Account in respect of such contract, two
conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of
bids, recommendations for award and such other information as
the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall,
if it determines that the award of the contract was not consis-
tent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿- 40 -
SCHEDULE 4
Project Unit
For the purpose of providing coordination for the carrying
out of the Project and overall management of Parts A, C, D and E
of the Project, a Project Unit (PU) shall be established and main-
tained within SODEFITEX and shall be located at Tambacounda, with
the following key staffing, powers and responsibilities:
1.   Key staffing of PU
(a) a Project Director, a Senegalese national to be respon-
sible through the Director-General of SODEFITEX to the Minister
of Rural Development and Hydraulics; the Project Director shall
be the manager and coordinator of the Project and, in that capa-
city, he would be responsible for the Project to proceed according
to projected time schedules and to desired standards; the Project
Director shall also enter, on behalf of SODEFITEX, into the con-
tracts referred to in Section 3.02(b) of this Agreement;
(b) a Deputy Project Director, a graduate In agricultural
economy, animal production or veterinary science, to be recruited
internationally, for a five-year period, and to be responsible
under the direction of the Project Director, for the financial
and economic aspects of the Project including: (i) preparation
and supervision of investment plans; (ii) preparation of proposals
for project monitoring and evaluation; (iii) cooperation with RARS,
SSHR, URD and RED; (iv) preparation of curricula for in-service
training, approval of training programs, and proposals for overseas


﻿training; (v) implementation and supervision of the livestock
credit program; and (vi) identification and preparation of follow-up
livestock projects;
(c) a Hydrogeologist, to be recruited internationally, for a
three-year period, and to be responsible, under the direction of
the Project Director, for: (i) identification of sites for the wells
to be built under Part A(2) of the Project; (ii) preparation of
detailed plans, specifications and bidding documents for well con-
struction; (iii) supervision of well construction; (iv) carrying
out an inventory of wells in Eastern Senegal, including their need
for repair; and (v) advising of the Regional Hydraulic Service on
priorities for well construction and repair;
(d) a Range Management Specialist, to be recruited interna-
tionally, for a five-year period, and to be responsible, under the
direction of the Project Director, for heading a Pastoral Service
to develop and operate the grazing scheme referred to under Part A
of the Project, including responsibility for: (i) land use planning
of the entire graziag scheme's area; (ii) survey and demarcation
of individual grazing areas; (iii) selection of pastoral groups
and their assignment to individual grazing areas; (iv) provision
of technical support to said grazing areas; (v) administration of
livestock credit; and (vi) training of extension staff and pastoral
group leaders;
(e) a Community Development Officer, a Senegalese graduate in
social science or in education, or having a long experience as a
rural extension officer, to be responsible, under the direction
of the Project Director and Range Management Specialist, for:
41S


﻿- 42-
(i) evaluation of social organizations and attitudes in the grazing
scheme areas; (ii) design, implementation and evaluation of types
of cooperative organizations for the grazing scheme; and (iii) liai-
son with SSHR in designing, testing and evaluating a functional
literacy program for pastoralists; and
(f) a qualified and experienced Senegalese Accountant to be
responsible for PU's accounts.
2.   Powers and responsibilities of PU
PU's responsibilities shall include, inter alia:
(a) PU shall ensure that no investment plans shall be financed
under the Project unless such plans have been evaluated and approved%
by PU as to their technical, financial and economic viability;
(b) PU shall, with the assistance of the proper authorities
within the Project area, supervise the proper implementation by
individual pastoral groups of the contracts referred to under para-
graph (b) of Section 3.02 of this Agreement;
(c) PU shall establish and maintain or cause to maintain
accounts which shall properly reflect the application of funds to
the various components of the Project;
(d) PU shall supervise and assist in the carrying out of the
Project operations, in particular:
I


﻿- 43 -
(i)  make available to RAHS nine veterinary posts,
40 vaccination yards, transport, veterinary and
laboratory equipment, and incremental operating
funds principally for the operation of vehicles and
the purchase of drugs, medicaments and vaccines;
(ii) make in cooperation with MRD an inventory of the
wells in the Project Area, including their need
for repair;
(iii) prepare in cooperation with RED the plans,
specifications and bidding documents of PU's
offices, staff houses, vaccination yarde and other
buildings and constructions under the Project (with
the exception of wells);
(iv) design, develop and evaluate in cooperation
with SSHR a functional literacy program for
pastoralists;
(e) PU shall assist the Borrower in the timely selection of
qualified and experienced staff to be employed for carrying out
the Project;
(f) PU shall organize, in consultation with the Association,
the training activities referred to under Part C of the Project;
(g) PU shall prepare and submit semi-annual progress reports
to the Ministry of Rural Development and Hydraulics, for transmit-
tal to the Association;


﻿- 44-
(h) PU shall prepare a plan, detailed terms of reference
and the timetable for monitoring and evaluation activities under
Part D of the Project; and
(i) PU shall carry out studies to identify and prepare possi-
ble follow-up livestock projects under Part D of the Project.


