Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P7357-UR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT
ON A
PROPOSED FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
,N THE AMOUNT OF US$80.9 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY
February 4, 2000
Finance Private Sector and Infrastructure Sector Unit
Argentina, Chile and Uruguay Country Management Unit LCC7C
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This docurnent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of 
their official duties. Its content may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization. l



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Uruguayan Peso
US$1.00 = Ur$ (11.59)
FISCAL YEAR
July I to June 30
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BCU          =     Central Bank of Uruguay
BHU          =     Mortgage Bank of Uruguay (Banco Hipotecario del Uruguay)
BROU         =     Banco de la Repfiblica Oriental del Uruguay
CAS          =     Country Assistance Strategy
CND          =     National Development Corporation (Corporaci6n Nacional
de Desarrollo)
IFE          =     International Financial Enterprises (off-shore banks)
ESW          =     Economic and Sector Work
GDP          =     Gross Domestic Product
IDB          =     Inter-American Development Bank
MERCOSUR =         Common Market of the Southern Cone
IMF          =     International Monetary Fund
ROA          =     Return on Assets
ROE          =     Return on Equity
SAL          =     Structural Adjustment Loan
SECAL        =     Sector Adjustment Loan
SIIF         =     Superintendency of Financial Institutions
URs          =     Wage adjusted pesos
Vice President:         Mr. David de Ferranti
Director LCC7C:         Ms. Myma Alexander
Director LCSFP:         Mr. Danny Leipziger
Task Manager:           Ms. Mariluz Cortes
This operation was prepared by a World Bank team composed of: Messrs/Mmes. Augusto de la Torre, Walter
Zunic, Juan Ortiz, Mario Guadamillas (LCSPF); Jose Antonio Alepuz (LEGPS); Reynaldo Pastor (LEGLA) and
Felipe Morris (consultant). The team was led by Mariluz Cortes, Task Manager, and worked under the general
guidance of Augusto de la Ton.e (Lead Specialist LCSFP).



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
URUGUAY
PROPOSED FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY .........................................................I
I. THE SETTING .1
A. Economic Context .1
B. Recent Performance .1
II.  URUGUAY'S FINANCIAL SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM.                         2
A.   Characteristics of Uruguay's Financial Sector.                     2
B.   Constraints to the Development of Uruguay's Financial Sector.      6
C.   The Government's Strategy for Financial Sector Reform .............................    12
III.   BANK ASSISTANCE STRATEGY IN THE FINANCIAL SECTOR                  18
A.   Bank Assistance Strategy in Financial Sector Refor .18
B.   Experience with Adjustment Lending in Uruguay .19
C.   Coordination with Multilateral Institutions .19
IV. THE PROPOSED LOAN .20
A.  Loan Objectives and Description .20
B. Policy Actions .20
C. Disbursement and Audits .20
D. Impact, Benefits and Risks .24
V. RECOMENDATION .25
ANNEX I.       Matrix of Policy Actions
ANNEX II.      Letter of Sector Development Policy
ANNEX III      Economic Indicators
ANNEX IV.    Status of Bank Group Operations
ANNEX V.       Status of IFC Investments
ANNEX VI.    Uruguay at a Glance
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






URUGUAY
PROPOSED FINANCLIL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:         Repuiblica Oriental del Uruguay.
Amount and Terms:US$80.9 million LIBOR-based US Dollar, single currency loan,
with a maturity of 15 years, including five years of grace and level
repayment of principal. A 75 basis points commitment fee on
undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after loan signing,
less any waiver, and a 1% capitalized front-end fee.
Description:      The operation will support the first phase of the Borrower's
financial sector reforn program which includes measures already
taken to:
Measures to improve competition in the banking sector.
Measures taken include: (i) issuance of an Executive Decree
regulating the right of public agencies to open bank accounts in
public or private banks in Uruguay; (ii) issuance of BCU's Circular
providing that public banks shall have their financial statements
audited by external auditors; (iii) hiring of independent consultants
to carry out external audits of BROU's and BHU's 1999 financial
statements; (iv) issuance of BROU's resolution providing that it
shall eliminate its deficit of provisions for non-performing loans by
July 31, 2005; and (v) issuance of BCU's resolution requiring
BHU to establish a scheme of reserve requirements.
Measures to restructure public banks. Measures taken include:
(i) approval of a new policy of control of BROU's credit risk; (ii)
approval of the issuance of a long-term bond by BHU that would
reduce the flows mismatch between its assets and liabilities by, at
least, 75%; (iii) adoption of a credit policy to improve BHU's
currency matching between assets and liabilities; (iv) adoption of a
policy to standardize the terms of BHU's loans to facilitate the
subsequent securitization of mortgages; and (v) preparation of
terms of reference for the employment of a consulting firm to
design an institutional restructuring plan for BHU.
Measures to initiate the privatization of Banco de Credito.
Measures taken include hiring an investment advisory firm to
assess the value of Banco de Credito's loan portfolio, investments
and fixed assets and design an strategy for the sale of the
Borrower's majority stock ownership in this bank.



Measures to strengthen banking regulation, supervision and
inspection. Measures taken include: (i) issuance of BCU's
circulars and resolutions requiring public and private banks to
adopt a policy of flows matching between assets and liabilities for
transactions with a maturity in excess of three years; to calculate
their capital adequacy ratio on a consolidated basis; to apply rating
and provisioning norms with respect to loans to state enterprises; to
create audit committees; and to disclose to BCU the risk models
used in connection with their lending operations; (ii) approval of a
plan for BCU to carry out on-site inspections of public and private
banks between July 1, 1999 and June 30, 2000; (iii) issuance of
BCU's norms establishing: procedures to be followed by solvent
private banks that decide to cease operating as banking institutions
in Uruguay; to value assets of public and private banks in
accordance with mark to market valuation method; to value assets
of pension funds administrators in accordance with the mark to
market valuation method; and to hire independent appraisers to
estimate the value of collateral provided to guarantee loans in
excess of 3% of the minimum net equity requirement applicable to
all banks in Uruguay.
Measures to improve transparency of the financial sector.
Measures taken include the issuance of BCU's norms: (i)
providing that all banks make available to the public their annual
external audit; (ii) providing that all banks publish detailed
financial information with respect to the preceding calendar
quarter; (iii) indicating that BCU's Credit Risk Information system
is providing information with respect to, inter alia, each debtor
having a debt which exceeds 0.3% of the minimum net equity
requirements; and (iv) indicating that BCU's credit risk
information system shall group relevant credit risk informnation by
separate categories.
Measures to modernize the financial sector legal framework.
Measures already taken include: (i) presentation to Congress of a bill
of law to require all companies to follow international accepted
accounting standards; (ii) presentation to Congress of a bill of law
to permit the execution of warrants without judicial intervention;
and (iii) enactment of Law No. 17.228 which, inter alia, expands
the type of goods which may be subject to prenda sin
desplazamiento. Also, a Technical Unit has been created within
the BCU which will, inter alia: (i) carry out technical and legal
analyses of financial sector reform proposals; (ii) present policy
recommendations resulting forrm the analyses mentioned; and (iii)
build consensus with respect to financial sector reform proposals.



Risks and Benefits:  The proposed loan would contribute to ensure banking soundness and
increase competitiveness of Uruguayan banks. Strong and competitive
banks would be in a better position to expand credit to the private sector,
particularly to small and medium enterprises. Measures taken to ensure a
more level playing field between public and private banks will
encourage competition in the banking sector, while measures to
improve transparency of information about the financial situation
of the banks will allow the public to make more informed
decisions on where to put their money. On the other hand, more
information about creditors would help the development of a more
active domestic credit market by reducing the non payment risks
faced by lenders. In the long run, the benefits of the loan are in
terms of setting up the stage for a more open public discussion and
dialogue on sensitive financial sector issues in Uruguay,
particularly on the need to redefine the role of the public sector in
the financial area, on ways to address the factors affecting the
competitiveness of Uruguay's banks in the region, and on ways to
reduce judicial uncertainty and strengthen the enforcement of
contracts in the financial sector. The creation of the Financial
Policy Technical Unit is that it will act as a hub to disseminate the
results of technical and legal studies on financial sector issues, and
centralize efforts to generate consensus around policy reform
proposals.
The main risk associated with this operation is the possibility that
the new administration that will take office in March 1, 2000, will
not go ahead with the second phase of financial sector reforms,
including the sale of the intervened banks and the proposal of new
financial legislation. Factors that mitigate this risk are the efforts
already under way to find a buyer for Banco Caja Obrera, and the
need to maintain the credibility of the regulatory function by
requiring Banco de Credito to comply with capital adequacy norms
or close down. Also, there is increasing consensus in Uruguay on
the need to strengthen the legal framework to ensure the
competitiveness of Uruguay's banks, in view of the increasingly
macroeconomic stability and improving banking sector efficiency
in neighboring countries, and the greater openness in factor
markets brought about by MERCOSUR. The new administration
is aware of the proposed loan and is in agreement with the first
phase of financial sector reforms.
Schedule of Disbursements: One tranche to be disbursed after loan effectiveness.
Closing Date: June 30, 2000
Project ID Number:       UY-PE-63390






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$80.9 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY
1.    The proposed Financial Sector Adjustment Loan to the Repiiblica Oriental del
Uruguay, would be for US$80.9 million (including capitalized front end fee of 1%), to
support the first phase of the Borrower's financial sector reform program. The loan
would be payable in 15 years, including 5 years of grace and level repayment of
principal, at the standard interest rate for US dollar, LIBOR-based, single currency loans.
I. THE SETTING
A.   Economic Context
2.    Uruguay is a middle upper-income country, with social indicators among the best
in Latin America. Its economy has performed well in recent years. During the period
1990-1998, real GDP grew at 3.8%, compared with population growth of only 0.6%.
Inflation is under control, and the external current account deficit remains modest. The
current administration that took office in March 1995, has been able to implement an
austerity package of measures to reduce the fiscal deficit, together with a gradual, but
sustained, structural reform agenda in the areas of social security, education, public
enterprises, modernization of the state, and continued liberalization of the economy
associated with MERCOSUR.
B.   Recent Performance
3.    During 1998, Uruguay achieved many of its economic objectives. Inflation was
reduced from 15.2% at the end of 1997, to 8.6% by year-end. Unemployment went down
from 11.5% in 1997 to 10.0% in 1998, and the fiscal adjustment program was successful
in reducing the consolidated public sector deficit to 0.9% of GDP. Although this good
performance was met by a favorable external financing situation, the domestic and
external financing environment tightened substantially after the Russian debt crisis in
August 1998. The authorities responded to this external shock by strengthening the
financial sector through implementation, in September 1998, of additional prudential
measures, including increased capital adequacy requirements for the banking system, and
tighter loan qualification regulations and increased risk weighting applied to consumer
lending. Despite unsettled international financial conditions, GDP growth reached 4.5%
in the last quarter of 1998, compared to the same quarter in the previous year.
International reserves grew by US$250 million during the last quarter of 1998, as



Uruguay took advantage of its indebtedness capacity in the international markets, in
anticipation of a tighter situation in early 1999.
4.    The economic slow down started in the first quarter of 1999, when GDP growth
turned negative (-1.0%), as the external environment became less favorable to Uruguay
with increasing oil prices and lower prices for agricultural commodities. The slow down
is continued during 1999, due to loss of competitiveness of Uruguayan products in Brazil,
following the January 1999 depreciation of the Brazilian real, the slowdown of economic
activity in Argentina, and higher oil prices. Despite the negative effect of the economic
slowdown on public finances, the Government remains committed to its medium term
strategy of cautious fiscal and monetary policies and to continue with structural reforms.
To help meet the challenges, the authorities requested, and obtained, a new 12-months
precautionary stand-by arrangement with the IMF. In early 1999, the Government also
requested an acceleration in the implementation of projects in the lending program agreed
with IDB.
II. URUGUAY'S FINANCLIL SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM
A.    Characteristics of Uruguay's Financial Sectorl
5.    In relative terms, Uruguay has a well developed financial sector. This sector
contributed to about 9.6% of GDP in 1998, has assets with a total value equivalent to
about 105% of GDP, and the degree of monetization, measured as M3/GDP, was 40.8%
at the end of 19982. In all these measures, Uruguay scores higher than most Latin
American countries except Chile. However, in absolute terms Uruguay's financial sector
is very small and dominated by public banks, generating value added of the order of only
US$2,000 million per year. Most of the financial activity is generated by banking
institutions, due to the underdevelopment of Uruguay's capital market, which has a
market capitalization of less than 3% of GDP, compared to an average of almost 10% in
emerging markets.
6.    Uruguay's banking system is composed of 52 institutions: 24 banks, 10 financial
houses, which operate as banks but do not receive deposits; 7 savings and loans
cooperatives (they differ from the banks in the composition of their capital); and 11
external financial institutions (EFI) which can only operate with non residents, and have
their assets and liabilities abroad. In addition, there are a number of non-banking
financial agencies, including credit administrators and credit card companies, that
compete with the banks in some limited areas. Some of the salient characteristics of
Uruguay's banking sector are the following:
' The data presented in this section comes from an ongoing Bank study "Uruguay: Financial Sector
Review". Draft for discussion January 23, 2000.
2 These measures of Uruguay's financial depth include off-shore operations by External Financial
Institutions, which account for about 10% of deposits and assets in the financial system.
2



7.    Large Public Sector Role The two largest banks in Uruguay are public banks:
Banco de la Repuiblica Oriental del Uruguay (BROU) and Banco Hipotecario del
Uruguay (BHU), which are independent state-owned entities. They have their own
statutes (Cartas Orgdnicas). There are two commercial banks under state administration:
Banco de Credito (which recently acquired the good assets and liabilities of Banco Pan de
Azucar, another intervened bank) and Banco Caja Obrera. Public banks, exclulidng the
intervened banks, account for about 40% of total assets, 35% of the system's deposits;
and provide 49% of the loans to the non financial sector (excluding EFIs which do not
lend locally). In terms of equity, official figures indicate that public banks account for
about 66.5% of the total capital of the system (80% of banking sector equity). However,
this does not take into consideration valuation problems in these banks, which leads to
the conclusion that their capital may be overstated. Public banks employ more than half
(5 1%) of all bank employees.
8.    BROU, founded in 1896, is the country's most important commercial bank,
accounting for 23.8% of total deposits and 25.3% of total loans in the system. BROU
operates both as a multiple-purpose bank and as a development bank. It underwrites
almost all types of loans, serving as wholesale bank and corporate lender, as well as
consumer banker. It lends to all types of enterprises, but is the most active bank in
lending to small and medium enterprises and to the agricultural sector. It is the main
provider of foreign trade services to the economy, in charge of collecting import taxes
and paying export tax rebates. The BHU was created in 1892 and acquired by the state in
1912. Until 1990, it acted as the Housing Ministry. BHU is the principal provider of
housing credits in the country (offering loans for construction, acquisition or refurbishing
of houses). It accounts for 11% of total deposits and 17% of total loans (excluding EFIs).
Its current portfolio comprises about 90% of the stock of mortgage loans in the country.
While in recent years private banks have started to provide housing loans, these are
concentrated on the high end of the market not attended by BHU.
9.    Assessing the performance of the public banks is difficult due to lack of detailed
information. Official data indicate that BROU has a satisfactory financial situation, and
that it has been making profits during the last few years (it distributed US$11.24 million
in dividends to the Government in 1998). Its ROE (return on equity) and ROA (return of
assets) ratios in 1997 are significantly higher than those of the private banks3. However,
the quality of its portfolio is below the system's average4, due in part to the high-risk
profile of its portfolio, with one third of loans given to the agricultural sector5. BROU
has initiated an institutional transformation process aimed at improving its effectiveness
and productivity (see par. 36).
10    After posting losses in 1997, BHU generated profits of US$37.0 million in 1998.
The 1998 financial results of this bank do not reflect the poor quality of its loan portfolio,
3 In 1997, BROU's ROE was 19.3%, while that of the private banks was 7.7%, and its ROA was 3.1%
compared to 0.6% for private banks.
4 As of June 30, 1998, BROU had a ratio of non-performing to total loans of 4.6%, compared to 1.1% for
private banks, excluding the two intervened banks, which had a ratio similar to public banks (4.0%).
The agricultural sector includes cattle raising and integrated agricultural industries.
3



which is over one third overdue6. In 1998, BHU had to make extraordinary provisions as
a result of a law, approved by Congress in December 1998, mandating BHU to refinance
all those loans that were three months overdue as of October 31, 1998, extending the
maturity of the loans without penalties. Unlike BROU, BHU has not initiated an
institutional transformation process.
11.  In Uruguay, the state has followed the policy of taking over the administration of
failing banks to avoid losses to depositors and prevent the loss of jobs. In the first half of
the 1980s, in response to a generalized financial crisis in Uruguay, the Central Bank
(BCU) implemented a bank-rescue program to save banks by buying their bad-loans.
Most banks were eligible to participate in the program except for four of them, which
were intervened by the BCU and subsequently managed by the state during many years.
At the beginning of the 1990s, two of the four entities merged. One of the remaining
intervened banks, Banco Comercial, was privatized in 1990, after the Government took
over a portion of its bad loans. It was acquired by a consortium of international banks
and has become profitable. The second intervened bank, Banco Pan de Azucar, was
privatized in 1994, but had to be intervened again in 1996 due to bad management and
alleged fraud by the buyers of the bank. The third intervened bank is Banco Caja Obrera.
This bank has been under Govermnent control since 1984, when BCU acquired part of its
bad loan portfolio. In 1990, the Government took control of Banco Caja Obrera through
Corporaci6n Nacional de Desarrollo (CND), a government development agency, as the
sole owner. Towards the end of 1998, another private bank, Banco de Credito, which was
controlled by a foreign group, experienced financial difficulties that led to its intervention
by BCU. The government decided to create a more viable Banco de Crddito by having it
acquire the good assets and liabilities of Banco Pan de Azuicar. The irrecoverable and
non-performing loan portfolio as well as the assets and liabilities in litigation remained in
"Banco Pan de Azucar, S.A.", an entity responsible for their liquidation. The CND
contributed US$25 million in exchange for 51% of the shares, and the foreign owners of
Banco de Crddito committed themselves to contribute another US$27 million (including
interest payments) for the remaining 49%. CND's participation was through the issuance
of seven-year, 7.5% fixed rate treasury bonds. The foreign partner's capitalization is in
installments over the next three years, in accordance with a pre-established agreement.
Both banks account for 6.4% of the deposits and 6.5% of the loans of the banking system.
12.   Preponderance of Private Foreign Banks.  Almost all the private banks in
Uruguay are subsidiaries or agencies of foreign banks. Only one bank is owned totally
by Uruguayan interests. All EFIs, Finance Houses and the largest credit administrators
are owned by foreign banks. Only cooperatives are mostly locally owned. The
preponderance of foreign banks has historical reasons. Following the banking crisis in
the early 1980s, almost every private bank was converted into a subsidiary (or branch) of
an important international bank.  Measures to strengthen banking regulation and
supervision coincided with the ownership changes, and eventually resulted in a
restoration of confidence in the banking system.
6 As of June 30, 1998, BHU had a ratio of non performing to total loans of 9.1%.
4



13.   Hifh Degree of Dollarization.  The Uruguayan financial sector is highly
dollarized . In 1996, 82.4 % of the deposits in the banking system were in US dollars.
The percentage of dollar deposits ranged from 70% in public banks, to 89% in private
banks and to nearly 100% in EFIs. Similarly, the majority of loans to the non financial
sector are in dollars. In 1996, 63% of all loans were denominated in dollars, ranging
from 40% in public banks, to 82% in private banks, and 100% in EFIs. Foreign exchange
deposits are made by both residents and non residents. In 1996, 36% of all deposits were
made by non residents. The percentage of deposits from non residents ranged from 13%
in BROU, to 38% in private banks, and to 100% in EFIs. About 14% of all loans to the
private sector in 1996 were to non residents.
14.   The high degree of dollarization of the banking system also has its roots in the
financial crisis of the last decade. Following a large devaluation at the end-1982, local
and international savers have preferred to avoid the exchange risk and invest in dollars,
despite the low interest rates paid on dollar deposits, compared to the interest rates paid
on local currency deposits. Many banks have traditionally operated as off-shore centers,
taking advantage of recurrent bouts of macroeconomic instability among neighboring
countries and Uruguay's strong banking secrecy regulation. Off-shore banking by EFIs
has expanded since 1989, when new regulation provided these agents with tax
exemptions. However, Uruguay off shore banking business tends to attract relatively
small savers from neighboring countries8, and as confidence grows in other financial
systems in the region, the attractiveness of Uruguay as a financial safe heaven may
diminish.
15.   Limited Development of the Credit Market and of New Financial Products. The
Uruguayan banks main business is in the area of traditional financial intermediation and
foreign trade transactions. There is little involvement in cash management, securities
underwriting, derivatives, securitization of assets, leasing and the like; or in risk control
instruments such as futures, options, forwards, and foreign exchange insurance. There
are no investment banks in Uruguay. Banks invest a significant share of their assets in
public securities and loans to the financial sector (28% in 1998) in detriment of loans to
the private sector. Lending to the non financial sector (49.6% of assets in 1998) is
directed mostly to the largest local firms and multinationals. Lending to small and
medium enterprises is limited and subject to liquid guarantees. The extreme cautiousness
of Uruguayan private banks is a response to the experience of the financial crisis of the
early 1980s, when banks were forced to restructure their loans through subsequent
refinancing laws; to inadequate legislation concerning the execution of guarantees; and to
the perception of a judicial system biased against creditors. Some sectors, such as
agriculture, which was particularly affected by the refinancing laws, now get credit
mostly from BROU. Consumer credit, however, has expanded at a fast pace since the
beginning of the 1990s. About 23% of private bank lending and 14% of BROU's lending
is for consumer credit. This expansion has been aided by the creation of a relatively good
information system about credit history of borrowers, which is privately managed.
7 These figures are taken from J. Caumont: Modernizaci6n y Desarrollo del Sistema Financiero Uruguayo,
Diciembre 1997.
8 The average size of deposits of non residents is US$60,000.
5



B.    Constraints to the Development of Uruguay's Financial Sector
Limited Competition Between Public and Private Banks.
16.   Public banks have traditionally received preferential treatment in a number of
areas, which gives them an advantage vis a vis private banks. The most important
advantage is the deposit insurance that they receive from the Government, which is
explicitly mentioned in their statutes, and implicitly extended to the intervened banks9.
This allows the public banks to receive deposits at lower cost than the rest of the private
banking system, and constitutes a contingent public debt liability, in the case of BHU and
the intervened banks. BROU has other privileges such as being exempt from paying
VAT on interests collected on consumer loans, which allows BROU to provide consumer
loans at lower interest rates than private banks. In addition, BROU has a monopoly on
the central government payroll deposits, on the central government judicial and
administrative deposits made by private entities in guarantee of contracts with the public
sector and, until recently, a monopoly on deposits and salary payments of public
enterprisesl'. These are all sources of low cost deposits for BROU. Furthermore, BROU
has an extra source of income as a result of its role of trade tax collector"  In 1998
(through November), BROU received for these activities an amount equivalent to its total
profits during the first eleven months of 1998. In addition to similar privileges, BHU
enjoys an extra-judicial regime for the liquidation of debts, and until recently, a
monopoly in issuing asset backed securities. This has been eliminated with the recent
approval (September 1999) of the Securitization Law.
17.   One important advantage enjoyed by public banks is that they are not subject to
BCU's prudential norms with the same rigor as private banks. Public banks and the
intervened banks do not fully comply with the provisioning and capital requirement
regulations that apply to private banks . In cases in which the BCU has detected equity
shortages, these banks have received extended period of time to adjust to the BCU's
requirements. In addition, BHU does not have to create reserves against deposits. This
unequal treatment creates a bad precedent, as other banks may feel entitled to similar
preferential treatment. The difficulties that BCU has in enforcing prudential norms in the
case of public banks is, to large extent, due to an interpretation with respect to the
capacity of BCU to impose sanctions on the public banks in case of non compliance with
its norms and regulations. This ambiguity stems from the fact that the Charters of BROU
and the BHU have the same hierarchy under the Constitution, as the Charter of the BCU.
18.   Under the proposed loan, the Government of Uruguay is committed to take a
number of measures to, inter alia, improve competition in the banking sector by: (i)
9 This advantage of public banks is reduced by the government's implicit guarantee of deposits in the rest
of the banking system.
10 State funds are subject to 100% reserve requirements, which makes them unattractive and expensive for
BROU.
" It charges a fee of 1% on the country's irnports (except for imports under the temporary admission
regime) and 0.5 per thousand on its exports.
12 BCU requires that banks maintain a ratio of capital to risk-based assets of 8.5%. While officially BROU
and BHU meet capital requirements, the intervened banks do not.
6



creating a more level playing field between public and private banks; (ii) establishing the
basis for the privatization of a bank under public management; and (iii) establishing the
framework for the restructuring of BHU. A new administration that will take over on
March 1, 2000, is expected to complete the privatization of the two banks under public
management and implement the restructuring of BHU. In the longer run, however,
important efficiency gains would be obtained by "corporatizing" the public banks"3 (with
statutes similar to those of public enterprises), and by focussing their activities in areas in
which they can support the private banks. An important new role for the public banks
would be to focus on mobilizing long term resources as second-tier institutions to
facilitate term lending through private banks. These more far reaching changes would
require changes in the Charters of BROU and BHU, which have to be approved by
Parliament.
Legal Constraints
19.   Uruguay has made significant improvements in modernizing its financial sector
legal framework. The Financial Intermediation Law, approved in November 1992,
expanded the regulatory and supervisory function of the Central Bank through the SIIF.
The new Charter of the Central Bank, approved in 1992, helped to eliminate some
limitations that the BCU had in carrying out its supervisory function. Other two
important pieces of financial legislation approved in the last few years are the new
Capital Markets Law and the Investment Funds Law, both passed in 1996. Nevertheless,
the legal framework is still somewhat disperse and incomplete, and has internal
inconsistencies that limit the full application of the existing financial regulation to the
public banks. There are important legal constraints to the execution of guarantees that
restrict the development of a credit market in Uruguay. New legislation is required to
expedite procedures to execute security interests in pledged assets. Also, a reform of the
Leasing Law (of January 1998) is needed to permit non financial entities to lease capital
goods.
20.   Lack ofAdequate Market Exit Mechanisms for Banks. An important limitation of
the legal framework is the absence of adequate legal mechanisms to allow banks to exit
the market, or acquire and merge with other banks in an orderly fashion. Recently, when
a bank decided to leave the market voluntarily after paying all its debts, lack of an
adequate exit mechanism created a crisis situation and the forced absorption of the
redundant workers by other banks in the market14.  To avoid the repetition of this
experience, in May 1999, the BCU issued new regulation concerning voluntary cease of
activities of solvent banks. However, the Government's reaction to banking crisis, up to
now, has been not to allow banks to fail, with the Government taking over ailing banks.
Although the intention has been to restructure these banks and sell them to the private
13 A more far reaching reform would be to open their equity to minority private participation. Some
advantages of private participation in these banks would be: (i) increased transparency; (ii) incentives for
improved efficiency by being subject to the scrutiny of private investors; (iii) reduced pressure to use the
banks to fulfill political mandates; and (iv) stimulus to the development of the local capital market.
14 Eurobanco, a foreign owned bank experienced difficulties with the financial authorities when it decided
to leave the Uruguayan market voluntarily, after paying all its debts.
7



sector, in practice the Government has been saddled for many years with the management
of the intervened banks. The difficulties to close banks go beyond the lack of a legal
mechanism to do so. The militancy of the labor unions to preserve the jobs of its
members is a stumbling block to the exit and eventual liquidation of any troubled and
even solvent bank. The adoption of an exit mechanism for troubled banks would allow
the Government to play a more indirect role in banking crisis resolution.
21.   Judicial Legislation and Practices A major constraint to the expansion of credit
markets in Uruguay is the distrust that lenders have with respect to the legal system, as a
result of past forced restructuring of bank debts. There is a need to accelerate the
definition of property rights over intangible assets (such as a loan) in cases of bankruptcy,
and to strengthen the judicial legislation and practices to redress the perception that they
are biased against creditors. Similarly, it is necessary to take measures to redress the
perceived bias of the labor justice in favor of workers.
22.   Difficulty of Getting Financial Legislation Approved  The difficulty of getting
financial legislation approved is an obstacle to the development of new financial
products. One mechanism to mobilize resources to expand credit would be through
securitization of assets. A draft Securitization Law was recently approved by Parliament
after more than two years of having been submitted. Many of the legal initiatives in the
financial sector that are presented to Parliament take a long time to be approved or are
never approved. In part, the delays are due to lack of concerted efforts to build consensus
and to adequately respond to questions raised by members of Parliament with respect to
the proposed legislation.
Constraints to Increased Efficiency and Competitiveness of the Banking Sector.
23.   The future role of Uruguay as a sub-regional financial center will be affected by
the success of its neighbors in achieving macroeconomic stability, and by the efficiency
and competitiveness of Uruguay's banking sector. Since many of the foreign banks
operating in Uruguay also have subsidiaries and branches in other countries in the region,
their decision on where to expand their banking activities will increasingly depend on the
rates of return obtained in the different locations. Although international comparisons are
difficult, figures on overhead costs and net interest margins in Uruguay and other
countries in the region give a flavor for the competitive difficulties that the Uruguayan
financial sector may face in the future. Uruguayan banks have overhead costs to total
assets of 6.5%, lower than banks in Argentina, Brazil, Colombia and Peru, but much
higher than those of Chile and Bolivia, which are in the 3-4% range. Also, at 5.6%, the
net interest margin (the ratio of net interest income to total banking assets) of Uruguayan
banks is higher that those of Chile (3.9%), Argentina (4.2%) and Bolivia (5.2%). The
relatively high overhead costs and net interest margins of Uruguayan banks offer
indications that they are not intermediating funds as efficiently as they might. This
conclusion is supported by a recent study that compares the returns of the Uruguayan
banking system with those of other countries in the region (Bolivia, Chile and Peru), and
concludes that in terms of ROAs and ROEs, the Uruguayan banks, on aggregate, are the
least profitable of the sample, even if only private banks are included in the Uruguayan
8



figures'5. These results reflect low efficiency levels in which the gross margin, although
at reasonable levels on the aggregate, barely cover operating costs (cost of personnel and
administration).
24.   High labor costs are an important factor in the low  rates of return of the
Uruguayan banks. Salaries of bank employees tend to be more than twice the salary
levels of similar employment categories in other sectors. Social security contributions
are also higher in the banking sector'6 (employer contributions are 261/4th % compared
with 12.5% in the rest of the economy). As a result, labor cost represent in Uruguay a
high percentage of total operating costs (80% compared with about 64% in Brazil and
50% in Argentina17). High labor cost and the difficulty to reduce staff, because of trade
union strong bargaining power and militancy, have led to a reluctance on the part of the
banks to hire new employees and has displaced other investment expenditure
possibilities, particularly in technology. As a result, employment in the banking sector,
as a whole, has decreased from 13,900 people in 1992, to 12,600 in 1998 (most of this
decrease has occurred in the official banks). A decreasing labor force has resulted in
efficiency gains measured as deposits per employee and as loans per employee, which
increased by nearly 38% and 48% respectively between 1992 and 1996; but these
efficiency gains were more than compensated by cost of labor increases in the sector of
over 111% 8. Future efficiency gains, and the introduction of new banking products and
technology, may be limited by the serious deficit of skills in the banking sector, resulting
from low investment in training activities. High operating costs among the banks have
stimulated the development of non banking financial intermediaries in Uruguay, such as
banking houses and credit administrators. These intermediaries are able to compete with
the banks with lower costs, because their workers do not belong to the banking trade
unions and do not contribute to the banking pension fund.
25.   Segmentation of the Uruguayan financial market is encouraged by substantial
asymmetries in the tax treatment of similar financial transactions carried out by different
financial entities. One example of this is the different treatment by the BCU and by the
tax authorities with respect to the time allowed to write off bad loans from the books.
Banks are permitted by both the tax regulators and BCU to write off bad debts in six
months. However, the tax regulators do not allow other financial agents, outside BCU's
regulatory authority, to obtain tax credits on their writes off, until after 30 months.
During that time, non banking financial intermediaries have to pay IVA over accrued
interests, even if the loans are non performing.  Another tax asymmetry is that
cooperatives are exempt of income and equity taxes paid by other financial institutions.
15 From Roberto Zahler, Eficiencia y Competitividad de la Banca Uruguaya, Diciembre 1998.
16 Despite high contributions, the Banking Pension Fund is actuarially unsustainable, because of high
defined benefits and falling number of participants. The Banking Pension Fund has been bailed out by the
Government in the past and is likely to be bailed out again in the future.
17 From Caumont 1997. The average, wage cost in Uruguay's banking sector is 37% higher than in
Argentina and was 145% higher than in Brazil, before the devaluation of the real.
1 From Caumont. 1997.
9



Limitations in Banking Regulation and Supervision.
26.   The Charter of the BCU establishes that supervision of banks and other financial
intermediaries is to be carried out though the Superintendency of Financial
Intermediation Institutions (SIIF).  The SIIF, established in 1991, has technical
independence but is hierarchically under BCU's Board. In recent years, the SIIF has
undertaken a number of technical improvements through a program of technical
assistance financed by the IDB. Banking regulation is in general adequate, although
norms need to be strengthened in the areas of risk, solvency, audits, and valuation of
assets and guarantees. For example, Basle norms for capital requirement are not being
applied for interest and market risks, although they are applied for credit risk. Also, the
capital requirement norms are not applied on a consolidated basis.
27.   As indicated above, the major limitation of banking regulation and supervision is
in the application of the regulation to public banks. Until recently, the SIIF devoted its
efforts mostly to supervise and inspect the private banks, while giving a less rigorous
treatment to the two public banks BROU and BHU, which represent close to half of the
banking system. The role of the SIIF with respect to the public banks was limited to help
them to convert their accounting plans to the format of the official statements provided by
the rest of the banks. Since 1997, the SIIF has been carrying out limited inspections of
selected activities of these two banks, such as the valuation of their loan portfolio. In
1998, the SIIF undertook an evaluation of BHU's assets and liabilities and detected a
number of weaknesses in the credit area that were reported to BHU's Board. While all
private banks are periodically qualified by the SIIF using CAMEL methodology, until
recently the public banks were not subject to qualification. In July 1999, the SIIF carried
out, for the first time, a global inspection of BROU applying the newly adopted
CAMELS methodology'9. BHU has not yet been qualified using this methodology.
28.   The SIIF is hampered in its effort to supervise and inspect the public banks not
only by these banks legal autonomy, but also by the limited number of inspectors that the
SIIF has in its staff, as a result of the freeze in public sector hiring limits. Currently, the
SIIF has 33 inspectors who in 1997 were fully occupied in inspecting the private banks20.
Extending the SUF inspection to BROU and BHU would require at least three or four
additional inspectors in-situ for each public bank In addition to hiring more inspectors,
the SIIF needs to implement a training program to familiarize its inspectors with modem
practices for reviewing risks in foreign exchange, money markets and derivative areas.
29.   Risks Associated with Mismatch Between Currencies and Terms. As indicated
before, Uruguay's financial system is highly dollarized. While most private financial
institutions keep a reasonable currency match between assets and liabilities, banks that
operate in local currency face important currency risk. In nornal periods, banks function
19 CAMELS stands for capital, assets, management, earnings, liquidity and sensitivity to
risks.
20 The SIIF has under its inspection 51 financial entities plus 58 other entities such as credit administrators,
exchange houses and others, of which 16 are subject to full inspection.
10



with more liabilities than assets in foreign exchange. When the market changes and
banks want to reduce their position in foreign exchange, the absence of a forward market
forces them to do so by canceling credits in local currency. The BHU and other financial
institutions (pension fund administrators, insurance companies, the public pension
system) use as an index the unidades reajustables (URs)21. These institutions are subject
to a double financial indexation: to the dollar and to the UR, which complicates their risk
management. The BCU has recently issued regulation requiring the matching of flows
between assets and liabilities for those transactions with a maturity in excess of three
years.
30.   The BHU has a specially difficult mismatch problem. BHU's maturity mismatch
is evident because the stated average term of its housing loans is 15 years, while the
average maturity of its liabilities is eight months (with the exception of a long-term loan
provided by.BCU). An even more worrisome problem is BHU's currency mismatch.
December 1997 figures show that the bulk of BHU's assets were denominated in URs
while the largest percentage of its liabilities were dollar-denominated. The significant
gap between devaluation and inflation in the past decade, with devaluation lagging
behind inflation, has implied that BHU's assets have adjusted at a faster pace than its
liabilities, resulting in accounting gains and increases in its net worth which are not
substantiated by the real value of its assets This encourages non-payment, since debtors
realize that due to UR adjustments, the amount due of their loans often exceed the market
value of the properties acquired.
Lack of Transparency in the Financial Sector.
31.   Lack of transparency of financial information is an important obstacle to
improved standards of efficiency and competitiveness in the banking sector. Financial
information available to the public about the banks is very limited. Although since 1998,
private banks in Uruguay are required to have their accounts audited by external auditors,
these audits are not published. While all banks are obliged to publish their income and
loss statements, only private banks comply, but in a very aggregated form which does not
provide the basis for depositors to assess the solvency and liquidity of the financial
institutions, and make choices among banks. Lack of financial information is in part the
result of Uruguay's stringent banking secrecy law.  Although this law has been
instrumental in the development of off-shore banking in Uruguay, its strict interpretation
can restrict the sharing of information between banking supervisors recommended by the
Basle Committee in February 1998. This is probably an issue that will be discussed in
the context of financial integration within MERCOSUR.
32.   There is also lack of information about debtors to the banking system. Until
recently, the information on debtors published by BCU's Credit Risk System (Central de
Riesgo) was limited to only the largest debtors, and presented at a very aggregated level.
In part, this reflects an interpretation of the banking secrecy law as covering both the
21 The URs are units of account that adjust automatically to reflect changes in the index of average salaries
of the country.
11



information on assets and liabilities22. Lack of information about debtors difficult the
implementation of credit portfolio risk analysis and limits the availability of credit and
23
the use of corporate debt to finance productive activities
C.    The Government's Strategy for Financial Sector Reform
33.   The Uruguayan authorities recognize that the best protection against external
financial shocks is a solid and competitive financial sector.  The authorities are
committed to a phased program of reforms aimed at: (i) strengthening banking regulation,
supervision and inspection; (ii) establishing mechanisms for an orderly exit of banks from
the market; and (iii) stimulating the development of new financial products and the
competitiveness of Uruguayan banks vis-a-vis those of other countries in the region. The
financial sector reform program is expected to be implemented in two phases. The first
phase of the reform involves measures to: (i) improve competition in the banking sector
through a more level playing field between public and private banks; (ii) establish the
basis for privatization of a bank under public management; (iii) establish the framework
for the restructuring of BHU; (iv) strengthen banking regulation, supervision and
inspection; (v) improve transparency of financial information; and (vi) establish the basis
for a systematic approach to modernize the financial sector legal framework. The second
phase of the reform will be a challenge to be faced by the new administration that will
take office on March 1, 2000. It is expected that the new govermment will continue the
modernization of the financial sector legal framework and the re-privatization of the two
banks under public management. Another step would be the amendment of the charters
of the public banks to emphasize their role in mobilizing long term resources allowing
them to operate as second tier institutions.
Improvement of Domestic Competition in the Banking Sector.
34.   In the first phase of reform, the Uruguayan authorities are taking important steps
to create a more level playing field and stimulate competition between public and private
banks, including reducing special regulatory treatment of public banks and returning the
intervened banks to private administration.
35.   Measures to this effect already implemented include the following:
* Since December 1998, public agencies included in the national budget are allowed to
open deposits in public or private banks. This right was regulated by Executive
Decree issued on July 1999.
22 Uruguay has the most strict banking secrecy normns in all the region. Banking secrecy can only be lifted
by resolution of the criminal justice and by resolution of the civil justice only in cases involving the
obligation to provide maintenance.
23 Lack of transparency was a factor in the collapse of the market for corporate bonds following the
unexpected bankruptcy, in January 1998, of one of the first large bond issuers. Although that firm had
received loans from 16 banks, most of the banks were unaware of its true credit history.
12



* External audit of public banks. Starting in 1999, public banks are required to have
external audits. Public banks need to start as soon as possible with the audit process,
to ensure that the accounts of the year ending December 1999 will be adequately
audited. The external audit will emphasize, among other things, the review of the
loan portfolios of both banks, the level of provisions, and the value of their assets.
*  Acceleration of the reduction of BROU's provision's deficit. Since 1993, BROU has
been provisioning heavily to reduce its deficit of bad debt provisions, estimated now
at US$250 million, down from an estimated deficit of US$600 in 1992. At that time,
BCU and BROU agreed on a schedule to allow BROU to cover the deficit in 17
years. BROU is now committed to eliminate its provision shortfall by July 2005,
thereby decreasing by five years the adjustment time initially agreed.
* Introduction of a Scheme of Reserves for BHU. The BCU has issued regulation
requiring BHU to establish a scheme of reserve requirements.
Restructuring of Public Banks.
36.   Restructuring of BROU  In 1995, BROU initiated an institutional transformation
process aimed at improving its effectiveness and productivity, so that it would be better
prepared to face the forthcoming more competitive environment in the banking business.
BROU hired an international consulting firm to assist it in implementing the change
process, which included the reengineering of credit processes, finance, planning,
marketing, human resources, accounting, administration and audit. The transformation
also involved the acquisition of new hardware system and migrating to a new, state of the
art, software system. As part of the program, the consultant assisted BROU in preparing
its Strategic Plan for 1998-99. So far, the modernization of processes has resulted in a
new organizational structure, a 15% reduction of personnel, a 36% productivity
improvement, and reduced operating costs. Changes accomplished under the program
are very substantial, but there is the need to accelerate work on credit processes and the
management information system.
37.   Restructuring of BHU  BIHU has not yet initiated an institutional transformation
similar to the one being implemented by BROU. In addition to institutional weaknesses
that need to be addressed by a comprehensive restructuring program, BHU has significant
maturity and currency mismatches of its assets and liabilities (see par. 30) that require
urgent action. There is also a need to assess the true value of BHU's net worth, which is
likely to be overvalued due to: (i) current valuation practices on assets obtained in lieu of
loan payments, which result in values exceeding market prices; and (ii) doubts about the
classification of the credit portfolio and the insufficiency of provisions for bad loans.
38.   The Uruguayan authorities have indicated their intention to accelerate the
institutional restructuring of BROU, implement measures to strengthen the financial
position of BHU; and initiate BHU's institutional restructuring. Measures taken to this
effect include the following:
13



* Improvement of BROU's credit risk control function. BROU is taking measures to
improve the quality of the new loans and determine more accurately the real
condition of its loan portfolio. To this effect, BROU has approved a new policy of
credit risk control. Further progress is being made in credit analysis and approval
procedures, and in strengthening the new Credit Management Division.
* Reduction of BHU currency and term mismatch. BHU has approved the issuance of
long-term bonds that will reduce the flows mismatch between its assets and liabilities
by, at least, 75%. It has also adopted a credit policy giving priority to improving the
currency matching between its assets and liabilities.
* Establishment of conditions for the securitization of BHU's mortgage portfolio.
Securitization of BHU's portfolio would provide liquidity to the market and
contribute to the development of a secondary securities market. Securitization of
BHU's portfolio is limited by the lack of information on the quality of the portfolio
and lack of standards for the origination of loans. To overcome these constraints, the
external audit of BHU's accounts will emphasize the review of the quality of the loan
portfolio. Also, BHU has decided to standardize the terms of its loans to facilitate the
future securitization of mortgages. This involves establishing specific criteria in
terms of standardized loan documentation, origination and appraisals.
* Initiation of BHU's restructuring. BHU has prepared preliminary terms of reference
for the hiring of a consulting firm to help it to design an institutional restructuring
program.
Return of the Banks Under Government Management to Private Ownership.
39.   The Uruguayan authorities are committed to return to private management the
two commercial banks that are currently under government management. Sale of these
banks has been difficult because of the difference between the book and the real value of
these banks assets, and the opposition by the banking workers union to any job losses.
40.   Banco Caja Obrera. At the end of 1998, Banco Caja Obrera revalued various
assets, which made it possible for its net worth to remain positive. With the purpose of
accelerating the sale of the bank, the BCU, at shareholder's expense, hired an
international bank as financial advisor. The process for selling the bank began in 1997,
but due to comments by potential bidders on the sale conditions, the sellers agreed to
modify them, including allowing staff reductions, to increase the attractiveness of the
bank. Four interested parties acquired the bidding documents and were qualified to
submit a bid: However, only one joint offer by two banks was submitted. In June 1999,
the Government rejected the purchase offer because, according to the technical advisors
of the BCU, their offer did not comply with the conditions of the bid documents. The
buyers were supposed to buy the bank "as is", but in the final offer, they proposed to take
the US$235 loan portfolio with the condition that after three years they could return up to
30% of the bad portfolio to the Government. This condition would have created a
contingency liability for the Government of about US$70 million.
14



41.   Banco de Credito. The government's intention is to restructure and cleanup
Banco de Credito before privatizing it. Although the acquisition by Banco de Credito of
Banco Pan de Azucar's good assets has not reduced its net worth deficit, it had the
advantage of isolating the legal problem with the previous owners of Banco Pan de
Azucar from the "good bank", facilitating its sale to a third party.
42.   The authorities have expressed their intention to accelerate the sale of these two
banks as follows:
* Sale of Banco Caja Obrera. After rejecting the purchase offer, the authorities have
announced that the bank would be put again for sale early in year 2000.
* Initiate Sale of Banco de Credito. To sell Banco de Credito, it is necessary to assess
the value of the bank through an evaluation of the quality of its portfolio (of about
50,000 loans) and estimate the real value of its investments and fixed assets. A
financial advisor has been selected and hired to assess the value of the new Banco de
Credito and to design an strategy for its privatization.
Strengthening of Banking Regulation, Supervision and Inspection
43.   The Uruguayan  authorities have  indicated  their intention  to  continue
strengthening the supervision and inspection of the banking system and the regulations
concerning audits, risks, and valuation of assets and guarantees.  Some of the
strengthening measures include the following:
*  Issuing norms to control risks.  The BCU has recently issued new norms and
regulations to control risk. These include regulation requiring the banks to adopt a
policy of flows matching between assets and liabilities for those transactions with a
maturity in excess of three years. With support from an IDB loan, the BCU
established a US$60 million fund to provide banks with a seguro de calce (Term Gap
Insurance) for a fee of 1% on utilized funds. The fund has already been fully utilized
and the BCU intends to replenish it. The SIFF also has issued regulations requiring
public and private banks to calculate their capital adequacy ratio on a consolidated
basis and for applying rating and provisioning norns with respect to loans to public
enterprises. In addition, the SIIF has started to implement the change from the
CAMEL to the CAMELS system and will require banks to inform about the risk
models utilized with the objective of assessing their adequacy.
* Strengthening inspection of public banks. To ensure adequate inspection of public
banks, the BCU's has approved an inspection plan to carry out on-site inspections
presented by the SIIF, with an schedule of inspections of public and private banks
between July 1999 and June 2001, in accordance with the CAMELS methodology.
This plan includes inspection of information systems and off-site analysis.
15



*  Strengthening of bank's audits. In September 1999, the BCU issued a norm requiring
public and private banks to have their accounts audited by external auditors. The
SIIF issued norms establishing the minimum content of external audits. To
strengthen the audit function, the SIIF now requires that all banks create Audit
Committees by the end of 1999.
*  Introducing mechanisms to facilitate market exit. The BCU authorities have recently
(May 1999) issued a circular establishing procedures to allow an orderly exit from the
market of banks that do not have financial problems. The procedures include
requirements of the exiting banks to inform the BCU at least 90 days prior to the
cease of activities, present a liquidation plan detailing the guarantees, resources and
timing expected for the cancellation of liabilities, and mechanisms for the retirement
of deposits and the transfer of credit lines to other institutions.
*  Making valuation of assets and guarantees more transparent.  Valuation of
companies assets cannot be made based on market prices because of illiquid markets
and lack of a yield curve. This is an issue across all financial intermediaries. Assets
are frequently valued at purchase price or last sale. In view of the need to standardize
valuation processes across sectors, the BCU has issued norms to value the assets of
private and public banks according to the Mark-to Market Valuation Method. The
BCU has also issued norms requiring private and public banks to hire independent
appraisers to estimate the value of the goods, rights or any other form of collateral
provided to guarantee loans in excess of 3% of the minimum net equity requirement
applicable to all banks in Uruguay.
Improvement of Transparency in the Financial Sector
44.   The Uruguayan authorities are in the process of introducing greater transparency
into the financial sector. The measures to achieve this include the following:
- Publication of financial information by the banks. The BCU has issued a circular
providing that public and private banks, starting in the year 2001, make available
their external audits for the preceding year. Also, a BCU resolution requires banks to
publish, starting in year 2000, detailed financial information with respect to the
preceding calendar year.
*  Creation of a New Credit Information Bureau (Central de Riesgo). The BCU is in
the process of implementing a new information system to cover all debtors. The main
benefit of the new information system is that it will allow telephonic information
about any debtor of obligations assumed as debtor, co-debtor or guarantor, as well as
of their payment situation. The system will have electronic connection with all banks
and will submit monthly reports. Another important feature is that it will present
credit information by categories.  The new  credit information system  being
implemented by the BCU will provide information about all debtors of the financial
and non financial public and private sector having a debt which exceeds 0.3% of the
minimum net equity requirement applicable to all banks in Uruguay for purposes of
16



operating as banking institutions. Starting on October 1, 2000, the system will group
relevant credit risk information by separate categories. This information will enable
banks to better assess the credit risk of potential borrowers and allow the SIIF to carry
out analysis of the system's global portfolio or of the portfolio of a particular entity.
Modernization of the Financial Sector Legal Framework
45.   The Government is aware of the need to accelerate legal reform in the financial
sector. However, given the resistance to rapid reform in Uruguay, any major legislative
proposal will require a process of dissemination of information on the policy options and
consensus building in support of the reform proposals. To enable this process to take
place, the Government has created a unit to manage this process. Some of the bills of law
that have been recently submitted to Parliament include:
*  Application of International Accounting Standards. In July 1999, the executive sent
to Parliament a draft law requiring the adoption of International Accounting
Standards for all commercial entities.
*  Facilitating the use of Warrants, Securitization and pledges. The Executive has
presented to Parliament a bill of law which, if enacted, would permit the execution of
"warrants" without judicial intervention. Warrants would be treated as negotiable
instruments (titulo valor), to expedite execution procedures. In September 1999, after
two years of discussion, Parliament approved the Securitization Law. Congress
enacted a law which expands the types of goods which may be subject to be pledged
under the concept of prenda sin desplazamiento as a type of secured interest on
specific goods).
D Creation of a Financial Technical Unit. The Government has created a Financial
Technical Unit within the BCU to carry out technical and legal studies in the financial
sector with the assistance of technical consultants. This unit will produce reports that
will lead to a process of consultation on the reform proposals and to the drafting of
laws to be presented to Parliament. The unit will also work with Parliamentary
commissions and interested groups to generate consensus around the legislative
initiatives in the financial area to accelerate their passage. Important areas to be
covered by the technical unit will be the following: (i) reform of the financial sector
legal framework, including the preparation of new Charters for BROU and BHU, and
proposals for a mechanism to allow for an orderly crisis resolution for troubled
financial institutions; and (ii) study  of the factors that limit banking sector
competitiveness and options for policy reform. The Technical Unit would also
analyze whether the prohibition imposed on the banks in the aftermath of the
financial crisis of the early 1 980s, of investing in private securities, is still relevant in
view today's stronger regulatory framework.
17



III. BANK ASSISTANCE STRATEGY IN THE FINANCIAL SECTOR
A.   Bank Assistance Strategy in Financial Sector Reform
46.   Rationale for Bank Involvement and Strategy.  The Bank has long been
concerned about the lack of depth of the domestic credit and capital markets in Uruguay
and of the dominant role of state banks. These points are highlighted in the CAS
discussed by the Board on June 25, 1997. The 1997 CAS envisioned Bank support to
financial sector reform through a variety of instruments, including advisory services of
bank restructuring and, in the high-case scenario, a capital markets development loan.
The proposed loan in support of Uruguay's program of financial sector reforms is
consistent with the CAS objectives of financial and public enterprise reform and
complements the capital markets reform loan approved by the Bank in January 1998.
47.   The Bank's Strategy for Financial Sector Reform in Uruguay. The Bank's
strategy is to support incremental policy improvements in the financial sector, while
continuing the dialogue and technical work needed to ensure consensus on more far
reaching financial sector reforms in the future.  Consistent with this strategy, the
proposed adjustment loan would support a number of important measures to create a
more level playing field between public and private banks by reducing the special
treatment enjoyed by public banks, strengthening the supervisory capabilities of the
BCU; and by assisting in evaluating Banco de Credito, one of the two remaining banks
under public management. To accelerate the pace of policy reform in Uruguay, the
executive authorities need to be able to present the policy options to the various
stakeholders, the public, the trade unions and the Parliament, in a convincing manner. To
address this need, the proposed loan also supports the creation of a Technical Unit that
would conduct legal and technical studies in key areas of concern in the financial sector.
These studies would be the basis of policy reform proposals that would be submitted for
discussion among the different interested parties, including members of Parliament.
48.   Jusdfication for Adjustment Lending. Adjustment lending is justified on the
basis of the balance of payments shortfall rationale. Uruguay is a small, fairly open,
economy. Its GDP was approximately US$21 billion in 1998, and combined imports and
exports of goods represented nearly one-third of GDP. Under such conditions, the
economy is susceptible to external shocks. Last fall's turbulence in international financial
markets led to a restriction in Uruguay's access to foreign lending -- despite successful
compliance with its IMF program and an investment grade rating from the international
rating agencies. These difficulties led the authorities to withdraw 90% of the previous
"precautionary" IMF stand-by arrangement4. Following this shock on the financial side,
a real shock has occurred since the Brazilian devaluation leading to double-digit declines
in trade with MERCOSUR partners during the first quarter of the year. The last two
decades of experience with balance of payments disruptions in emerging economies have
revealed the importance of establishing a strong domestic financial system as a means of
24 The old SBA of SDR 125 million expired 3/19/99, new SBA approved 3/29/99 for SDR 70 million
18



cushioning the economy from external shocks. With solid domestic banks, the negative
impact of the shock is more likely to be limited to exposed sectors. In addition, the
recovery from a period of negative growth is likely to be more rapid in the presence of
efficient financial intermediation. The final expected result of the financial sector reform
program is to lower the degree of economic and social costs associated with the recent,
and possible future, external shocks.
49.   Uruguay's gross financial requirements through the balance of payments are
expected to be on the order of US$1.4 billion this year -- comprised of a current account
deficit of US$500 million and public and private external debt amortization of US$900
million. The government projects a financing plan with an adequate mix of multilateral
and private sector sources. From the multilaterals, the financing plan calls for US$395
million from the Bank and IDB, as well as an already approved US$95 million (SDR 70
million) precautionary stand-by arrangement with the IMF. The government recently
issued a ten-year global bond for US$250 million. The IMF is projecting a US$200
million loss in reserves for 1999, leaving the country with 6.4 months of coverage of
imports of goods and services; however, this figure will depend upon the degree of access
to private international lenders by both the public and private sectors.
B.   Experience with Adjustment Lending in Uruguay
50.   The Bank's experience with adjustment lending in Uruguay in the late 1980s and
early 1990s was mixed. Although most of the development objectives supported by the
operations were eventually achieved, implementation lagged. Implementation delays
were the result of the disparity between expectations of quick SAL disbursements and
Uruguay's deliberate pace in concluding sensitive policy reforms. In contrast, the Bank's
experience with the Contractual Savings Adjustment Loan, approved in February 1998,
has been highly satisfactory, as confirmed by an OED review of the Loan's ICR dated
December 3, 1998. One-important lesson from this experience is that adjustmnent
operations in Uruguay should be designed to support incremental reforms in areas in
which there is ample consensus.  Another lesson is that to ensure Government
commitment to timely implementation, adjustment loans should address a small number
of policy areas, and have maximum up-front implementation. Following this approach,
the proposed adjustment loan has been designed as a one tranche loan in support of up-
front measures.
C.   Coordination with Multilateral Institutions
51.   During preparation of this loan, the Bank has been in close contact with the IMF
and the IDB. The precautionary Stand-by with Uruguay, approved by the Fund Board in
March, 1999, also supports the Government's program of financial sector reforms. The
Fund gives particular importance to the privatization of the intervened banks and the
carrying out of the external audits of the public banks The IDB and the Bank have
collaborated in the past in support of financial sector reforms in Uruguay.
19



IV. THE PROPOSED LOAN
A.   Loan Objectives and Description
52.   This proposed adjustment loan would support the first stage of the Government's
financial sector reform program aiming at: (i) improving competition in the banking
sector establishing a more level playing field between public and private banks; (ii)
strengthening banking regulation, supervision, and inspection; (iii) restructuring of public
banks; (iv) assisting in the privatization of a bank under public management; (v)
introducing more transparency in the financial sector; and (vi) assisting in the
modernization of the financial sector legal framework. The ultimate objective of the
Government's reform program is to create an environment conducive to a better
functioning financial sector, able to withstand external shocks and with greater
participation in the domestic credit market.
53.   The proposed loan to the Repuiblica Oriental del Uruguay would be disbursed in
one tranche, upon loan effectiveness. It would support the first phase of Government's
financial sector reform program, which has been implemented. The Borrower would be
the Repuiblica Oriental del Uruguay and implementation of the first phase of the reform
program has been carried out by the Ministry of Economy and Finance, the BCU, BROU
and BHU.
B.   Policy Actions
54.   The Government and the Bank have agreed on the objectives of a program of
financial sector reforms that are expected to be implemented in two phases. The main
objectives of this program are described in a Letter of Sector Policy (attached). This
proposed loan would support the first phase of the Government's financial sector reform
program in areas concerning the public banks, the intervened bank, banking regulation,
supervision and inspection, transparency of financial information, and financial sector
legal issues. Some of the policy reforms have been implemented in the context of loan
preparation, following recommendations proposed by Bank missions. All of the agreed
policy actions under the first phase of the financial sector reform program have been
implemented. The Bank expects to continue the dialogue on the follow up phase of the
financial sector reform program with the new authorities that will take office in March 1,
2000.
55.   Loan proceeds would be disbursed upon effectiveness. The following measures
have been taken prior to Board presentation, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank:
I. Measures to Improve Competition in the Banking Sector
* Issuance of the Borrower's Executive Decree No. 188/99 of July 1, 1999 regulating
the right of public agencies included in its national budget to open bank accounts in
public or private banks in Uruguay;
20



* Issuance of BCU's Circular No 1664 of September 9, 1999, providing that public
banks in Uruguay shall, starting in the year 1999, have their financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of incomes and expenses and related statements) audited
by external auditors;
* Issuance of BROU's Resolution of December 9, 1999, selecting an international
auditing firm, satisfactory to the Bank, to carry out an external audit of BROU's 1999
financial statements (balance sheet, statements of income and expenses and related
statements);
* Issuance of BHU's Resolution of December 1, 1999, selecting an international
auditing firm, satisfactory to the Bank, to carry out an external audit of BHU's 1999
financial statements (balance sheet, statements of incomes and expenses and related
statements);
* Issuance of BROU's Resolution of September 10, 1999, providing that BROU shall
eliminate its deficit of provisions for non-performing loans by July 31, 2005;
* Issuance of BCU's Resolution of January 18, 2000, requiring BHU to establish a
scheme of reserve requirements.
'I. Measures to Restructure Public Banks.
- Issuance of BROU's Resolution of January 18, 2000, approving a new policy of
control of its credit risk;
D  Issuance of BHU's Resolution of November 3, 1999, approving the issuance of long-
term bonds that will reduce the flows mismatch between its assets and liabilities by at
least 75%;
* Issuance of BHU's Certificate No. 13628 of September 22, 1999, approving a credit
policy to improve the currency matching between its assets and liabilities;
* Issuance of BHU Resolution No. 13626 of September 8, 1999, adopting a policy to
standardize the terms of its loans to facilitate the subsequent securitization of
mortgages; and
* Preparation of BHU of terms of reference for the employment of a consulting firm to
design an institutional restructuring plan for BHU.
III. Measures to Initiate the Privatization of Banco de Credito
* Agreement dated February 3, 2000 entered into between the BCU and an investment
advisory firm, satisfactory to the Bank, to assess the value of Banco de Credito's loan
21



portfolio, investments and fixed assets and design an strategy for the sale of the
Borrower's majority stock ownership in Banco de Credito;
IV. Measures to Strengthen Banking Regulation, Supervision and Inspection
* Issuance of BCU's Circular No. 1.639 of March 4, 1999, providing that public and
private banks in Uruguay shall, starting on April 1, 1999, adopt a policy of flows
matching between its assets and liabilities for those transactions with a maturity in
excess of three years;
* Issuance of BCU's Circular No. 1.662 of September 9, 1999, requiring public and
private banks in Uruguay to calculate their capital adequacy ratio on a consolidated
basis;
* Issuance of BCU's Resolution of September 7, 1999, providing that public and
private banks in Uruguay shall, starting on January 1, 2000, apply rating and
provisioning norms with respect to loans to state enterprises;
* Issuance of BCU's Circular No. 1.664 of September 9,1999, requiring public and
private banks in Uruguay to create and audit committee by not later than March 31,
2000;
* Issuance of BCU's Notice No. 99/108 of September 9, 1999, requiring public and
private banks to disclose to BCU the risk models used by such banks in connection
with their lending operations for the purpose of the assessment of the adequacy of
such models by BCU;
* Issuance of BCU's Resolution of July 16, 1999, approving a plan to carry out on-site
inspections of public and private banks in Uruguay between July 1, 1999 and June 30,
2001 in accordance with the capital, assets, management, earnings, liquidity and
sensitivity to interest risks (CAMELS) methodology;
* Issuance of BCU's Circular No 1.645 of May 5, 1999, establishing procedures to be
followed by solvent private banks in cases in which such banks have decided to cease
operating as banking institutions in Uruguay;
*  Issuance of BCU's Notice of September 2, 1999, establishing norms to value the
assets of public and private banks in Uruguay in accordance with the Mark to Market
Valuation Method;
* Issuance of BCU's Circular No. 1.626 of December 22, 1998, establishing norms to
value assets of pension funds administrators in Uruguay in accordance with the Mark
to Market Valuation Method; and
* Issuance of BCU's Notice No. 99/109 of September 9, 1999, requiring private and
public banks in Uruguay to hire independent appraisers to estimate the value of the
22



goods, rights or any other form or collateral provided by borrowers to guarantee loans
in excess of 3% of the minimum net equity requirement applicable to all banks in
Uruguay for purposes of operating as banking institutions.
V. Measures to Improve Transparency of the Financial Sector
*  Issuance of BCU's Circular No. 1.663 of September 9, 1999, providing that public
and private banks in Uruguay, shall, starting in the year 2001, make available to the
public their annual external audit reports for the immediate preceding fiscal year;
*  Issuance of BCU's Resolution of September 8, 1999, providing that public and
private banks in Uruguay shall, starting in the year 2000, publish detailed financial
information with respect to the preceding calendar quarter;
*  Issuance of BCU's Notice No 99/49 of May 11, 1999, indicating that its Credit Risk
Information system (Central deInformacion de Riesgo) is providing information with
respect to, inter alia, each debtor having a debt which exceeds 0.3% of the minimum
net equity requirements applicable to all banks in Uruguay for purposes of operating
as banking institutions; and
*  Issuance of BCU's Notice No. 99/49 of May 11, 1999, indicating that BCU's credit
risk information system shall, starting on October 1, 2000, group relevant credit risk
information by separate categories.
VI. Measures to Modernize the Financial Sector Legal Framework
*  Presentation to the Borrower's Congress of the bill of law dated July 15, 1999, which,
if enacted, would require all companies in Uruguay follow international accepted
accounting standards;
*  Presentation to the Borrower's Congress on December 10, 1998, of a bill of law
which, if enacted, would, inter alia, permit the execution of "warrants" without
judicial intervention;
*  Enactment of the Borrower's Law No. 17.228 of December 21, 1999 which, inter
alia, expands the type of goods which may be subject to prenda sin desplazamiento
(as a type of secured interest on specific goods); and
*  Creation of a Technical Unit within the BCU which will, inter alia: (i) carry out
technical and legal analyses of financial sector reform proposals; (ii) prepare and
present to the Borrower's executive branch the recommendations resulting form the
analyses mentioned in (i) herein; and (iii) build consensus amongst the Borrower's
executive and legislative branches of government and stakeholders with respect to
financial sector reform proposals.
23



C.   Disbursement and Audit
56.   Loan disbursements would be made under simplified SAL/SECAL procedures.
The Borrower would be required to open and maintain a Deposit Account in its Central
Bank. When the loan becomes effective, the Borrower would submit a simplified
withdrawal application against which the Bank would disburse the loan proceeds into the
Deposit Account for the borrower's use.
57.   Upon the Bank's request, the Borrower will have the Deposit Account audited by
an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank. Copies of the Deposit Account audits
would be submitted to the Bank no later than four months after the date of the Bank's
request for such audits. The loan Closing Date would be June 30, 2000.
D.   Impact, Benefits and Risks
58.   Social Impact. The proposed loan would have very little social impact in the
short run. In the longer run, however, the reform measures supported by the proposed
loan would have important social implications in terms of increased economic activity,
with the associated generation of job opportunities. The ultimate objective of the reform
measures supported by this loan is a better functioning financial sector, able to withstand
external shocks and with greater participation in the domestic credit market. Greater
access to credit by local businesses, particularly small and medium enterprises, would
create more job opportunities, an important social objective in a country of relatively high
unemployment levels (currently, unemployment is about 11%).
59.   Fiscal Impact. Some of the reform measures would initially generate extra
Government expenditures, although in the long run they should reduce budgetary outlays.
For example, the decision to apply 100% of BROU's profits to the reduction of this
bank's provisions deficit, will represent a loss of revenue for the Government. Similarly,
the introduction of a scheme of paid reserves for BHU will generate costs. However, in
the longer run, the measures supported by this loan will reduce the burden of the financial
system on the budget. The restructuring of the public banks and the strengthening of
BCU's supervision of these banks will reduce the risk of another Government bailout of
BHU in the future.
60.   Environmental Impact. The financial sector reformn program is not expected to
have any environmental impact and would be ranked C for environmental purposes.
61.   Benefits. The proposed loan would contribute to ensure banking soundness and
increase the competitiveness of Uruguayan banks. In the short run, the main benefit of
the reform measures supported by this loan would be in terms increased competition in
the banking sector, brought about by a more level playing field between public and
private banks. The special treatment enjoyed by public banks in Uruguay (including the
banks under public management), have allowed them to lend at lower rates and be more
lenient in collecting loans than private banks.  This has contributed to market
segmentation, with private banks focusing mostly on lending to the largest firms or
24



operating in off shore markets. In particular, the external audit of the public banks and
the independent assessment of the value of Banco de Credito, will reveal the true level of
the contingent liabilities faced by the Government with respect to publicly managed
banks. The measures to improve transparency of information about the financial
situation of the banks will allow the public to make more informed decisions on where to
put their money. On the other hand, more information about creditors would help the
development of a more active domestic credit market by reducing the non payment risks
faced by lenders. In the long run, the benefits of the proposed loan are in terms of setting
up the stage for a more open public discussion and dialogue on sensitive financial sector
issues in Uruguay, particularly on the need to reduce the role of the public sector in the
financial area, on ways to address the factors affecting the competitiveness of Uruguay's
banks in the region, and on ways to reduce judicial uncertainty and strengthen the
enforcement of contracts in the financial sector. As indicated above, some reform
initiatives in the financial sector take long to be approved, or do not come to fruition, due
to lack of concerted efforts to build consensus and to timely respond to the questions
raised by Parliamentarians to the bills submitted to Parliament. A major benefit of the
creation of the proposed Financial Policy Technical Unit is that it will act as a hub to
disseminate the results of technical and legal studies on financial sector issues, and
centralize efforts to generate consensus around policy reform proposals.
62.   Risks. The main risk associated with this operation is the possibility that the new
administration that will take office on March 1, 2000, may not go ahead with the second
phase of financial sector reforms, including the sale of the intervened banks and the
proposal of new financial legislation. Factors that mitigate this risk are the efforts
already under way to find a buyer for Banco Caja Obrera, and the need to maintain the
credibility of the regulatory function by requiring Banco de Credito to comply with
capital adequacy norms or close down. Also, there is increasing consensus in Uruguay
on the need to strengthen the legal framework to ensure the competitiveness of Uruguay's
banks, in view of the increasingly macroeconomic stability and improving banking sector
efficiency in neighboring countries, and the greater openness in factor markets brought
about by MERCOSUR. The new administration is aware of the proposed loan and is in
agreement with the first phase of financial sector reforms.
V. RECOMMENDATION
63.   I am satisfied that the proposed loan complies with the Articles of Agreement of
the Bank, and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
By Sven Sandstrom
Washington, D.C.
February 4, 2000
Attachments
25



URUGUAY                                      ANNEX I
FINANCIAL SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM
1. MACROECONOMIC POLICzY FRAMEWORK
Maintenance of supportive    *  In 03/1999, the FMI approved a precautionary Stand-by
macroeconomic program            until 3/2000
*  Maintenance of sound macroeconomic framework
consistent with the policy objectives and program
described in the Letter of Sector Policy
2. MEASURES TO IMPROVE COMPETITION IN THE BANKING SECTOR
To create a more level playing    *  Issuance of Executive Decree No. 188/99 of July 1, 1999,  *  Equal tax treatment of financial institutions
field for public and private banks    regulating the right of public agencies included in the  and transactions to reduce spread distortions
national budget to open bank accounts in public or private
banks in Uruguay
*  Issuance of BCU's Circular No. 1.664 of September 9,
1999 providing that public banks shall, starting in year
1999, have their financial statements audited by external
auditors
BANCO REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY
(BROU)
*  Issuance of BROU's Resolution of December 9, 1999,  *  Modification of BROU's Charter to: (i)
selecting an international auditing firm, satisfactory to the  permit the sale of part of its equity to the
Bank, to audit BROU's 1999 financial statements       private sector; and (ii) increase its role as
second tier bank
26



. ~ ~ ~     ~ ~ ~ UIN  1'KR DtO1 1/AR  fl:'TAI~                                      KJ9 JtvECEf OI*-    WE    F:
* Issuance of BROU's Resolution of September 10, 1999,
providing that BROU shall eliminate its deficit of
provisions for non-performing loans by July 31, 2005
BANCO HIPOTECARIO DEL URUGUAY (BHU)
*  Issuance of BHU's Resolution of December 1, 1999,     *  Modification of BHU's Charter to: (i) permit
selecting an intemational auditing firm, satisfactory to the  the sale of part of its equity to the private
Bank, to audit BHU's 1999 financial statements           sector; (ii) increase its role as second tier
bank; and (iii) permit greater flexibility in
*  Issuance of BCU's Resolution of January 18, 2000          granting mortgage loans in US dollars.
requiring BHU to establish a scheme of reserve
requirements
3. MEASRUES TO RESTRUCTURE PUBLIC BANKS
To strengthen the productivity    BANCO REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY
and financial position of public   (BROU)
banks
* Issuance of BROU's Resolution of January 18, 2000
approving a new policy of control of its credit risk
BANCO HIPOTECARIO DE URUGUAY (BHU)
*  Issuance of BHU's Resolution of November 3, 1999
approving the issuance of long-term bonds that will
reduce the flows mismatch between its assets and
liabilities by at least 75%
*  Issance of BHU's Resolution 13.628 of September 22,
.______1 1999, approving a credit policy to improve the currency
2 7



6 < 0 0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UGA~ SEON '                                                             AEO
matching between its assets and liabilities
* Issuance of BHU's Resolution 13.626 of September 8,
1999, adopting a policy to standardize the terms of its
loans to facilitate the subsequent securitization of
mortgages
*  Preparation by BHIU of terms of reference for the hiring
of a consulting firm to design an institutional restructuring  *  Formulation and implementation of an
plan for BHU                                            institutional restructuring plan for BHU
4. MEASURES TO PRIVATIZE BANKS UNDER GOVERNMENT MANAGEMENT
To transfer management of      BANCO DE CREDITO                                        *  Full privatization of Banco Caja Obrera
intervened banks to the private
sector                        *  Agreement dated February 3, 2000 between the BCU and   *  Full privatization of Banco de Credito
an investment advisory firm, satisfactory to the Bank, to
assess the value of Banco de Credito and design an
strategy for its privatization
5. MEASURES TO STRENGTHEN BANKING REGULATION SUPERVISION AND INSPECTION
To strengthen banking regulation NORMS AND REGULATIONS
to:
*  improve the bank's internal  *  Issuance of BCU's Circular No. 1.639 of March 4, 1999,   *  Strengthened BCU's functions to regulate
and external controls and     requiring public and private banks to adopt a policy of  and supervise public banks
their evaluation              flows matching between assets and liabilities for
*  allow for orderly exit of      transactions with maturities in excess of 3 years   *  Prudential regulation for derivatives
banking institutions from the                                                         transactions in place
market                     *  Issuance of BCU's Circular No. 1.662 of September 9,
*  strengthen BCU's inspection    1999, requiring public and private banks to calculate their
capacity, ensuring adequate   capital adequacy on a consolidated basis
28



* i  Q fBJT1EwTS . ::  TIONS TAXK BIFO   0WPRESENTATION K; i                                     EXPECED OBllECTVS O1 
coverage of all the banking
system                     *  Issuance of BCU' Resolution of September 7, 1999,
providing that public and private banks shall, starting on
January 1, 2000, apply rating and provisioning norms with
respect to state enterprises
*  Issuance of BCU's Circular No. 1.664 of September 7,
1999 requiring public and private banks to create Audit
Committees no later than March 31, 2000
*  Issuance of BCU's Notice 99/108 of September 9, 1999
requiring public and private banks to disclose to BCU the
risk model utilized with the objective of assessing their
adequacy
BANKING EXIT MECHANISMS
*  Issuance of BCU's Circular No. 1.645 of May 5, 1999  *  Mechanisms to allow for an orderly market
establishing procedures to be followed by solvent banks to exit of insolvent banks in place
cease operating as banking institutions
INSPECTION AND SUPERVISION
* Issuance of BCU's Resolution of July 16, 1999, approving
a plan to carry out on-site inspections of public and
private banks between 07/99 and 06/2001 in accordance
with CAMELS methodology
VALUATION ASSETS AND GUARANTEES
* Issuance of BCU's Notice of September 2, 1999,
29



establishing norrns to value assets of public and private
banks in accordance with the Mark-to Market Valuation
Method
*  Issuance of BCU's Circular No. 1.626 of December 22,
1998, establishing norms to value assets of pension fund
administrators in accordance with the Mark to Market
Valuation Method
^  Issuance of BCU's Notice 99/109 of September 9, 1999
requiring private and public banks to hire independent
appraisers to estimate the value of collateral provided to
guarantee loans in excess of 3% of the minimum net
equity requirement applicable to all banks
6. MEASURES TO IMPROVE TRANSPARENCY OF FINANCLIL SECTOR
To improve depositors' choices INFORMATION ABOUT BANKS
through more and more
accessible information about    *  Issuance of BCU's Circular No. 1.663 of September 9,
banks                            1999, providing that public and private banks shall,
starting in the year 2001, make available to the public
their annual external audit reports of the preceding year
*  Issuance of BCU's Resolution of September 10, 1999,
providing that public and private banks shall, starting in
the year 2000, publish detailed financial information with
respect to the preceding calendar quarter
INFORMATION ABOUT DEBTORS
To diminish financial risks, and
30



Q1JfVS                  ACTION(S TAE S.BEFRE DO4ARJ) PRSENAON                      KY _XECE _~ETSO
increase lending, through more   *  Issuance of BCU's Notice 99/49 of May 11, 1999,
information about debtors       indicating that its Credit Risk System (Central de Riesgo)
is providing information concerning each debtor having a
debt which exceeds 0.3% of the minimum net equity
requirement of the banks
* Issuance of BCU's Notice 99/49 of May 11, 1999
indicating the BCU's credit risk information shall, starting
on October 1, 2000, group relevant credit risk infornation
by separate categories
7. MEASURES TO MODERNIZE THE FINANCIAL SECTOR LEGAL FRAMEWORK
To create a legal framework  *  Presentation to Congress of a bill of law dated July 15,    *  Full implementation of International
conducive to the development of  1999, which, if enacted, would require all companies in  Accounting Standards
an efficient and solvent financial  Uruguay (including public and private banks), to follow
sector, capable of expanding     internationally accepted accounting standards      *  Legislation approved to expedite procedures
access to credit                                                                       to execute security interests in pledged assets
*  Presentation to Congress of a bill of law on December 10,
1998, which, if enacted, would, inter alia, permit the  *  Modification of the Leasing Law (approved in
execution of Warrants without judicial intervention    01/98) to allow non financial entities to lease
capital goods
*  Enactment of the Borrower's Law No. 17.228 of
December 21, 1999, which, inter alia, expands the type of
goods which may be subject to prenda sin desplazamiento
(as a type of secured interest on specific goods)
POLICY ANALYSIS AND FORMULATION
*  Reports to be issued by the Financial
policy analysis, formtion,and  *  Creation of a Financial Technical Unit within the BCU  Technical Unit proposing policy reforms in
approlicyalysis, formulation,    which will inter alia: (i) carry out technical and legal  the following areas:
approval                         analyses of financial sector reform proposals; (ii) prepare
31



and present the recommendations resulting from the    *Financial sector legal framework
analyses; and (iii) build consensus among government  *Banking sector competitiveness
branches and stakeholders with respect to financial sector  *Mechanisms to allow for an orderly market exit
reform proposals                                       of financial institutions
*Estimation of contingent liabilities for the
Government from the public and intervened
banks.
32



ANNEX II
Montevideo, January 31, 2000
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
The World Bank
Washington D. C.
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn:
1.    This Letter of Development Policy describes the objectives of the Government of
Uruguay financial sector reform program, including the objectives, policies and actions of the
first phase of such reform designed to: improve competition in the banking sector, restructure
of public banks, assist in the privatization of a bank under public management (Banco de
Credito), strengthen banking regulation and supervision, improve the transparency of financial
information, and modernize the financial sector legal framework. In order to implement the
first phase of the reform, we are requesting financial assistance from the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank). Bank assistance is particularly needed at this
juncture, when successive financial crisis have impacted negatively the public finances of the
countries in South America. We would like to take this opportunity to also describe the
macroeconomic framework which serves as the basis of the reform program, and the
Government of Uruguay's major achievements under the social security and capital market
reforms.
I. Main Objectives of Economic Policy
2.    The main objectives of economic policy of the Uruguayan Government are, to improve
the standard of living of the population, in particular that of the poorest segment, and provide
stability in the conditions under which the economy operates, with the aim of achieving
sustainable economic growth. To achieve these objectives, the current Government, which
started its administration in March 1995, has adopted a program of medium-term stabilization
based on the strengthening of public sector finances, limiting public expenditure and utilizing
in a responsible manner the offer of funds. Other instruments utilized to achieve the same
objectives are the reduction of the external vulnerability, controlling the disequilibrium of the
current account of the balance of payments, and extending the maturity of the public debt. The
gradual reduction of the inflation rate to close to international levels, is the most visible
manifestation of the achievement of the Government's targets. The stabilization program is
complemented by a set of structural reforms and the commitment to take into consideration the
most sensitive social areas.
33



3.    Among the most important structural measures that have been adopted since 1995, are
the reform of the social security system; reform of the tax system; the reform of the state; and
the reform  of the education sector.  There have been also important advances in the
deregulation of the economy and the privatization or concession of services (roads, ports,
utilities) that were previously in government hands.
4.    The Uruguayan banking sector has a strong reputation as a regional financial center.
The Government has taken measures to preserve and improve this reputation, strengthening
banking supervision and modernizing the legal framework, in order to promote the sector's
development, while maintaining its solvency. Also, measures have been taken to improve the
legal framework for the development of the capital markets. The introduction of institutional
investors has become one of the engines for the development of the capital market, which in
comparative terms, is very small and underdeveloped in Uruguay. At the same time, there has
been progress in the legal framework to expand the supply of securities in the capital markets.
5.    The social policy of the government is geared towards assisting the most vulnerable
groups of the population such as the unemployed, children, young mothers, and the low
income elderly. The strategy is to provide them with greater and better social services, and, in
some cases, with monetary support. One of the characteristics of Uruguay in the last fifteen
years, has been the improvement in income distribution and in the main social indicators on
poverty, health, and basic education. The challenge faced by the Government has been to
consolidate and improve the advances achieved since 1985.
6.    In the section below, we describe the main aspects of the macroeconomic program, the
structural reforms, including the major achievements under the social security and capital
markets reforms, and the measures taken to modernize the financial sector.
II. The Macroeconomic Program
7.    The level of economic activity  during  the years of implementation of this
Administration's program of fiscal control and macroeconomic stabilization has experienced
some fluctuations. There was a brief mild recession at the beginning of our mandate, due to
the impact of the Mexican crisis at the end of 1994. In 1995, GDP fell by 1.8%. In the
following three years, however, growth was particularly vigorous, with rates of 5.3% in 1996,
5.1% in 1997 and 4.5% in 1998. The year ended at September of 1999, GDP contracted by
2.5%, with respect to the previous year. The fall of income was even greater due to the
unfavorable evolution of the terms of trade.
2
34



8.    The recovery of economic activity in the period between 1995 and 1997, was
accompanied by a strong dynamism in exports and in private sector investment. Exports grew
by 10% in 1995 and 14% in the two following years. The increase in the investment rate was
also high in these three years: 13% in 1995, 31% in 1996 and 14% in 1997. The expansion of
both imports and exports reflected the process of openness and integration that has taken place
in a continuous way in the last two decades.
9.    In 1998, growth rates remained at the previous levels until August; but once Russia
declared a debt moratorium, the pressures on the region increased, and there was an abrupt
slowdown in trade. The year ended with exports growing at 2% and imports at 2.5 %. The
trade account in the year ending in September 1999, showed a deficit of US$1,002 million,
equivalent to 5.0% of GDP. This deterioration was mainly the result of a reduction in export
prices and the increase in oil prices. Although the trade account had a deficit of US$1,039
million in 1998, the strong positive result of the service component (tourism and other services
and transference) resulted in a current account deficit of only US$400 million, equivalent to
1.9% of GDP, which has been more than compensated by capital inflows both in the private
and public sectors.
10.   With respect to the public debt policy, the Government has taken advantage of the
favorable opportunity to substitute short term debt for new debt with longer maturities, as part
of a strategy to reduce the external vulnerability of the economy. The total gross debt of the
public sector, including the state enterprises, has increased slightly in the last years to reach
US$6,191 million at the end of 1998. International reserves in the hands of the monetary
authority were increased to US$2,589 million at the end of 1998, in order to reduce the
vulnerability of the economy. The moderate growth of the external debt, together with the
accumulation of international reserves, has resulted in a relatively stable net external debt of
around US$2,500 million in 1998, equivalent to about 12% of GDP. This level of debt,
strengthens the inter-temporal solvency of the public finances, which is necessary to maintain
macroeconomic stability. This performance has led the main international risk rating agencies
to rate Uruguay's public debt as investment grade free of speculative risk.
11.   The confidence and credibility of the model of gradual stabilization, the stable
macroeconomic environment, and a favorable investment climate are based on a responsible
fiscal policy. The public sector deficit was about 1.6% of GDP in 1996, including the quasi-
fiscal operations of the Central Bank, the cost of the social security reform and the reduction of
the number of public employees. Under the same conditions in 1997, the deficit reached 1.4%
of GDP, and in 1998, it was again lower at 0.9% of GDP. When all the resources necessary
to implement the reforms are considered, it is clear that the fiscal evolution has been very
favorable, reaching in 1998 a surplus of 0.3% of GDP.
3
35



12.   Although we expected a contraction of economic activity in 1999, we were then and
still are, committed with the process of lowering inflation and with the consolidation of
structural reforms. In spite of having a larger than expected decline in our national income, and
then in total public sector revenues, we have been keeping public fmances and inflation on
sound footings. Under these basis, it has been possible to reduce inflation from 44.1 % in 1994,
to 4.2% in 1999.
III. Structural Reforms
13.   To support macroeconomic stability and growth, we maintain a general commitmnent to
reducing the role of the public sector to only those areas where government intervention is
justified; improving the regulatory environment for private sector development -- including labor
market reform and improved financial sector supervision; liberalization of external trade within
the context of Mercosur and beyond; and continuing with prudent fiscal policies to maintain the
country's favorable creditworthiness rating. A numiber of imnportant structural reforms were
initiated in Uruguay between 1995 and 1996, and consolidated in the subsequent three years:
the reform of the social security system, the education reform, reform of the state, and of the
non-financial state enterprises. The social security and capital markets reforms are discussed
in the next section. Our program of financial sector reform is discussed in Section V.
IV. Social Security and Capital Markets Reforms
14.   The Government initiated a major social security reform in the second quarter of 1996.
The main objectives were to reduce a rising trend in expenditures, allow For a reduction of the
tax burden on labor, and improve the administration of the pension regime. To this effect, the
reform established, alongside the public pension system, a complementary system of individual
capitalization accounts, administered by private pension fund administrators (AFAPs). Over
90 percent of employees eligible to participate have chosen to put their contributions in the
capitalization regime, far exceeding our initial expectations.
15.   We are convinced that the success of Uruguay's social security reform will depend on
the level of pension benefits that the capitalization regime can provide to its affiliates. We also
believe that good fmancial performance by the capitalization regime would only be achieved if
the AFAPs are able to invest in sound but high return marketable securities and to reduce their
operating costs. To ensure the good financial performance of the AFAPs, the Government,
with support from the Bank, has taken measures to: (i) liberalize the investment regime
governing the AFAPs to allow greater investment in private securities; (ii) increase the
availability of private securities to match the growth of pension funds; and (iii) create
incentives to increase cost consciousness and transparency in disclosure among the AFAPs.
36



16.   Initially, most of the funds in the AFAPs were invested in government securities. To
allow for greater flexibility in investment decisions by the AFAPs, and to promote the
development of a private securities market in Uruguay, the Government issued an Executive
Decree in March 4, 1998, providing for scheduled reductions in the minimum required AFAP
investment in government instruments, established in the 1995 Social Security Law.  This
minimum was reduced, in stages, from 75 percent in April 1997 to 55 percent in April 1,
1999. In addition, to eliminate a possible bias against investment in private securities, in
December 1997, we submitted to Parliament a bill of law to modify the calculation of the
pension funds' special reserve, established in the Social Security Law, to include Government
securities.
17.   We also took measures to increase the supply of investment instruments available to the
AFAPs, In May 1997, an Executive Decree was issued to regulate the rating of private
securities, a requirement to make them eligible for investment by the AFAPs. A Securitization
Law was approved by Parliament in September 1999, to stimulate the securitization of
mortgage loans and other assets, also potential investment instruments for the AFAPs. Also,
Parliament approved legislation to allow enterprises to issue debt instruments and place mutual
funds operations under a specific legal regime that provides greater security to investors. The
regulatory framework for the securities market has also been approved and the insurance and
mortgage markets liberalized.
18.   Finally, to create incentives for efficiency and transparency in AFAP activities, since
March 1998, AFAPs have been required to report to their affiliates net returns on the funds
administered. This allows enrollees to make a better informed choice of AFAP. The formula
to calculate net returns uses information on commissions and returns based on a time horizon
of 35 years, the minimum time required to acquire pension rights. We also improved the
transparency of AFAP's trading in securities of related entities by requiring that these
transactions be made through established markets.
19.   As a result of the efforts made in recent years to develop the capital markets and the
reform of the state, there is a need to advance further in some reforms to strengthen the
financial sector in general and the banking sector in particular. At the same time, the strategy
to reduce the general vulnerability of the public sector imposes greater demands on the
supervision of the financial institutions. We have adopted some measures to this effect, and we
intend to adopt additional measures in the near future, as detailed in section V.
5
37



V. Financial Sector Reform Program
20.   We recognize that the best protection against external financial shocks is a solid and
competitive financial sector. We, therefore, envisage a phased program of reforms aimed at:
(i) strengthening banking regulation, supervision and inspection, including improving the
transparency of financial sector information; (ii) establishing mechanisms for an orderly enter
and exit of banks from the market; and (iii) stimulating the development of new financial
products and the competitiveness of Uruguayan banks vis-A-vis those of other countries in the
region.
21. The financial sector reform program is expected to be implemented in two phases. The first
phase of the reform, for which the Government of Uruguay has requested financial support
from the Bank, involves the following areas: (i) to improve competition in the banking sector;
(ii) to establish the basis for privatization of a bank under public management (Banco de
Credito); (iii) to establish the framework for the restructuring of BHU; (iv) to strengthen
banking regulation, supervision and inspection; (v) to improve transparency of financial
information; and (vi) to establish the basis for a systematic approach to modernize the financial
sector legal framework.
22. The challenge of the second phase of the reform will be faced by a new administration that
will take office in early 2000. We expect that the second phase of the reform program would
continue the modernization of the financial sector legal framework and the reprivatization of
the two banks under public management. Another step would be the amendment in the charter
of the public banks to emphasize their role in mobilizing long term resources allowing them to
operate as second tier institutions, as well as commercial banks.
23. The measures under the first phase of the financial sector reform program that have been
implemented prior to the presentation of the Financial Sector Structural Adjustment Loan to the
Bank's Board for its consideration and approval, are the following:
Improvement of domestic competition in the Banking Sector
24.   In Uruguay, public banks (Banco de la Republica Oriental del Uruguay--BROU and
Banco Hipotecario del Uruguay--BHU) have traditionally enjoyed a different treatment with
respect to other banks in terms of compliance with prudential normns and regulations, tax
treatment, and preferential access to deposits from public enterprises. This situation is the result
of public banks having had different functions than those of commercial bar.ks.
6
38



i.T   e2co dw  teo'm  y.  csyr
-2.L6etay
25.   Measures to create a more level playing field in the banking sector that have been
recently implemented include the following:
*  Since December 1998, public agencies included in the national budget are allowed to open
deposits in public and private banks;
* External audit of public banks. Starting in 1999, public banks are required to have external
audits. To insure that the accounts of thte year ending December 1999 of the public banks
will be audited, we have awarded contracts to recognized auditing firms for the audits of
BROU and BHU. The external audits will emphasize, among other things, the review of
the loan portfolios of both banks, the level of provisions, and the value of their assets.
-  Reduction of BROU's provisions deficit. Since 1993, BROU has been provisioning heavily
to reduce its deficit of bad debts provisions, estimated now at about US$250 million.
BROU signed at that time an agreement with the Central Bank, to reduce its bad debt
provisions in seventeen years. The bank has now committed to adequately provision all
bad debts within the next six years thereby decreasing by five years its original obligation.
 Introduction of a scheme of reserves for BHU. We have also decided to introduce a scheme
of paid reserves for BHU, our largest mortgage bank.
Restructuring of Public Banks.
26.   Public banks have played and are likely to continue playing an important role in
Uruguay's financial sector. Our immediate goal is to improve the efficiency and
effectiveness of these banks, so that they will be better prepared to face the forthcoming,
more competitive environment, in the local banking business. To this effect, in 1995,
BROU initiated an institutional transformation process with assistance from an
international consulting firm that involved the reengineering of credit processes, finance,
planning, marketing, human resources, accounting, administration and audit. So far, the
modernization of processes has resulted in a new organizational structure, a 15%
reduction of personnel, a 36% productivity improvement, and reduced operating costs.
BHU has not yet initiated an institutional transformation similar to the one being
implemented by BROU. BHU is taking measures to improve its financial management
and will soon initiate an institutional restructuring program.
27.   We have accelerated the restructuring of BROU and established the basis for the
restructuring of BHU, through the following measures:
39                                       7



*  Improvement of BROU's credit risk control function.  BROU has taken measures to
improve the quality of the new loans and determine more accurately the real condition of its
loan portfolio. To this effect, BROU has designed and implemented a new policy of credit
risk control. Further progress is being made in credit analysis and approval procedures,
and in strengthening the new Credit Risk Management Division.
*  Reduction of BHU's currency and term mismatch.  BHU has approved and will soon
implement a plan to issue short and long term securities to reduce the mismatch between
currencies and flows of its assets and liabilities. It has also adopted a credit policy giving
priority to improving the matching of currencies and of assets and liabilities.
* Establishment of conditions for the securitization of BHU's mortgage portfolio.
Securitization of BHU's portfolio would provide liquidity to the market and contribute to
the development of a secondary securities market. To facilitate securitization, BHU's
external audit will emphasize the review of the quality of the loan portfolio. Also, BHU
has decided to standardize the terms of its mortgage loans to facilitate the fature
securitization of mortgages.
* Initiation of BHU's restructuring. BHU has prepared preliminary terms of reference for
the hiring of a consulting firm to help it to design an institutional restiucturing program.
Return of the Banks Under Government Management to Private Ownership
28.   The Uruguayan Government is committed to return to private management the two
commercial banks: Banco de Credito and Banco Caja Obrera, that are currently under public
management. Banco Caja Obrera has been brought to the point of sale, but Banco de Credito
needs to go through a similar process. The Central Bank (BCU) has awarded a contract to an
investment bank to assess the value of Banco de Credito and design an strategy for its
privatization.
Strengthening of Banking Regulation, Supervision and Inspection
29.   In the last few years, the BCU, through the Superintendency of Financial Intermediaries
(SIIF) has implemented a number of measures to strengthen banking regulation, supervision
and inspection. The BCU has issued new norms and regulations concerning audits, risks, and
valuation of assets and guarantees.
*  New Norms and Regulations: In March 1999, the BCU issued a norm requiring the public
and private banks to match the flows (maturities) between assets and liabilities. Most
recently, the BCU has issued new regulation on: the calculation of capital adequacy ratios
4
40



on a consolidated basis; the application of rating and provisioning norms for loans to public
sector enterprises; and the change from the CAMEL to the CAMELS system. The BCU
has required banks to inform about the risk models utilized with the objective of assessing
their adequacy.
*  Introducing mechanisms to facilitate market exit. In May 1999, the Central Bank issued a
circular establishing procedures to order the exit from the market of solvent banks. The
procedures include requirements of the exiting banks to inform the BCU at least 90 days
prior to the cease of activities, present a liquidation plan detailing the guarantees, resources
and timing expected for the cancellation of liabilities, and mechanisms for the retirement of
deposits and the transfer of credit lines to other institutions.
*  Strengthening of bank's audits. As mentioned above, in February 1999, the BCU issued a
norn requiring public banks to have their accounts audited by external auditors. The BCU
issued norms establishing the minimum content of external audits. To strengthen the audit
function, the BCU has issued a regulation requiring all banks to create Audit Committees by
March of 2000.
* Strengthening of banking inspection and supervision. Also, to ensure adequate inspection of
public banks, the SUF has formulated an inspection plan, approved by BCU with a schedule
of inspections of public and private banks covering a significant period. This plan includes
inspection of information systems and off-site analysis. The BCU will ensure that supervision
of banking institutions is conducted on a consolidated basis.
*  Improving valuation of assets and guarantees. In view of the need to standardize valuation
processes across sectors, the BCU issued, in January 1999, asset valuation norms introducing
mark-to market valuation methods for the AFAP, complementing the previously issued
regulation for banks. Also, to improve the transparency of valuations of real estate properties,
the BCU has issued the necessary regulations requiring the use of independent appraisers to
estimate the value of the goods, rights, or any other form of collateral provided by borrowers
for mortgage loans and other loans exceeding a pre set amount.
Improvement of Transparency in the Financial Sector
30.   We are aware of the need to introduce greater transparency of information in the
financial sector, to allow depositors to choose among banks and to allow banks to better assess
the credit risk of potential borrowers. To this end, the BCU implemented the following
measures:
41
9



* Information about banks. Until recently, information about the baniks was very limited,
which reduced the ability of depositors to choose among banks. The BCU now requires
pubic and private banks to make available, starting in the year 200L, their external audit
reports of the statements of the previous year; and periodically publish detailed financial
information.
* Information about debtors. The BCU has recently created a New Credit Risk System
(Central de Riesgo) to provide information about 100% of debtors of the financial and non
financial public and private sector, with debts in excess of 0.3% of the minimum net equity
of public and private banks. The information includes obligations assumed as debtors, co-
debtors or guarantors, and their payment situation. As of September 1999, the system will
have electrcnic connection with all banks . It is anticipated that as of January 2000, the
credit risk information system will group relevant credit risks by separate categories.
Modernization of the Financial Sector Legal Framework
31.   In recent years, Uruguay has made important advances in modernizing its financial
sector legal framework. The Financial Intermediation Law and the Charter of the Central
Bank, both approved at the end of 1994, expanded the banking regulatory and supervisory
function of the BCU. Two other important pieces of financial legislation approved in the last
few years are the Capital Markets Law and the Investment Funds Law, both passed in 1996.
In January 1998, a Leasing Law was approved by Parliament. However, it has to be modified
to allow for non financial entities to lease capital goods.
32.   We have recently submitted three important bills of law to Parliament:
*  Application of International Accounting Standards. In July 1998, we sent to Parliament a bill
of law requiring the adoption of International Accounting Standards for all commercial
entities, including private banks.
*  Use of Guarantees. We have also submitted a bill of law, that will expand the type of
goods which may be subject to "prendas sin desplazamiento". This law was passed on at
the end of 1999, and will complement and facilitate the implementation of the Securitization
Law.
*   To facilitate execution of warrants, we have submitted a bill of law permitting the
execution of warrants without judicial intervention.
42                                     10



33.   We are aware of the need to further strengthen the legal framework in areas such as: (i)
the modernization of the Charters of the public banks, to make them more in tune with the
current financial trend in Uruguay and internationally; and (ii) the establishment of adequate
market exit mechanisms for troubled banks. However, any major legislative change will
require a process of diagnosis of the current situation, elaboration of policy options, and
dissemination of information on the policy options and consensus building in support of the
reform proposals. To enable this process to take place, we have' established a Financial
Technical Unit. This unit will carry out technical and legal studies in the financial sector with
the assistance of technical consultants, and lead a process of consultation that would culminate
in the drafting of further financial sector reform proposals to be submitted to Parliament. This
unit would also work with Parliamentary commissions and interested groups to clarify issues
and generate consensus around the legislative initiatives in the financial area to accelerate their
passage.
34.   The work agenda for this unit will include, among others, the following studies: (i)
review of the financial sector legal framework, including the proposals to reform the Charters
of BROU and BHU, to adapt them to current financial environment; (ii) analysis of banking
sector competitiveness; and (iii) design of mechanisms for an orderly market exit of insolvent
financial institutions. We are committed to providing this unit with the institutional structure
and resources needed for it to accomplish the agreed objectives.
VI. World Bank Support
35.   The above description demonstrates the depth of the Government's overall reform
program. The Government believes that financial assistance from the Bank is important to
strengthen the first phase of financial sector reform in order to create an environment
conducive to a better functioning financial sector, able to withstand external shocks, and with
greater participation in the domestic credit market.
Sincerely yours,
| Ec. Suis osca
Mini    Economy and Finance
43



ANNE III
1--2
Uruguay - Key Economic Indicators
Actual                Estimate               Projected
Indicator                1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002
National accounts (as % of GDP)
Gross domestic producta                    100      100     100      100      100      100      100      100       100
Agriculture                                9        9        9        8        8        9        9        9        9
Industry                                  27       27       27       27       27       29       29       29       29
Services                                  65       63       64       64       64       62       62       62       62
Total Consumption                           87       87      88       88       85       87       87       87        87
Gross domestic fixed investment             13       12       12      12       13       12       13        13       13
Government investment                      5        3        3        3        4        3        3        3        0
Private investrnent                        8        8        8        9        9       10       10       11       15
(includes increase in stocks)
Exports (GNFS)b                            21       20       21       23       22        19      20        20       21
Imports (GNFS)                              22       20      21       23       22       21       22        23       23
Gross domestic savings                      13      13       12       12       15       13       13        13       13
Gross national savingsc                     12       12       12       12       15      12        13       14       14
Memorandum items
Gross domestic product                   16250   18045   19124   19967   20831    19716   20653   22059   23561
(US$ million at current prices)
GNPpercapita(US$,Atlasmethod)            4630    5120    5780    6130    6180    6177    6179    6182    6186
Real annual growth rates (%, calculated from 1983 prices)
Gross domestic product at market prices  6%      -2%       5%       5%       4%      -2%       2%       4%       4%
Gross Domestic Income                    7%      -1%       6%       6%       7%      -8%       1%       4%       3%
Real annual per capita growth rates (%, calculated from 1983 prices)
Gross domestic product at market prices  6%      -2%       5%       4%       4%      -3%       1%       3%       3%
Total consumption                        7%      -3%       7%       5%       3%      -5%       0%       4%       2%
Private consumption                      7%      -4%       7%       5%       3%      -6%       0%       4%       2%
Balance of Payments (US$ millions)
Exports (GNFS)b                         3248    3507    3847    4217    4225    3796    4101           4503    4878
Merchandise FOB                       1913    2148    2449    2793    2832    2539    2768    3074    3348
Imports (GNFS)b                         3485    3568    3974    4386    4507    4077    4481           4976    5354
Merchandise FOB                       2730    2711    3135    3498    3594    3195    3532    3922    4225
Resource balance                        -237      -62      -127     -169    -282    -281       -380    -473      -476
Net current transfers                     41        76       83      74       67    -733       -573     -445     -343
Current account balance                 -439    -213    -233    -287    -400    -600           -455    -424      -328
Net private foreign direct investment     154      157      137      113      164     256      261      266       272
Long-term loans (net)                    280       187     373      723      679      673      283      321       200
Official                                116        4       49      252      193       74      121       28       -67
Private                                  164     183      324      471      486      599      162      293      267
Other capital (net, incl. errors & ommissions)  242  78    -133     -218     -81    -505       129       109       76
Change in reservesd                     -238    -209    -144    -330    -362           176    -218      -272    -221
Memorandum items
Resource balance (% of GDP)               -1.5    -0.3      -0.7    -0.8    -1.4    -1.4        -1.8     -2.1     -2.0
Real annual growth rates ( YR83 prices)
Merchandise exports (FOB)                18.4    17.1       8.2      5.2    -3.1      -3.5      5.9      6.4      6.5
Primary                                 24.0    25.1      12.0      4.6    -3.2    -5.0        3.0      4.2      4.2
Manufactures                            13.3      9.1      3.7      5.8    -3.1      -1.6      9.3      8.9      9.0
Merchandise imports (CIF)                22.0      9.5    10.1       3.4    -2.3   -13.6        5.3      5.8      2.6
44



ANNE III
Uruguay - Key Economic Indicators                                      2-2
(Continued)
Actual                Estimate              Projected
Indicator               1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002
Public finance (as % of GDP at market prices)e
Current revenues                        18.7    18.7    19.1    20.3    20.7    20.7    20.5    20.5    20.5
Current expenditures                    18.2    18.4    18.9    20.1        19.8    18.6    18.6    18.6    18.6
Current account surplus (+) or deficit (-)  0.5   0.3      0.3      0.2      0.9     2.1      1.9      1.9      1.9
Capital expenditure                      2.7      2.3      2.2      2.0      2.4     2.3      2.1      1.9      1.8
Foreign financing                        0.8      0.3      0.0      0.3      0.6     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Monetary indicators
M2/GDP                                  40.5    40.4    41.4    43.0    44.3    44.2    51.3    57.0    63.3
Growth ofM2(%)                          42.1     39.0    36.6    28.4    19.3        4.9    24.6    20.8    20.2
Private sector credit growth/           70.5    82.1    87.2    92.8   120.6    82.6    83.4    83.4    83.4
total credit growth (%)
Price indices( YR83 =100)
Merchandiseexport price index           90.6    85.1    89.6    96.9   101.6    94.3    97.3   101.6   103.9
Merchandise importprice index           90.6    85.1    89.6    96.9   101.6   104.6   109.9   115.4   121.1
Merchandise terms of trade index       100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0    90.2    88.5    88.0    85.8
Real exchange rate (US$/LCU)f          153.0   157.2   160.4   168.8   172.1    183.0   183.0   183.0   183.0
Real interest rates
Consumer price index (% change)         44.7    35.4    24.3       15.2      8.6     4.2      5.8      4.7      4.5
GDP deflator (% change)                 41.6    42.0    26.4    17.7    10.7         7.2      5.4      4.5      4.0
a. GDP at market prices
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
c. Includes net unrequited transfers excluding official capital grants.
d. Includes use of IMF resources.
e. Consolidated central government.
f. "LCU" denotes "local currency units." An increase in US$/LCU denotes appreciation.
45



CAS Annex B8 - Uruguay
Status of Bank Group Operations (Operations Portfolio)
Closed
Projects 29
Difference Between
Last PSR                                                       Expected and Actual
Board
Date                                              Supervision Rating b/          Original Amount in US$ Millions        Disbursements a/
Fiscal                                        DvlpetIpeetto
Year  Active Projects                         Devel           Pe    o           IBRD         IDA     Cancel.   Undisb.     Orig. Frm Rev'd
Obiectives     Progress
1994    P008171    BASIC ED QUAL IMPRV              HS            HS              31.5          0          0       5.99      3.19         0
1994    P008173   IRRG NAT RES MGMT                  S             S                41          0          0      11.33     11.33         0
1995    P008161    HLTH SCTR DEVT                   S              S              15.6          0           5      2.52      7.52      1.77
4-     1996    P008177    POWER TRNMSN & DISTR              S              S              125           0          0    101.56     64.26         0
(ON    1997    P039203    FOREST PROD.TSP                   S              S               76           0          0     60.48     30.48         0
1999    P041994    EDUCATIONII                      S              S                28          0          0       21.1       4.8         0
1999    P049267   TRANSPORT II                      S              S              64.5          0          0      39.45      0.35         0
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.



ANNEX V
CAS Annex B8 (IFC) for Uruguay
Uruguay
Statement of IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 8/31/99
(In US Dollars Millions)
Held                   Disbursed
FY Approval Company          Loan Equity Quasi Partic Loan Equity Quasi Partic
1985/92     Azucitrus            0      0     0     0    0       0     0      0
1995 Consorcio Aerop.    3.2    0     4  7.27   3.2       0     4   7.27
1991 GranjaMoro        1.78   0.75     0     0  1.78   0.75     0      0
1989 Migranja           3.3     2      0     0   3.3      2     0      0
1980/88/96  Surinvest            0      0   4.9     0    0       0   4.9      0
Total Portfolio:       8.28   2.75   8.9  7.27  8.28   2.75   8.9  7.27
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan Equity Quasi Partic
47



ANEX VI
-1-2
Uruguay at a glance                                                                - 9/21/99
Latin    Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                             America   middle-
Uruguay   & Carib.   income       Developmentdiamorld
1998
Population, mid-year (millions)                          3.3       502        588                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, USS)                     6,180      3,940     4,860
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                        20.3      1,978     2,862                        T
Average annual growth, 1992-98
Population (Y.)                                          0.7        1.6       1A4
Labor force (')                                          1.1        2.3       2.0     GNP                I               Gross
per!                             primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1992-98)                                  capita                        enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)      -
Urban population (5A of total population)                91         75        77
Life expectancy at birth (years)                          74        70         70
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                  16        32         27
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                4          8          ,.              Access to safe water
Access to safe water (%6 of population)                   89        75         79
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                       3        13         11
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age populalion)    109       113        108   ]           Uruguay
Male                                                  109          ..        -.         --  Upper-middle-income group
Female                                                108              ..                                         _
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987       1997      1993 
Economic ratios*
GDP (US$ billions)                             4.1       7.3       20.0      20.8
Gross domestic investmentUGDP                 21,5      14.3       12.8      15.8                     Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP              19.9     21.6       22.6      21.9
Grossdomesticsavings/GDP                       18.7     16.7       12.5      15.3
Gross national savings/GDP                     17.2     12.7       11.9      14.6                        T
Current account balancelGDP                    -4.1     -7.0       -1.4      -1.9      .onsi
Interest payments/GDP                           1.5      3.7        1.7       1.6       omescInvestment
Total debt/GDP                                 27,0     58.6       33.3      32.8      Savings                       nv
Total debt service/exports                     36.1     36.5       15.6         -
Present value of debtVGDP                        ..       ..       32.1
Present value of debtVexports                   ..        ..      133.3         -
Indebtedness
197747  1998-98      1997       1998   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                  -0.3       3.7      5.1        4,5       4.0                Uruguay
GNP per capita                       -1,5       3.2      4.2        3.2       3.3                Upper-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services         3.3      8.2      13.1        1.6       8.0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987       1997      1998      Growth rates of outpiut and investment 1%)
(%6 of GDP)                                                                           40
Agriculture                                    16.1     13.7        8.5       8.5      301
Industry                                      31.9      35.8       27.1      27.5     2.
Manufacturing                                25.1     28.9       18.3       17.8    o0
Services                                       52.0     50.5       64.4      64.0      10
Private consumption                            68.5     70.0       73.8      71.0     s0    ii 94   95    9    97   98
General govemment consumption                  12.7     13.2       13.7      13.7                      GDI       e  GDP
Imports of goods and services                 22.7      19.2       22.8      22.5
1977-87  1988-98       1997      1998      Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                     0.8      4.1       -1.2       5.6    30
Industry                                       -14       0.9        5.5       5.3    20
Manufacturing                                -1.3     -0.1        5.8       2.3
Services                                        0.3      5.0        6.1       3.9    10
Private consumption                           -0.4       5.2        6.0       3.8      o
General government consumption                 2.6       2.2        2.8       3.3             9 03   94   95   96   17   9a
Gross domestic investment                      -8.3      9.2        7.1      31.3   -10
Imports of goods and services                  -1.5     12.6       13.2       9.0                    Exports    -   Imports
Gross national product                         -0.9      4.0        5.0       3.9
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
48



ANN  VI
2-2
Uruguay
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977     1987       1997      1998     Inflation (%)
Domesfic prices                                                                      8
(% change)
Consumer prices                                  ..96.7            19.9     10.83    r0
lmplicitGDPdeflator                           55.6      72.8      17.7      10.7    40-
Government finance                                                                   20
(% of GDP, includes current grants)
Current revenue                                  ..    16.3       20.3      20.7             93    94    95    96    97    98
Current budget balance                           ..      0.5       0.2       0.9                    GDP deflator      0F1
Overall surplus/deficit                          ..    -1.3       -1.8      -1.5    1
TRADE
(US$ millions)                                1977     1987       1997      1998      Export and import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                              ..   1,182      2,726     2,769     4,000
Wool                                           ..      257       729       823
Meat                                           ..       99       478       440      3,000
Manufactures                                   ..     623       1,224     1,244
Total imports (cif)                             ..   1,142       3,716     3,808     200     i            i i i I
Food                                           ..       9300
Fuel and energy                                        176       492       512
Capital goods                                  .,      341      1,314     1,406
Export price index (1995=100)                    ..      76         95        94            92   93  94  9S   9S  97   98
Import price index (1995=100)                    ..     109        100        94               eExports      uImports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                        ,,      70         95       100
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                                1977     1987       1997      1998      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exportsofgoodsandservices                      808    1,589      4,217     4,225      0
Imports of goods and services                  914    1,804      4,386     4,507
Resource balance                              -106      -214      -169      -282
Net income                                     -68  -307   -193  -185                                   'E            l'
Net current transfers                            7        8         74        67    -2
Current account balance                       -167     -513       -287      -400
Financing items (net)                          334      597        618       762
Changes in net reserves                       -167       -84      -330      -362    -4
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS millions)          ..        ..     2,149     2,511
Conversion rate (DEC, locaWIlS$)            4.68E-3      0,2        9.4      10.5
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977     1987       1997      1998
(USS millions)                                                                        Composition of total debt, 1997 (US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          1,105    4,299     6,652     6,831
IBRD                                          76      301        393       488                           393
IDA                                            0        0          0         0
Total debt service                             296      618        742                       1901
lBRD                                          14       45         96         0                                       3
IDA                                            0        0          0         0                                       315
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                0        3          7
Official creditors                           -19       72        189
Private creditors                             85      164        471
Foreign direct investment                     66       45        113       164
Portfolio equity                              21       13        174       419                             3191
World Bank program
Commitments                                    0      105        201       193      A-IBRD                        E-Bilateral
Disbursements                                  4       63         50       144      B-IDA     D- Other multilateral    F - Prvate
Principal repayments                           8       25         68        64      C - IMF                       G - Short-term
Netflows                                      -4       38        -18        80   I_1
Interest payments                              6       20         28        28
Net transfers                                -10       18        -45        52
Development Economics                                                                                                    9/21/99
49



