Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 21524
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(SCL-45400)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$80.9 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY
FOR A
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
December 15, 2000
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Department
Argentina, Chile, Paraguay and Uruguay Country Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective )
Currency Unit = Uruguayan Peso
Ur$1.00 = US$ 0.0877
US$ 1.0 = Ur$ 11.4
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AAA          =      Analitycal and Advisory Service
BCU          =      Central Bank of Uruguay
BHU          =      Mortgage Bank of Uruguay (Banco Hipotecario del Uruguay)
BROU                Bank of the Oriental Republic of Uruguay
CAS                 Country Assistance Strategy
FTU          =      Financial Technical Unit
FSAL                Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
LCSP         =      Letter of Sector Policy
SIIF         =      Superintendency of Financial Institutions
Vice President:    Mr. David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:    Ms. Myrna Alexander
Sector Manager/Director:    Mr. Danny Leipziger
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Ms. Mariluz Cortes



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                          1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                         I
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry               2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                  3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                   10
6. Sustainability                                                                       11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                        12
8. Lessons Learned                                                                      13
9. Partner Comments                                                                     14
10. Additional Information                                                              14
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                    15
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                    16
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                    18
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                    19
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                    20
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                       21
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                   21
Annex 8. Policy Matrix                                                                  23
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P063390                                       Proect Name: FIN SCTR REFORM
Team Leader: Maniluz Cortes                               TL Unit: LCSFF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: December 27, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: FIN SCTR REFORM                                L/C/TF Number: SCL45400
CountryIDepartment: URUGUAY                                              Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: FY - Other Finance
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  04/19/99                                Effective: 07/30/99            03/31/2000
Appraisal:  06/04/99                                  MTR:
Approval:  02/29/2000                              Closing: 12/31/99            06/30/2000
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: REPUBLIC OF URUGUAY/MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      David De Ferranti                         David De Ferranti
Country Manager:     Myma L. Alexander                         Myrna Alexander
Sector Manager:      Danny Leipziger                            Danny Leipziger
Team Leader at ICR:   Mariluz Cortes                           Mariluz Cortes
ICR Primary Author:   Mariluz Cortes; Mario
Guadamillas
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: HL
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: HS
Borrower Performance: HS
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
1.    The objective of the Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (FSAL) was to support the first
stage of the Uruguayan Government's financial sector reform program, aiming at creating an
envirornment conducive to a better functioning fnancial sector, able to withstand financial shocks,
and with greater participation in the financial market. The FSAL supported measures already
taken to: (i) improve competition in the banking sector establishing a more leveled playing field
between public and private banks; (ii) strengthen banking regulation supervision and inspection;
(iii) restructure public banks; (iv) assist in the privatization of a bank under public management;
(v) introduce more transparency in the financial sector; and (vi) assist in the modernization of the
financial sector legal framework. These objectives were clearly spelled out in the Letter of Sector
Policy (LSP) signed by the Minister of Finance in January 31, 2000. The LSP also indicated the
main elements expected in a second phase of policy reforms, although the authorities were clear
to point out that future reforms were challenges to be faced by the new administration that was to
take office in early 2000. The LSP indicated that the expectation was that the second phase of the
reform program would continue the modernization of the financial sector legal framework and
conclude the reprivatization of the two banks under public management. The LSP also indicates
that another step would be the amendment of the charters of the public banks to emphasize their
role in mobilizing long term resources, allowing them to operate as second tier institutions, as well
as commercial banks.
2.    The World Bank has long been concerned about the lack of depth of the Uruguayan
domestic credit and capital markets and of the dominant role of the state banks. These points
were highlighted in the CAS discussed by the Board on June 25, 1997. The 1997 CAS envisioned
Bank support of fmnancial sector reforms through a variety of instruments, including advisory
services for bank restructuring, and in the high-case scenario, a capital markets development loan.
Although at that time the CAS did not identify specifically a financial sector operation, this FSAL
in support of Uruguay's program of financial sector reforms was consistent with the CAS
objectives of financial and public enterprise reform, and complemented the capital markets reform
loan (Contractual Savings Adjustment Loan) approved in January 1998.
3.    The design of the adjustment operation was based on the conclusions of a companion
financial sector assessment conducted by the Bank during loan preparation, which was later issued
as a self standing Analitical and Advisory Service (AAA), under the title of Uruguay: Financial
Sector Review (Report No.20199-UR). The financial sector assessment pointed to the need to
strengthen the competitiveness of Uruguayan banks in order to maintain Uruguay's position as a
regional financial center. The Financial Sector Review report was discussed with both the
departing and the incoming administrations, and has been the basis for continuing a policy
dialogue with the Government on financial sector issues.
3.2 Revised Objective:
4.    The loan objective remained unchanged.
3.3 Original Components:
5.    This FSAL was a one tranche adjustment loan in support of up front policy reform
measures taken by the Government on the following six financial sector areas: (i) improvement of
- 2 -



competition in the banking sector; (ii) restructuring of public banks; (iii) steps to privatize an
intervened bank (Banco de Credito); (iv) strengthening of banking regulation, supervision and
inspection; (v) introduction of greater transparency in the financial sector; and (vi) modernization
of the financial sector legal framework.   The Bank considered that reform measures in these
areas were both: necessary for the strengthening of the financial sector, and feasible despite the
political difficulties of implementing policy reforms during the then ongoing election campaign.
3.4 Revised Components:
6.    The loan components remained unchanged.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
7.    Quality at entry was satisfactory. This operation was timely and well designed.  At the
time of loan preparation, Uruguay's economy had been negatively affected by the crisis in Asia in
October 1997, followed by the Russian crisis in August 1998; and like neighboring Argentina, and
Chile, Uruguay was experiencing a considerable recession.   Although Uruguay had already
implemented important financial sector reforms, at the time of loan preparation it was evident that
there was still much to be done in the financial sector, particularly in light of the increased stress
on the regional banking systems as a result of the extemal shocks. Moreover, it was clear that
other countries in the region were improving their financial sector regulatory framework and that
Uruguay needed to catch up with these reforms, in order to maintain its position as a regional
financial center.
8.    The objective of the loan was realistic and important to the country. In designing the loan,
the Bank took into consideration the fact that Uruguay is a slow but steady reformer. The slow
pace of reform reflects an aging, conservative society and a consensus style of policy making
through essentially coalition governments. In this context, the Bank was realistic in its decision to
support with this loan up front policy reform measures that represented incremental policy
improvements, and use the adjustment operation as the basis to continue a policy dialogue with
the new Government (which took office shortly after Board approval) in areas that will require
further reforms.   The objective of the loan was also important for the country, since the
supported reforms addressed some of the most glaring deficiencies and helped to set up the stage
for further reforms. For example, the measures taken to level the playing field between public and
private banks, were a prerequisite to reduce, over time, the preponderance of the public banks in
the financial sector. Also, the improvement of transparency in the financial sector was a
prerequisite for the eventual reactivation of bank credit to local enterprises.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
10.   The FSAL for Uruguay has achieved its intended objective of supporting the first stage of
Uruguay's financial sector reform program, aimed at creating an environment conducive to a
better functioning financial sector, able to withstand financial shocks, and with greater
participation in the financial markets. All policy reform measures supported by this FSAL were
implemented prior to Board approval of the loan. The measures implemented under this
operation have had the effect of: (i) improving competition in the banking sector; (ii) establishing
the basis for privatization of a bank under public management; (iii) establishing the framework for
the restructuring of the Mortgage Bank of Uruguay (BHU);  (iv) strengthening banking
-3 -



regulation, supervision and inspection; (v) improving transparency of financial information; and
(vi) establishing the basis for a systemic approach to modernize Uruguay's financial sector legal
framework. Progress since effectiveness in achieving these objectives in each of the six policy
areas is described below.
11.   Improvement of competition in the banking sector.   The Uruguayan state has a
preponderant role in the banking sector. The two largest banks in Uruguay are public banks:
Banco de la Republica Oriental del Uruguay (BROU) and Banco Hipotecario del Uruguay
(BHU). There are two commercial banks under state administration: Banco de Credito and
Banco Caja Obrera, and 19 private banks, all of which, except one, are foreign owned. Public
banks, not counting the intervened ones, account for about 40% of total assets, and 35% of the
system's deposits. At the time of loan preparation, public banks received preferential treatment in
a number of areas, including an explicit deposit insurance from the Government, the monopoly on
the Government's accounts, and more lenient application of prudential regulation and supervision
than for private banks. This unequal treatment created a bad precedent, as other banks could feel
entitled to similar preferential treatment. As a result of measures implemented in the context of
this loan, public banks have lost a number of privileges including the monopoly on the bank
accounts of public agencies and the more lenient application of regulatory norms. In the
regulatory front, both BROU and BHU now have to comply with the same norms as private
banks, including having their accounts audited by external auditors. The Uruguayan Government
is now studying the possibility of further reducing the non-banking activities of the public banks,
including the role that BROU has as administrator of the imports registry.
12.   Restructuring of public banks. At the time of loan preparation, BROU had initiated an
institutional transformation process aimed at improving its effectiveness and productivity. The
process had involved a significant downsizing, reorganization of the administrative structure, and
modernization of its information technology. However, more had to be done to complete
BROU's restructuring, particularly in the area of credit risk control. In the context of this loan,
BROU adopted a new policy of control of its credit risk. BHU has not yet initiated an
institutional transformation process. Restructuring BHU's operating procedures is necessary to
address some serious problems including a significant currency and term mismatch between its
assets and liabilities. The maturity mismatch results from the fact that the average term of its
housing loans is 15 years, while the average maturity of its liabilities is eight months. The
currency mismatch occurs because the bulk of BHU's assets are denominated in Unidades
Reajustables, indexed to average salaries, and its liabilities are mostly US dollar-denominated. In
the past decade, devaluation has lagged behind inflation and therefore BHU's assets have adjusted
at a faster pace than its liabilities, resulting in accounting gains and increases in its net worth, not
substantiated by the real value of its assets.
13.   As a result of measures implemented in the context of this loan, there has been some
improvement in BHU's financial management. BHU started to issue mortgages denominated in
US dollars, in order to reduce the currency mismatch between its assets and liabilities. In April
2000, BHU's Board authorized the issue of a long term mortgage bond for US$80 million at an
interest rate of 2.25% above six month LIBOR. The first issuance of US$50 million is planned
for December 2000 and the rest for January 2001. BHU has also initiated a program to securitize
-4 -



part of its mortgage portfolio for about US$50 million in the first stage, and has reduced its deficit
of provisions to US$154.6 million as of June 2000. However, BHU has made little progress in its
organizational restructuring. Although there is an internal unit in charge of studying this matter, it
has not produced any report up to now. The financial and organizational restructuring of BHU
has become more important in view of the deterioration of this bank's financial position in recent
years.
14.   Initial steps to privatize Banco de Credito. Banco de Credito, a private commercial
bank controlled by a foreign group, was intervened by the BCU in 1998, when it experienced
financial difficulties. The Government decided to have Banco de Credito acquire the good assets
and liabilities of Banco Pan de Azucar, a bank that has been under Government management since
1996, to create a new, more viable bank.  The Corporacion Nacional de Desarrollo, a
Government development agency, now owns 51% of the new bank. The Government's intention
is to restructure and clean up the bank, before privatizing it.  As a result of measures
implemented under this loan, an investment advisory firm is currently evaluating the sale of the
Government's majority stock ownership in this bank.
15.   The Government of Uruguay is also advancing in the process of privatization of Banco
Caja Obrera, the other intervened bank. A request for proposals for acquisition of 99.83% of the
bank's shares was issued in June 2000 and seven institutions expressed interest. The deadline for
the presentation of the offers is January 2001.
16.   Strengthening of banking regulation, supervision and inspection. The financial sector
assessment revealed that banking regulations in Uruguay were in general adequate, although
norms needed to be strengthened in the areas of risk, solvency, audits, and valuation of assets and
guarantees. The assessment also found that it was necessary to standardize valuation processes
using internationally accepted methodology, and adopt internationally accepted accounting
standards. This operation has helped to further strengthen banking regulation and supervision.
A report from the SIIF indicates that as a result of measures taken under this operation to
strengthen banking regulation, most banks have already adopted a policy of flows matching
between assets and liabilities for transactions with a maturity in excess of three years, and all
banks have created Audit Committees as part of their integrated system of internal controls. Also
as a result of measures taken under this loan, banks are required to: (i) calculate their capital
adequacy ratio on a consolidated basis; (ii) apply rating and provisioning norms with respect to
loans to state enterprises; and (iii) disclose to BCU the risk models used in connection with their
lending operations. BCU has issued norms establishing procedures to be followed by solvent
private banks that decide to cease operating as banking institutions in Uruguay; to value assets of
public and private banks and of pension funds administrators in accordance with mark to market
valuation method; and to hire independent appraisers to estimate the value of collateral provided
to guarantee loans in excess of a minimum value. Subsequently to the approval of this loan, the
regulatory authorities have issued additional regulations to further strengthen the financial system,
including regulations to: (i) register audited statements; (ii) sharpen the concept and definition of
economic groups; (iii) change the calculation of credit risk limits; and (iv) strengthen the norms to
prevent money laundering. In the context of this operation, a bill of law was presented to
Congress to require all companies to follow international accepted accounting standards. This bill
- 5 -



of law has not prospered because it was considered too complex, particularly for small and
medium  enterprises.  The Government plans to reintroduce it to Congress with some
modifications.
17.   The Superintendency of Banks (SIIF) is hampered in its effort to supervise and inspect the
public banks by the limited number of inspectors that the SIIF has in its staff. Furthernore, it is
limited in its capacity to enforce compliance of public banks (including imposing penalties) due to
these banks' legal autonomy. Solving the problem of enforcement may require modifications to
the Charter of BCU, which were out of the scope of this operation.  However, in an effort to
overcome the staff constraints and ensure that all the banks in the system are inspected (including
public banks), the SIIF adopted, in the context of this loan, a two year plan (July 1999 to June
2001) to carry out on-site inspections of public and private banks under the CAMELS
methodology (capital, assets, management, earnings, liquidity and sensitivity to risk). In the last
few months, the SIIF has had to carry out some inspections not foreseen in the two year plan, due
to changes in the situation of some banks. As a result, the SIIF had met about 60% of the plan's
targets by June 2000. The SIIF is now adjusting the inspection plan for the period January 2001
to December 2002.
18.   Improving the transparency of the financial sector. The financial sector assessment
concluded that lack of transparency of financial information was an important obstacle to
improved standards of efficiency and competitiveness in Uruguay's banking sector. Financial
information available to the public about the banks was very limited. Lack of information about
debtors to the banking system created difficulties to the implementation of credit portfolio risk
analysis and limited the availability of credit and the use of corporate debt to finance productive
activities. As a result of measures taken under this operation, the financial system has become
more transparent. Banks are now required to make available to the public their annual external
audit and publish detailed financial information with respect to the preceding calendar quarter.
Since March 2000, the SIIF publishes quarterly the balance sheets of the banks in its web page.
The BCU's Credit Risk Information system now provides electronic information with respect to
each debtor having a debt which exceeds a minimum level. The information covers the amount
owed, the guarantees and the best and worst classification that the debtor has in the banking
system. The information allows the grouping of the debtors by categories.
19.   Modernization of the financial sector legal framework. Uruguay has made significant
improvements in modernizing its financial sector legal framework. However, the legal framework
is still somewhat disperse and incomplete. The difficulty of getting financial legislation approved
is an obstacle to the development of new financial products. Many of the legal initiatives in the
financial sector that are presented to Parliament take a long time to be approved or are never
approved. In part, the delays are due to lack of concerted efforts to build consensus and to
adequately respond to questions raised by the Parliamentarians with respect to the proposed
legislation. As part of this operation, a Financial Technical Unit (FTU) was created within the
BCU to, inter alia: (i) carry out technical and legal analyses of financial sector reform proposals;
(ii) present policy recommendations resulting from the analyses mentioned; and (iii) build
consensus with respect to financial sector reform proposals. The FTU is currently conducting the
following studies:
-6 -



* analysis and recommendations with respect to the legal/institutional relationships between the
BCU as regulator and the public banks;
* changes in the legal and regulatory framework with respect to entry and exit of institutions
from and to the financial system;
* legal and regulatory changes necessary to develop a consolidated global supervision
* study of the current and potential competitive advantages of the Uruguayan banks in the
regional context
4.2 Outputs by components:
20.   All policy reform measures supported by this FSAL were implemented prior to Board
presentation of the loan. Annex 8 reproduces the Policy Matrix of the loan, detailing the
measures taken under each of the six policy areas covered by this operation, progress made since
effectiveness and the main elements expected in the second phase of financial policy refonns. The
measures taken prior to Board presentation were the following:
L Measures to Improve Competition in the Banking Sector
e Issuance of the Borrower's Executive Decree No. 188/00 of July 1, 1999 regulating the right
of public agencies included in its national budget to open bank accounts in public or private
banks in Uruguay;
i Issuance of BCU's Circular No 1664 of September 9, 1999, providing that public banks in
Uruguay shall, starting in the year 1999 have their financial statements (balance sheets,
statements of incomes and expenses and related statements) audited by external auditors;
* Issuance of BROU's resolution of December 9, 1999, selecting an international auditing firm,
satisfactory to the Bank, to carry out an external audit of BROU's 1999 financial statements
(balance sheet, statements of income and expenses and related statements. BROU's external
audit was completed and delivered in August 16, 2000;
*  Issuance of BHU's Resolution of December 1, 1999, selecting an intemational auditing firm,
satisfactory to the Bank, to carry out an extemal audit of BHU's 1999 financial statements
(balance sheet, statements of incomes and expenses and related statements). BHU's external
audit was completed and delivered in October 13, 2000;
* Issuance of BROU's Resolution of September 10, 1999, providing that BROU shall eliminate
its deficit of provisions for non-performing loans by July 31, 2005;
* Issuance of BCU's Resolution of January 18, 1999, requiring BHU to establish a scheme of
reserve requirements.
II. Measures to Restructure Public Banks.
* Issuance of BROU's Resolution of January 18, 2000, approving a plan to implement a new
policy of control of its credit risk;
- 7 -



*  Issuance of BHU's Resolution of November 3, 1999, approving the issuance of long term
bonds to reduce the flows mismatch between its assets and liabilities by at least 75%;
*  Issuance of BHU's Certificate No. 13,628 of September 22, 1999, adopting a credit policy to
improve the currency matching between its assets and liabilities;
*  Issuance of BHU Resolution  No. 13,626 of September 8, 1999, adopting a policy to
standardize the terms of its loans to facilitate the subsequent securitization of mortgages; and
*  Preparation by BHU of terms of reference for the employment of a consulting firm to design
an institutional restructuring plan for BHU.
III. Measures to Establish the basis to privatize Banco de Credito
*  Agreement dated February 3, 2000 entered into between the BCU and an investment advisory
firrn, satisfactory to the Bank to assess the value of Banco de Credito's loan portfolio,
investments and fixed assets and design a strategy for the sale of the Borrower's majority
stock ownership in Banco de Credito. The contract with the selected consulting firm was
signed in March 2000. An interim report of the consultant's findings was presented to the
BCU in June 2000.
IV. Measures to Strengthen Banking Regulation, Supervision and Inspection
*  Issuance of BCU's Circular No. 1,639 of March 4, 1999, providing that public and private
banks in Uruguay shall, starting on April 1,1999, adopt a policy of flows matching between its
assets and liabilities for those transactions with a maturity in excess of three years;
*  Issuance of BCU's Circular No. 1,662 of September 9, 1999, requiring public and private
banks in Uruguay to calculate their capital adequacy ratio on a consolidated basis;
*  Issuance of BCU's Resolution of September 7, 1999, providing that public and private banks
in Uruguay shall, starting on January 1, 2000, apply rating and provisioning norms with
respect to loans to state enterprises;
*  Issuance of BCU's Circular No. 1,664 of September 9,1999, requiring public and private
banks in Uruguay to create an audit committee by not later than March 31, 2000;
*  Issuance of BCU's Notice No. 99/108 of September 9, 1999, requiring public and private
banks to disclose to BCU the risk models used by such banks in connection with their lending
operations for the purpose of the assessment of the adequacy of such models by BCU;
*  Issuance of BCU's Resolution of July 16, 1999, approving a plan to carry out on-site
inspections of public and private banks in Uruguay between July 1, 1999 and June 30, 2001 in
accordance with the capital, assets, management, eamings, liquidity and sensitivity to interest
- 8 -



risks (CAMELS) methodology;
*  Issuance of BCU's Circular Nol,645 of May 5, 1999, establishing procedures to be followed
by solvent private banks in cases in which such banks have decided to cease operating as
banking institutions in Uruguay;
*  Issuance of BCU's Notice of September 2, 1999 establishing norms to value assets of public
and private banks in Uruguay in accordance with the Mark to Market Valuation Method;
*  Issuance of BCU's Circular No. 1,626 of December 22, 1998, establishing norms to value
assets of pension funds administrators in Uruguay in accordance with the Mark to Market
Valuation Method; and
*  Issuance of BCU's Notice No. 99/109 of September 9, 1999, requiring private and public
banks in Uruguay to hire independent appraisers to estimate the value of the goods, rights or
any other form of collateral provided by borrowers to guarantee loans in excess of 3% of the
minimum net equity requirement applicable to all banks in Uruguay for purposes of operating
as banking institutions.
V. Measures to Improve Transparency of the Financial Sector
X  Issuance of BCU's Circular No. 1663 of September 9, 1999, providing that public and private
banks in Uruguay, shall, starting in the year 2001, make available to the public their annual
external audit reports for the immediate preceding fiscal year;
-  Issuance of BCU's Resolution of September 8, 1999, providing that public and private banks
in Uruguay shall, starting in the year 2000, publish detailed financial information with respect
to the preceding calendar quarter; .
e  Issuance of BCU's Notice No 99/49 of May 11, 1999, indicating that its Credit Risk
Information system (Central de Informacion de Riesgo)is providing information with respect
to, inter alia, each debtor having a debt which exceeds 0.3% of the minimum net equity
requirements applicable to all banks in Uruguay for purposes of operating as banking
institutions; and
*  Issuance of BCU's Notice No. 99/49 of May 11, 1999, indicating that BCU's credit risk
information system shall, starting on October 1, 2000, group relevant credit risk information
by separate categories.
VII. Measures to establish the basis for a more systemic approach to modernize the
Financial Sector Legal Framework
*  Presentation to the Borrower's Congress of the bill of law dated July 15, 1998, which if
enacted, would require all companies in Uruguay to follow intemational accepted accounting
standards;
-9-



*  Presentation to the Borrower's Congress on December 10, 1999, of a bill of law, which if
enacted, would, inter alia, permit the execution of warrants without judicial intervention; and
*  Enactment of the Borrower's Law No. 17,228 of December 21, 1999, which, inter alia,
expands the type of goods which may be subject to prenda sin desplazamiento (as a type of
secured interests on specific goods) and
*  Creation of a Technical Unit within the BCU which will, inter alia: (i) carry out technical and
legal analyses of financial sector reform proposals; (ii) prepare and present to the Borrower's
executive branch the recommendations resulting from the analyses mentioned in (i) herein; and
(iii) build consensus amongst the Borrower's executive and legislative branches of government
and stakeholders with respect to financial sector reform proposals.
21.   As part of loan preparation, the Bank approved a US$2.0 million PPF to finance
consulting services and training relevant to the preparation of the loan.  The PPF financed the
following:
a Study tour of a number of Uruguayan senior policy makers (including government officials,
members of Parliament, private sector entrepreneurs and trade union representatives) to New
Zealand, during November 1997, to study the reform of the state in that country, including the
reform of the financial sector.
*  Consultant's study about competitiveness of the Uruguayan banks.
*  Attendance of three foreign expositors to a seminar: Uruguay of the XXI Century, conducted
in Montevideo in July 1999, on the reform of the state.
*  Legal studies of the capacity of the Central Bank of Uruguay to establish norms and sanctions
on the public entities, including public banks.
=  Preparation of Terms of Reference for hiring an specialized consultant to evaluate the assets
of an intervened bank and to design an strategy for its privatization.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
22.   NA
4.4 Financial rate of return:
23.   NA
4.5 Institutional development impact:
24.   The institutional development impact of the operation has been substantial, particularly at
the level of the BCU. The measures taken in the area of bank regulation and supervision have
strengthened the capability of the SIIF to regulate and supervise the banking sector. Also, the
capacity of policy analysis of the BCU has been enhanced witht the creation of the Financial
Technical Unit.
- 10-



5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control ofgovernment or implementing agency:
25.   The policy reforms supported by this operation were implemented before Board
presentation of the FSAL and, in that sense, implementation was highly satisfactory and not
subject to factors outside the Government's control. However, there were political and economic
factors outside the control of the Government that affected how soon the policy measures already
taken produced the intended outcome. These factors are: (i) Congress' timing in enacting the
legislation presented by the Government; and (ii) remaining legal constraints affecting the capacity
of the BCU to enforce prudential regulation by the public banks.
26.   Although most of the measures supported by this loan involved the issuance of Borrower's
Executive Decrees, BCU's Circulars and Notices, and resolutions by the Boards or managment of
the public banks, two measures involved presentation of bills of law for Congressional approval.
These are: (i) bill of law dated July 15, 1998, which if enacted, would require that all companies in
Uruguay follow international accepted accounting standards; and (ii) bill of law dated December
10, 1998, which if enacted, would, inter alia, permit the execution of warrants without judicial
intervention. These bills of law have not yet been approved by Congress, due to the slow pace of
legislative action, particularly given the changes in Congress after the last elections.
Consequently, the outcomes expected from the enactment of these laws have not materialized yet.
27.   The changes in bank regulation and supervision supported by this operation aim at
creating a more level playing field between public and private banks. While biases in regulation
and supervision have been largely eliminated, the BCU is still limited in its capacity to apply
sanctions to the public banks in case of lack of compliance. To overcome this limitation, would
require a modification in the Charter of the BCU. This is one of the topics under study by the
Technical Unit of the BCU, created under this operation.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
28.   As indicated, most of the policy actions supported by this operation that are subject to
Government control have been implemented satisfactorily.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control.'
29.   NA
5.4 Costs and financing:
30.   NA
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
31.   The policy reforms implemented under this loan are likely to be sustainable because of
several reasons. First, the experience of the Bank with Uruguay is that policy reform proceeds
slowly and deliberately, but once the decision has been taken to move ahead, there is seldom
backtracking on the reform.  Secondly, most of the reforms implemented refer to the
strengthening of the banking regulatory framework which apply equally to public and private
banks. It would be very difficult to roll back any of the new regulations to restore privileges to
- 11 -



public banks. Moreover, it is likely that the new administration will go ahead with the second
phase of financial sector reforms for two main reasons. One reason is the increasing challenges
posed by the apparent loss of competitiveness of Uruguayan banks with respect to other banks in
the region, as well as the changes in the industry at the global level due to the increase in
electronic banking. Another reason is that under increasing budgetary difficulties, the authorities
may be compelled to take remedial action to restructure BHU (which lost US$150 million in the
first quarter of 2000), and sell the intervened banks.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
32.   NA
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
33.   The Bank's performance during loan preparation was highly satisfactory. First, the Bank
was quick to respond to a request for support by the Uruguayan authorities in late 1998, when the
Russian crisis was beginning to have an impact on the countries of the region. Responding to the
Government's request, the Bank initiated an assessment of Uruguay's financial sector in late 1998.
The goal was to add to the Bank's on-going work on social security and capital markets that had
been carried out in the context of two previous adjustment operations in Uruguay. The
assessment was carried out by a high level team that identified the most urgent problems in the
financial sector and presented to the authorities a document with a comprehensive diagnosis and a
number of reform options for the short as well as the medium term. Subsequently, the Bank
worked in close collaboration with the Uruguayan authorities to agree on the policy measures that
would form the basis of the adjustment operation. During loan preparation, Bank staff
specialized in banking regulation and supervision provided valuable assistance to BCU's technical
staff in drafting new norms and regulations.
34.   During the loan preparation stage, it became evident that some of the original policy
reform measures agreed with the authorities could not be implemented during the then on-going
electoral process in Uruguay. One of these measures was the sale of Banco Caja Obrera, which
the Government had already initiated, but had not been able to complete. The Bank and the
Govermnent agreed to drop this measure from the program and, at the same time, to reduce the
size of the loan to reflect its reduced scope. Consequently, the loan was reduced from an initially
proposed amount of US$150 million to US$80 million. In doing so, the Bank showed flexibility
and understanding for the political limitations faced by the authorities. The Bank also showed
farsightedness in continuing its policy engagement with Uruguay during the transition to a new
government.
7.2 Supervision.
35. This was a one-tranche adjustment operation in which all the agreed policy actions were
implemented before Board presentation, with limited scope for further supervision. Nevertheless,
the Bank has remained engaged with the authorities in discussing future reforns and in following
up on the effects of the implemented actions.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
- 12-



36. Overall, the Bank performance in this operation has been highly satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
37. The Borrower's performance during preparation was also highly satisfactory. The authorities
of the Ministry of Finance and the BCU worked in close collaboration with the Bank in defining
the scope and content of the policy measures to be implemented under this operation. The
authorities were also effective in using funds from the PPF attached to this operation to finance
studies on specific financial sector issues, although the use of the PPF was very slow and large
portion of the funds remained unutilized.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
38. The Government implemented all the agreed policy measures before Board presentation. The
Government's performance was highly satisfactory.
7.6 ImplementingAgency:
39. The two main Government agencies involved in implementing the policy measures supported
by this operation were the Ministry of Economy and Finance and the Central Bank. The
performance of both agencies was highly satisfactory.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
40. Overall, the Borrower's performance in this operation was highly satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
41. In preparing this operation, the Bank benefited from the lessons learned in a previous
successful sector adjustment operation in Uruguay:  the Contractual Savings Structural
Adjustment Loan. It is, therefore, not surprising that the lessons learned in this second adjustment
operation confirm the lessons learned in the earlier one. These lessons are the following:
(i) The Value of Demonstrating Strong Technical Capacity. In preparing complex sector
adjustment operations, the Bank should lead with its comparative advantage which is bringing to
bear strong technical capacity and ample cross-country experience. The Borrower must be
confident that its dialogue with the Bank will be of added value to its own efforts.  During
preparation of this operation, the Bank put together a high level team that conducted a
comprehensive assessment of Uruguay's financial sector and presented to the authorities a range
of policy proposals for both the short and the long tern. The authorities welcomed the
assessment which became the basis of a dialogue with the Bank to define the policy actions to be
supported by this adjustment operation, as well as for possible future reforrns.
(ii) The Need for Sensibility to the Political Economy of Reform. In designing a sector
adjustment loan, political factors and the legislative needs of the client need to be understood
and included in the dialogue with the client, particularly in an election year. In preparing this
operation, the Bank understood that some of the proposed policy reforms needed to further
reduce the role of the public banks could not be implemented in an election year. The decision to
reduce the scope of the loan and its size, rather than to cancel or postpone it, strengthened the
basis for a continued policy dialogue with the new Uruguayan authorities, that took office shortly
- 13-



after the loan was approved.
(iii) The Importance of Selecting an Appropriate Instrument. Rather than risk delays and
failure in the achievement of the program's long term aims by locking the client into an overly
ambitious and politically sensitive policy agenda, the Bank should chose to negotiate a
medium-term reform strategy, and allocate its reform goals over a series of single-tranche
adjustment operations- a lending vehicle designed specifically to protect the integrity of lengthy
adjustment operations from significant political shifts in borrowing countries. As in the previous
adjustment operation in Uruguay, the use of a single tranche adjustment loan, with all policy
measures implemented before Board presentation, proved to be an excellent lending instrument to
support limited but important policy reforms.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
41.   A summary translation of the comments provided by the Ministry of Economy and Finance
is the following:
(i) The Ministry considers that the program has been satisfactory and specially supports the
format of operating based on already met conditionality.  This fornat has been efficient
because it accelerates the internal processes in the country and acts upon things that are
possible;
(ii) The objectives of the program are being met. There is more information available at the
level of the financial system, specially the public sector, which generates better understanding
at the level of the economic agents;
(iii) The role of the Bank has been important in carrying out a solid and technically relevant
diagnosis of the financial sector, which was the basis of the operation.
(b) Cofinanciers:
42.   Not applicable.
(c) Other partners fNGOs/private sector):
43.   Not applicable.
10. Additional Information
41. Not applicable.
- 14 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
-_____________________________|  Projectd In last PSR          ActualA.tee Esfi.ate
NOT APPLICABLE BECAUSE THIS IS AN
ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
Output Indicators:
Procted In ls PSRI              ActulLst Estimate
NOT APPLICABLE BECAUSE THIS IS AN
ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
End of project
- 15-



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in USS million equivalent)
Appraisal  J-;ActualLatsts    Pct of
f:  : 0:;:    :   0   0 0f:;a i9Estimate f  :Estiate   DApraisCal
NOT APPLICABLE BECAUSE THIS IS AN
ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
Total Baseline Cost                                 0.00           0.00
Total Project Costs            0.00           0.00
Total Financing Required             0.00           0.00
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
~rocurement MethodI
Expenditure Category     108           cspoe 2                 N.S.f.    Total Cost
* ' ° 11 ' ' '~NO                      Other                     0.001 w
1. Works                    0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                    0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                 0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)     (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)     (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0 00)
Total                     0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)     (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)__
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (ActuallLatest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method,
Expenditure Category     lOI                           2       N.B.F.    Total Cost
NOB     ~Other
1. Works                    0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                    0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                 0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
- 16 -



5. Miscellaneous                   0.00            0.00            0.00           0.00            0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                   0.00            0.00            0.00            0.00           0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)
Total                           0.00            0.00            0.00           0.00            0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2/ Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financin  by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
I                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pereentage of Appraisal
Component                Appraisal Estimate             Actulatet estimate            _          _
Bank      Govt.       CoF.       Baok       Govt.      CoF,    Bank   Govt.  CoF.
0.0    0.0    0.0
0.0    0.0    0.0
100                                             00     00
-17 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
NOT APPLICABLE BECAUSE THIS IS AN ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
- 18-



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle               No. of Persons and Specialty                Performatnce Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Implementation       Development
Month/Year    Count        Specialty                         Progress          Objective
Identification/Preparation
02/1999                        1   Principal Operations
Officer/Task Manager
I   Financial sector Lead Specialist
2   Banking regulators
I   Financial sector specialist
consultant
2   Financial economists
I   Lawyer
I   Local banking sector specialist
Appraisal/Negotiation
08/1999                        1   Principal Operations
Officer/Task Manager
I   Lawyer
I   Banking regulator
Supervision
No supervision mission took
place because all actions
were taken before Board
presentation
ICR
No mission took place
(b) Staff:
r     Stageof Project ycle                       Actual/Latest Estimate
__________________        ~No. Staff weeks'               US$ (,O00)
Identification/Preparation                19.9                         90.8
Appraisal/Negotiation                     10.7                         56.4
Supervision
ICR                                        2.4                          14.3
Total                                     33.0                         161.5
- 19 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
0 Macro policies                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
O Sector Policies                         * H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
O Physical                                O H  O SU O M  O N  * NA
E Financial                               O H  O SU O M  O N  * NA
O Institutional Development                0 H  0 SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
3i Environmental                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
3 Poverty Reduction                 O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
O Gender                            O H OSUOM O N * NA
Ol Other (Please specify)           O H  O SU O M  O N  * NA
O Private sector development              0 H  0 SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
2 Public sector management                0 H  0 SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Other (Please specify)                  O H  O SU O M  O N  * NA
- 20 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                   Rating
O Lending                                              *HS OS OU OHU
O Supervision                                          * HS O S  OU  OHU
O Overall                                              OHS OS O U O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                               Rating
O Preparation                                          OHS OS  O  U  O HU
O  Government implementation performance               O HS O S   0  U  0 HU
O Implementation agency performance                    O HS O S   0  U  0 HU
O0 Overall                                             OHS OS O U O HU
- 21 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Uruguay: Financial Sector Review, October 31, 1999. Report No. 20199-UR
- 22 -



Additional Annex 8. Financial Sector Adjustment Loan. Policy Reform Program
FINANCIAL SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM
OBJETIVES                                   POLICY ACTIONS
ACTIONS TAKEN BEFORE BOARD PRESENTATION
To maintain a         * In 03/1999, the FMI approved a precautionary Stand-by until 3/2000
supportive            * Maintenance of sound macroeconomic framework consistent with the policy
macroeconomic            objectives and program described in the Letter of Sector Policy
program              PROGRESS SINCE EFFECTIVENESS
.     In May 31, 2000, the FMI approved a 22 month precautionary Stand-by.
ACTIONS TAKEN BEFORE BOARD PRESENTATION
To create a more      * Issuance of Executive Decree No. 188/99 of July 1, 1999, regulating the right
leveled playing field    of public agencies included in the national budget to open bank accounts in
for public and private   public or private banks in Uruguay
banks                 * Issuance of BCU's Circular No. 1,664 of September 9, 1999 providing that
public banks shall, starting in year 1999, have their financial statements
audited by extemal auditors
BROU
* Issuance of BROU's Resolution of December 9, 1999, selecting an
intemational auditing firm, satisfactory to the Bank, to audit BROU's 1999
financial statements
* Issuance of BROU's Resolution of September 10, 1999, providing that BROU
shall eliminate its deficit of provisions for non-performing loans by July 31,
2005
BHU
* Issuance of BHU's Resolution of December 1, 1999, selecting an intemational
auditing finm, satisfactory to the Bank, to audit BHU's 1999 financial
statements
* Issuance of BCU's Resolution of January 18, 2000 requiring BHU to establish
a scheme of reserve requirements
PROGRESS SINCE EFFECTIVENESS
* Audit report of BROU's financial statements completed in 08/15/2000
* Audit report of BHU's financial statements completed in 10/13/2000
* BHU's deficit of provisions as of October 2000 was US$154.6 million
KEY EXPECTED OBJECTIVES OF SECOND PHASE OF REFORMS
* Equal tax treatment of financial institutions and transactions to reduce spread
distortions.
* Modification of BROU's Charter to: (i) permit the sale of part of its equity to
the private sector; and (ii) increase its role as second tier bank.
* Modification of BHU's Charter to: (i) permit the sale of part of its equity to
the private sector; (ii) increase its role as second tier bank; and (iii) permit
greater flexibility in granting mortgage loans in US dollars.
- 23 -



ACTIONS TAKEN BEFORE BOARD PRESENTATION
To strengthen the
productivity and        BROU
financial position of  * Issuance of BROU's Resolution of January 18, 2000 approving a new policy
public banks             of control of its credit risk
BRU
* Issuance of BHU's Resolution of November 3, 1999 approving the issuance
of long-term bonds that will reduce the flows mismatch between its assets and
liabilities by at least 75%
*  Issuance of BHU's Resolution 13,628 of September 22, 1999, approving a
credit policy to improve the currency matching between its assets and liabilities
* Issuance of BHU's Resolution 13,626 of September 8, 1999, adopting a policy
to standardize the tenns of its loans to facilitate the subsequent securitization
of mortgages
* Preparation by BHU of terms of reference for the hiring of a consulting firm
to design an institutional restructuring plan for BHU
PROGRESS SINCE EFFECTIVENESS
* BHU has initiated plans for securitizing loans for about US$50 million of its
mortgage portfolio
* BHU has initiated plans to issue mortgage bonds for US$80 million at 10
years and an interest rate of 2.25% over LIBOR
KEY EXPECTED OBJECTIVES OF SECOND PHASE OF REFORMS
* Formulation and implementation of an institutional restructuring plan for BHU
ACTIONS TAKEN BEFORE BOARD PRESENTATION
To transfer            * Agreement dated February 3, 2000 between the BCU and an investment
management of            advisory firm, satisfactory to the Bank, to assess the value of Banco de
intervened banks to the  Credito and design an strategy for its privatization.
private sector
PROGRESS SINCE EFFECTIVENESS
* A preliminary report was submitted by the consultants on 9/6/2000
* A request for proposals for the privatization of Banco Caja Obrera was issued
in June 2000. The deadline for presentation of the offers is January 2000
KEY EXPECTED OBJECTIVES OF SECOND PHASE OF REFORMS
* Full privatization of Banco Caja Obrera
* Full privatization of Banco de Credito
- 24 -



ACTIONS TAKEN BEFORE BOARD PRESENTATION
To improve the bank's NORMS AND REGULATIONS
intemal and extemal   * Issuance of BCU's Circular No. 1,639 of March 4, 1999, requiring public and
controls and their       private banks to adopt a policy of flows matching between assets and liabilities
evaluation.              for transactions with maturities in excess of 3 years
* Issuance of BCU's Circular No. 1,662 of September 9, 1999, requiring public
To allow for orderly     and private banks to calculate their capital adequacy on a consolidated basis
exit of banking       * Issuance of BCU' Resolution of September 7, 1999, providing that public and
institutions from the    private banks shall, starting on January 1, 2000, apply rating and provisioning
market.                  norms with respect to state enterprises
* Issuance of BCU's Circular No. 1,664 of September 7, 1999 requiring public
and private banks to create Audit Committees no later than March 31, 2000
* Issuance of BCU's Notice 99/108 of September 9, 1999 requiring public and
private banks to disclose to BCU the risk model utilized with the objective of
assessing their adequacy
* Issuance of BCU's Circular No. 1,645 of May 5, 1999 establishing procedures
to be followed by solvent banks to cease operating as banking institutions
INSPECTION AND SUPERVISION
* Issuance of BCU's Resolution of July 16, 1999, approving a plan to carry out
on-site inspections of public and private banks between 07/99 and 06/2001 in
accordance with CAMELS methodology
VALUATION ASSETS AND GUARANTEES
To strengthen BCU's
inspection capacity,  *  Issuance of BCU's Notice of September 2, 1999, establishing norms to value
ensuring adequate        assets of public and private banks in accordance with the Mark-to Market
coverage of all the      Valuation Method
banking system        * Issuance of BCU's Circular No.1,626 of December 22, 1998, establishing
norms to value assets of pension fund administrators in accordance with the
Mark to Market Valuation Method
* Issuance of BCU's Notice 99/109 of September 9, 1999 requiring private and
public banks to hire independent appraisers to estimate the value of collateral
provided to guarantee loans in excess of 3% of the minimum net equity
requirement applicable to all banks
PROGRESS SINCE EFFECTIVENESS
* Issuance of new regulations to: (i) register audited statements; (ii) precise the
concept and definition of economic groups; (iii) change the calculation of credit
risk limits; and (iv) strengthen the norms to prevent money laundering
KEY EXPECTED OBJECTIVES OF SECOND PHASE OF REFORMS
* Strengthened BCU's functions to regulate and supervise public banks
* Prudential regulation for derivatives transactions in place
* Mechanisms to allow for an orderly market exit of insolvent banks in place
- 25 -



ACTIONS TAKEN BEFORE BOARD PRESENTATION
To improve          INFORMATION ABOUT BANKS
depositors' choices   * Issuance of BCU's Circular No. 1,663 of September 9, 1999, providing that
through more and         public and private banks shall, starting in the year 2001, make available to the
more accessible          public their annual external audit reports of the preceding year
information about     * Issuance of BCU's Resolution of September 10, 1999, providing that public
banks                    and private banks shall, starting in the year 2000, publish detailed financial
information with respect to the preceding calendar quarter
INFORMATION ABOUT DEBTORS
* Issuance of BCU's Notice 99/49 of May 11, 1999, indicating that its Credit
Risk System (Central de Riesgo) is providing information concerning each
To diminish financial    debtor having a debt which exceeds 0.3% of the minimum net equity
risks, and increase      requirement of the banks
lending, through more    * Issuance of BCU's Notice 99/49 of May 11, 1999 indicating that the BCU's
information about        credit risk information shall, starting on October 1, 2000, group relevant credit
debtors                 risk information by separate categories
PROGRESS SINCE EFFECTIVENESS
* Since March 2000, the SIIF publishes quarterly the balance sheets of the banks
in its web page
* BCU's credit risk information is being provided electronically and grouped by
separate categories
- 26 -



ACTIONS TAKEN BEFORE BOARD PRESENTATION
To create a legal     * Presentation to Congress of a bill of law dated July 15, 1999, which, if
framework conducive      enacted, would require all companies in Uruguay (including public and private
to the development of    banks), to follow internationally accepted accounting standards
an efficient and solvent  * Presentation to Congress of a bill of law on December 10, 1998, which, if
financial sector,        enacted, would, inter alia, permit the execution of Warrants without judicial
capable of expanding     intervention
access to credit      * Enactmnent of the Borrower's Law No. 17,228 of December 21, 1999, which,
inter alia, expands the type of goods which may be subject to prenda sin
desplazamiento (as a type of secured interest on specific goods)
* Creation of a Financial Technical Unit within the BCU which will inter alia:
(i) carry out technical and legal analyses of financial sector reform proposals;
To expedite process of   (ii) prepare and present the recommendations resulting from the analyses; and
financial policy         (iii) build consensus among govermment branches and stakeholders with
analysis, formulation,   respect to financial sector reform proposals
and approval
PROGRESS SINCE EFFECTIVENESS
* The bill of law requiring the application of internationally accepted accounting
standards did not progress in Parliament and will be resubmitted with some
simplifications
* The FTU is currently conducting studies on: (i) analysis and recommendations
with respect to the legal/institutional relationships between the BCU as
regulator and the public banks; (ii) changes in the legal and regulatory
franework with respect to entry and exit of institutions from and to the
financial system; (iii) legal and regulatory changes necessary to develop a
consolidated global supervision; and (iv) study of the current and potential
competitive advantage of the Uruguayan banks in the regional context
KEY EXPECTED OBJECTIVES OF SECOND PHASE OF REFORMS
* Full implementation of International Accounting Standards
* Legislation approved to expedite procedures to execute security interests in
pledged assets
* Modification of the Leasing Law (approved in 01/98) to allow non financial
entities to lease capital goods
* Reports to be issued by the Financial Technical Unit proposing policy reforms
in the following areas:
*Financial sector legal framework
*Banking sector competitiveness
*Mechanisms to allow for an orderly market exit
of financial institutions
*Estimation of contingent liabilities for the
Government from the public and intervened banks.
- 27 -



