Report No. PID7679
PID7679.TXT
Project Name                     Uruguay-Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
Region                           Latin America And The Caribbean
Sector                           Financial Sector/Public Management
Project ID                       UYPE63390
Borrower                         Republica Oriental Del Uruguay
Implementing Agency              Ministerio De Economia Y Finanzas
Colonia Y Paraguay 1089, 3er. Piso
Montevideo, Uruguay
Date Pid Prepared                May 3, 1999
Appraisal Date                   May 30, 1999
Board Date                       July 29, 1999
COUNTRY AND SECTOR BACKGROUND
1.      Uruguay is a middle upper-income country, with social indicators among
the best in Latin America. Its economy has performed well in recent years.
During the period 1990-1998, real GDP grew at 3.7w, compared with population
growth of only half of a percent. Inflation is under control, and the
external current account deficit remains modest. The current administration
that took office in March 1995, has been able to implement an austerity
package of measures to reduce the fiscal deficit, together with a gradual,
but sustained, structural reform agenda in the areas of social security,
education, public enterprises, modernization of the state, and continued
liberalization of the economy.
2.      During 1998, Uruguay achieved many of its economic objectives.
Inflation was reduced from 15t at the end of 1997, to 8t by year-end, and the
fiscal adjustment program was successful in reducing the consolidated public
sector deficit to 1 of GDP. Although this good performance was met by a
favorable external financing situation, the domestic and external financing
environment tightened substantially after the Russian debt crisis in August
1998. The authorities responded to this external shock by strengthening the
financial sector through additional prudential measures, including increased
capital adequacy requirements for the banking system. Although tensions in
the capital markets eased after the announcement of the Fund arrangement with
Brazil, in November 1998, the Uruguayan economy slowed down significantly in
the last quarter of 1998.
3.      The economic slow down is likely to continue in 1999, due to loss of
competitiveness of Uruguayan products in Brazil, following the January 1999
depreciation of the Brazilian real, and to the slowdown of economic activity
in Argentina. Despite the negative effect of the economic slowdown on public
finances, the Government remains committed to its medium term strategy of
cautious fiscal and monetary policies and to continue with structural
reforms. To help meet the challenges, the authorities requested, and
obtained, a new 12-months precautionary stand-by arrangement with the IMF.
The Government has also requested advanced disbursements in early 1999 of



project lending from the World Bank and IDB.
THE PROPOSED LOAN
4.      Loan Objectives.   Recognizing that the best strategy to withstand
external financial shocks and to facilitate the country's re-entry into
international financial markets is to have a strong and efficient financial
sector, the Government of Uruguay is committed to renewed efforts in
financial sector reform. The Government and the Bank have reached
preliminary agreement on a program of financial sector reforms that would be
implemented in stages.    The main elements of this program, including the
challenges that will be addressed in the long term, will be described in a
Letter of Sector Policy, which is under preparation. This proposed loan
would support the first stage of the Government's financial sector reform
program aiming at: (i) establishing a more level playing field between public
and private banks; (ii) strengthening banking supervision; and (iii)
introducing more transparency in the financial sector. The Bank expects to
continue the dialogue on the follow up stages of financial sector reforms
with the new authorities that will take over in early 2000.
5.      Loan Amount and Description.   The proposed US$120 million adjustment
loan would support the first stage of Uruguay's financial sector reform
program. The loan would be disbursed in two tranches. A first tranche of
US$80 million, to be disbursed after Board approval, would support policy
measures implemented before Board presentation. A floating tranche of US$40
million would be disbursed in support of additional measures including the
sale of one of the two publicly managed banks. It is expected that the
floating tranche would be disbursed within three months of disbursement of
the first tranche.
6.      The proposed loan would support reform measures to:
- Reduce Preferential Treatment of Public Banks
- Accelerate Restructuring of Public Banks
- Accelerate Privatization of Banks Under Government Management
- Strengthen Banking Supervision and Inspection
- Improve Transparency of the Financial Sector
- Modernize the Financial Sector Legal Framework
7.      Sustainability.   The proposed reform measures are expected to have
lasting effects in terms of more efficient public banks and a more
transparent financial sector in Uruguay. Moreover, the experience with
policy reform in Uruguay is that since reforms are based on consensus, they
are not easily reversed.
8.      Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector. The Bank's
experience with adjustment lending in Uruguay in the late 1980s and early
1990s was mixed. Although most of the development objectives supported by
the operations were eventually achieved, implementation lagged.
Implementation delays were the result of the disparity between expectations
- 2 -



of quick SAL disbursements and Uruguay's deliberate pace in concluding
sensitive policy reforms. In contrast, the Bank's experience with the
Contractual Savings Adjustment Loan, approved in February 1998, has been
highly satisfactory, as concluded by an OED audit of the Loans' ICR dated
December 3, 1998. One important lesson from this experience is that
adjustment operations in Uruguay should be designed to support incremental
reforms in areas in which there if ample consensus. Another lesson is that
to ensure Government commitment to timely implementation, adjustment loans
should address a small number of policy areas, and have maximum up-front
implementation.
9.      Environmental Aspects. This project is not expected to have
environmental implications.
10.     Program Objective Categories. The project is consistent with the
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal of supporting reform in the area of
financial sector reform.
11.     Poverty Category. This project will not be included in the Program of
Targeted Intervention.
Contact Point:                    The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Task Manager:                     Mariluz Cortes
Telephone: (202) 473-0029
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending May 14, 1999.
- 3 -



