Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4540-UR
Loan Agreement
(Financial Sector Adjustment Loan)
between 
REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated March 8, 2000
LOAN NUMBER 4540-UR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 8, 2000, between REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (The Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received from the Borrower a letter, dated January 31, 
2000, describing: (i) its macroeconomic framework; (ii) the actions taken under its 
social security and capital markets reforms; (iii) the objectives and policies of its 
financial sector reform program (hereinafter called the Program); and (iv) the first 
phase of its financial sector reform program which consists of actions designed to 
improve competition in the Borrower’s banking sector, to restructure public banks, to 
initiate the privatization of Banco de Crédito del Uruguay (hereinafter called BC), to 
strengthen banking regulation, supervision and inspection, to improve the transparency 
of financial information and to modernize the legal framework for the Borrower’s 
financial sector (hereinafter called the First Phase of the Program), declaring the 
Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the First Phase of the Program, and 
requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the First Phase of the Program; and 
(B)
the Borrower has carried out the measures and taken the actions described 
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Bank;
(C)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has decided in 
support of the First Phase of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower 
by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997), with the modifications set forth below (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 18, is modified to read:
“‘Project’ means the first phase of the program, referred to in the 
Preamble (A)(iv) 
to the Loan Agreement, in support of which the Loan is made.”;
(b)
Section 4.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, withdrawals 
from the Loan 
Account shall be made in the currency of the deposit account 
specified in Section 2.02 of 
the Loan Agreement.”;
(c)
Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan from 
the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement and of 
these General 
Conditions”;
(d)   The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
(e)
Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower 
shall prepare and 
furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall reasonably  request, on the execution of the first phase of the program 
referred to in the Preamble 
(A)(iv) to the Loan Agreement, the performance 
by the Borrower and the Bank of their 
respective obligations under the Loan 
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of 
the Loan.”; and 
(f)
Section 9.05 is deleted and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as modified above), 9.08 
and 9.09 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“BC” means Banco de Crédito del Uruguay (Credit Bank of Uruguay), a 
banking institution whose capital stock is partially owned by the Borrower’s National 
Development Corporation (Corporación Nacional de Desarrollo);
(b)
“BCU” means Banco Central del Uruguay, the Borrower’s Central Bank;
(c)
“BHU” means Banco Hipotecario del Uruguay, the Borrower’s national 
mortgage bank;
(d)
“BROU” means Banco de la República Oriental del Uruguay (Bank of the 
Oriental Republic of Uruguay), a banking institution wholly owned by the Borrower;
(e)
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(f)
“Mark to Market Valuation Method” means the valuation method used to 
calculate the value of the assets of an entity in accordance with the value given to 
such assets by the secondary market during a given period of time;
(g)
“Program Preparation Advance” means the program preparation advance 
granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to a letter agreement signed on behalf of 
Page  3
the Bank on October 30, 1997 and on behalf of the Borrower on November 7, 1997, as 
such letter agreement has been amended to the date of this Agreement; and  
(h)
“SOE” means a legal entity which is partially or wholly owned by the 
Borrower either directly or indirectly.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to eighty 
million nine hundred thousand Dollars ($80,900,000).
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the amount of eighty million 
ninety one thousand Dollars ($80,091,000) from the Loan Account in support of the 
First Phase of the Program.
(b) 
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank the first 
request for withdrawal from the Loan Account, and thereafter maintain in BCU, a 
deposit account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Except as 
provided in Sections 2.04 and 2.05 of this Agreement, all withdrawals from the Loan 
Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Deposit Account.
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Loan 
shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an 
amount equal to the amount of said payment; or (ii) if the Bank shall so request, 
refund such amount to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request shall 
be credited to the Loan Account for cancellation.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in the amount of eight 
hundred nine thousand Dollars ($809,000) which is an amount equal to one percent (1%) 
of the amount of the Loan. On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of 
said fee.
Section 2.05. On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Program Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Program Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
cancelled.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.07. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 
from and including an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the 
next following Interest Payment 
Date.
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.08 
Page  4
of this 
Agreement.
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank 
offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for 
value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the 
Interest Payment Date occurring 
on or next preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage 
per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one 
percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) 
the London interbank offered rates, or other 
reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section, the Bank determines 
that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a 
basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided 
in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates 
applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of 
the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposed 
action to be taken after the disbursement of the Loan which would have the effect of 
materially reversing the objectives of the Program or any action specified in Schedule 
3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall:
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(b)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
four months after the date of the Bank’s request for such audit, a certified copy of 
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(c)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Deposit Account 
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall have reasonably requested. 
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any action taken by the 
Borrower, BCU, BHU or BROU, as the case may be, would, in the opinion of the Bank, 
Page  5
materially and adversely affect any action specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement 
or the Borrower’s ability to achieve the objectives of the Program.
ARTICLE V
Effective date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is 
consistent with the objectives of the Program. 
Section 5.02. The date June 6, 2000 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Economy and Finance of the Borrower is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas
Colonia 1089
Montevideo, Uruguay
Cable address: 
Telex:
MINECON
269 MINECON UY Montevideo, Uruguay
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY
By /s/ Mr. Javier Bonilla 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Page  6
By /s/ Ms. Myrna Alexander 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures:
1. 
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower;
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance under another loan or a credit;
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by 
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or 
any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by 
the Bank by notice to the Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112
   -
Alcoholic beverages
121
   -
Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
refuse
122
   -
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or 
not containing tobacco substitutes)
525
   -
Radioactive and associated materials
667
   -
Pearls, precious and semiprecious
stones, unworked or worked
718          718.7
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges), non-irradiated, for
nuclear reactors 
728
      728.43
Tobacco processing machinery
897          897.3
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum
group metals (except watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’
wares (including set gems)
971
   -
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold
ores and concentrates)
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption;
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph 
the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, use or import 
of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to 
which the Borrower is a party);
6.
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) on 
Page  7
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment 
or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and
7.
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Bank determines that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or 
of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or execution of such contract, 
without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the 
Bank to remedy the situation.
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in Dollars)*
On each June 15 and December 15
beginning June 15, 2005
through December 15 , 2014
4,045,000
_________________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, 
except as provided 
in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 3 
Actions Referred to in Whereas Clause (B) 
of the Preamble of this Agreement
1.
The following actions were taken to improve competition in the Borrower’s 
banking sector:
(a)
Issuance of the Borrower’s Executive Decree No 188/99 of July 1, 1999 
regulating the right of the Borrower’s agencies included in its national budget to 
open bank accounts in public or private banks in Uruguay.
(b)
Issuance of  BCU’s Circular No. 1.664 of September 9, 1999 providing that 
public banks in Uruguay shall, starting in the year 1999, have their financial 
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
audited by external auditors.
(c)
Issuance of BROU’s Resolution of December 9, 1999 selecting an 
international auditing firm, satisfactory to the Bank, to carry out an external audit 
of BROU’s 1999 financial statements (balance sheet, statement of income and expenses 
and related statements). 
Page  8
(d)
Issuance of BHU’s Resolution of December 1, 1999 selecting an 
international auditing firm, satisfactory to the Bank, to carry out, inter alia, an 
external audit of BHU’s 1999 financial statements (balance sheet, statement of income 
and expenses and related statements). 
(e)
Issuance of  BROU’s Resolution of September 10, 1999 providing that BROU 
shall eliminate its deficit of provisions for non-performing loans by July 31, 2005. 
(f)
Issuance of BCU’s  Resolution of January 18, 2000 requiring BHU to 
establish a scheme of reserve requirements. 
2.
The following actions were taken to restructure public banks:
(a)
Issuance of BROU’s Resolution of January 18, 2000 approving a new policy 
of control of its credit risk. 
(b)
Issuance of BHU’s Resolution of November 3, 1999 approving the issuance 
of long-term bonds that will reduce the flows mismatch between its assets and 
liabilities by at least 75%. 
(c)
Issuance of BHU’s Resolution No. 13.628 of September 22, 1999 approving a 
credit policy to improve the currency matching between its assets and liabilities. 
(d)
Issuance of BHU’s Resolution No. 13.626 of September 8, 1999 adopting a 
policy to standardize the terms of its loans to facilitate the subsequent 
securitization of mortgages. 
(e)
Preparation by BHU of  terms of reference for the employment of a 
consulting firm to design an institutional restructuring plan for BHU. 
3.
The following action was taken to initiate the privatization of BC:
Agreement dated February 3, 2000 entered into between the BCU and an investment 
advisory firm, satisfactory to the Bank, to assess the value of BC’s loan portfolio, 
investments and fixed assets and design a strategy for the sale of the Borrower’s 
majority stock ownership in BC.
4.
The following actions were taken to strengthen banking regulation, supervision 
and inspection:
(a)
Issuance of BCU’s Circular No. 1.639 of March 4, 1999 providing that 
public and private banks in Uruguay shall, starting on April 1, 1999, adopt a policy 
of  flows matching between its assets and liabilities for those transactions with a 
maturity in excess of three years.
(b)
Issuance of BCU’s Circular No. 1.662 of September 9, 1999 requiring 
public and private banks in Uruguay to calculate their capital adequacy ratio on a 
consolidated basis.
(c)
Issuance of BCU’s Resolution of September 7, 1999 providing that public 
and private banks in Uruguay shall, starting on January 1, 2000, apply rating and 
provisioning norms with respect to loans to SOEs. 
(d)
Issuance of BCU’s Circular No. 1.664 of September 9, 1999 requiring 
public and private banks in Uruguay to create an audit committee by not later than 
March 31, 2000.
(e)
Issuance of BCU’s Notice No. 99/108 of September 9, 1999 requiring public 
and private banks to disclose to BCU the risk models used by such banks in connection 
with their lending operations for the purpose of the assessment of the adequacy of 
such models by BCU.
(f)
Issuance of BCU’s Resolution of July 16, 1999 approving a plan to carry 
out on-site inspections of public and private banks in Uruguay between July 1, 1999 
and June 30, 2001 in accordance with the capital, assets, management, earnings, 
liquidity and sensitivity to interest risk (CAMELS) methodology.
Page  9
(g)
Issuance of BCU’s Circular No. 1.645 of May 5, 1999 establishing 
procedures to be followed by solvent private banks in cases in which such banks have 
decided to cease operating as banking institutions in Uruguay.
(h)
Issuance of BCU’s Notice of September 2, 1999 establishing norms to value 
the assets of public and private banks in Uruguay in accordance with the Mark to 
Market Valuation Method. 
(i)
Issuance of BCU’s Circular No. 1.626 of December 22, 1998 establishing 
norms to value the assets of pension fund administrators in Uruguay in accordance with 
the Mark to Market Valuation Method.
(j)
Issuance of BCU’s Notice No. 99/109 of September 9, 1999 requiring 
private and public banks in Uruguay to hire independent appraisers to estimate the 
value of the goods, rights or any other form of collateral provided by borrowers to 
guarantee loans in excess of 3% of the minimum net equity requirement applicable to 
all banks in Uruguay for purposes of operating as banking institutions.
5.
The following actions were taken to improve the transparency of the financial 
sector:
(a)
Issuance of BCU’s Circular No. 1.663 of September 9, 1999 providing that 
public and private banks in Uruguay shall, starting in the year 2001, make available 
to the public their annual external audit reports for the immediately preceding fiscal 
year.
(b)
Issuance of BCU’s Resolution of September 10, 1999 providing that public 
and private banks in Uruguay shall, starting in the year 2000, publish detailed 
financial information with respect to the preceding calendar quarter. 
(c)
Issuance of BCU’s Notice No. 99/49 of May 11, 1999 indicating that its 
credit risk information system (Central de Información de Riesgos) is providing 
information with respect to, inter alia, each debtor having a debt which exceeds 0.3% 
of the minimum net equity requirement applicable to all banks in Uruguay for purposes 
of operating as banking institutions. 
(d)
Issuance of BCU’s Notice No. 99/49 of May 11, 1999 indicating that BCU’s 
credit risk information system shall, starting on October 1, 2000, group relevant 
credit risk information by separate categories.  
6.
The following actions were taken to modernize the legal framework of the 
financial sector:
(a)
Presentation to the Borrower’s Congress of the bill of law dated July 
15,1999 which, if enacted, would require that all companies in Uruguay follow 
internationally accepted accounting standards. 
(b)
Presentation to the Borrower’s Congress on December 10, 1998 of a bill of 
law which, if enacted, would, inter alia, permit the execution of “warrants” without 
judicial intervention. 
(c)
Enactment of the Borrower’s Law No. 17.228 of December 21, 1999 which, 
inter alia, expands the type of goods which may be subject to prenda sin 
desplazamiento (as a type of secured interest on specific goods).
(d)
Creation of a technical unit within BCU which will, inter alia: (i) carry 
out technical and legal analyses of financial sector reform proposals; (ii) prepare 
and present  to the Borrower’s executive branch the recommendations resulting from the 
analyses mentioned in (i) herein; and (iii) build consensus amongst the Borrower’s 
executive and legislative branches of government and stakeholders with respect to 
financial sector reform proposals.
