Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
 
Report No. 
29759:
 
Project Name 
Second Programmatic Decentralization and Competitiveness 
Structural Adjustment Loan  
Region 
Latin America and Caribbean  
Sector 
General Industry and Trade Sector (50%); Public Sector Reform 
(50%) 
Project ID 
P083949 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF PERU 
Implementing Agency 
Fernando Zavala Lombardi 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
Jr. Junin No. 319, Piso 3 
Lima 1, Peru 
T:  511-428-6044/428-1880 
Fax :  511-426-5313  
Environment Assessment 
OD 4.01 applies?  [ ] Yes  [X] No 
–
This is a Structural 
Adjustment Loan
 (SAL) and is not subject to the Bank’s 
environmental and social policies.
 
Date PID Prepared 
July 28, 2004 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
September 20, 2004 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
December 2. 2004 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
Peru has been going through rapid political transformation in recent years.  The return to full 
democracy after the Fujimori administration has led to a drive for greater transparency and 
reduction of corruption.  The Congress, courts, political parties, media and civil society have 
been taking advantage of the new political environment to participate actively in policy making 
and keep a vigilant eye on public management.  Until as recently as 2002, Peru was one of the 
most centralized countries in Latin America with more than 97 percent of the tax revenues 
collected by the national government.  Consequently, regional and local expenditures were 
heavily dependent on transfers from the national government.  Regional authorities were 
appointed by the national government while only local authorities were elected. 
In recent years Peru has benefited from strong economic performance including average GDP 
growth of 4 percent and healthy increases in export earnings.  However, steady economic 
performance has not led to a reduction in poverty, increased employment or less inequality.  
Poverty has increased in both rural and urban areas and unemployment remains high in Lima and 
throughout the country.  Regional disparities in growth, poverty and employment conditions 
remain severe despite economic growth.  In the new political environment, Peruvian citizens 
have vociferously demanded that the benefits of growth include increased employment, reduced 
Page  2
poverty and improvements in regional economic disparities.  As a means to achieve greater 
prosperity, Peruvians have also demanded that the concentration of state power be reduced by 
decentralizing public functions and resources to lower levels of government and communities. 
In response, the Toledo Administration has made two reinforcing themes, decentralization and 
competitiveness, key priorities to secure sustainable and broad growth and alleviation of poverty.  
The Toledo government started programs in those two areas in 2002 and the World Bank was 
asked to support those twin efforts through three programmatic loans (DECSALs), and has done 
so through a first loan in 2003 (DECSAL I). 
Major reforms have taken place since 2002 and through the first year of the DECSAL program, 
several of which have been enacted by the Congress.  Major laws have been passed to create 
regional governments, facilitate gradual decentralization, enhance fiscal responsibility, introduce 
participatory local budgeting and initiate public sector reform.  Additional reforms with 
supporting regulations are being prepared as well.  In total, these reforms are changing the way 
in which Peru’s public sector operates. 
The decentralization of key functions and the increased policy making and fiscal capacity of 
regional governments are critical steps in improving the competitiveness of poor regions.  To 
complement and reinforce the decentralization program, and to secure those economic and social 
objectives, the GoP in 2002 also set up an ambitious competitiveness program/agenda with a 
clear emphasis to reach and assist the Regions to increase their competitiveness.  The program 
focused mainly on institutional building for competitiveness, improving the mix, quality and 
productivity of Peruvian products, reducing logistic cost, improving infrastructure services, 
enhancing the investment climate and facilitating exports.  Since the start of the program and 
particularly since the DECSAL I, major laws, institutions and programs have been created, 
setting up a National Competitiveness Council, developing Regional Plans launching an 
aggressive second phase of the concessioning of infrastructure program, passing a modern 
Science and Technology Law, implementing a large number of Centers for Technological 
Innovation, advancing on e-government, setting macro-regional centers for assistance on 
investment and export promotion and so on, all with significant regional implications. 
Overall, substantial progress has been secured on the two fronts—decentralization and 
competitiveness—in the first year of the DECSAL program, and the Peruvian Government 
remains committed to continuing to implement its widespread and integrated programs, thus 
triggering the implementation of the second loan of the DECSAL Program, here presented. 
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
O
VERALL 
O
BJECTIVE
.
The proposed loan is closely tailored to key governments demands in 
decentralization and competitiveness. The Government’s overall decentralization program is 
comprehensive and includes many areas of actions.  The objectives of the program are threefold: 
(i) protect fiscal sustainability during Peru's transition to a more decentralized state; (ii) assist 
strengthening management and fiscal capacity at regional and local levels for their progressive 
assumption of service responsibilities; and (iii) support national and regional competitiveness 
through improved competitiveness planning, quality management, logistics costs reduction, and 
export promotion. 
Page  3
The first DECSAL loan stressed fiscal sustainability, establishing a new fiscal decentralization 
framework and ensuring a hard budget constraint alongside a series of related competitiveness 
measures.  This second DECSAL loan reflects an expected expansion in emphasis of the overall 
program to include a deeper emphasis on supporting the Government of Peru’s competitiveness 
agenda.  The loan will also move towards measures that enhance efficiency and improvement in 
service delivery. 
The program hinges on significant policy making, legal reform and administrative actions for (i) 
improving budget accounting and reporting at all levels of government; (ii) strengthening 
monitoring and evaluation capacity especially at the national level; (iii) mobilizing greater public 
and private resources and participation; and (iv) enhancing efficiency and effectiveness of key 
government institutions. Through a focus on results and a change in the incentives framework, 
the loan aims at to ensure the necessary structural changes that allow long-term sustainable 
reforms. It  is based on a clearly focused approach that targets those key  reform areas which are 
most vulnerable at the early stage of the decentralization process and the competitiveness 
reforms crucial at the start of the FTA negotiations. An incremental approach, that is based on 
careful sequencing in line with key government principles ensure defining the most important 
entry points for sustainable reforms that promise visible and durable results. Reforms are based 
on the guiding principle of gradualism, to ensure a careful transfer of responsibilities and 
resources, avoiding duplication at different levels of government, helping respond to the guiding 
principle of fiscal neutrality of the process, while allowing a focus on regional competitiveness. 
This sequencing strategy responds to government demands and will also be reflected in a 
different mix of decentralization and competitiveness reforms for the upcoming DECSAL III 
loan. Key fiscal and economic reforms are combined with participatory approaches and change 
management that allow greater consensus and sustainability of these reforms.   
Finally, most reform objectives are being supported by the underlying fiscal and competitiveness 
reforms in the TALs and can thus be supported by a continuous and close policy dialogue 
reinforcing the SAL reforms. 
 
3.  Preliminary description 
The proposed second DECSAL Loan would support the following key elements of the overall 
Government's reform program over the next year: 
Decentralization and Fiscal Sustainability
 
·
Ensure fiscal sustainability in the new decentralized context;  
·
Expand the tax base and strengthen tax administrations; 
·
Finance regional and local governments in direct proportion to their abilities to discharge 
the responsibilities they will assume; 
·
Ensure hard budget constraints at regional and local levels by, among other measures, 
establishing new regime for regional and local borrowing; and accounting standards for 
monitoring and control of local debt 
·
Ensure gradual transfer of resources and responsibilities following a rigorous 
accreditation process of fiscal and management capacities. 
·
Promote a monitoring and evaluation system to enhance the quality of public expenditure 
and fiscal sustainability at all levels of government. 
Page  4
Institutional Development for Decentralization
 
·
Stimulate efficient use and maintenance of public assets for resource mobilization and 
development; 
·
Reinforce budgeting, accounting and reporting standards at all levels of government for 
improved monitoring, evaluation and planning; 
·
Institutionalize community and private sector participation and reinforce transparency in 
the interest of democratic benefits and higher allocation efficiency; and  
·
Support gradual reform of civil service at regional and local levels. 
Competitiveness and Economic Growth
 
·
Promote national and regional competitiveness planning and implementation;  
·
Improve the quality and mix of Peruvian products, through a comprehensive quality and 
innovation program in collaboration with the private sector; 
·
Reduce logistics costs through improved investment and management of ports, road 
networks and the facilitation of improved transit services;  
·
Promote and facilitate export development;  
·
Integrate small and medium enterprises into export supply chains; and 
·
Improve the business environment and business climate. 
 
4. 
Environment Aspects 
This is a Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) and is not subject to the Bank’s environmental and 
social policies – hence OP 4.01 does not apply. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
 
Source: (US$m.) 
IBRD  
100 
KfW 12 
TOTAL 112 
 
6. Contact 
point(s) 
Task Manager:
 
Jose Luis Guasch 
 
Regional Advisor, Regulation and Competition 
 
Tel:  202-473-8606 
 
Fax: 202-522-2106 
 
Email: jguasch@worldbank.org 
 
Location: Washington, DC
 
Co-Task Manager:
 
Rossana Polastri 
 
Country Economist 
 
Tel:  511-615-0660 or 5357+259 
 
Fax: 511-421-7241 or 5357+319 
 
Email: rpolastri@worldbank.org 
 
Location: Lima, Peru
Page  5
