Docwnent of
The World Bank
FOR OFMICLAL USE ONLY
Report No. 10748
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
SECONDARY TOWNS PROTECT
(CREDIT 1390-KE AND LOAN 2319-KE)
JUNE 19, 1992
M 1 CRC)V11 1 CHE: CO'Y
Report No. : 10748 '(E      Type:  (1CI)
Repot.r  RDOOD, J
Ext. ^' i93 Roomif'A' 909'' Det. :oED:3
Infrastructure Operations Division
Eastern Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit = Y.enya Shilling (Ksh)
Ksh to the USS
1984           15.12
1985           16.30
1986           16.18
1987           16.47
1988           16.96
1989           20.38
1990           22.00
1991           27.58
Weiahts and Measures
Metric
Im:                 =         10,758 ft2
1 meter             =         3.28 fest (ft.)
I kilometer         =         0.62 miles (mi.)
I hectare (ha)      =         10,000 square meters (sq.m.)
I hectare (ha)      =         2.47 (ac)
I liter (1)         =         0.26 US gallon (gal)
I US gallon         =         4 liters
I cubic meter (mi)  =         1,000 liters or 264 US gallons
Ilcd                          I 1 liter per capita per day
I m'/sec                      I 1 cubic meter per second
I metric ton (m/ton)   =      2204.6 pounds (lbs.)
I acre              =         4,048 ml = 43,549 ft2
Acronym
CBS               Central Bureau of Statistics
DCA               Development Credit Agreement
DOH               Departmnent of Housing
EDP               Electronic Data Processing
EMC               Eldoret Municipal Counci
ERR               Economic Rate of Return
GOK               Government of Kenya
GRF               General Rate Fund
HABITAT           United Nations Center for Human Settlements
KIE               Kenya Industrial Estates
KMC               Kitale Municipal Council
LGLA              Local dovernment Loans Authority
MLG               Ministry of Local Government
MLSP              Ministry of Lands, Settlement and Planning
MOH               Ministry of Health
MWD               Ministry of Water Development
MWH               Ministry of Works and Housing
NHC               National Housing Corporation
NMC               Nakuru Municipal Council
NyMC              Nyeri Municipal Council
PMU               Program Management Unit
PPF               Project Preparation Facility
RHE               Rural Housing Estates Ltd.
SOE               Satement of Expenditures
TMC               Thika Municipal Council
TMCECS            Tbika Municipal Council Employees' Cooperative Society
UNDP              United Nations Development Program
USAID             United States Agency for International Development
Fiscal Years
Central Government    July I - June 30
Local Goverrment      January I - December 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
June 19, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Kenya Secondary Towns Project
(Credit 1390-KE and Loan 2319-KE)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Kenya Secondary Towns Project (Credit 1390-KE and Loan
2319-KE)" prepared by the Africa Regional office with Part II contributed
by the Borrower.  No audit of this project has been made by the Operations
Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
/~~
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performnance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
SECONDARY TOWNS PROJECT
(CREDIT 1390-KE & LOAN 2M19-KE)
TABLI OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface           .............................................
Evaluation Summary   ..........i.i
Part I:   PROJECT REVIEW FROM 3ANK'S PERSPECTIVE ... ....   I
A. Project Identity   ......................................                                                      I
B. Background .........................................   1
C. Project Objectives and Description  ...........................                                                2
D. Project Design and Organization  ............................                                                  3
E. Project Implementation ..................................   4
F. Project Results  .......................................                                                       7
G. Project Sustainability  ...................................                                                    8
H. Bank Performance  .....................................                                                        8
I.  Borrower Performance  ..................................                                                     9
J.  Consulting Services  ....................................                                                     9
K. Project Documentation and Data  ............................                                                  9
L. Findings and Lessons Learned   .............................                                                 10
Part II.  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ..  11
A. Comments on Part I   ...................................                                                      11
B. Bank's Performance   ...................................                                                      11
C. Borrrower's Performance   ................................                                                    11
D. Lessons Learned  ......................................                                                       15
Part III.    STATISTICAL  INFORMATION   .....................                                                    17
Table 1:        Bank Related Loans/Credits   .........................                                           17
Table 2:        Project Timetable  ................................                                              18
Table 3:        Schedule of Disbursements  ..........................                                            19
Table 4:        Project Implementation   ............................                                           20
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued)                                                   Page lo.
Table 5:   Project Costs  ...............................                             21
Table 6:   Project Financing ...............................    22
Table 7:   Allocation of Loan Proceeds ................  ....  ...  .   .   23
Table 8:  Mission Data . ...............................  24
Table 9:    Status of Covenants  ............................ ...    25
Tabie 10:   Recalculation of ERR  ...............................                      27
Map: IBRD 16820  - General map of Kenya showing Project Towns



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
SECONDARY TOWNS PROJECT
(CREDIT 1390-KE & LOAN 2319-KE)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Secondary Towns Project in
Kenya for which Credit 1390-KE in the amount of US$22 million and Loan 2319-KE in the
amount of US$7 million were approved on June 16, 1983. The loan was closed on August 8,
1988 at which time the whole loan amount, less the front-end fee, was canceled. The Credit was
closed on December 31, 1990, at which time the remaining balance of SDR 7.7 Million was
canceled.
The PCR was prepared by the Infrastructure Operations Division of the Eastern
Africa Department in the Africa Region (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Part I and Part III), and
the Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR was started in February 1991 and is based, inter alia, on the
Staff Appraisal Report, the Development Credit Agreement, Loan Agreement, supervision
reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, and internal Bank memoranda.



ii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
SECONDARY TOWNS PROJECT
(CREDIT 13)0-KE & LOAN 2319-KE)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
I.         The objectives of the Project (from SAR 4427-KE) were to:
(a)   assist in the development of an integrated urban network which will support
economic growth in rural areas and improve the population holding capacity and
urban employment base of secondary towns;
(b)  improve the technical and project management capabilities of the local authorities
included in the project;
(c)   encourage a greater role for the private sector in low-income shelter delivery; and
(d)  assist in the development of an institutional structure at the central Government level
which can support a decentralized approach to urban development based on the
active participation of the local authorities.
Implementation Experience
2.         The implementation of the Project was beset with serious problems. Ten factors
were principally responsible for unsatisfactory implementaiion of the Project:
(a) delays in the establishment of the Program Management Unit (PMU); (b) lack of co-
ordination between the Ministry of Works, Housing and Physical Planning (MWHPP) and the
Ministry of Local Government (MLG); (c) delays in the establishment of special accounts;
(d) lack of effective supervision by PMU of project components being implemented by local
authorities; (e) inadequate level of support (technical assistance) by PMU to local authorities
regarding procedures for procurement, contract administration, and plot allocations, (f) juggling
of project management responsibilities between different Ministries, (g) inability of the
Government to resolve inter-ministerial issues, (h) non-compliance of the implementing agencies
with a variety of covenants, (i) frequent turnover of Project officers at the Bank, and (j) long
intervals between Bank supervision missions.
3.         At the later stages of project implementation, the Bank threatened to suspend
disbursement on several occasions due to non-compliance by GOK of several covenants; however,
in view of the time remaining to project closing, the Bank resolved to carry the project to the end.



iii
In an effort to bring the project to a satisfactory completion detailed Action Plans were agreed
with the Government during the period 1987-90 but the Government failed to implement the
necessary actions as agreed. Consequently, the Bank did not approve a request from GOK for an
extension of the closing date. The total amount disbursed from the Credit was SDR 12.7 million.
The Credit was closed on April 30, 1991 at which time the remaining balance of SDR 7.7 million
was canceled.
Results
4.          While the project provided infrastructure services for both public and private land
and community facilities such as markets, workshops, lorry parks, schools and health facilities.
due to lack of housing construction on serviced land it is difficult to assess the impact of this
project on economic growth in rural areas, improvement in the population holding capacity and
urban employment base of the secondary towns. Although attempts were made through the
provision of technical assistance to improve the financial and project management capabilities of
the local authorities. except for minimal progress made in the clearance of bac log of accounts
and audits, the project failed to strengthen the overall capacity of the local authorities. Due to the
failure of the joint venture in Eldoret the objective of encouraging a greater role for the private
sector in the provision of low-income shelter delivery was not achieved. The inability of the
Government to implement necessary reforms in the institutional structure at the central
government level contributed to a lack of progress in the establishment of a decentralized system
of urban development based on active participation of the local authorities.
5.          As relevant data for all the project components was not readily avai;able, economic
reevaluation was undertaken for only one residential development scheme in Nakuru. The
reevaluation indicated that the actual real cost of construction of houses exceeded the costs as
projected at appraisal by a factor of three. Consequently, the IRR for this component was -1.64
percent as compared to an appraisal estimate of 20 percent.
Sustainah.litv
6.          The Project failed to meet its objectives, therefore the question of sustainability does
not arise. The constraints experienced during the implementation of the Project, however, are a
pointer to how difficult it will be in the future for the Government to implement such projects
without first fully addressing the shortcomings in the institutional framework and capabilities at
both the central and government levels.



iv
Findings and Lessons Learned
7.         The principal findings and lessons learned include the following:
a)    The appraisal mission overestimated the Borrower's capacity to implement a project
of this size and complexity;
b)    Experience under this Project suggests that it is best to focus on strengthening the
capacity of existing institutions to implement such projects rather than creating
project-specific Implementation units;
c)    Given the past experience with two operations in this sector, the Bank should have
carefully assessed the risks involved in proceeding with an even more complex
project such as this in the absence of an appropriate policy and institutional
framework for nation-wide urban developmenyas a minimum a more experimental
approach could have been chosen for the components other than traditional urban
civil works (which actually were implemented successfully);
d)   In view of the fact that the Government's commitment to policy and institutional
reforms was uncertain, the Project could have focused more on institutional reforms
and limited the number of schemes in the secondary towns;
e)   It is doubtful that a Project such as this would have been successful without
Government ownership of policy objectives. Consequently, in the future there should
be full commitment to critical policy objectives before investment operations are
approved by the Bank;
f)    The Bank should vigorously enforce legal covenants and be prepared to take
necessary remedial measures in a timely manner;
g)   Supervision missions should be fielded at regular and shorter intervals so that
implementation issues could be addressed in time;
h)    Frequent turnover of Project Officers (Task Managers) reduces the efficacy of
supervision;
i)    To pave the way for future operations in the sector, the department recently
completed a sector study on Local Government Finance and Administration.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
SECONDARY TOWNiS PROJECT
(CREDIT 1390-KE &i LOAN 2319-KE)
PART I:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.   Proiect Identitv
- Project name:    Secondary Towns Project
- Credit No.:      Credit 1390-KE
- Loan No.:        Loan 2319-KE
- RVP unit:        Africa
- Country:         Kenya
- Sector:          Urban
- Subsector:       Municipal
B.   Project Background
1.         Policy Context. In the early 1980's the Government of Kenya (GOK) began to
institute major policy changes to restructure the national economy in response to the pressures
exerted by declining agricultural growth, an inefficient manufacturing sector, increasing petroleum
prices, declining export revenue due to falling coffee prices, and an annual population growth rate
in excess of 4%. One of the expected indirect effects of economic adjustment was the increased
diversification of economic activity into secondary urban areas. Secondary towns were seen as
important focal points for regional economic development and strengthening the spatial linkages
for agricultural marketing and processing activities. In addition they absorbed rural migration
which would otherwise concentrate in the major cities. Secondary towns also provided the basis
for strengthening the role of local initiatives in providing for urban growth.
2.         The most important agencies involved in urban development in Kenya included:
a) the Local Authorities; b) the Ministry of Local Government (MLG) which had oversight of and
channelled funds to local authorities through the Local Government Loans Authority (LGLA) for
urban investments except housing; c) the Ministry of Works and Housing (MWH) responsible for
housing policy and co-ordination of low-income hous r,g projects through a Program Management
Unit (PMU); d) the National Housing Corporation "f -HC), a financial intermediary and
implementing agency under MWH; e) the Ministry of Water Development (MWD) responsible for
development of water resources throughout Kenya; and f) Ministry of Lands Settlement, and
Physical Planning (MLSP) which controlled the allocation of public land and prepares physical
development plans for urban areas.
3.         The institutional framework for Kenyan urban development was characterized by a
number of weaknesses at both the central and local government levels. At the center, the
ministerial-level mandate for urban deveiopment shifted twice between ministries and had yet to



-2-
be translated into a consistent framework for urban development planning. At the local
government level there were clear signs that the system was outgrowing its financial and
institutional base. Central-local coordination procedures were inadequate, local revenues lacked
sufficient buoyancy to cope with rapid inflation, and the scarcity of technical staff constrained the
ability of local authorities to extend services to the growing urban population. The Bank
intended to carry on a policy dialogue with GOK on the strengthening of the urban development
institutional framework in parallel with the implementation of the Project.
4.          Sector Development Objectives. The involvement of the Bank in the urban sector in
Kenya emphasized; a) the design of urban investment programs which were financially viable and
affordable to the lower income groups; b) development of the managerial and financia. capacity of
local authorities to provide for urban growth; and c) the establishment of an institutional structure
at the central and local levels to plan and implement urban investments on a spatial.,,' extensive
basis. The private sector was seen as the leading provider of shelter in Kenya, with the pubiic
sector, at both the central and local levels, adopting a facilitating or enabling role.
C.   Project Ohjectives and Description
J.          Proiert Obiectives. The objectives of the Project (from SAR 4427-KE) were to:
a)    assist in the development of an integrated urban network which will support
economic grovth in rural areas and improve the population holding capacity
and urban employment base of the secondary economy;
b)   improve the financial and project management capabilities of the local
authorities included in the project;
c)   encourage a greater role for the private sector in low-income shelter delivery;
and
d)    assist in the development of an institutional structure at the central
Government level which can support a decentralized approach to urban
development based on the active participation of the local authorities.
6.          Proiect Components. The Project onsisted of the following components:
a)   servicing of urban land 'r residential and small enterprise development in
five towns, using a vat. :.y of modes of participation between the public and
private sectors;
b)    construction loans for residential and small enterpr.se development;
c)   community facilities such as markets, workshops, and dispensaries; and
d)   financial, project management and maintenance support, and urban policy
studies.



-3-
The Project represented the completion of a cycle of Bank-financed projects %hich prepared urban
investment programs on a town-by-town basis (See Table 1.).
D.   Project Design and Organigation
7.         Project Desien. The Project was designed as part of a program of -upport for
eleven of Kenya's secondary and smaller towns developed in cooperation with the U.S. Agency
for Interna.ional Development (USAIbI). Each donor agency prepared urban developmnent
programs for different towns. However, the donors agreed .:ith GOK to coordinate initiatibes in
project appraisal, management reporting and training programs to reduce duplication of effort. In
particular, it was agreed that the Bank would finance the strengthening of local authority financial
management and the development of a program monitoring and evaluation system and that
USAID would provide the training resources required to strengthen local authorities' development
planning and management.
8.         The Project included urban development proposals for Nyer,, Nakuru, Thika.
Eldoret, and Kitale. The primary emphasis in each town was the servicing of land and provision
of shelter and related community faciiities fcr the low-income groups. Three basic modalities for
servicing land were proposed: i) two types of "sites and services" developments on undeveloped
public land, differing only in the standard of infrastructure provided; ii) two types of servicing of
undeveloped private land, one involving a private developer (Eldoret), the other involving a
cooperative society (Thika); and iii) upgrading of existing unplanned settlements. In all, more
than 25,000 households were to have benefitted under the Project. A program of approximately
6,500 building loans for housing and workshops on public land was also planned. A limited
amount of funds for community facilities was also included in the project design.
9.         Individual sub-project designs for each town were prepared by local consultants in
accordance with planning and engineering standards which had evolved out of earlier Bank-
assisted projects. The most innovative shelter sub-project was a pilot joint venture between the
Eldoret Municipal Council (EMC) and a private housing developer, designed to demonstrate how
a public/private partnership could be structured to create 831 affordable contractor-built shelter
solutions for medium-income households.
10.        Project Organization. The organization of the Project involving five local
authorities, two key -inistries, a parastatal, a municipal loan authority, a private developer and a
coopei.tive society was necessarily complex. The local authorities were to have the primary
responsibility for implementing the physical components of the Project. Nakuri, Thika and
Eldoret established project teams drawn from departments and headed by a coordinator. Owing
to the insufficiency of technical staff in Nyeri and Kitale, NHC was appointed to implement the
projects on behalf of the two towns. No fewer than fourteen on-lending or subsidiary loan
agreements were required. Funds for the provision of on-site infrastructure and construction
loans were to be channeled to local authorities through the NHC while funds for provision of off-
site infrastructure, community facilities, and technical assistance were to be directed through the
LGLA.
11.        A Program Management Unit (PMU) was to be established within MWH's
Department of Housing (DOH) to provide overall co-ordination for the Project as well as the on-



- 4 -
going IDA-assisted Second Urban Project. MLG was to provide assistance to local authorities for
the review of off-site infrastructurc and community facilities in addition to maintaining executive
responsibility for the review of annual budget submissions. Central government co-ordination
was to be ach.eved by means of a two-tiered committee structure which focussed on technical
issues (Technical Steering Committee) and overall project oversight (Inter-Ministerial Review
Committee).
E.   Project Implementation.
12.        C itical Variances in Proiect Implementation: Ten factors were principally
responsible for unsatisfactory implementation of the project: (a) delay- in the establishment of the
Program Management Unit (PMU); (b) lack of co-ordination between the Ministry of Works,
Housing and Physical Planning (MWHPP) and the Ministry of Local Government (MLG);
(c) delays in the establishment of special accounts; (d) lack of effective supervision by PMU of
project components being implemented by local authorities; (a) inadequate level of technical
assistance by PMU to local aulhorities regarding procedures for procurement, contract
administration, and plot allocaticns, and (f) juggling of project management responsibilities
between Ministries, (g) inability of the Government to resolve inter-ministerial issues, (h) non-
compliance of the implementing agencies with a variety of covenants, (i) frequent turnover of
Project officers at the Bank, and 0) long intervals between Bank supervision missions.
13.        Although the establishment of the PMU, setting up of Special Accounts and
finalization of on-lending agreements were conditions of project effectiveness, the Government did
not fully meet these conditions until October 1984 ( 6 months after the project was declared
effective).
14.        For a variety of reasons the PMU, which was to become the focal point for
coordinating project implementation, faced considerable difficulties in fully discharging its
responsibilities. While initially PMU provided some technical assistance relating to physical
works to the local authorities, it failed to effectively address overall project co-ordination and
managerial issues which required central government attention. Originally, PMU was to be
established as a Division within the Housing Department, Ministry of Works and Housing
(MWH), with the Program Cooxdinator reporting to the Chief Housing Officer. However, when
the unit was eventually established it was decided by the Government that PMU should be
independent of the Housing Department and report directly to the Permanent Secretary for faster
and effective decision making. In hindsight such a move proved detrimental to project
implementation because it created tensions and bureaucratic wrangling within the MWH
particularly with respect to the Housing Department. The PMU staff soon became demoralized
as they witnessed increasing interference from the Housing Department and also because the
MWH was unable to fill the PMU posts in accordance with the established government grading
structure. Consequently, several PMU staff, concerned about losing their seniority within the
government structure, left the Unit in search of better prospects for career development. PMU's
capacity to effectively manage the project was therefore considerably undermined.
15.        Unforeseen Factors Affecting Proiect Implementation. The current allocation of
ministerial responsibilities for urban affaits was decreed in May 1989 when MWH was shorn of
its housing function, losing the PMU to the Ministry of Local Government and the National



-5 -
Housing Corporation (NHC) to Ministry of Lands, Settlements and Planning (MLSP) which was
renamed the Ministry of Lands, Housing and Physical Planning (MLHPP). The actual transfer of
PMU's personnel and physical assets to MLG only occurred in the early months of 1991, thereby
creating a gap of nearly two years during which there was effectively no central government
oversight of the project and the PMU virtually ceased to exist.
16.        While the project included funding of staff salaries and operational expenses relating
to PMU, due to inadequate budgetary allocations PMU experienced serious financial difficulties in
mounting regular supervision missions and site visits and in carrying out routine project
management responsibilities.
17.        Project Risks. Although project risks were correctly identified, in hindsight, central
government capacity to co-ordinate the implementation of the project was overestimated. The
1 echnical Steering Committee and the Interministerial Review Committee, which were established
under the project to formalize inter-ministerial contacts and provide a vehicle for identifying and
resolving conflicts, failed to function effectively. In fact, for the most part during project
implementation these committees were non-operational.
18.        Variances between planned and actual results. In the end, only the physical works
and procurement of equipment relating to three components (Servicing of urban land, Community
facilities, and Technical Assistance) were fully completed.
19.        Servicing of Urban Land. The implementation of the infrastructure
component was perhaps the most successful aspect of the project. While completion of the works
was delayed in all but one town (Eldoret), out of about 25 civil works contracts works were
satisfactorily completed with respect to 22 contracts. Implementation problems were experienced
under 3 contracts with the contractors invoking the arbitration clause. Contract administration by
government agencies was generally weak resulting in delays in completion of works.
20.        T he Private Sector Joint Venture. The most innovative aspect of the project
encountered serious implementation difficulties. Most of these problems were project-specific and
related to a lack of understanding of the complex contractual arrangement between the developer,
the Council and the contractor (who also happened to be the same person as the developer). The
dual role played by the developer caused much consternation among the Council officials who
became increasingly suspicious of the intentions of the developer when he proposed design
changes (increasing the number of units to be constructed), and they were not able to resolve
implementation issues objectively. In retrospect, it would appear that the full scope of this
component was not clearly understood or appreciated by the implementing agencies. ...
21.        Construction Loans. The successful implementation of this component was critically
dependant on two main factors: (a) the involvement of the community (intended beneficiaries),
and (b) completion of land tenure regularization cycle culminating in the issuance of title deeds to
plot allottees. During project implementation, however, very little effort was made to fully
involve the community. Thus, the modalities of obtaining construction material loans were not
explained to the intended beneficiaries. In addition, due to bureaucratic delays and lack of
follow-up by the councils the issuance of title deeds by the Commissioner of Lands was not
affected prior to the project closing date. Consequently, a negligible amount of materials loans
were made available to the plot allottees.



- 6 -
22.        Community Facilities. Community facilities such as markets, workshops, lorry
parks, schools and health facilities planned under the project including some additional works
approved during implement,.tion were generally completed with little trouble. These facilities
were fully operational at the time of project closing.
23.        Technical Assistance. While several studies relating to Financial Management,
Housing Policy and Urban Investment Planning were completed by consultants, the
recommendations of thcse studies have yet to be fully implemented by the Government.
24.        Technical Assistance for Financial Management under the project included the
updating, reconciliation and computerization of LGLA accounts, the restructuring of LGLA and
introduction of modern EDP equipment, software development, training of local at:thority staff,
preparation and auditing of accounts, and improvement of manual accounting syst_.ms and
property valuation procedures. Although consultants were employed to assist the central
government agencies and the local authorities in these areas, little was achieved in terms of
operationalizing the recommendations of consultant studies. While LGLA accounts were updated
and reconciled, computerization of these accounts was not achieved due to lack of action by the
Government on the recommendations for restructuring of the LGLA. Similarly, while reasonable
progress was achieved in eliminating the backlog of accounts and auditing of five local authorities
involved in the implemertation of the project, implementation of revised accounting system and
property valuation procedures as recommended by the consultants is pending due to lack of
follow-up by MLG.
25.        Three studies covering (i) low-income housing policy, (ii) investment planning, and
(iii) urban transportation were commissioned under the project as a continuation of policy
initiatives begun under earlier projects. The recommendations of the low-income housing policy
study, however, are being reviewed by the Government and the analysis of the results of the
housing survey which was completed in 1986 is currently being analyzed by the Central Bureau of
Statistics (CBS) and the Department of Housing. Urban investment planning studies which were
commissioned in mid-1987 were later held in abeyance pending elaboration of urban development
objectives and rationalization of the institutional framework for urban development in the context
of the Government's Sessional Paper on Economic Management for Renewed Growth (1986).
Phase 1 of the Urban Transport Study was completed. This study provided the basis for
identification and preparation studies which are currently being undertaken for a proposed Urban
Transport Infrastructure Project.
26.        Maintenance Equipment for three local authorities directly involved in project
implementation was provided under the technical assistance component. In addition, funds were
made available under this component for procurement of computers (hardware and software),
survey equipment and vehicles to strengthen project management activities. Procuremen. of
computer hardware and software, however, was done in an haphazard manner without due regard
to user requirements and appropriate review of technical configurations and availability of after-
sales service.
27.        The technical assistance component also included support for development and
implementation of a Project Monitoring System and training in community development methods.
Although consultants were to be appointed b, PMU in designing a Project Monitoring System, in



-7-
March 1984 with the assistance of a Bank mission a Project Monitoring System was developed
which was to be field tested by PMU. !iowever, neither did PMU implement the Project
Monitoring System developed by the Bank mission, nor did it appoint consultants to develop its
own Project Monitoring System. Similarly, due to delays in development of a training program
one of the Bank's supervision mission provided assisnance to PMU in the preparation of a
comprehensive training program. However, due to delay, in recruitment of community
development officers the training program was not implemented.
28.        At the later stages of project implementation, the Bank threatened to suspend
disbursements on several occasions due to non-compliance by GOK of several covenants;
however, in view of the time remaining to project closing, the Bank resolved to carry the project
to the end. In an effort to bring the Project to a satisfactory completion detailed Action Plans
were agreed with the Government during the period 1987-90 but the Government failed to take
the necessary actions to improve implementation performance. Consequently, the Bank did not
approve a request from GOK for an extension of the closing date. The total amount disbursed
from the Credit was SDR 12.7 million. The credit was closed on April 30, 1991 at which time
the remaining balance of SDR 7.7 million was canceled.
F.   Proiect Results.
29.        Proiect Obiectives. The Project failed to achieve many of its stated objectives
because of the setbacks outlined in Section E above.
(a)   While targets for physical works (servicing of urban land and community facilities)
were mostly realized, due to lack of housing construction on serviced land, it is
difficult to assess the impact of this project on economic growth in rural areas, and
improvement in the population holding capacity and urban employment base of the
secondary towns.
(b)   Although efforts were made through the provision of technical assistance to improve
the financial and project management capabilities of the local authorities, except for
minimal progress made in the clearance of backlog of account and audits, the project
failed to strengthen the overall capacity of the local authorities.
(c)   Due to the failure of the joint venture in Eldoret the objective of encouraging a
greater role for the private sector in provision of low-income shelter delivery was
not achieved.
(d)   The inability of the Government to implement necessary reforms in the institutional
structure at the central government level contributed to a lack of progress in the
establishment of a decentralized system of urban development based on active
participation of the local authorities.
30.        Economic Reevaluation. At appraisal, the most readily quantifiable benefits were
measured in terms of an expected stream of imputed market rental values for the dwellings and
rooms to be constructed on the project sites; the overall estimated IRR varied between 12 percent
and 34 percent, the average being 20 percent. Using the same method and in absence of relevant



-8 -
data for all the sites, reevaluation of internal rates of return was done only for the Nakuru
Racetrack development scheme. The reevaluation indicated that the actual real cost of
construction of houses exceeded the costs as projected at appraisal by a factor of three.
Consequently, the IRR for this component was -1.64 percent as compared to an appraisal estimate
of 20 percent.
G.   Project Sustainability
31.        The constraints experienced during the implementation of the project are a pointer to
how difficult it will be in the future for the Government to implement such projects without first
fully addressing the shortcomings in the institutional framework and capabilities at both the central
and local government level.
H.   Bank Performance
32.        The Bank played an essential role in conceptualizing and designing the Project. Its
ideas on development of an integrated urban network to support economic growth in rural areas
and involvement of the private sector in low-income shelter delivery were major innovations at
the time. During the implementation of the project the Bank also contributed to resolving
difficulties between the central government agencies and local authorities. However, in view of
the fact that project management and co-ordination difficulties surfaced at the early stages of
implementation, it would appear that the Bank had clearly overestimated the capacity of the
government agencies to implement a project of this scope and nature.
33.        The Bank's supervisory role took on an added dimension due to the inability of the
PMU to effectively supervise the local authorities and to resolve managerial issues which needed
central government attention. In the absence of regular supervision of local authorities by the
PMU, at the initiative of the Bank missions, joint missions were mounted to the towns. Bank
missions pinpointed implementation bottlenecks and suggested possible remedies. Since much of
the Project's supervision was consciously delegated to PMU staff, due to lack of a Project
Monitoring System and irregular progress reporting by PMU, and the eventual demise of the
PMU during the later stages of the Project implementation, Bank missions often had to compile
data on project implementation (project costs, disbursement, status of contracts, status of accounts
and audits, etc.) which should have been generally maintained by the PMU.
34.        Although the Bank acted efficiently, effectively and with considerable flexibility and
sympathy for the borrower, there were only a total of 7 supervision missions that visited the
project to monitor implementation progress. For a problem project such as this one, more
frequent supervision visits would have been useful. Although during the period 1988-90 on two
occasions the Government asked for postponement of Bank supervision missions, more frequent
supervision missions at shorter intervals between 1985-1988 perhaps could have helped in
addressing implementation issues in a timely manner. As shown in Table 8, the missions largely
comprised Urban Planners, Economists, Financial Analysts and Engineers. There was also a high
rate of staff turnover with no less than f:ve project officers who dealt with the Project during its
duration and there were occasions when more than a year elapsed between supervision missions.
However, following the Bank reorganization of 1987 there was one task manager for supervision



9-
until Project closing. During this period major attempts were made by the Bank to send
supervision missions and to improve Project implementation, but supervision of the Project was
inhibited by the Borrower's reluctance to accept supervision missions. The Project was kept open
despite the poor performance of the Central Government so that the Secondary Towns could
complete their projects as far as possible.
35.        While a variety of covenants were flouted in the course of Project implementation,
the Bank did not vigorously pursue remedial action vis-a-vis the Borrower. Although the Bank
threatened to suspend disbursements on a number of occasions during the later stages of project
implementation, in view of the time remaining to project closing, the Bank resolved to carry the
project to the end.
I.    Borrower Performance
36.        While the overall performance of the secondary towns was mixed, the performance
of the Central Government was completely unsatisfactory. Inadequate capacity of the PMU was a
major constraint to effectively supervising Project implementation in all the five municipalities.
The productivity of PMU was low due to inadequate staffing, low salaries, lack of career
prospects, high staff turnover and inadequate budgetary provision by the Ministry of Lands and
Housing to cover PMU's operational expenses. Issues requiring inter-ministerial resolution were
left unresolved for long periods. Also, in particular, problems in issuance of title deeds to plot
allotees delayed plot consolidation.
37.        The Borrower was also remiss in not meeting standard reporting requirements,
including quarterly progress reports and annual audit reports. Several other covenants relating to
(a) establishment of a project monitoring system; (b) training program in community development
methods for local authority's staff; (c) functioning of Technical Steering and Interministerial
Review Committee; and (d) operation of Special Accounts were consistently flouted by the
Borrower. However it must be recognized (perhaps in hindsight) that the original institutional
design was untested and overambitious. In addition, in view of the lack of tradition of community
service orientation within the administration of local towns, a more experimental design and pace
of implementation would have been preferable.
J.    Consulting Services
38.         Project identification, preparation and supervision of works in all the project towns
except Nyeri were undertaken by consultants. The overall ptrformance of the consultants was
satisfactory. The National Housing Corporation was responsible for the design and supervision of
works in Nyeri. The NHC, however, did not perform its role as consultant satisfactorily.
Insufficient supervision of civil works by NHC led to contractual difficulties between Nyeri and
the contractors which were subsequently resolved through arbitration. Given the difficulties
experienced by PMU in the management and co-ordination of project activities, the completion of
physical works could not have been achieved satisfactorily without consultant inputs.



- 10 -
39.        Several Technical Assistance Studies were also satisfactorily completed by
consultants but the recommendations of these studies have yet to be implemented by the
Government.
K.   Project Documentation and Data
40.        Original documentation for the project was adequate. For each of the five project
towns a Project Implementation File (bound document) was prepared by the Bank team with a
detailed breakdown of costs, infrastructure designs, plot layouts, etc. While the information in the
Project Implementation File was relevant to the preparation of the PCR, in the absence of a
Project Moritoring System and of regular progress reports by PMU the preparation of this PCR
was considerably hindered. In future the Bank should take necessary steps to vigorously enforce
the development and implementation of a Project Monitoring System and legal covenants dealing
with quarterly progress reporting by Project implementing agencies.
L.   Findings and Lessons Learned
41.        The principal findings and lessons learned include the following:
a)   The appraisal mission overestimated the Borrower's capacity to implement a project
of this size and complexity;
b)   Experience under this Project suggests that it is best to focus on strengthening the
capacity of existing institutions to implement such projects rather than creating
project-specific implementation units;
c)   Given the past experience with two operations in this sector, the Bank should have
carefully assessed the risks involved in proceeding with an even more complex
project such as this in the absence of an appropriate policy and institutional
framework for nation-wide urban development;as a minimum a more experimental
approach could have been chosen for the components other than traditional urban
civil works (which actually were implemented successfully);
d)   In view of the fact that the Government's commitment to policy and institutional
reforms was uncertain, the Project could have focused more on institutional reforms
and limited the number of schemes in the secondary towns;
e)   It is doubtful that a Project such as this would have been successful without
Government ownership of policy objectives. Consequently, in the future there should
be full commitment to critical policy objectives before investment operations are
approved by the Bank;
f)    The Bank should vigorously enforce legal covenants and be prepared to take
necessary remedial measures in a timely manner;



- I1 -
g)    Supervision missions should be fielded at regular and shorter intervals so that
implementation issues could be addressed in time;
h)    Frequent turnover of Project Officers (Task Managers) reduces the efficacy of
supervision;
i)    To pave the way for Luture operations in the sector, the department recently
completed a sector study on Local Government Finance and Administration.



- 12 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
SECONDARY TOWNS PROJECT
(CREDIT 1390-KE & LOAN 2319-KE)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
- Bank Performance
42.        The Bank performed its role of project financier well during the project
implementation period, except towards project closure date. The monitoring function was
executed well during the first three years of project implementation, i.e. from 1984 to 1986. This
role suffered somewhat during 1986 and 1987, when project officers were changed four times.
Project implementation support from Washington was so low during one period that the Deputy
Resident Representative in the Bank's regional office in Nairobi was forced to stand in for the
project officers for considerable lengths of time.
43.        The lack of interest in the project by the Bank during 1986 adversely affected the
performance of the local authorities and the PMU. Local authority requests for guidance on the
procedures for reviewing and approving the inclusion of bona vide additional and remedial works
were not addressed by the Bank on time. There was a considerable buildup of tasks and
approvals backlog which retarded the implementation process. Subsequent attempts by the Bank
to revive project implementation were impeded by the disintegration of PMU and low staff morale
in the PMU and at the local authorities.
44.        The process of project closure from the Bank was unsatisfactory which left towns
such as Nyeri and Eldoret stranded with ongoing projects which had been approved by the Bank
and which could not be completed due to lack of financing. 1/
45.        As a result of sudden closure of the project, local authorities and central government
agencies were left with the burden of meeting payments due for works already completed from
their own resources. It has proved difficult to find alternative sources of finance when the
unspent balance of about 7 million dollars was canceled by the Bank. Z/
B.   Borrower's Performance
46.        The Secondary towns project was designed to be implemented through the active
participation of the local authorities. This meant that local authorities had to assume primary
responsibility for project implementation with the Central Government agencies providing
coordination and supportive roles. The section below reviews the performance of the various
agencies which were directly or indirectly involved in the management and coordination of the
project.
47.        The Local Authorities, Generally, the five local authorities discharged their project
implementation responsibility reasonably well. Decision-making was fairly regular, contributing
to early completion of the physical contract works. Of particular significance is the interactive
1/The Secondary Towns had ample warning that the Project would be closed. The Government
was in violation of so many covenants over such an extended period of time that not closing the
Project would have made the Bank's conditionality a mockerv.



- 13 -
approach that was adopted by Nyeri and Eldoret in respect of settlement planring and plot
demarcation in the upgrading components of Majengo, Langas, Kamnukunji and Huruma
Mwiyenderi. Negotiation with the leadership of the beneficiary community in this regard yielded
considerable community support for the said activities.
48.        The chronic inability of the local authorities to update their accounts and to get them
audited by the Controller and Auditor General in accordance with the requirements of the Local
Government Act and financial covenants of the Development Credit Agreement was due to "igh
staff turnover in Treasurer's departments in the local authorities and the huge backlog of audit
work in the Controller's Office. Sustained technical assistance in this area will continue to be
required long after project closure.
49.        The Program Management Unit (PMU). The PMU was established as a condition
precedent to the effectiveness of the credit, with the primary role of providing a focal point for
project implementation at the central government level. Originally the Unit was supposed to be a
Division within the Housing Department with the Program Coordinator reporting to the Chief
Housing Officer as was stated in the Staff Appraisal Report. However, when the unit was
eventually established in August 1984 it was decided that it would operate independent of the
Housing Department, and that the Program Coordinator would report directly to the Permanent
Secretary for faster and effective decision making.
50.        Manned by five appropriately qualified and experienced staff seconded from
operating Departments of the Ministry of Works and Housing, the Unit rapidly gained the
necessary working support of the local authorities and became the Project advocate in central
government circles. Up to 1987, the Unit successfully coordinated and svpervised the main
physical contract works in the towns except the Kitale component which received Bank clearance
for implementation in 1988. Even without the necessary guidance from the Bank the Unit carried
out project coordination responsibility fairly adequately.
51.        Perhaps the most debilitating and demoralizing aspect concerning the PMU staff
emanated from the fact that they were neither allowed to draw salary emoluments and related
financial benefits budgeted for under the project in the appraisal r ;ort nor were they appointed
substantively to fi!' dhe posts which were established by the Government for the Unit in
accordance with government grading structure. There were no appointments or advancement.
The officers working in the unit, anxious to halt their declining relative seniority in government
compared to their counterparts and to secure upward mobility, were forced to look outside the
PMU for prospects of promotion. It became difficult to keep the Unit staff together as the
Program Engineer, the Economist and the Urban Planner all left to join the Ministry of Local
Government and the then University of Nairobi ltidents Accommodation Board in 1987, 1988
and 1989 respectively. These staff changes weakened the PMU's capacity to operate effectively.
52.        During the March 1988 reorganization of Government Ministries, the PMU and the
Housing Department were transferred to the Ministry of Lands and Housing. In the new
Ministry, the Unit lacked the enabling functional support previously accorded by the former
parent Ministry of Works, Housing and Physical Planning. The PMU's operational independence
from the Housing Departmnent which made it more effective was ignored. Most project
correspondence received at the Ministry Headquarters was directed to the Head of the Housing
Departnent instead of the project Coordinator in PMU. No funds were availed to the Unit staff



- 14 -
to mount supervision missions. As a result there were no supervision missions and project site
visits and inspections during 1988. During this period the interaction with the project local
authorities and project reporting virtually ceased.
53.        Also, the Program Coordinator was released from the Ministry of Lands and
Housing where PMU was located to report back to his original position in the Department of
Physical Planning within the Ministry of Local Government in February 1989 which further
weakened the capacity of the PMU. There was no clear and explicit assignment for the
supervision, coordination and management of the project. It was not until the Bank complained to
the Treasury of the virtual non-existence of the PMU in contravention of the DCA and threatened
to cease credit disbursements for the project, that attempts were made to reorganize the PMU
staffing.
54.        Before a reorganization was effected by deploying staff to replace the officers who
had left the PMU, the Ministry of Finance and thereafter the Directorate of Personnel
Management (DPM) communicated the Government's decision to transfer the PMU portfolio to
the Ministry of Local Government in May 1989. Subsequently the PMU was transferred to MLG
with only a newly appointed Community Development Officer. The Unit was to form part of the
recently created Department of Urban Development in the Ministry of Local Government only
one month before the project closure date, i.e. in November 1990 after high level intervention by
the Ministry Finance and Office of the Presidia,.
55.        The Program Coordinator and the Deputy Program Coordinator were both posted
from the Ministry of Lands and Housing to the new Department of Urban Development in the
Ministry of Local Government in September 1989. The Coordinator had, however, by this time
been assigned the demanding responsibility of being the Secretary of the Presidential Commission
on Urban Land Use ard Planning and could, therefore, not physically move over to continue
coordinating and managing the Project even up to the time of project closure. The Deputy
Coordinator was released and moved over to Ministry of Local Government in January 1990.
56.        The Project Coordination role which was literally in disarray was taken up by the
new director of Urban Development, who required time to fully appreciate the project and to
render effective leadership and guidance to all the involved organizations. The Department rather
than the PMU was made the focal project delivery and reporting agency. The new management
and coordination arrangement for the project came too late towards the closure of the project and
therefore did not generate sufficient enthusiasm and momentum to resuscitate the tempo of project
implementation. The consequent lack of staff continuity and sustained guidance at the Central
Government level created a situation of uncertainty for the project local authority staff who also
experienced a serious loss of morale.
57.        The National Housing Corporation. The National Housing Corporation had two
rolls to play in implementing the project, viz a channel for transmitting funds from the Central
Government to Local Authorities and as a project consultant for Nyeri Municipal Council. The
financial function was well executed.
58.        However, the consultancy function was not satisfactorily performed due to the
cumbersome financial and administrative procedures inherent in National Housing Corporation set
up as a public institution. As a result there was insufficient supervision during implementation of



- 15-
the civil engineering works such that some0 of these works were subsequently abandoned by
contractors and resulting contractual disputes had to be resolved through arbitration.
59.        The Local Government Loans Authority. The Local Government Loans Authority
had only the financial function to carry out, which it did satisfactorily, partly due to the technical
assistance extended to the authority, thus making its record-keeping up to date. However, due to
administrative and liquidity problems L.G.L.A did not regularly release funds to the project towns
in time as required by the contracts agreements. The L.G.L.A did not procure the computer in
time to enable it to improve its operations due to lack of staffing and follow-up actions necessary
to improve the operational efficiency of LGLA.
60.        The Central Government Ministries. The Ministry of Lands and Housing and the
Ministry of Local Government had the responsibility of overseeing project implementation on
behalf of the borrower. Project funds were channelled through them to the two financial
intermediaries who facilitated disbursement of funds to the project. They were also charged with
the responsibility of carrying out the various policy studies that were financed through the Project.
The two Ministries hosted the PMU during project implementation and in the process Ministerial
jurisdiction became an issue to the detriment of good project management, with conflicting
messages being given to local authorities. Execution of the policy studies took very long to start
and the components intended to prepare the ground for the next urban development program
suffered delay due to jurisdiction issues.
61.        Eldoret Joint Venture Project. The private sector joint venture component was an
innovative framework on project planning and implementation between the private and public
sectors. For this project to be completed on time and within cost, a Project Development
Committee was established to oversee its implementation. This committee was, however, not
fully operational, thus partly contributing towards indecision in resolving problems facing the
project. The developer, Rural Housing Estates Ltd. performed the role of a Contractor for the
project, while the Eldoret Municipal Council also performed three roles, i.e. financier, project
engineer and planning authority. This mix-up in roles created mistrust and misunderstanding
which affected the smooth implementation of the project. For instance, the Contractor/Developer
did not resume work on the site, having abandoned it in 1988 after carrying out approximately
90% of the Phase I infrastructure contract works. The development of low cost and middle
housing development on serviced land in other sites under the Project in Eldoret somewhat
adversely affected demand for medium cost mortgage housing envisaged under the Joint Venture
Component. It has been suggested that this market scenario may have significantly contributed to
the Developer's unwillingness to commit further borrowed funds towards an investment from
which they were unsure of recouping their costs. This resulted in their attempt to replan the
project by subdividing it further into smaller plots. Unavailability of housing construe 'on finance
by the Developers cannot also be ruled out.
62.        The reduced effectiveness of PMU during this time, i.e., 1988-1990, also
contributed to the inadequate guidance to the project, especially in organizing meetings of the
project Development Committee to make decisions and resolve problems.
63.        As it stands, the relationship between the Joint Venture partners as regards the
project is still to be resolved, especially with the closure of the loan/credit on December 31,
1990.



- 16-
64.        Phase II and III of the infrastructure and the Housing construction remained undone
as at the time of the project closure.
C.   Lessons Lerned
65.        Although the implementation of Secondary Towns project was considered successful,
especially the original scope of the work, there were lessons to be learned which are useful for
future implementation of major urban development programs. The oLservations indicated below
are in no way intended to be exhaustive.
66.        Considering the operational problems that faced the Program Management Unit
(PMU) in the supervision of the project, it is recommended that instead of establishing project-
based imple:nentation units, the existing units should be strengthened to perform this function.
67.        The incorporation of Special Accounts in the project facilitated and accelerated
project implementation through faster disbursement of funds and processing of payments to
suppliers, contractors and consultants. The initial advance of Ksh 30,382,225.45 to NHC and
Ksh 12.461,059 t4i L.G.L.A improved the liquidity and therefore disburseiment. This was an
improvement over the previous system whereby the implementing agencies relied on funding
through the Exchequer which often experiences liquidity problems.
68.        Due to over-emphasis on preparation and submission of audited accounts by the
World Bank, there were delays in getting approvals to implement physical works. As a result
some project components commenced later than scheduled while others did not commence at all,
despite having been approved by all parties. This situation was aggravated by the credit closure
date not being extended. This underscores the importance of flexibility on all parties involved in
project planning and implementation to reflect existing and foreseeable problems. It is necessary
for World Bank Supervision missions to be staffed with both technical and financial experts to
comprise the World Bank Supervision mission in order to appreciate both the technical and
financial problems or the project before decisions are made.
69.        It has been noted that the project did not adequately focus on capacity building and
its sustainability during and after project completion. For instance, this led to instability and
uncertainty among the project staff both in the Municipalities and at Central Government level.
70.        The PMU did not have an adequate monitoring and ev?luation mechanism within the
project which could generate enough experience and data for formulation of a national urban
development strategy. This was necessary for the preparation of subsequent urban development
programs. A clear National Urban Development Policy environment spelling out the roles and
functions of urban development would have eliminated or minimized some of the institutional
problems that faced the project, e.g. conflic if functions between ministries and institutions.
These conflicts led to the delays in initiating the next urban investment project (Urban Four
Project).



- 17 -
71.         The failure to satisfactorily implement the joint venture project, as a result of the
problems between the Eldoret Municipal Council and the private developer (Rural Housing
Estates Ltd), was an example of the difficulties than can be expected in a public-private sector
partnership in project implementation. This component needs to be examined further in detail in
order to safeguard the investments already incurred and to define and protect more the rights and
obligatiwLs of all parties if similar joint venture projects are to be implemented in the future.



- 18 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
SECONDARY TOWNS PROJECT
(CREDIT 1390-KE & LOAN 2319-KE)
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
TABLE 1: RELATED BANK LOANS AND/OR CREDITS
Loan/Credit          Purpose         Year of Approval        Status
Title                      ___
1105-KE            Municipal             1975            Completed
Nairobi Site &      Development
Service Project
Cr.791-KE /         Municipal             1978             Completed
Ln 1550-KE         Development
Second Urban
Project



_   19  -
TABLE 2: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Date          Revised          Actual
Item                                                Planned            Date
Ident;fication
Preparation
Appraisal Mission                                     04/83               -            10,82
Credit Negotiations                                   05/83               -            05/83
Board Approval                                        06/83               -            06/83
Credit Effectiveness                                  12/83               -            03/84
Credit Closing                                        12/90                            12/90
Credit Co"letion                                      04/91               -            04/91
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...... ......... ................... ........................................... ..................... .................................. 



- 20 -
TABLE 3: LOAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS
(Cumulative USS million)
Fiscal  Appraisal      Actual      Actual/
Year   Estimate  Disbursement  Estimate X
...................... ......... ..............    .........
1984        3.06          0.52        17.0%
1985        5.10          3.29        64.5%
1986        9.28          7.85        84.6%
1987       15.39          9.54        62.0%
1988       21.69         11.07        71.9%
1989       27.03         11.10        72.1%
1990       28.36         13.13        60.5%
1991       29.00         14.74        54.5%
Comments:
1/ Disbursements as of May 29, 1991
2/  Loan 2319-KE cancelled on 8 August 1989 - $6,982,544 cancetled



-   21   -
TABLE 4: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Planned       ActuaL        Months
Project Component              Completion  Completion    of Delay
A. Servicing Urban Land
Eldoret                                12/86         06/86           6
Kitate                                 12/86         03/90          27
Nakuru                                 12/85         04/86           4
Nyeri                                  12/85         06/89          42
Thika                                  12/85         02/87          14
B. Construction Loans
Eldoret                                12/88    not completed    +24
Kitate                                  n/a           n/a          n/a
Nakuru                                 12/88    not completed    +24
Nyeri                                  12/88    not completed    +24
Thika                                  12/86    not completed    +48
C. Community Facilities
Eldoret                                12/85         10/85          -2
Kitate                                  n/a           n/a          n/a
Nakuru                                 12/85         09/86           9
Nyeri                                  12/85         06/86           6
Thika                                  12/86         02/86         -10
D. Financial & Project
Management Activities                   12/86          1/            48
1/ Not fully completed by p,roject closing date.



- 22 -
TABLE 5: PROJECT COSTS
(USS million)
Estimated Costs                    Actual Costs
................. ......................................................  ...............................
Local        Foreign        Total          LocaL         Foreign       Total
Item                                           Costs          Costs          Costs         Costs          Costs       Costs
....                                           ..........    -------.      ..... .......  .......    .    ..... .......  .............................. ... ...... ...
A.  Servicing Urban Land                            6.81           4.54         11.35            5.38        4.11         9.49
B.  Construction Loans                              5.99           3.99          9.98            0.80         0.53        1.33
C.  Coffunity Facilities                            1.41           0.93          2.34            1.36         0.90        2.26
D. Financial & Project
Management Assistance                          2.10           2.11          4.21            1.33         1.41         2.74
Sub-total Base Costs                            16.31          11.57         27.88             8.87        6.95        15.82
Contingencies
Physical                                        0.84           0.47          1.31                                          -
Price                                           5.24           2.98          8.22                -
Subtotal                                         6.08           3.45          9.53                -
......... .........       . .... .........  .........  .  .... ........ .   ............. ............
Total Project Costs                                22.39          15.02        37.41             8.87        6.95        15.82
=========   =========    ======sz=   =========            ========   ====:====
Front End Fee                                       0.00           0.02          0.02
Total Financing Required                           22.39          15.04        37.43             8.87        6.95        15.82
.......................................................................................................................
Comments:



- 23 -
TAB.E 6: PROJECT FINANCING
(USS mittion)
Estimated                          Actual
Ksh mitlion  USS miltion Ksh million  USS million
.. ....... ..... ...... .......   .............  ............
IBRD/IDA                                                365            29.0            263             14.7
Government of Kenya  1/                                   26            2.1             20               1.1
Developer                                                 80            6.3               0              0.0
.. ....... ..    ......... ..  . ..........  ....................
Total Project Costs                                     471            37.4            283             15.8
Front End Fee                                                           0.0
Totat Financing Required                                471            37.5            283             15.8
.......... ... ..    ...... ......  ........ ......  ..........
Comnents:
1/ Includes Ksh 10 million actuat expenditure eligibte for refinancing but
not submitted to IDA before credit cLosing date.



- 24 -
TABLE 7: ALLOCATION OF CREDIT AND LOAN PROCEEDS
(SOR and USS)
Original Allocation      Actual Disbursements
Category             Description                  Credit (SDR)  Loan (USS) Credit (SDR) 1 Loan (USS)
.........  ...........      .......... ........... ........... ...........
(1)                 Civil Works
(a)                 On-site Infrastructure          5,940,000   2,000,000     3,716,039          0
(b)                 Off-site infrastructure         2,240,000     800,000     2,320,169          0
(c)                 Eldoret
Joint venture                   1,9'1,000    650,000       641,957          0
(2)                  Construction Loans              1,740,000   1,600,000    1,167,845          0
(3)                 Equipment & Vehicles
(a)                 Municipalities                    720,000     250,000       482,430          0
Cb)                 Central Government                220,000      75,000        51,165          0
(4)                 Consultant services for:
(a)                 Municipalities                     790,000    250,000       907,868          0
(b)                  Central Government              1,400,000    500,000       482,384          0
C5)                 Operating expenses                350,000      100,000       38,412          0
for PMU
(6)                  Refunding PPF                    930,000                   434,053          -
(7)                  Initial deposits in
Special Accounts               2,800,000            -    2,474,877
(8)                  Fee                                            17,456                  17,456
(9)                 Unallozated                      1,340,000    757,544             0          0
==,===,===== ===========  =========== .. ======s=
Total                            20,400,000   7,000,000    12,717,199    17,456
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~............ ........................ ........... ....................... ......................
Comments:
1/ Disbursements as of May 29, 1991
2/ The credit was closed on April 30, 1991 at which time SDP 7,682,800 was cancelled



-   25   -
TABLE 8: MISSION DATA
Mission                                    Month/      No. of        Staff                     Date of    Perform    Types o
Year       Persons       Weeks    SPECIALIZATION  Report      Rating      Problems
in Field        1/                      2/           3/
... ...... .................................................................................................................
Preparation                             02/81             4            8         2EC,UP,fA   04/07/81
Preparation                             05/81             2            2           EC, FA       N.A.
Pre-appraisal                           11/81              7           11      2EC, 210, UP, 02/17/82
Preparation                             05/82             3            3           EC, FA    02/06/82
AppraisaL                               10/82              6           24      3EC, UP, LEG, 09/10/82
Supervision 1                           08/84              5           17     EC, 2UP, FA, U09/13/84          2          M,F
Supervision II                          06/85              2           6           EC, UP    07/31/85             1
Supervision III                         03/86              3           6          2EC, UP    06/17/86             2       M
Supervision IV                          05/87              3           4         UP, EC, EN  06/12/87         *
Supervision V                           11/87              2           2           FA, EN    01/04/88             2       M
Supervision VI                          10/89              2           2           FA, UP    11/16/89             3      M,F
Supervision VII                         12/90              2           2           FA, UP    02/14/91             3      M,F
.......................................................................................................................
1/ EC - economist; FA - financiaL anaLyst; EN - engineer; UP - urban planner; LEG - counsel;
US - urban specialist
2/ 1 - Problem free/Minor Problems, 2 x Moderate ProbLems, 3 = Major ProbLems
3/ M   Manageriol, F P   Financial
* No Rating



- 26 -
Page 1
Table 9: STATUS OF LOAN/CREDIT COVENANTS
COMPLIANCE WITH LOAN/CREDIT COVENANTS
Section 2.02 (e)
Borrower to open and maintain two            Accounts opened but operation
"special accounts" in Central Bank           of accounts unsatisfactory
of Kenya in currency of Borrower
Section 3.02 (a)
Borrower to enter into onlending             Complied
agreement with NHC & LGLA
Section 3.02 (b)
Onlending Agreements between NHC             Complied
with Municipalities and between
LGLA and Municipalities
Section 3.05 (a)
NHC, LGLA & Municipalities to                In compliance
employee Financial Accounting,
Engineering & Urban Planning
Consultants to assist in carrying
out the project
Section 3.05 (b)
(i)  MWH to employ consultants not          PMU has failed to design and
later than December 31, 1983          implement a project monitoring
to design project monitoring          system
system
(ii)  Not later than June 30, 1984,          Consultant appointed May 9,
MLG to hire consultants to             1989.  Study completed and
undertake selection of                being reviewed by Government
electronic data processing
equipment, development of
software and training in
its use for local authority
staff of Nakuru, Eldoret,
Thika, Kisumu
Section 3.06
Borrower to establish and
maintain following entities:
(a)  PMU, to be headed by Program            In compliance
Coordinator;
(b)  a Technical Steering Committee;         Formed but not operational
and
(c)  an Interministerial Review Committee Formed but not operational
Section 3.06 (c)
PMU to prepare and submit quarterly          Not in compliance
status reports to the Association,
not later than six weeks after the
calendar quarter to which such
reports relate



- 27 -
Page 2
Section 3.10
Not later than December 31, 1983             Not in compliance
MHW in cooperation with NHC to
prepare and furnish to the
Association for review and
approval terms of reference for
a training program in Community
Development methods for local
authority's staff
Section 3.11 (a)
Borrower shall approve the annual            In compliance
budget of a Municipality only if
it provides for a surplus in the
General Rate Fund, as defined in
Section 216 of Local Government
Act, for fiscal years beginning
January 1, 1985 with case of
Municipal Councils of Nakuru,
Eldoret, Thika, and January 1,
1987 in the case of Nyeri and
Kitale
Section 4.01 (c)
NHC, LGLA, and Municipalities to             To varying degree all
furnish certified audited accounts           agencies, except NHC &
to the Association not later than            LGLA, are in default
eight months after end of the
fiscal year
Section 4.01 (e)
Municipalities to furnish to the             See comment under Section
Association certified copies of              4.01 (c)
their audited abstracts of
accounts not later than nine
months after end of the fiscal
year
Section 4.03
LGLA to furnish the Association              In compliance
a complete audit of LGLA's loan
accounts of June 30, 1982 not
later than December 31, 1983
Section 4.04
MHC, LGLA and Municipal Council              In compliance
of Kitale to enter into
agreements not later than June
30, 1984 acceptable to the
Association, for reduction
and eventual elimination of
overdue repayments on
outstanding loans



- 28 -
TABLE 10: Rate of Return CalculaWion & Sensitivity Analysis
Nakuru - Racetrack Development (Residential Plots)
(Ksh)
Year   Infra-         Housing      Overhead       0 & M        Total    Imputed           Net        Costs up  Benefits
structure                                              Costs    Incremental   Benefits         10%      down 10%
Notes:         1            2            3            4                         5
1984                                  584,983                   584,983                  (584,983)   (643,482)   (584,983)
1985     4,519,560                    201,096                4,720,656                (4,720,656) (5,192,721) (4,720,656)
1986     1,559,991  18,692,000       391,000                20,642,991               (20,642,991)(22,707,290)(20,642,991)
1987       658,811  18,692,000        221,000               19,571,811   1,868,400 (17,703,411)(19,660,592)(17,890,251)
1988                 11,775,960       188,920               11,964,880   3,736,800  (8,228,080) (9,424,568) (8,601,760)
1989                                            2,794,916   2,794,916   4,913,892   2,118,976   1,839,484   1,627,587
1990                                            2,794,914   2,794,914   4,913,892   2,118,978   1,839,487   1,627,589
1991                                            2,794,914   2,794,914   4,913,892   2,118,978   1,839,487   1,627,589
1992                                            2,794,914   2,794,914   4,913,892   2,118,978   1,839,487   1,627,589
1993                                            2,794,914   2,794,914   4,913,892   2,118,978   1,839,487   1,627,589
1994                                             2,794,914   2,794,914   4,913,892   2,118,978   1,839,487   1,627,589
1995                                            2,794,914   2,794,914   4,913,892   2,118,978   1,839,487   1,627,589
1996                                             2,794,914   2,794,914   4,913,892   2,118,978   1,839,487   1,627,589
1997                                            2,794,914   2,794,914   4,913,892   2,118,978   1,839,487   1,627,589
1998                                             2,794,914   2,794,914   4,913,892   2,1'8,978   1,839,487   1,627,589
1999                                            2,794,914   2,794,914   4,913,892   2,118,978   1,839,487   1,627,589
2000                                             2,794,914   2,794,914   4,913,892   2,118,978   1,839,487   1,627,589
2001                                             2,794,914   2,794,914   4,913,892   2,118,978   1,839,487   1,627,589
2002                                             2,794,914   2,794,914   4,913,892   2,118,978   1,839,487   1,627,589
2003                                             2,794,914   2,794,914   4,913,892   2,118,978   1,839,487   1,627,589
2004                                             2,794,914   2,794,914   4,913,892   2,118,978   1,839,487   1,627,589
2005                                             2,794,914   2,794,914   4,913,892   2,118,978   1,839,487   1,627,589
2006                                             2,794,914   2,794,914   4,913,892   2,118,978   1,839,487   1,627,589
2007                                             2,794,914   2,794,914   4,913,892   2,118,978   1,839,487   1,627,589
2008                                             2,794,914   2,794,914   4,913,892   2,118,978   1,839,487   1,627,589
Internal Rste of Return                                                                       -1.64%       -3.52%       -3.73%
e IRR caLculations were based on development of 263 residential plots
as compared to a total of 535 residential plots which were to be developed under this scheme.
/ Infrastructure costs for the entire scheme which included servicing of 773 plots amounted to Ksh. 19.8 million.
These costs have been apportioned for 263 residential plots.
/ Housing construction costs ranged from Ksh 120,000 for a one bedroom unit to Ksh 240,000 for a three bedroom unit.
The average cost per Unit is estimated at Ksh 186,920.
At appraisal cost of a two-bedroom unit was estimated at Ksh. 22,000 (1983 prices). Actual costs amounted
to Ksh 200,000 in 1990 prices or SKsh 56,200 in 1983 prices (GDP deflator index for construction was
was 356.4 for the period 1983-1990.)
3/  Overhead include costs for design, supervision and administration of
the scheme.
4/  0 & M assumed to be 5% of investments.
5/  IncLudes imputed rent of Ksh 1,557 per month per unit for 263 housing units.
These units were completed according to the following schedule:
100 units in 1986, 100 units in 1987 and 63 units in 1988.



SUEDAN            . -'.          I <    J*
PPOJE TIHSIOPIA
UGANDA  ~          ~
w.i ~  ~    ~     N
X ~~ N,-b                                         s 
N.1N
KENYA ~     ~         ~
NSECNDARY A    OWN5 PR                   No
PPOJECT LOCATISA        ETUIOMa
*    Fhtso Ut   '_wjt
Seo Pi kbe. CPolw                                                                                          _,_    ><           >
TIA M O&    nO    qo    ^o            TANZANIA                                           a
N.h.     20ia   40   sc       II   UA"    ETMANIA
Aidt"Q\'$-
i, _ w _ ,NWord   D"ta                                                      S_' -_v  
0  P~~~~iwiol capilk~~~~~~~



