Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                         -
Report No. 4427-KE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KENYA
SECONDARY TOWNS PROJECT
May 20, 1983
Water Supply and Urban Development Div:iLsion
Eastern Africa Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       =      Kenya shilling (K:Sh)l/
KSh 1.00            =      US$ 0.08
US$ 1.00                  KSh 12.6
SDR 1.00            =     US$ 1.08163 2/
US$ 1OG             =      SDR 0.924527
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CBS                Central Bureau of Statistics
DCA                Development Credit Agreement
DOH                Department of Housing
E, DP                Electronic Data Processing (Equipment)
EMC                Eldoret Municipal Council
ERR                Economic Rate of Return
GOK                Government of Kenya
GRF                General Rate Fund
HABITAT            United Nations Center for Human Settlements
KIE                Kenya Industrial Estates
KMC                Kitale tlunicipal Council
LGLA               Local Government Loans Authority
MLG                Ministry of LocaL Government
MLSP               Ministry of Lands, Settlement, a-nd Physical Planning
MOH                Ministry of Health
MWD                Ministry of Water Development
MtWH               Ministry of Works and Housing
NHC                National Housing Corporation
NMC                Nakuru Municipal Council
NyMC               Nyeri Municipal Council
PMU                Program Managemerit Unit
PPF                Project Preparation Facility
RHE                Rural Housi'ng Estates Ltd.
SOE                Statemnent of Expenditures
TMC                Thika Municipal Council
TMCECS             Thika Municipal Council Employees' Cooperative Society
UNDP               United Nations Development Program
USAID              United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEARS
Central Government            -       July 1 to June 30
Local Authorities             -       January 1 to December 31
1/  Since December, 1982, the Kenya shilling has been pegged to the SDR at
the rate of SDR = KSh 14.06.  The dollar-shilling con-version factor
given here is based on the approximate exchange rate in effect in
January - February, 1983.
2/ As of April 29, 1983.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KENYA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECONDARY TOWNS PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.        THE SECTOR BACKGROUND ......*.................         .    1
A.   The Macroeconomic Setting for Urban Growth.....    I
B.   Secondary Towns in Kenya's Economic Development    2
C.   Urban Investment Picy................... .y..    3
D.   Existing Institutions Involved in Urban Devel-
opment   in  Kenya ..............  ..................... .  4
E.   The Bank's Strategy in the Urban Sector
in Kena.. e..n...y.....a .                            6
F.   Experience of the First and Second Urban
Projects ...*...*.....  ...  .  ..................,   ......  7
II.       THE PROJECT .............................. ...   8
A.   Project Objectives ............ .  ....   ....... .. ..   8
B.   Approach to Project Preparation ..............         9
C.   Project Components         .       ..............    10
D.   Project Costs                       .     ........     16
E.   Financing Plan .... .   ......... * .   *, ...    16
III.      PROJECT ORGANIZATION, MANAGEMENT, AND IMPLEMEN-
TATION .......                            ..... ,-          20
A.   Overview of Institutional Arrangements.                20
B.   Organization of the Local Authorities                  21
C.   Central Government Agencies   .                        22
D. Project Monitorig. .24
E.   Legal Arrangements. ..ngm..   .ts. .- .........  .....  25
F.   Implementation Sc        ...............               25
G.   Procurement..... ... ..... . *......   .............. .    25
H. Disbursements                    ...    27
I.   Accounts and Audit.u.d .... a........ . ....... ..*.   28
J.   Project Supervision ............      ............    28
This report is based on the finclings of appraisal missions which visited
Kenya in July and October, 1982. The missions consisted of Ms. C. Carr
(Mission leader), Messrs. R. Westin, G. Beier, and R. van Puymbroeck
(IBRD), and Mr. A. Kennefick and Ms. S. Wakeham (Consultants); Mr. A.
Forte assisted in the production of the report.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



IV.        FINANCIAL ANALYSIS                                                  29
A. Municipal Finance in Kenya                                       29
B.   Financial Position of the Municipalities                      30
C.   Central Government Financial Intermediaries.                   32
D.  Project Impact on Municipal Budgets                             34
E.   Affordability                                                  35...... .......   35
V.         PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS                                          35
A.    Project Benefitsn......... *see ....... * ..........          35
B. Project Risks   .                    .37
VI.         RECOMMENDATIONS.............................  ....                  38



-iLi-
LIST OF ANNEXES
ANNEX                            DESCRIPTION
1            The Project Towns
2            Table 1.  Project Costs - Towns and Central Government
Table 2. Detailed Cost Estimates
2(a)  -  Eldoret
2(b)  -  Kitale
2(c)  -  Nakuru
2(d)  -  Nyeri
2(e)  -  Thika
2(f)  -  Central Government Project Management
Support and Technical Assistance
Table 3.  Flow of Funds
Table 4.  Project Cash Flows
Table 5.  Physical/Financial Implementation Schedule
Table 6.  Procurement Arrangements
Table 7.  Disbursements
Table 8.  Cost Recovery
Table 9.  Financial Impact on Towns
Table 10. Affordability
Table 11. Cost and Benefit Streams and Economic Rates of
Return
Table 12.  Project Rep,orting
3            Local Authority Project Implementation Arrangements
4            Description of Studies
5            Documents in Project F'ile
Text Tables
Table 2.1:   Project Components
Table 2.2:   Project Cost Summary
Table 2.3:   Project Financing Plan
Maps
IBRD 16820     General Map of Kenya Showing Project Towns
IBRD 16821     Nyeri
IBRD 16822     Kitale
IBRD 16823     Thika
IBRD 16824     Eldoret
IBRD 16825     Nakuru






KENYA
SECONDARY TOWNS PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. THE SECTOR BACKGROUND
A. The Macroeconomic Setting for Urban Growth
1.01      As with most East African countries, Kenya is going through dif-
ficult economic times.  The rapid grovrth of agriculture which fueled Ken-
ya's economy during its first decade after Independence has slowed consi-
derably and is below the rate of growth of the population. Kenya's manu-
facturing industry has proven to be iniefficient and inward-oriented due to
its protected position behind high t:ariff barriers and other types of quan-
tity restrictions.  At the same time, the external environmerit for Kenya
has become increasingly harsh with high petroleum prices and declining cof-
fee prices causing a major shift in Kenya's terms of trade and severe
balance of payments difficulties.   Finally, the population growth rate in
Kenya has climbed to around 4% p.a.,, one of the highest rates Ln the world
and a serious burden on the country's long-term prospects for economic
development.
1.02      In the face of these prob'Lems, the Government of Kenya has begun
to institute major policy changes t-o restructure Kenya's economy and im-
prove its overall performance.  This effort has been supported by the Bank
through two Structural Adjustment operations (approved in March, 1980 and
July, 1982 respectively) and by a continuing economic dialogue on many
aspects of economic policy.1/  Kenya's structural adjustment policies fo-
cus on issues of trade policy and industrial promotion, agricultural
growth, energy policy, and family planrning. The adjustments in trade poli-
cy call for the elimination of the quantity-restriction system of indus-
trial protection and its gradual replacement by moderate and more uniform
tariffs. This will be supplemented by appropriate levels of export compen-
sation to industrial firms and adjustments in the exchange rate to improve
the terms of trade in favor of agriculture and provide an incentive for
Kenya's industry to become more efficient and export-oriented.   The agri-
cultural program focuses on pricing policies, marketing, and land related
issues to provide the basis for an increase in productivity. Energy policy
has been the subject of a special Bank review which focused on investment
policies, energy production,  and conservation.    Finally, the Government
has agreed to provide leadership and direction to the family planning
effort as a matter of high priority.
1.03       Beyond the direct effect of these policies on the indicated sec-
tors, Kenya's structural adjustment program will have far-reaching impacts
on the rest of the economy.  Becauset of Kenya's long history of industrial
protection, the size distribution of manufacturing firms in Kenya bears
more resemblance to that of a high-wage, capital-rich country than to a
I/ "Growth and Structural Change in Kenya:   A Basic Economic Report,"
(grey cover), August 31, 1982.



2
low-wage, labor-intensive economy.  The planned adjustments in trade poli-
cy should cause a shift to smaller fLrms with higher labor-absorption fac-
tors and closer ties to Kenya's agricultural resource base.  This will in
turn affect the spatial distribution of employment, as experience has shown
that such firms are more likely to locate away from major cities and closer
to areas of resource availability.  Thus, one can expect the structural ad-
justment policies to strengthen the diversification of economic activity
throughout Kenya and into secondary urban areas.   This will strengthen
rural-urban linkages such as remittances to rural areas from off-farm em-
ployment, which current estimates place as high as one-fifth of the urban
wage bill.
B. Secondary Towns in Kenaya's Economic Development
1.04        The recent (1979) populat[on census revealed that urban growth
in Kenya over the past ten years has occurred on a disproportionate basis
in secondary  towns.2/   As  a result,  the population share of secondary
towns grew from 7% to 31% of the urban population, while the share of Nai-
robi and Mombasa fell from 70% to 51% between 1969 and 1979. This pattern
of urban growth is not typical of the experience of many other African
countries, and the reasons for it in Kenya have yet to be fully documen-
ted.  However, Kenya's macroeconomic policies may have played an important
role in reducing the polarization of urban growth on Nairobi.  For exam-
ple, since 1972 the Government has restricted wage increases in the modern
sector to 75% of the growth in the cost of living, significantly moderating
rural-urban income differentials.   In addition,  the Government has  re-
frained from subsidizing food, housing, and transportation in urban areas.
By avoiding policies with an urban bias toward the distribution of income
between rural and urban areas (with the exception of trade policies, whici
have mostly benefited the relatively insulated modern private sector), Ken-
ya has reduced the strong urban pull which has brought masses to the capi-
tal cities in other countries.   Instead, Kenya has developed a spatially
extensive urban growth pattern which is complementary to the economic in-
centives being introduced through the structural adjustment program.
1.05       Secondary towns have an imlportant role to play in Kenya's eco-
nomic development. This includes such obvious considerations as providing
focal points for regional economic development and strengthening the spa-
tial linkages for agricultural marketing and processing activities. In ad-
dition, secondary towns absorb rural migration which would otherwise con-
centrate in the major cities, thus providing an efficient settlement pat-
tern for the additional six million urban inhabitants expected by the year
2000.   Finally, secondary towns provide the basis for strengthening the
role of local initiatives in providing for urban growth, a factor which
will be important in providing an institutional structure capable of sup-
plying basic services to a large urban population.
2/    Secondary  towns  can  be  defined  roughly  as  urban  areas  with  a
population in the range of 20,000 to 100,000 inhabitants with strong links
to their regional economy.



3
1.06       In preparing for a decentralized pattern of urban growth, Kenya
is in a better position than most of its neighbors to establish a strong
institutional base.   Kenya inherited a tradition of strong local govern-
ments from colonial times, and this system has been maintained reasonably
well as compared to radical changes introduced by such countries as Tanza-
nia.  However, there are clear signs that the system of local government
is outgrowing its financial and instLtutional base.  Central-local coordi-
nation procedures are inadequate, local revenues lack sufficient buoyancy
to cope with rapid inflation, and scarcity of technical staff constrains
the ability of the local authorities to extend basic services to the grow-
ing urban population.
1.07       The urban strategy contained in the 1979-83 National Development
Plan provides an articulate declaration of the need to decentralize urban
growth in response to emerging patterns of population and the regional
needs of the economy. The Government has proposed a limited range of in-
centives to attract economic activities to secondary towns.  However, the
choice of urban investments constitutes the major way in which the Govern-
ment will pursue its urban spatial policy.
C. Urban Investment Policy
1.08         Urban investment policy in Kenya has followed a basic needs
strategy emphasizing investments in water supply, sanitation, low-cost
shelter, primary education, and basic health care.  Urban water supply has
been extended to the majority of urban residents, either through indivi-
dual water connections or by provision of water kiosks.  Free primary edu-
cation is provided through the middle grades (Form VII), and the Govern-
ment has talken over the financial burden of teachers' salaries in order to
ensure that schooling is extended on a universal basis.   Kenya has also
been a leader in promoting a basic needs approach to urban shelter, empha-
sizing site and service type developments and initiating programs of urban
upgrading.
1.09       Despite Kenya's achievements in providing for urban development,
current estimates indicate that from 18-40% of the population in different
secondary towns live in unplanned,  informal  housing developments,  often
with minimal access to urban services.  In order to provide for the growth
of population in secondary towns, it will be necessary to invest in the ex-
tension of urban service networks, develop additional land for residential
housing, and provide schools, markets, community facilities, and essential
maintenance equipment for the community.  The local authorities will play
an important role in this investment program, both for managing the imple-
mentation of most components and shouldering the debt-burden of the invest-
ments, to be repaid from locally generated revenues.  Hence, an important
requirement for Kenya's urban investment program is to build-up the techni-
cal and financial capabilities of the! individual local authorities.   This
"bottom-up" approach to urban planning is compatible with the! existing
institutional structure in Kenya, but the system needs to be strengthened
in order to cope with the demands of an expanding number of urban growth
centers.



'4
1.10        Even with a strengthening of the role of local authorities, it
will be impossible to provide for urban development without involving the
private sector in a more constructive fashion.  Over 80% of the housing
stock (including unplanned housing development) is provided by the private
sector in Kenya.   Private sector housing grew at an annual rate of 10% be-
tween 1975-1979, while the public sector managed a growth rate of less than
2%, even on a much smaller initial base.  Moreover, the amount of public
land available for low-income housing projects is becoming increasingly
limited in urban areas in Kenya, with some communities having virtually ex-
hausted their stock of suitable public land.  Given the limited financial
resources and technical staff available to the local authorities, as well
as Kenya's historical emphasis on the private sector, it is clear that pri-
vate sector development must continue to take the leading role irn providing
shelter, with the public sector adopting a facilitating rather than a con-
trolling stance.  This will require the development of innovative methods
of achieving public/private cooperation, and must be done in a manner which
fully recognizes the profit-motivation and relevant time-frame for private
sector responses.
D. Existing Institutions Involved in Urban Development in Kenya
1.11      The most important agencies involved in urban developme!nt in Ken-
ya are the following:
a)  Local Authorities - Local authorities are divided into muni-
cipal councils (currenlly 20 in number) which provide the
widest range of urban services; town councils which provide
a somewhat more restricted range of services; an,d county
councils which are regional in focus and have functions
overlapping with the existing district administration.   Ur-
ban councils represent a transitional form of council for
small urban areas and fall under the jurisdiction of the
county council for their particular region.
b)  Ministry of Works and Housing, (MWH) - The M\H  has responsi-
bility for housing poLicy and coordination of low-income
housing projects.   Public funds for low-income housing pro-
jects are provided thrcough the National Housing Corporation
(NHC), which can implement housing projects on behalf of the
local authorities.
c)  Ministry of Local Governiment, (MLG) - The MiG  has oversight
responsibility for local authorities in Kenya and provides
financial review and technical support. Most local authority
investments except for low-income housing projects are finan-
ced through the Local Government Loans Authority (LGLA),
which  is  under  the  control  of  MLG.    Early  in  1982,
MLG was also assigned responsibility for urban development
policy, a mandate which is currently being defined.



5
d) Ministry of Water DeveLopment, (MWD) - The MWD is respon-
sible for the development of water resources throughout Ken-
ya and manages the water systems in a number of urban
areas.  In cases where thie water system is operated by the
local authority, MWD provides technical support t:o MLG in
reviewing proposed investments in water and sanitation.
e) Ministry of Lands, Settleiment, and Physical Planning (MLSP)
- The MLSP controls the allocation of public land and the
acquisition of land for public sector projects.    The Phy-
sical Planning Department in MLSP prepares physical. develop-
ment plans for urban areas.
Other agencies which assist in urban clevelopment programs include the Min-
istry of Transport and Communications, the Ministry of Basic Education, the
Ministry of HIealth (MOH), and parastataLs such as Kenya Industrial Estates
(KIE) which provides assistance to small-scale enterprises in urban areas.
1.12       Several recent events have demonstrated the need to clarify the
institutional arrangements for urban development in Kenya.  The recent re-
port of the Government-appointed Working Party on public expenditures,
while acknowledging the positive role of urban local authorities in the
development process, has recommended that the central Government should
assume greater control over the activities of the local authorities.3/
On the other hand, a ministerial-level mandate for urban development which
was formulated in 1980 in order to improve the coordination of urban de-
velopment activities, has since been shifted twice between ministries and
has yet to be translated into a consistent framework for urban development
planning.  In view of these conflicting initiatives, the recent Kenya ur-
ban sector memorandum prepared by the Bank focused specifically on the in-
stitutional and financial priorities for the urban sector.4/  This report
will be discussed with senior Government officials within the next few
months.   It is intended that these discussions should lead to an agreed
framework for institutional change in the urban sector, to be supported by
the Bank's ongoing sector and project dialogue in Kenva.  In the meantime,
the urban investment program cannot come to a halt as these discussions
take place.   The process of institutional change will take time, particu-
larly to build a technical and political concensus on the need and direc-
tions  for change.   It is important  in the interim period that institu-
tional arrangements  for urban development be maintained in a consistent
framework ana with a view to promoting the most important priorities in
the urban sector.
3/    "Report  and Recommendations  of  the  Working  Party  on Government
Expenditures,"' Government of Kenya, June, 1982, pp. 55-59.
4/    "Kenya:    Economic  Development  and Urbanization Policy,"  (yellow
cover), October 15, 1982.



6
1.13        One of the major conclusions of the urban sector memorandum is
that a strong system of urban local authorities is consistent with Kenya's
overall development  strategy for several  reasons.   First of all, local
authorities, because they are responsible for their own revenue base, have
an incentive to emphasize cost recovery in their choice of investment proj-
ects.   Secondly, local authorities can respond more effectively to local
priorities in the promotion of economic activity.   The rapid population
growth of secondary towns and the decentralization  of economic activity
into smaller urban areas will create requirements on the local authorities
to provide basic urban services in order to facilitate the growth of local
employment.   In addition, most local enterprises have their prim,ary point
of contact with government activities through local authorities, either by
the regulatory and licensing functions of local government or through the
need to obtain urban services to run their businesses. Efficiently-managed
local authorities are important to maintain the services required for an
expansion of urban employment and production on the scale which is neces-
sary.
1.14        Strong local authorities do not diminish the need for central
Government involvement in urban development.   Local authorities in Kenya
operate under a tightly-defined legal structure which limits their flexi-
bility and requires central input for approval and supervision of local
authority  activities.    Furthermore,  virtually  all  capital  development
funds for local authorities are provided through central Government minis-
tries, with a corresponding need to ensure that the use of the funds meets
national development  priorities.   The  report  of  the Working  Party  on
Government expenditures has emphasized the need for local authorities to
integrate their activities with national development planning, to improve
their budgeting and financial control procedures, introduce more accounta-
bility into their staffing, and play a more active role in the integration
of urban and rural development.  If Kenya is going to achieve these objec-
tives while maintaining a decentralized system of urban management, it
will require both technically strong ministries providing advice and en-
couragement to the local authorities and also clearly defined and consis-
tent policies on the rights and obligations of local authorities and the
financial resources needed to provide for urban services.
E. The Bank's Strategy in the Urban Sector in Kenya
1.15        The involvement of the Bans in the urban sector in Kenya has
emphasized:   a) the design of urban investment programs which are finan-
cially viable and affordable to the lower income groups; b) development of
the managerial and financial capacity of the local authorities to provide
for urban growth; and c) the establishment of an institutional structure at
the central and local levels to plan and implement urban investments on a
spatially extensive basis.  The Bank's approach was to begin with a single
site, implemented by Nairobi City Council, the largest and most experienced
local authority, with a clear intention to progressively expand to other
urban centers and broad policy areas.   The Second Urban Project included
urban investment programs in two additional cities besides Nairobi and
introduced wide ranging policy init:iatives in areas such as municipal



7
finance.   The proposed Secondary Towns Project is intended to consolidate
the  initiatives  which  have  already  begun,  both  by  extending  Bank
involvement  to  a  number  of  smaller  urban  centers  and  by  making
institutional and other changes designed to address weaknesses uncovered
during  the  implementation  of  the  earlier  projects.    By  taklng  this
approach, it is felt that the additional experience obtained during the
preparation and implementation of the Secondary Towns Project, as well as
the wider  sectoral discussions  to be pursued  through the urban  sector
memorandum, wiLll lay a firm basis for the introduction of programmatic-type
lending in future urban operations.
F. Experience of the First and Second Urban Projects
1.16        The Bank's first urban project at Dandora in Nairobi (Nairobi
Site and Service Project; LN 1105-KE/Cft 543-KE) was initiated in 1975 and
is now in the final stages of completion.   The Dandora project has suc-
ceeded in fulfilling almost all of its original objectives, and it is now
considered to be a model for this type of development in Africa.   Cost
recovery has t,een good throughout the project.  Cost overruns for the proj-
ect have been moderate, and time delays in implementation have been reason-
able for a first project.   Because of its successful record, the Dandora
project has helped to dispel many inil:ial preconceptions about site and
service projects, such as that they will degenerate into slums. The proj-
ect has been instrumental in achieving official Government recognition of
the objectives of low-income housing projects, a commitment which has been
confirmed in the last two National Devalopment Plans and in the priority
given to site and service projects in the allocation of urban investment
resources.
1.17       Based on the initial results of the Dandora project, the Second
Urban Project (LN 1550-KE/CR 791-KE) undertook to finance site and service
developments and urban upgrading in Nairobi, Mombasa, and Kisumu. Experi-
ence with this project has demonstrated a number of lessons which have
been incorporated into the Secondary Towns Project. For example, the per-
iod of project implementation (1978 - present) has been a time of increas-
ing constraint in local authority finances, as costs have risen much more
quickly than revenues.  Many local authorities have faced difficulties in
maintaining services and repaying their debt obligations. Because of this,
the appraisal of the Secondary Towns Project included a detailed analysis
of the financial position and accounting procedures of each local authori-
ty, combined with a plan to strengthen their financial operations.   The
Bank stood ready to delete from the project any local authority which could
not produce a viable financial plan for the period of project implementa-
tion.
1.18      The Second Urban Project has also illustrated institutional con-
straints on the implementation of low-income shelter projects. The estab-
lishment of separate project departments within each of the municipali-
ties, while desirable from the standpoint of long-term institutional deve-
lopment, created internal conflicts and staffing problems which took longer
than expected to be resolved.  Where the project sites required the acqui-



a
sition or surrender of privately-held land, the administrative procedures
necessary to obtain the land have proven to be time-consuming and diffi-
cult.   Finally,  the Second Urban Project has demonstrated the need for
strong project coordination and technical assistance by the central Govern-
ment.   A natural outcome of the emphasis on local priorities has been a
diversity of types of project interventions and different components in the
individual local authorities.   Delays in obtaining approvals from central
Government agencies and problems with project cash flow and contract admin-
istration have clearly shown the need for central project monitoring.  Each
of these problems has been consideired in the selection of sites and/or
design of impLementation arrangements for the Secondary Towns Project.
1.19       In summary, the first two projects have yielded. valuable lessons
for the evolving institutional framework of urban development projects.
At the same time, the project concepts have been shown to be technically
sound, financially viable, and yielding substantial social benefits.  This
experience provides a firm foundation to continue Bank support for Kenya's
urban development activities.
II.  THE PROJECT
A.  Project Objectives
2.01        The proposed project is in line with Government priorities and
Bank strategy. Its objectives are to:
(a) assist in the development of an integrated urban network
which will support economic growth in rural areas and im-
prove the population holding capacity and urban employment
base of secondary towns;
(b)  improve  the financial  and project management capabilities
of the local authorities included in the project;
(c) encourage a greater role for the private sector in low-
income shelter delivery; and
(d) assist in the development of an institutional structure at
the central Government level which can support a decentral-
ized approach to urban development based on the active par-
ticipation of the local authorities.
B. Approach to Prolect Preparation
2.02       The Secondary Towns Project is part of a program of support for
Kenya's secondary and smaller towns which has been developed in coopera-



9
tion with the U.S. Agency for Internat:ional Development (USAID).5/   For
administrative convenience, each donor agency is preparing urban develop-
ment programs for different towns.   However, the donors have agreed with
the client ministries to coordinate Lnitiatives in project appraisal,
management reporting, and training programs to reduce duplication of acti-
vities.  An agreement has been reached with the Government to use a pooled
interest rate for all towns irrespective of the source of donor financing
(para. 2.25).
2.03        In the first stage of preparing the Secondary Towns Prc,ject, a
list of eleven towns was reviewed to del-ermine a) the economic, financial,
and administrative capacity of each town to serve as a regional base for
economic development, b) the availability of major components of urban ser-
vice infrastructure, and c) a preliminary identification of town-wide
priorities  for urban investment.   Subsequently,  the Government  selected
five towns for the purposes of the Bank project, with priority being given
to the larger towns with a stronger local administrative capacity. Govern-
ment officials participated in all phases of project preparation, including
the development of investment proposals in two towns in cooperation with
the local authorities, and the appraisal of all towns in conjunction with
the Bank appraisal team.  This process was an important step in developing
local skills for preparing and screening town-wide investment programs on
an on-going basis.
2.04        The five towns included in t:he Bank's Secondary Towns Project,
Nakuru, Eldoret, Thika, Kitale, and Nyaeri, represent the most dynamic of
the secondary towns in Kenya, and each town plays a significant role in
the economic linkages to its surrounding region.   (Annex 1 provides more
detail on the various towns and their economic prospects.)  Nakuru, Eldo-
ret, Thika, and Kitale are four of the seven major-ranked municipalities
in Kenya (the others being Nairobi, Mombasa, and Kisumu), which have
responsibility for providing a full rELnge of urban services.6!  The five
towns have a combined population of approximately 250,000, or 11% of
Kenya's urban population (1979 census figures).7/   Taken with the three
larger municipalities included in the First and Second Urban Projects, the
Bank will be working with local authorities servicing 68% of Kenya's urban
population, or 1.6 million urban dwellers out of 2.3 million nation-wide.
5/ The U.K. Overseas Development Agency funded the preparation of invest-
ment proposals for six towns but has since dropped out of the program.
6/ Nyeri Municipal Council is ranked as a lower category municipality and
does not have responsibiity for primary education and health services,
which are administered by the central Government.
7/  The urban population is defined as the inhabitants of urban centers
with a population of 2,000 or more.   In 1979, there were 90 such urban
centers in Kenya.



10
2.05        In choosing an investment program for these towns, the Govern-
ment and the Bank agreed that the prinary emphasis wil]L be servicing of
urban land and the provision of she[Lter to the low-income population. This
continues the direction of earlier 'Bank-financed projects, and it addresses
some of the major priorities identified by each of the towns. At -the same
time, the appraisal included a review of each town's investment require-
ments to ensure that development occurred in a balanced fashion.  All of
the towns are in the process of planning or implementing expansions in
their urban services, with the Federal Republic of Germany and the African
Development  Bank being important  donors  in this area.  8/   The  Bank's
intervention in the shelter sector will ensure that the benefits of the
other investments are fully realizecd and moreover that they are directed to
the low income population where the needs are the greatest.
2.06       The Secondary Towns Project represents the completion of a cycle
of Bank projects which have prepared urban investment programs on a town-
by-town basis. With the development of experienced local authority person-
nel as well as the increased involviement: of the central ministries in pro-
ject appraisal and supervision, it is envisioned that. the next Bank-
financed urban project in Kenya will move  toward program lending.   The
establishment of this institutional capability will be a major element in
the Bank's continuing dialogue, both. during the upcoming discussions of the
urban sector memorandum as well as throughout the course of projecl: super-
vision.
C.  LL2Lct Components
2.07      The project will include the following four components:
Percent
Base Costs
(a) Servicing of urban land for residential and
small enterprise development, using a vari-
ety of modes of participation between the
public and private sectors;                                  41%
(b) Construction loans for residential and
small enterprise development;                                36%
(c) Community facilities such as markets, work-
shops, and dispensaries; and                                   8%
(d) Financial, project management, and maintenance
support and urban policy studies.                            15%
TOTAL         100%
8/   The  Bank  is also  involved  in  employment  promotiorr activities  in
several of the towns through its project with Kenya Industrial Estates
(CR 750-KE).



11
The project mix in each town depends on the needs and investment priori-
ties identified by the local authorities in cooperation with the project
preparation team.  Table 2.1 summarizes the physical project components in
each of the towns; the remainder of this section describes the range of
project interventions in more detail.
Servicing of Urban Land
2.08        The project will service enough land in three of the five towns
to meet the demand for new land for housing development during the project
period.  Moreover, by introducing different types of project interventions
adapted to the current state of the urban land market in Kenya, this proj-
ect will widen the scope for involving the private sector in providing for
urban development in a planned and satisfactory manner. This will help the
towns set a pattern of phased development which should forestall the spread
of unplanned housing areas in the future.  The types of project components
which provide serviced urban land can be grouped into several clas-
sifications,  as shown in Table 2.1.   Two project types are based on the
site and service model for development of publicly-owned land, and they
differ only in the standard of infrastructure which will be provided.  Two
additional types of project componerts provide for the servicing of
privately-owned land in different modes of cooperation with the private
sector.    Finally,  upgrading  of  existing  unplanned  settlements  will be
included where land acquisition is not necessary.
2.09       Site and Service Development.   The project will provide shelter
for approximately 4500 households (assuming two households per plot) in
site and service developments in three cities.  The Racetrack site in Na-
kuru (743 plots, of which 30 plots will he reserved for small workshops and
178 plots for market sale) and the Kiawqara/Shauri Yako site in Nyeri (257
plots, of which 40 plots would be reserved for workshops) will be provided
with full service infrastructure, including water-borne sewerage, a,nd are
expected to develop rapidly to a high density.  The existing core housing
at  Pangani  in  Nakuru  (300  plots)  will  be  provided  with  sewerage
reticulation to permit  developnent  to a higher  density.   Finally,  the
Kipkaren site (512 plots) and Old Uganda Road area (570 plots, with part of
the land already occupied) in Eldoret and the Kingongo site in Nyeri (59
plots) will be provided with partial service infrastructure, consisting of
earth roads, water kiosks, and surface water drainage.9/ It is expected
that the municipalities will eventually upgrade these sites to full service
provision, once population densities warrant the additional investment.
Allocation of site and service plots would follow the procedures used in
the first two urban projects, which provide for full public advertisement
and random selection of beneficiaries.
9/     The  L'NDEP-financed  Technical  Advisory  Group  (TAG),  which  is
administered by the Bank, has initiated a demonstration project in
low-cost sanitation in cooperation with MWF) and MON.  The results of this
study will be used in planning these project sites.



KENYA SEERY TONS PROJEMT
TABLE 2.1 Physical Project Components, 73y Towns
A. 5ERVICIND OF URBAN LAND                                   B. oISIBIIC-                            C. (IH4UNITY FACILITIES
_____   _____                               _____                        TI0NTANS _la
Site ard Ser-  Site and Ser- Servicirg of  Upgradirg of  Private Sec-  Off-site and_   Markets                         Lorry Parks    Workshops        Schools    Dispenmaries
vice (full itr- vice (partial Private Larid  Existirg Set- tor Joirnt     otler infra-                                                                             and Health
fras tructure)  infrastruc-                  tleneots      Venture        structure                                                                                Centers
ture
Ex3tersion of
acs titi,                    One local
ELDRET                     1082 plots a/ 2,555 plotsb/f   300 plots    831 plots    water mains,   512 loarsc/  open air                                        Two schools   One health
ard airface                  market                                                      center
,water drain-
age.
KITALE                                                     500 plots| !
Extension of
water/sewer
mairs, access
roads,  sr-                  Two open air   One lorry    50 open air                     Fclnr disperr-
NAKIIRU      743 plotse/                     764 plots     91 plots                    face water      865 loarsf/  markets, one   park           garage work-                   saries g/
drainage; on-                wholesale                     shops for
site sewerage                market                        rental
revicuiation
for Pargani.
f                              E |   i   l   l   {   }Fxpamnsion of
j  27 plots"    59 plots                   136 plots                                   4    loans    one retail
market
Extension to                 Extension of                    15 work-
THIKA                                       312 plotsj| 700 plotsk/                    access roads   1163 loansl/  central nar-   One lorry       shops for
and water and                ket, one        park           renital
sewer mirs.|                 local market
a/ Two sites  (Kipkaren and Old UJganda Road), bothi of approximately 25 ha.
b/ Two sites (Langas and Hliruma/Mwiyenderi), approximately 250 ha. and 54 ha. respectively.
c/ Loans of KSh 12,000 for construction of two-roomed houses at Kipkaren.
d/ 25 ha. to he provided witl, parLial infrastruicture, Area I of Tuwanii Farm.
e/ 30 plots for workshops, 178 plots for market sale, 535 plots for allocation to low-income households at Racetrack site.
f/ 300 loans of KSh 6,000 each  to add one room  to existing  hotuses in Pangani, 535 loans of KSh 22,000 cach  for two-room  houses with kitchern and wet cure at Racetrack,
30 loarns of KSh 17,000 each for workshop construction at Racetrack.
Two ,ew                  aispeosarioa  Silo upgiadiopg oi tw. exi,tii ri  CpolaSi
h/ Kiawara/Shauri Yako site (257 plots, of which 40 will he for workshops), a steep hillside near the center of town with extensive existing  settlements.
i/ 217 loanis of KeSh 22,000 in Kiawara/Shauri Yako, 40 loans of KSh 17,000 for workshop construction in same area,
59 loans of KSh 12,000 in Kingoiigo, and 136 loanis of KSh 6,000 for construction  of wet cores in MaJengo.
J/ Land owned by Thika Municipal Council Employees' Cooperative Society.
/ Minimum improvements consisting  of water kiosks and plot demarcation in Kiandutu.
T/ 851 loans of KSh 22,000 in previously developed  site and service areas, and 312 loans of KSh 22,000 for TMCECS site.



13
2.10       Servicing of Unoccupied Private Land.  Much of the urban fringe
land in Kenya is owned by land-holding cooperative societies which origi-
nally purchased the land for agricultu,ral or speculative purposes.   Once
this land is informally divided among the cooperative members and occupied,
the land tit:Le situation quickly becomes confused with the result that
future formal subdivision of the land is very difficult. This is a problem
which eventually must be faced by Kenya, but the current legal and admainis-
trative structure is not adequate to cope efficiently with private land
parcels that are already occupied.  In addition, housing finance and other
lending institutions  are not well  geared  to provide  funds  for private
developers to install infrastructure services, particularly at the standard
of servicing affordable for lower-income residents.   Hence,  this project
attempts to avoid the problem by involving the local authorities in servi-
cing large tracts of mainly unoccupied private land as a basis for future
urban growth.  The costs of the infrastructure will be recovered from the
landowners through a combination of roiad frontage charges, public utility
fees, and higher property taxes collecited on developed land.  No develop-
ment controls will be placed on the land, other than the normal by-laws
applicable in such areas.  However, because of the low level of servicing
that will be provided, it is expected that the sites will develop rapidly
with low-cost rental housing, as is the pattern in most urban areas in Ken-
ya.
2.11      Approximately 13,000 households will be provided shelter on ser-
viced private land in Eldoret and Nakuru.  The sites will be laid-out with
large plots which are expected to develop at an average density of four to
six households per plot. These sites include Langas Farm (2,000 plots) and
Huruma/Mwiyenderi (555 plots) in Eldoret iand Mwariki Farm (764 plots) in
Nakuru.   Partial service infrastructure will be provided,  consisting of
earth roads, water kiosks, site demarcation, and surface water drainage.
The sites either have a workable subdlivision plan which has been agreed
with the owners and the local authority, or are in the process of reaching
agreement on a subdivision plan.   However,  experience under the Second
Urban Project indicates that agreement on some of the sites may eventually
break down.   This will require the project supervision team to maintain
firm deadlines for obtaining the necessary land agreements, after which the
funds would either be cancelled or reallocated to other feasible sites
(para. 5.07).   The project  also includes  a component  involving  direct
agreement  with  a land-holding  cooperaltive,  the Thika Municipal  Council
Employees' Cooperative Society (TMCECS), to develop a site of 312 plots
serving approximately 500 households (para. 3.06).   Full  infrastructure
service including water-borne sewerage would be provided on the site, and
Thika Municipal Council (TMC) would recover the costs in the same manner as
a site and service development.
2.12      Private Sector Joint Venture Component.  Although the components
described in the previous paragraph represent a reasonable and pragnatic
approach to providing basic needs services on a large-scale, the problems
of obtaining agreements on land and arranging access to financing for
infrastructure can also apply to housing for middle income households.,  In
this case, it should be possible for the private sector to play a more



14
direct role in project implementation and provide for higher leverage of
public sector funding in order to inicrease replicability.   To demonstrate
these concepts, the project will include a pilot component for a joint
venture agreement between Eldoret Municipal Council (EMC) and a private
developer to service  land  and  construct  831 medium-cost  houses.   This
component, if it is reasonably successful, could serve as a model for
similar ventures, which will help to relieve the backlog of demand for land
and shelter for middle income groups, and in so do:Lng, reduce the
competition for shelter intended for the poor.  The land is already owned
by the developer, who has constructed some 90 medium cost houses on the
site.    The  private  developer  will  cede  to EMC  the  land  required  for
way-leaves and the eventual construction of community facilities. EMC will
finance the provision of infrastructure on a three-phased basis and will
receive a lien on the land in each phase.  The private developer will be
responsible for constructing the houses using commercial financing, and the
developer will repay EMC for the cost: of the infrastructure as the housing
is sold (para. 2.23). Thus, the developer ultimately bears all of the cost
and most of the risk for the project, in return for a guarantee of
scheduled infrastructure provision by EMC (para. 5.09).
2.13        Upgrading of Existing Settlements.   Finally, the project will
upgrade urban services for approximately 7,500 households living in exis-
ting slum settlements in the five towns. These sites include Kamukunji in
Eldoret (earth toads and surface water drainage for 300 plots), Area 1 of
Tuwani Farm in Kitale (water kiosks, earth roads, and plot demarcation for
500 plots), Bondeni in Nakuru (wet cores, roads, and drainage for 91
plots), Majengo in Nyeri (water supply, sewerage, plot demarcation, and
drainage for 136 plots, and Kiandutu in Thika (plot demarcation and water
kiosks for 700 plots).
Construction Loans for Residential and Small Enterprise Development.
2.14         Past experience with site and service projects in Kenya has
demonstrated that construction finance has an important role to play in
allowing low-income households to complete their plot development.  Hence,
loans will be provided though the project for housing construction in site
and service areas.  In addition, loans will be provided to build housing
serving an additional 2,000 househo:Lds  through extensions  to previously
constructed core housing at Pangani in Nakuru (300 loans) and 851 for new
housing construction on 851 unoccupied site and service plots in Thika, all
of which were developed under previous (non-Bank financed) projects.   A
small loan component will be included for the construction of wet cores at
Majengo in Nyeri.   Finally,  a portion of the building loans will be set
aside for the construction of workshops in Nakuru and Nyeri.   No building
loans will be provided for privately owned land, because of the problem of
obtaining adequate title security to safeguard the loan.
2.15      The loan amount will be adequate to cover the cost of a two--room
house with kitchen and wet core  where water-borne sewerage is available,
based on construction by a small independent contractor.  For plots served
by water kiosks, construction loans will be for two rooms only.  Costs are



15
based on current experience under the ongoing projects.10/ Based on the
Dandora project in Nairobi, it is expected that individual plot owners will
mobilize additional savings from private sources to construct rooms for
rental purposes, which will increase lthe supply of shelter for the low-
income population and assist the plot-owners in covering the plot charges
and loan repayments.
Community Facilities
2.16        The project includes a limvited amount of funds for community
facilities in each of the towns, such as markets, workshops, lorry parks,
schools, and health facilities.  These types of components have generally
been implemented with little trouble in previous projects, and they were
given high priority by the local authorities in rounding out their invest-
ment programs. The markets, workshops, and lorry parks will pay for them-
selves through user fees. The number of schools and health centers/dispen-
saries has been reduced from previous projects, and they are included in
Nakuru and Eldoret only on the guarantee that the local authorities will be
able to cover the recurrent expenditures associated with their operation
(para. 4.18). The workshops in Nakuru will provide space for mechanics who
currently work in unserviced locations, and the workshops in Thika will be
constructed in connection with the central market.
Financial, Project Management, and Mainitenance Support, and Urban Policy
Studies
2.17        This  technical assistance component covers four types of sup-
port:
-    Financial Management.   Introduction of modern EDP financial
equipment, software development, and training of local
authority staff in Nakuru, Eldoret, Thika, and Kisumu (the
latter town is part of the Second Urban Project and has
similar accounting needs as the other towns); preparation
and auditing of accounts and improvement of manual accoun-
ting systems in Nyeri and Kitale; preparation and auditing
of accounts and introduction of EDP equipment for LGLA; and
preparation of a financial manual for NHC (paras. 4.10 and
4.13).
-    Project Management.  Operating expenses of Program Manage-
ment Unit; consultancy funds for development of project
monitoring system; training in community development met-
hods; salaries of incremental project staff and specialized
project equipment for the local authorities (paras. 3.04,
3.09, 3.13, 3.14).
10/  Based on estimated construction costs of KSh 640/m2 and unit prices
for sanitary fittings, loan amounts are estimated in January, 1983 prices
at KSh 22,000 for a two room house with kitchen and wet core, KSh 17,000
for a 20m2 workshop with wet core, KSh 12,000 for a two room house with no
wet core or kitchen, and KSh 6,000 for an isolated wet core.



16
Maintenance Equipment.  For three local authorities directly
involved in project implementation (para. 3.07).
Urban Policy Studies.  Continuation or completion of policy
initiatives begun under earlier projects, covering (1) low-
income housing policy, (2) municipal finance and investment
planning, and (3) urban transportation.   (See Annex 4 for
description of individual studies.)
D. Project Costs
2.18      The estimated total cost of the project is KSh 471.0 million (US$
37.4 million), of which 40% or US$ 15.0 million is estimated to be foreign
exchange.  (See Project Cost Summary, Table 2.2.)   Taxes are estimated to
be KSh 19 million (US$ 1.5 million), or approximately 4% of total costs.
No land costs are included, since all land is either public land or private
land which will  be serviced without being purchased by the Government.
Base  costs  are  in  January  1983  prices.    Preliminary  engineering  is
available for project sites covering 91% of the cost of servicing urban
land.   The remaining 9% of site cost (3% of total project cost) is for
sites which will be implemented in the later years of the project and are
presently  being  investigated.    Physical  contingencies  total  KSh  16.5
million (US$ 1.3 million) or 5% of base cosl:s; they are based on 10% of the
cost  of  servicing  urban  land  and  other  infrastructure.    No  physical
contingencies 'are provided for construction loans, since designs are based
on similar units now being constructed.  Overall price contingencies total
KSh 103.5 million (US$ 8.2 million) or 29% of base costs. These are based
on local cost price contingencies of 12% for 1983, 11% for 1984, and 10%
for subsequent years; price increases on the foreign component have been
calculated on the basis of 8.0% for 1983, 7.5% for 1984, 7.0% for 1985, and
6.0% thereafter.   As local price contingencies are greater than expected
international inflation, devaluation of the Kenya shilling could provide a
savings in the required loan/credit amount, which will be canceled at the
end of the project.
E.  Financing Plan
2.19      The Bank loan/IDA credit will finance 80% of total project costs
net of taxes (77% of gross project costs) for a loan/credit amount of US$
29 million covering 100% of foreign costs and 63% of local costs.   The
financing plan is summarized in Table 2.3.  A Project Preparation FaciLity
of US$ 1 million was approved in late 1982 to assist in the completion of
final designs and other project activities.   The PPF will be refinanced
when the loan/credit becomes effective.



17
INYA
SE3i lu PR3
Tabe 2.2: tPrect GCst   ry
a                 \ _                      _$              P_rt              P_em
11Ca  Fo2i                   'Ibtl Al Foreip    Total         FeiM        a         Totalg ECeost
A. Sev1cirgk U1tn1xd                 85,785    57,190   142,975       6,80B    4,538    11,346               40                40.7
B. Cbmtnrtim lIrs                    75,553    50,36    125,922       5,99      3,998     9,99              40                 35.8
C. Cmunity Facilities                17,653    11,768     29,421      1,401      934      2,35               40                 8.4
D. FIrai   and Prqject
MxkVnfft Asslstane               26,544    26,544      53,CFf     2,107    2,107       4,214             50                15.1
L.sL BIS ar                    2)5,535    145,871    351,406    16,312    11,577    27,889              41.5             1OJ.
PhsLca1 Corti_ries                10,594     5,871     16,465       X0        466      1,T1              35.68              4.7
Price Cotingreie                 65,990    37,492   1I(,482       5,237    2,976       8,213             36.23             29.4
TAL EJEKr (O6IS                 282,119    189,234   471,353     22,389    15,019     37,403             40.15            134.1
Frxt End Fee                                   214        214      -           17        17
LFIRENIRED                      282,119    189,448   471,567    22,389    15,036    37,425



18
Table 2.3: Project Financing Plan
KSh Million    US$ Million   Percent
IBRD/IDA                                     365             29.0          77
Government                                    26              2.1           6
Developer                                     80              6.3          17
TOTAL BASELINE COST                          471             37.4         100
Front End Fee                                                  .02
Total Financing Required                                     37.42
2.20       Out of the total cost of the project estimated at US$ 37.4 mil-
lion, US$ 6.3 million (17% of total project costs) for the construction of
middle income housing in Eldoret will be obtained from commercial sources
by Rural Housing Estates Ltd. (RHE), a private developer.   RHE has already
constructed some 90 houses on the site using commercial financing, and no
difficulty is anticipated in continuing this financing.  The remaining 6%
of total financing will be provided by the local authorities and/or the
central Government, if local funds are insufficient.  The contribution of
the local authorities will be established on a case-by-case basis by the
Government during the negotiation of the subsidiary loan agreements, based
on individual financial circumstances.
2.21        Because the contribution of the central Government is a small
proportion of total project costs, any cost overruns will have a signifi-
cant effect on the amount of Government counterpart funds needed to meet
these overruns.  To avoid this possib:Llity, the project will be monitored
carefully with respect to cost overruns.   Should these arise in the early
years of project implementation, a readjustment of the investment program
will be made, which could include the cancellation of some of the sites
scheduled for the later years of the project.
2.22       Flow of Funds.  Following established practice, the Bank funds
for on-site infrastructure and constnrction loans will be on-lent to the
local authorities through NHC. Funds for off-site infrastructure, communi-
ty facilities, and technical assistance will be on-lent to the local
authorities through the LGLA._1/  Annex 2, Table 3 depicts the flow of
11/ The distinction between on-site and off-site infrastructure becomes
blurred in components such as the servicing of privately-owned land.  Any
ambiguities will be resolved by the Government on a case-by-case basis.



19
funds for the project.  Although outwardly complex, this system has opera-
ted satisfactorily during the first two projects.
2.23       Terms of Loans.  It is proposed that the project funds will be
on-lent to the local authorities on the following terms:
-    For all local authority project components except the Eldo-
ret private sector joint. venture, the proceeds of the Bank
loan/credit will be on-lent by the Ministry of Finance to
the financial intermediaries, NHC and LGLA, at 11% for a
period of 27 years, including a four-year grace period
during which interest payments will be capitalized. NHC and
LGLA will on-lend the funds to the local authorities at
11.25% with a similar grace p-eriod.l2/  The local authori-
ties will on-lend to the final beneficiaries (in the case of
construction loans and infrastructure costs recovered by
plot charges) at 12% for a period of 25 years, including a
two-year grace period during which interest payments will be
capitalized.13/   For workshop sites in the project areas,
the loans will be recovered from final beneficiaries over a
period of ten years, including a one-year grace period
during which interest  payments will  be capitalized.   The
grace periods are calculated on the basis of current
experience to allow the local authorities adequate time to
construct the infrastructure and the final beneficiaries
adequate time to complete the housing construction before
cost recovery begins and the loans have to be repaid.
-    For the Eldoret private sector joint venture component, the
Ministry of Finance will lend 'the funds to NHC at 11% for a
period of seven years, inclucding a two-year grace period
during which interest  payments will be capitalized.   NHC
will on-lend the funds to EMC at 11.25% with a similar grace
period.   EMC will recover the cost of the infrastructure
from the private developer at the  commercial bank rate or
at 12%, whichever is higher, over a period of five years.
12/ This distribution of the on-lending spread is different from current
practice in Kenya, where NHC takes a spread of 0.5% and the local
authorities take 0.5%.   This change in allocation in favor of the local
authorities is based on the recommendations of a recent study of NHC's
operations ("Study of the Operations of- the National Housing Corporation,"
Coopers and Lybrand Associates, January, 1981).
13/   The Second Urban Project provides for a recovery period of thirty
years, including eighteen months grace as to principal.   The loan terms
proposed here will be more consistent with those offered by other donors.



20
The Government will bear the foreign exchange risk for the loan/credit and
the interest risk on the loan due to the Bank's variable lending rate.
2.24       The interest rate charged to the final beneficiaLries is expected
to be nominally positive in real tierms in the medium and long term and
will provide an adequate spread to the on-lending agencies and the local
authorities to cover the costs of loan administration.  Following the prac-
tice of the Second Urban Project, t:he local authorities will recover the
costs for normal maintenance of infrastructure through property taxes and
other charges and will maintain a reserve fund against the risk of default
by levying a surcharge on the final benefic:iaries of 5% of the aggregate
principal and interest due.  On this basis, the effective interest rate is
comparable to commercial housing finance rates, currently set at 14%.  This
is in accordance with an agreement reached through an exchange of letters
between the donors and the Ministry of Finance,  that the secondary towns
program should establish a common set of on-lending and end interest rates
irrespective of the source of donor financing, which would reflect the cur-
rent interest rates prevailing for similar investments in Kenya.   Because
the interest rate structure in Kenya is subject to change, it was agreed at
negotiations that the Government will review the interest rates for the
project from time to time and introduce such modifications, which are mutu-
ally agreed by the Government and the Bank, as shall be deemed necessary
(para. 6.02).
2.25        Project Cash Flows.  The cash flow for the project is shown in
Annex 2, Table 4.  By 1989, when all project components have been implemen-
ted, the cumulative net inflows for the project will be US$ 3.6 million.
The cumulative surplus by the year 1993 will be US$ 4.3 mi]Llion.  The bulk
of the surplus funds relate to the private sector joint venture which has a
much shorter repayment period than other components (para. 2.22).   This
surplus will allow for replicability of the project on future sites.
III. PROJECT ORGANIZATION, M1ANAGEMENT, AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Overview of Institutional Arrangements
3.01        The local authorities will have the primary responsibility for
implementing  the  physical  components  of  the project.   In the  case  of
Nakuru, Eldoret, and Thika, the local authority will form a project team
consisting of staff seconded from different departments which will imple-
ment the project. One member of the team will serve as project coordinator
to direct the team and report to the central ministries and the Bank.  In
the cases of Nyeri and Kitale, there are insufficient technical staff to
manage the project.  NHC will therefore implement the project on behalf of
these two local authorities.
3.02      At the central Government level, two ministries, MWH and MLG, are
involved in channeling project funds to the local authorities.   The M1H



21
will form a Program Management Unit (PMU) within the Department of Housing
(DOH) to provide overall project coordination for both the Secondary Towns
Project and the ongoing Second Urban Project, thereby resolving a major
weakness in earlier projects where there was no clearly designated institu-
tional focus for project coordination at the central Government level. The
MLG will provide assistance to the local authorities for the review of
off-site infrastructure and community facilities, as well as maintaining
executive responsibility over the local authorities in the review of annual
budget submissions.  Because of the close involvement of two ministries in
the project, an explicit framework for inter-ministerial coordination will
be established, consisting of a Technical Steering Committee to resolve
problems at a technical level, and an Inter-Ministerial Review Committee
involving the Permanent Secretaries of both MWH and MLG to maintain an
oversight on project implementation. This framework has been confirmed by
both ministries and is consistent with the recommendations of the urban
sector memorandum on inter-ministerial coordination.
B. Organization of the Local Authorities
3.03      The administrative structure of each of the local authorities in-
volved in the project is similar.  The chief administrative officer of the
local authority is the Town Clerk, and the various functions are carried
out through departments such as the MLunicipal Engineer's Department, the
Municipal Treasurer's Department, and the Department of Housing and Social
Services. 14/ The actions of the various Departments are subject to review
by the elected councillors through a series of standing committees which
meet on a regular basis.
3.04       Each local authority was responsible for drawing-up an implemen-
tation plan for the project which was discussed with the appraisal team and
modified as appropriate.  Emphasis was placed on the ability of the local
authority to manage the project within its existing or planned staff coin-
plement.   In no case will permanent staff be added by the project that
will not be needed after the conclusion of the project.  The local author-
ities were also required to provide a share of the recurrent costs of pro-
ject management as a contribution from their general revenues to be recov-
ered from plot charges.  However, it was recognized that the inelastic re-
venue sources available to the local authorities could constrain project
implementation unless some support was provided. Hence, salary support for
a limited (generally three year) period will be provided for key personnel
in the local authorities who will be involved full time in project imple-
mentation.  In addition, specialized piieces of equipment and, in some in-
stances, rental office facilities will be provided through the project to
assist in implementation.   (Details of project management support to the
local authorities are given in Annex 3.).
14/     Nyeri Municipal Council does not have a separate Department of
Housing and Social Services, these functions being performed by a division
of the Town Clerk's Department.



22
3.05        Based on these criteria, Eldoret, Nakuru, and Thika were judged
to be capable of managing the implementation of the project.  The project
team approach adopted by these councils recognizes the value of a multi-
disciplinary approach to the implementation of low-income housing projects,
particularly the key role of community development activities in achieving
acceptance of the project and faciliLtating good cost recovery.  The Tech-
nical Department of NHC will managie the implementation of the Nyeri and
Kitale components.  Staff from NyeriL Municipal Council will work with the
NHC team on community development arid administration of building materials
loans.
3.06       Two project components require slight modificatiLons of these im-
plementation arrangements. In the case of the private sector joint venture
project in Eldoret, EMC will implement the construction of infrastructure
and community facilties. The private developer will have full responsibi-
lity for the construction of houses on the site, and coordination between
the developer and EMC will be maintained by a special Development Commit-
tee, which will include representatives of MWH and MLG.  For the TMCECS
cooperative land development project in ThiLka, TMC will implement the
project on the basis of plans being prepared by TMCECS. Building materials
loans will be administered in the same way as site and service areas, and
the loans will be secured by a lien on individual plots.
3.07       Maintenance Equipment.  In each town, an assessment of the local
maintenance requirements was carried out, including a review of recurrent
revenues available for maintenance expenditures. A limited amount of main-
tenance equipment will be provided through the project, in line with the
priorities of the local authorities in this area.  (See Annex 3 for a list
of equipment).
C. Central Government Agencies
3.08          Experience with  the Second Urban Project has clearly demon-
strated the need to provide assistance and guidance from the central minis-
tries to the local authorities in managing project implementation.  Prob-
lems in obtaining approvals from  central Government agencies and problems
of finance and budgeting between the central and local levels have delayed
the implementation of the Second Urban Project. Moreover, even when purely
local disputes have affected project implementation, the lack of any effec-
tive management information  system  has allowed these  problems  to  become
major crises before assistance could be provided from the central level.
3.09       Program Management Unit.  The PMU will provide a focal point for
the provision of technical support to the local authorities and for the in-
troduction of an improved management information system.  It will also al-
low the existing personnel in the DOH to develop experience with procedures
for coordinating urban development programs, with a goal toward the long-
term strengthening of this Department.  The PMU will be structured as an
operating division of the DOH. After the PMU hias been operating for a suf-
ficient period to gain experience with its operations, the divisional
structure of the DOH will be reviewed to decide on a long-term organi-



23
zational form. The PMU will have responsibility for overseeing the imple-
mentation of both the Secondary Towns Project and the ongoing Second Urban
Project, and will assist in the monitoring of the USAID secondary towns
program. The PMU will be headed by a P'rogram Coordinator who will report
directly to the Chief Housing Officer. The PMU will be staffed with qual-
ified professionals locally recruited on a fixed-term contract basis, al-
though individuals in existing civil service posts with adequate qualifica-
tions will be given priority if they are available.   Project funding will
be provided to establish the PMU for an initial five-year period; Annex 2,
Table 2 (f) provides the details of the estimated costs. After the initial
five-year period, it is expected that the staff positions of the PMU will
become permanent civil service posts.  The MWH will provide the recurrent
costs of the PMU (office space, clerical and support staff such as drivers
and messengers) from its own recurrent budget.
3.10      The senior staff of the PMU will consist of the  Program Coordi-
nator, two engineers, and a financial analyst.   The Program Coordinator
will be responsible for managing the PMU, facilitating the processing of
approvals at the central Government level, particularly involving land
issues, and overseeing the preparation of progress reports for the
ministries and the Bank.   The engineers will review engineering designs,
monitor procurement procedures, and provide technical assistance to the
local authorities in contract administration.   The financial analyst will
monitor disbursement applications, prepare forward budget estimates and
cash-flow projections for the ministries, review project accounting and
auditing procedures, and assist the local authorities in establishing cost
recovery procedures. The MWR is preparing detailed terms of reference and
job descriptions  for the PMU.   The  establishment  of the PMU and  the
appointment of a suitably qualified Program Coordinator to head the PMU
will be a special condition of effectiveness for the loan/credit (para.
6.01).
3.11         Department of Housing.   The DOB will be responsible for the
housing policy studies which will be funded tinder the project, including
the implementation of the Kenya low-cost housing by-laws study (which was
funded under the Second Urban Project) and the preparation of a revised
housing policy paper to update the previous policy paper issued in 1966.
(See Annex 4 for a description of the studies).   The Central Bureau of
Statistics (CBS) in the Ministry of Economic PLanning and Development wil'L
be provided with technical assistance for data analysis of an urban housing
survey, which is being carried out with the support of DOH.  Finally, the
DOH will be responsible for preparing a project completion report at the
end of the project.
3.12       Ministry of Local Government.  The Development Division of MLG
maintains a staff of qualified engineers and architects to assist local
authorities in the preparation of investment proposals and provide advice
on implementation problems. Although the staffing of this unit is not ade--
quate for it to perform the role of project management designated to the
PMU, the technical staff will be available to assist the PMU on specific
project components, particularly markets, comaunity facilities, and off-



24
site infrastructure. The Developmenl: Division will also be responsible for
implementing the urban transport studies and the special studies of local
authority recurrent financing and accounting problems (Annex 4).
3.13      Project-Related Training.  Training to be funded under the Secon-
dary Towns Project will concentrate on specific skills required by locaL
authority staff to implement the project.   Because of the importance of
community participation in ensuring the success of low-income housing pro-
jects, the PMU will contract with the site and service division of NHC to
develop a training course for local authority staff engaged in community
development activities.  The NHC has a qualified sociologist with experi-
ence in this area. The experience of the Bank-financed project at Dandora
will also be used in developing this training program. Training in finan-
cial management and project reporting will be provided to local authority
staff through project-financed activities to upgrade these areas (paras.
3.14 and 4.10).  Training in broader areas of urban development planning,
such as project feasibility analysis, will be made available to staff from
the local authorities through USAID's training program, which is being
developed by a full-time training consultant (para. 2.02).  In the longer-
run, a survey of training needs in the urban sector is being carried out by
HABITAT (the United Nations Centre for Human Settlements, which is based ii
Nairobi).  This effort is being supported by the Bank and other donors and
could lead to a larger urban trainLng component to be included in later
projects.
D. Project Monitoring
3.14      The PMU will be responsible for overseeing project monitoring on
a regular basis.  To assist in this effort, funds will be provided for a
local consultant to design project reporting forms and train local authori--
ty staff in their use.   In addition, there are certain activities which
require broader ministerial attention.   These include the preparation of
annual budget estimates, the integration of project reporting activities
into the Government's Forward Budget; and project monitoring systems, and
the occasional need to exercise executive control over the local authori--
ties in areas such as tender procedures and plot allocations.   Moreover,
the close involvement. of two ministries in the project, MWH and MLG, re--
quires formal recognition to allow a forum for conflict resolution and
inter-ministerial coordination.   Annex 2, Table 12  depicts the intended
system of project reporting.  The process will begin with quarterly pro--
gress reports prepared by the local authorities (and NHC in the case oif
Nyeri and Kitale) within three weeks after the end of every quarter. These
reports will be synthesized by the PMU into a quarterly project status re--
port, which will be sent to the Bank within six weeks of the end of every
quarter and reviewed by a Technical Steering Committee chaired by the Chiei-
Housing Officer. Key project issues will be reviewed by an Inter-minis--
terial Review Committee, which will receive the recommendations of the
Technical Steering Committee and provide a forum for inter-ministerial
coordination and input to the Forward Budget process.   The Inter-minis--
terial Review Committee will be chaired by the Permanent Secretary of MWR
and will include the Permanent Secretary of MLG. The monitoring and evalu--



25
ation unit of DOH, which was established under the previous urban projects,
will carry out special studies at the direction of the Technical Steering
Committee, as a way of gaining experience and consolidating the lessons of
past projects.
E. Legal Arrangements
3.15       The development credit and loan agreements for the project will
be executed with the Government of Kenya. As a special condition of loan/
credit effectiveness, the Government will be required to execute on-lending
agreements with the financial intermediaries, NHC and LGLA, which are
acceptable to the Bank (para. 6.01).   These on-lending  agreements will
specify that NHC and LGLA will make no disbursements to a local authority
included in the project until a subsidiary loan agreement acceptable to the
Bank had been signed between the local authority and NHC or LGLA, as the
case may be.  The subsidiary loan agreements will set out the obligations
of the local authorities under the project in such areas as the terms of
leases for plots in the project areas, cost recovery procedures, and repor-
ting arrangements.
F. Implementation Schedule
3.16        Implementation Schedule.  Annex 2, Table 5 shows the expected
distribution of base costs over time, by type of expenditure.  The bulk of
the infrastructure construction is planned for 1985 and 1986, with housing
construction loans on new sites beginninig in 1985-86. Expenditures in 1983
will  be  primarily  for  design  and  engineering  and  equipment,  but
construction loans on existing sites will also begin in 1983.   Based on
experience with the existing projects as well as the disbursement
performance for other urban projects in East Africa, the project is
expected to be completed by June 30, 1990.
G. Procurement
3.17         Civil Works.   The base cost of civil works is US$ 13.7 mil--
lion, excluding price contingencies, or 49% of total base costs.  Each of
the sites will be  tendered  separately by the local authorities as the
design work and land issues are resolved.   It would not be efficient  to
package the contracts for different sitesB, as each of the sites is expected
to be ready for tender at a different date.  Experience with previous pro-
jects has shown that the type of civil works contracts to be financed under
the project do not attract any international tenders, even when ICB proce-
dures are followed.  Therefore, procurement of civil works will be awarded
on the basis of local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the
Bank.   Local procedures  have  been used  for  construction  of  community
facilities in previous projects, and no difficulties have been encountered.
3.18        The PMU will review all bidding documents, advertising proce-
dures, bid evaluation reports, and in the cases of prequalification, expla-
nation of the selection of bidders.   Prior approval by the Bank will be
required for prequalification selection of bidders, tender documents, and



26
approval of tender awards for civil works contracts above the equivalent of
US$ 250,000.  Bank supervision missions will carry out a post review of all
other contracts and disallow disbursements for any contract awards which do
not meet Bank guidelines.  (See Sunmmary of Procurement Arrangements, Annex
2, Table 6).
3.19        Equipment and Vehicles.  Procurement of equipment and vehicles
will total US$ 1 million or 3.5% of base costs. All contracts greater than
US$50,000 and less than US$100,000 will be awarded on the basis of local
competitive  procedures  acceptable  to  the  Bank.    All  contracts  above
$100,000 equivalent will be awarded through ICB, in accordance with Bank
guidelines.   All  contracts  less  that US$50,000 will  be  through  local
shopping, with price quotations from at least three local suppliers.
Project supervision teams will examine the possibility of packaging the
procurement of major items of maintenance equipment (Annex 3) across the
towns in order to use ICB procedures. However, vehicles will be purchased
in lots of one or two each by the individual local authorities and central
project agencies, and packaging of vehicle purchases would not be
practical.   Contracts for equipment above the value of US$50,000 will be
subject  to  prior  Bank  review  of  the  bidding  documents,  advertising
procedures, and bid evaluation reports.   Bank supervision missions will
review the procurement of other equipment on a random basis.   For ICB
contracts, domestic manufacturers will be allowed a preferential margin of
15% of the CIF price of competitive goods or the prevailing level of
customs duties, whichever is lower.
3.20        Professional Services.  Consultancy services (excluding design
and  supervision)  total  US$  2.4  million,  or  8.6%  of  base  costs.
Professional services will be procured in accordance with the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers."   Total consultancy
will amount to 209 man-months, with an average man-month cost of US$8,600,
including personnel costs and other reimbursable items.
H. Disbursements
3.21      Disbursements of the proceeds of the Bank loan/IDA credit will be
made on the following basis:
(1) 95% of expenditures for civil works for:
(a) on-site infrastructure (US$ 8,400,000 equivalent);
(b) off-site infrastructure and community facilities
(US$ 3,200,000 equivalent);
(c) Eldoret joint venture (US$ 2,700,000 equivalent);
(2)  95% of construction loans (US$ 3,500,000 equivalent);



27
(3) 100% of foreign expenditures and 80% of local expenditures
for equipment and vehicles for:
(a) the local authorities (US$ 1,000,000 equivalent);
(b) the central Government (US$ 300,000 equivalent);
(4) 100% of expenditures for consultancy services for:
(a) local authorities (US$ 1,100,000 equivalent);
(b) the central Government (US$ 2,000,000 equivalent);
(5) 100% of operating expenses for the Program Management Unit
(US$ 500,000 equivalent);
(6) Project Preparation Facility (US$ 1,000,000 equivalent);
(7) Initial deposits to the Special Accounts (US$ 3,000,000
equivalent);
(8) Front-end fee on Bank loan (US$ 17,456); and
(9) Unallocated (US$ 2,282,544 equivalent).
Categories 1(a), 1(c), and 2 cover funds on-lent to local authorities by
NHC, while categories 1(b), 3(a), and 4(a) cover funds on-lent to local
authorities by LGLA.   Categories 3(b), 4(b), and 5 cover expenditures by
central Government agencies.   Disbursements under categories 1, 3, and 4
will be fully documented.  Disbursements under categories 2 and 5 will be
on the basis of Statements of Expenditures (SOE's). Disbursement applica-
tions will be monitored on a regular basis by the PMU. The IDA credit will
be drawn down before disbursements will begin on the Bank loan.
3.22       Statements of expenditures (SOE's) will be used for construction
loans and the operating expenses of the PMJ, covering an estimated 11% of
project costs.   Salaries of the local authority project personnel  (see
Annex 3) will be covered entirely by LGLA. The internal accounting proce-
dures and audit controls of all project agencies which will use SOE's were
reviewed during appraisal and found to be satisfactory.   SOE's have been
used in previous Bank urban projects in Kenya and have been satisfactory,
with the exception of obtaining final audit statements (see para. 3.24).
3.23        The schedule of estimated disbursements for the proposed IBRD
loan/credit is shown in Annex 2, Table 7. The rate of disbursement is con-
sistent with the East Africa regional profile for the urban sector, except
that thie disbursement profile has been adjusted to reflect disbursements
for the initial deposits in the Special Accounts (para. 4.15)



28
I. Accounts and Audits
3.24        Separate project accounts will be established by the Municipal
Treasurer's Department in the case of EMC, NMC and TMC. 'NHC will maintain
project accounts for the Nyeri and Kitale components.   The municipalities
and  NHC  will  be  required  to  submit  audited  statements  of  project
expenditures within eight months of the close of their fiscal year.   The
audit opinion will contain a special reference concerning the SOE
confirming that the claimed expenditures were used for the purpose for
which they were provided.   Use of an independent auditor will be required
if the Auditor-General was unable to prepare audited accounts within the
required time period.  The MWH will be required to submit audited accounts
for the PMU to the Bank within eight months of the close of the fiscal
year, containing a statement confirming that expenditures claimed under
SOE's were used for the purpose for which they were intended (para. 6.02).
3.25       NHC and LGLA will be required to submit audited entity accounts
to the Bank within eight months of the close of their fiscal years.   The
local authorities will not be required to submit audited accounts for their
overall operations, but they will be required to submit unaudited abstracts
of their financial statements to the! Bank within nine months of the close
of their fiscal year (para. 6.02)
J. Project Supervision
3.26       Bank supervision of the project will be requested for 120 staff-
weeks over the period of project implementation.  This level of effort is
justified  by  the technical  assistance  provided by the Bank supervision
team. During the first two years of the project, the Bank team will work
closely with the PMU to establish procedures which will allow the PMU to
assume a major share of supervision responsibilities. Thereafter, the Bank
team will provide assistance to the local authorities and ministries on
issues of municipal finance and urban development planning.  In the event
that this amount of resources is not available for supenrision, the tech-
nical assistance aspects will be scaled-back and Bank supervision will
concentrate primarily on implementation problems.
IV. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Municipal Finance in Kenya
4.01       The maintenance of a sound system of municipal finance is an im-
portant requirement for the continued development of Kenya's local authori-
ties. Accordingly, the Bank has given priority emphasis to issues of muni-
cipal finance throughout its project dialogue. As part of the Nairobi Site
and Services Project,  the IMF carried out an extensive  study of  local
authority finances, with a primary focus on revenue measures needed to com-



29
pensate the municipalities for the loss of one of their major tax sources,
the Graduated Personal Tax. Although the Government has never formally re-
leased the IMF report, many of the recommendations of the report have been
implemented. On the basis of the IMF report as well as other studies, the
Second Urban Project included covenants which obligated the Government to
enact a number of reforms in the area of municipal finance.  These agree-
ments have led to some important improvements, including the introduction
of new valuations rolls in Nairobi and Mombasa to replace rolls respective-
ly ten and twenty-five years out-of-date, substantial increases in house
rents and other fees and charges in Nairobi, and the improvement of assis-
tance in property revaluation.   Other covenants, which have not been com-
plied with, such as the requirement tha,t the local authorities would intro-
duce improved site value rating, would require Parliamentary approval and
are now considered to have been overly ambitious as project covenants.15I
The financial covenants for the Second Urban Prcject will be reviewed fol-
lowing the negotiations of the Secondary Towns Project (para. 6.03), and a
more realistic schedule of financial reforms will be proposed to the
Government.
4.02      During the appraisal, the financial position of each of the muni-
cipalities included in the project was reviewed and various actions propo-
sed to improve the towns' financial management and revenues.  This conti-
nues the practice of annual budget reviews established under the Second Ur-
ban Project, which have been important in achieving the reforms mentioned
above.   During negotiations, it was confirmed that, for the fiscal years
beginning January 1, 1985, for Eldoret, Nakuru, and Thika, and the fiscal
years beginning January 1, 1987, for Nyeri and Kitale, MLG will approve
the annual budgets of the municipalities only if they provide for a
financial surplus in their recurrent account (para, 6.02).16/  As regards
longer-term objectives, the PPF for the Secondary Towns Project is being
used to improve the financial control procedures of the LGLA as the basis
for introduction of capital budgeting and monitoring of local authority
loan repayments (para. 4.13).  The next stage in the Bank's dialogue will
be a detailed sector review of municipal finance, which is scheduled for
1984.    The  sector  study  will  focus  on issues  such  as  budget  review
procedures, reconciliation of recurrent and capital budgets, changes in
local authority accounting requirements, better monitoring of arrears in
151   This conclusion is consistent with the recommendations of the recent
OED study on covenants, which used the Second Urban Project as one of its
case studies.
16/         Any deficit in the local authority's recurrent account before
this date will be covered by improvements in the collections of arrears or
by transfers from reserve and capital funds, depending on individual
circumstances.



30
revenues, and training of local authority financial staff.  Funds have also
been included in the project for MLG to engage consultants  to complete
special  tasks,  such  as  the  preparation  of  local  authority  accounting
guidelines for trading activities such as markets.  Terms of reference for
these studies will be agreed jointly with MLG as part of the sector study
of municipal finance.  This preparatory work is expected to lay the basis
for a major component to strengthen mtunicipal finance to be included in the
next urban project.
B. Financial Position of the Municipalities
4.03        Local authorities in Kenya use a uniform method of accounting
based on the UK model.  Separate funds are established for particular pur-
poses, with recurrent revenues and expenditures  accounted  for under the
General Rate Fund (GRF).  Most local authorities also maintain separate
funds for water and housing.  Although this system allows for a clear sepa-
ration of capital and recurrent expenditures, in practice most local
authorities permit transfers between the funds, with the GRF often being
subsidized by revenues from other funds.
4.04        For the larger municipalities, recurrent revenues are derived
in roughly equal shares from rates (property taxes, assessed on the unim-
proved site value of the land), varlous fees and charges, and Government
grants for teachers' salaries and medical supplies.  As the property roll
is revised only infrequently (on the order of every five years), local
authorities have to take the politically difficult step of raising tax
rates and charges in order to provide buoyancy in their revenues.  As for
grants, the Government's own fiscal problems have caused it to restrain
needed increases, with the grant for drugs and dressings in particular
having been held constant since 1978.  In this situation, few local autho-
rities in Kenya can be classified as financially healthy.   Nairobi City
Council in particular and other councils such as Kisumu and Kitale have
faced major financial problems in recent years.  As a group, however, most
of the towns included in the Secondary Towns Project have been able to
maintain reasonable financial control of their operations.
4.05        Eldoret Municipal Council (EMC).  EMC forecast a net operating
deficit in 1982 of almost KSh 2 million in its GRF, and small surpluses in
the other funds.  EMC has accumulated a large surplus balance in its funds
from previous years and expected no problem in managing its deficit. A new
valuation roll currently being completed is expected to improve the town's
financial position. As far as major capital works, EMC is completing Phase
I of a large water project, which will require an increase in water charges
of approximately 20% in order to be financially viable.  EMC's accounting
books and records are generally well-kept and subjected to a satisfactory
internal audit, although delays in posting occur because of the limited
capacity of the accounting machines.   The appraisal mission recommended
that collection of plot charges and housing rents be moved from the Depart-
ment of Housing and Social Services to the Municipal Treasurer's Department
to improve the monitoring of revenues.  In summary, EMC is judged to be in
reasonable financial shape to take on the Secondary Towns Project.



31
4.06        Nakuru Municipal Council (NMC).  NMC forecast a surplus in all
funds for 1982, which should increase the council's accumulated surplus to
approximately KSh 18 million.   A new valuation roll is being completed,
which will allow the council to cover expected salary increases due to
inflation.   however, NMC is considering taking on Committee I status (a
classification system which sets maximum salaries payable to council
officers) in order to make its salaries more competitive with the larger
councils.  This would increase its wage bill by an additional 15-20% and
could constrain the council's financial position.   Books and records are
very well kept, but the current accounting machines have limited capacity.
NMC is in sound financial condition and should have no difficulty managing
the Secondary Towns Project.
4.07        Thika Municipal Council (TMi).   TMC forecast a surplus in all
funds  in  1982.   While  its  recurrent  accounts  are  in generally  sound
financial condition, the council has allowed its loan accounts with LGLA to
become seriously in arrears, on the order of KSh 20 million.   Prior to
negotiations, TMC and LGLA agreed on al repayment schedule to clear these
arrears, and TMC made the first several payments according to schedule.
4.08      Nyeri Municipal Council (NyMC).  NyMC forecast an overall deficit
of approximately KSh 360,000 in 1982, consisting of a deficit of KSh 1.6
million in the GRF and operating surpluses for the housing and water
funds. Revenue controls are weak, and final abstracts of accounts have not
been prepared  since 1972.   Books  and records are regularly posted and
subjected to internal audit.  NyMC is currently completing a new valuation
roll.  With the expected increase in revenues from rates, NyMC should be
able to earn a net operating surplus, although the GRF may continue to be
cross-subsidized by the other funds.  NyMC is in adequate financial shape
to take on the Secondary Towns Project, although recurrent revenues for
operations and maintenance are likely to be somewhat constrained over time.
4.09      Kitale Municipal Council (KMC).  KMC is extremely weak financial-
ly.  An interim audit report on KMC's financial condition, which was pre-
pared prior to negotiations, found that a number of important registers and
books were missing and that major discrepancies existed between control
accounts and subsidiary records.  In this situation, KMC requires substan-
tial technical assistance just to enabl,e it to prepare a program to restore
its financial position.   The investment program included for Kitale  is
therefore limited in scope and will be implemented by NHC in order to en-
sure adequate financial control of project funds.  A condition of disburse-
ment for this component, which will be reflected in the subsidiary loan
agreement between NHC and KMC, requires that KMC complete the preparation
of abstracts of accounts through fiscal year 1982 and that KMC prepare a
program of actions acceptable to the Bank which will enable KMC to reach a
surplus position in its various fund accounts by January 1, 1987.  It was
agreed at negotiations that KMC, NHC and LGLA will agree by June 30, 1984
on a schedule of repayments for the reduction and eventual elimination of
arrears on loans outstanding by KMC from these agencies (para. 6.02).



32
4.10       Improvements in Financial Management.  On the basis of the finan-
cial review of the municipalities, various measures will be included in the
project  to  strengthen  their  financial  management.    Modern  electronic
data-processing equipment will be provided in Nakuru, Eldoret, and Thika,
in addition  to software  development  and training of local staff.   The
equipment and software will be designed to take over the entire billing and
financial management  functions of the Municipa:L Treasurers' Departments,
and it will have a significant impact on the ability of the towns to manage
their expanding revenue base. In addition, Kisumu (which is included under
the Second Urban Project) has similar accounting and billing requirements,
and  funds  will  be  included  in  the  project  to  upgraded  Kisumu's
data-processing capability to the same level as the other towns.   Nakuru
will lead in the introduction of the equipment, with the software de-
velopment costs to be shared by Eldoret, Thika, and Kisumu.   As regards
Nyeri and Kitale, the current manual accounting systems were judged to be
adequate for their current needs and the capabilities of their staff.
Funds were provided under the PPF to engage a local certified public
accountant to bring Nyeri's and Kitale's abstracts of accounts to current
status, and additional funds will be provided under the project to design
and implement systems and procedures for the monitoring and collection of
all classes of revenues.
C. Central Government Financial Intermediaries
4.11        National Housing Corporation.  The NHC operates both as a tech-
nical implementing agency (as for the Nyeri and K;itale components) and as a
financial intermediary for loans to local authorities for low-income
shelter proj-ects.   As regards loan management, NHC's current procedures
are generally  sound.   Records  are well-maintained  and  provide adequate
visibility over the status of arrears.   NHC's disbursement procedures to
local authorities are efficient and allow for reasonably prompt payments to
contractors. As part of the project, a limited amount of consultancy funds
will be made available for NHC to prepare a financial manual to document it
procedures.   NHC's major difficulty is that it must rely on the MLG to
enforce sanctions on local authorities.  As MLG has not been consistent in
requiring local authorities to repay their loans, a significant percentage
of NHC's portfolio is in arrears, causing it to defer repayments to the
central Government.   The first  steps  in correcting  this  situation were
achieved with the agreements to establish repayment schedules for TMC and
KMC to repay their arrears.  When the! financial updating for LGLA has been
completed (para. 4.13), MLG will be in a satisfactory position to monitor
and enforce repayments by local authorities to both LGLA and NHC.
4.12      Local Government Loans Authority.  The LGLA is a semi-autonomous
financial body under the control of the MLG. It was originally established
as a quasi-municipal development bank, relendinqg reserve funds placed on
deposit by the local authorities.   The LGLA has never expanded within the
range of its enabling legislation, arLd with the drying up of local author-
ity reserve funds because of financial constraints, the LGLA has become a
conduit for capital funds from the central Government to the local authori-
ties.



33
4.13        Because LGLA has continued to use a manual accounting system in
the face of a growing number of accounts (estimated at approximately 4,000
individual loan records), a large accounting backlog has been allowed to
build up, preventing LGLA from maintaining a management overview of loan
accounts. As a result, a number of local authorities have become substan-
tially in arrears to LGLA, with no effective actions being taken against
them. An independent firm of chartered accountants, which had been engaged
under the PPF, completed posting the loan accounts for approximately 15 of
the 60 local authorities prior to negotiations and is expected to complete
the posting of individual loan accounts by May 31, 1983.  It was agreed at
negotiations that a complete audit of LGLA's loan accounts as of June 30,
1982, will be submitted to the Bank by December 31, 1983.  Funds will be
provided under the project to computerize LGLA's accounting procedures,
which will provide the necessary management basis for LGLA to operate as an
effective financial intermediary for the project.
4.14        Special Accounts.  Both NHC and LGLA have been covering their
cash requirements by borrowing money from the Treasury in anticipation of
near-term needs.   Undisbursed balances are placed in short-term interest
bearing instruments, generally with a maturity of sixty days or less, and
interest earnings are used to fund additional investments. This system has
two difficulties, however.   First, as the Government's liquidity position
has become tighter, the Government cannot afford to have its cash reserves
tied up as idle balances within the on-lending agencies.   Secondly, both
NHC and LGLA have had difficulty in predicting their cash requirements,
particularly when they involve the reimbursement of payments made by local
authorities. LGLA in particular has tended to tie-up too much of its funds
in short-term investments, with the result that it has not been able to
reimburse local authorities for payments to contractors when they are
required.
4.15        The project will include two measures to mitigate these prob-
lems.  First, two Special Accounts will be established to handle disburse-
ments for the Secondary Towns Project (paras. 6.01). The Special Accounts
will be established in local currency in the Central Bank of Kenya.   To
open the accounts, the Bank will provide the equivalent of US$ 3,000,000,
comprising US$ 2,200,000 for the Special Account covering disbursements by
NHC and US$ 800,000 for the Special Account covering disbursements by LGLA
(the amounts are equal to the highest anticipated disbursements by the
agencies for a ninety-day period, plus a 20% margin). The Special Accounts
will be reimbursed on the basis of disbursements claimed by NHC and LGLA.
The Managing Director of NHC and the Permanent Secretary of MLG will be
authorized  to draw on the  funds of the Special Accounts.   The use of
Special'Accounts is preferable to other methods of improving project cash
flows, such as greater use of Procedure III disbursements, because most
payments will be to local contractors wrhich require smaller and faster dis-
bursements  than will be possible witlh Procedure III.    NHC's financial
management procedures are satisfactory for the use of a Special Account,
and LGLA will be suitable after the improvement of its loan management pro-
cedures (para. 4.13).



34
4.16        The second improvement affecting project cash flow will be the
new project monitoring system (para. 3.14). A major emphasis in this sys-
tem will be to derive cash requirem1ents by individual local authorities
from realistic and frequently updated implementation schedules.   The PMU
will compile the information quarterly, which will be used by NHC and LGLA
to estimate their cash requirements for the up-coming period.  This should
allow more efficient management of project cash flows by these agencies.
D.  Project Impact on Municipal Budgets
4.17        Cost Recovery.  Cost recovery will follow the procedures estab-
lished under the earlier urban projects; i.e., a combination of direct plot
charges, utility fees, and, where appropriate, frontage charges and other
taxes. The local authorities have adequate legal sanctions to enforce cost
recovery.  As a result, cost recovery has not been a major problem in urban
projects in Kenya, with the degree of recovery being primarily determined
by the overall financial management procedures of the local authority.
Because of the attention paid to revenue collection procedures during the
appraisal of the project, it is expecited that the actual direct cost recov-
ery for this project will be quite high.  As shown in Annex 2, Table 8, 80%
of the project costs will be recoverable from direct fees and charges at a
nominal interest rate of 12%.   The remaining capital costs include the
financial and project management support to central and local agencies, the
community facilities such as schools and health centers, and primary infra-
structure components. These costs will be covered by revenue contributions
from the local authorities (11% of total project costs) and the central
Government (9% of project costs).
4.18      Recurrent Costs.  The major share of recurrent costs attributable
to the project are for maintenance expenses, local project management, and
the operating costs of the community facilities.   Maintenance costs will
accrue primarily to the individual home owners and landlords for maintain-
ing their dwellings. The local authorities will be responsible for main-
tenance costs on the roads, drainage, and water supply systems, which will
amount to 5% of capital costs or approximately KSh 373,000 (US$ 29,000) in
annual charges for all the municipalit-ies.  Costs of local project manage-
ment during implementation will be recoverable from plot charges, and the
ongoing expenses for the project (loan management, community relations,
etc.) will be recoverable from the 0.75% interest spread allowed the muni-
cipalities on the on-lending terms (para. 2.22). Annual operating expenses
for the schools, health centers, and dispensaries (for Eldoret and Nakuru
only) are estimated at KSh 364,000 (US$,28,000) per primary school (based
on KSh 520 per student per year), KSh 383,000 (US$ 29,500) per health cen-
ter serving a population of 25,000 inthabitants (based on KSh 15 per person
per year), and KSh 140,000 (US$ 10,769) per dispensary serving a population
of 15,000 inhabitants (based on KSh 9 per person per year).   The central
Government provides  grants  to  the municipalities  to cover  the cost of
teachers' salaries and drugs and dressings.  However, in the event that the
Government does not increase its grants by an adequate amount, Eldoret and
Nakuru have given assurances that they will cover the increased operating
expenses  for  the  facilities.   Finally,  the markets,  lorry  parks,  and
workshops will cover their recurrent expenses from direct user charges.



35
4.19      Financial Impact on the Towns.  Annex 2, Table 9 provides an es-
timate of the financial impact on the towns once the project is fully
implemented and cost recovery is ongoing.   After netting out the direct
cost recovery for the project, the increased revenue contributions by the
towns range from KSh 125,000 in the case of Kitale to KSh 2.1 million in
the case of Eldoret.  Expressed as a lpercentage of 1982 general revenues,
the project will require an increase in general revenues of 0.8% in the
case of Kitale to 7% in the case of Eldoret. These amounts are well within
the increased revenue potential of the towns, considering both the increase
in property taxes due to the addition of substantial new developments to
the property rolls and also the impact of increases in various fees and
charges which were discussed with the appraisal mission.
E. Affordability
4.20        The expected rental values in the areas to be serviced by this
project are generally in the range affordable to the urban poor. As shown
in Annex 2, Table 10, based on rentals observed in similar areas in the
various towns, the rentals for the upgrading areas and the partially-
serviced private land sites (comprising 71% of the total households bene-
fitting from the project) are expected to be affordable to families below
the 25th percentile of the urban income distribution.  The rentals in the
remainder of the project sites will generally be affordable to households
in the middle of the urban income distribution (40th to 65th percentile).
The Eldoret joint venture component is expected to have the highest level
of rentals of all the project sites, as befits its intended purpose of pro-
viding a constructive alternative for stimulating growth of the middle
income housing stock.
V. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Project Benefits
5.01        Summary.   The benefits from this project fall into two cate-
gories:   direct benefits to the final beneficiaries and indirect benefits
and externalities. Direct benefits have been quantified for project compo-
nents constituting 77% of total project. costs and yield an overall economic
rate of return of 20% for these components.  Many of the components will
yield direct benefits to lower-income households. The urban poverty impact
was calculated for components constituting 40% of total project costs; for
these components, 100% of the project benefits will accrue directly to the
urban poor.
5.02        Economic rates of return based on quantifiable direct benefits
have been calculated for almost all of the individual project sites. Bene-
fits were estimated as a stream of rental values, based on surveys of
market rents for similar housing in the same towns.  No adjustments were



36
made for possible changes in market prices due to the introduction of the
project, as it is expected that population growth over the period will be
adequate to sustain demand at current real prices. Costs include all costs
for infrastructure and shelter construction, design and project management
fees, and maintenance costs. The foreign cost component of the project was
weighted to reflect the shadow price of foreign exchange to the economy,
estimated to be 12% above the nominal exchange rate. The individual econo-
mic rates of return are presented in Annex 2, Table 11, together with the
results of the sensitivity analysis.  All of the components have economic
rates of return which equal or exceed the opportunity cost of capital in
Kenya, which is estimated to be 12%. The highest rates of return are gen-
erally obtained for the components involving partial servicing on privately
owned land, because of the large number of households served at relatively
low cost.  However, the satisfactory rate of return obtaiLned on all the
project components confirms the economic value of providing services
through a broad range of different types of project interventions.
5.03          The indirect  benefits  of the project  will  fall  into  three
categories:
-  Improvements in Financial/Managerial Capacity.   The project
will have a substantial impact on the local authorities by
improving their ability to identify and implement projects and
their overall  financial management capability.   The project
also seeks improvements in the project coordination and capi-
tal budgeting activities of the central government agencies,
specifically in terms of their ability to "wholesale" the pro-
cess of urban  development to a number of local authorities.
These represent the necessary steps towards developing a Ken-
yan capacity to manage and finance urban development.
-   Strengthening of the Secondary Towns.   The strengthening of
urban administration in selected secondary towns is consistent
with  Kenya's  spatial  development  strategy.    Economically
strong secondary towns would facilitate the development of
effective urban/rural linkages by (a) improving rural effici-
ency (due to improved access to raw materials, equipment, and
services such as credit and technical assistance) and (b) fos-
tering an expansion of the employment and populationholding
capacity of the secondary towns.
-  Involvement of the Private Sector.  The public sector can be
expected to provide only a limited amount of the shelter which
is required in Kenya.   This project includes initiatives --
through the development of private land and the undertaking of
a joint venture with a private developer -- to develop a
greater role for the private sector in lower and middle-income
shelter delivery.
The benefits described above do not lend themselves to quantification.
However, they do represent a common theme -- an attempt to create the capa-



37
city, through institutions, systems, and approaches, to replicate the
direct benefits of the project.  In this sense, they constitute an impor-
tant justification for this project.
5.04       Poverty Impact.  The Bank defines the urban poor in Kenya accord-
ing to an absolute poverty criterion, wLth the poverty cut-off set at KSh
2,300 (US$ 183) per capita/per year. Based on an urban income distribution
estimated by the project consultants for Nakuru and judged to be similar
for the other towns, approximately 25% of the households in the project
towns have incomes beyond the absolute poverty level,  As a result of the
project, about 29,000 households will be provided with access to serviced
land, and 71% of the housing is expected to be affordable to the urban poor
(see Annex 2, Table 10).  Moreover, by maintaining a scale of production
adequate to provide for urban growth in three of the five towns, the spread
of unplanned housing developments should be effectively forestalled in
these towns during the project period.
5.05       Impact on Women.  The project will have two features of particu-
lar importance to women in the project towns.  The first will be access to
credit and to land.  This will continue the pioneering effort of the first
urban project in Kenya and is particularly significant in view of the large
number of female-headed households in urban areas. The second factor will
be  improved  access  to  family  planning  services  in Eldoret and Nakuru.
These towns will be encouraged to request the Ministry of Health to desig-
nate the health centers and dispensariets constructed under the project as
service delivery points for family p'Lanning services, which are being
financed under the Integrated Rural Health and Family Planning Project (CR
1238-KE).
B. Project Risks
5.06       The principal risks associated with this project are inherent in
the inexperience of the institutions which will be engaged in the imple-
mentation of the  project.   Bank supervision  efforts will pay particular
attention to these risks during the early stage of supervision. The three
specific  risks  are  concerned  with:    local  authority  project execution
capacity, project coordination by the central Government agencies, and the
private sector joint venture component.
5.07       Local Authority Execution Capacity.  Weaknesses in the execution
capacity of the local authorities may liead to delays in the project. These
include lack of experience with the types of components to be executed,
difficulties in obtaining final agreements with private land owners, and
the mechanics of cost recovery. The project addresses these risks by pro-
viding technical assistance to train staff and improve project monitoring
systems.  Implementation schedules havie been adjusted to reflect possible
delays, and a Project Preparation Facility has been made available to
finance the use of consultants to provide detailed design and engineering.
Bank supervision missions will maintaiLn firm deadlines on obtaining land
agreements, after which the project funds will either be cancelled or real-
located  to other sites.   Finally, in the  case of the Nyeri and Kitale



38
components, NRC will take over the role of project management for the local
authorities in order to ensure that the components are implemented
efficiently.
5.08        Central Government Agency Administrative Capacity.   There is a
risk that weaknesses in the administrative capacity of the central agencies
could result in delays and inefficiencies, for example, in the granting of
central Government approvals or in the management of financial flows.  The
PMU is designed to reduce these problems by clearly designating the respon-
sibility for overseeing project management.   In addition, an explicit co-
ordinating mechanism has been established -- the Technical Steering
Committee -- to formalize inter-ministerial contacts and provide a vehicle
for identifying and resolving conflicts.
5.09       Private Sector Joint Venture.  The private sector joint venture
component in Eldoret provides a risk solely because of its innovative
nature.  The municipality, the private developer, and the central Govern-
ment are being asked to establish a new framework for joint operations.
This will require sensitivity and an understanding of the needs of all
parties in order to succeed.  However, the parties have shown their keen
interest in this component,  and the risk of delays is acceptable.   The
exposure of EMC in the project will be limited by the lien on the land
which the municipality will receive as the infrastructure is constructed.
If the private developer is subsequently unable to construct the housing
due to unforeseen circumstances, EMC can recoup its investment by obtaining
commercial financing to complete the housing or by converting the area to a
site  and  service  development.    This  risk will  be  further  limited  by
developing the site in phases, which will limit the risk to both parties if
sales of the completed housing are below expectations.
VI. RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01          The following are special conditions of loan/credit effec-
tiveness:
(a)   The Government of Kenya (GOK) shall have signed on-lending
agreements with NHC and LGLA acceptable to the Bank (para.
3.15 and Section 6.01(c) of the Development Credit Agreement
(DCA));
(b)   GOK  shall  have  established  the  Special Accounts  in the
Central Bank of Kenya (para. 4.15 and Section 6.01(a) of the
DCA); and
(c)   MWH  shall  have  established  the  PMU  under  conditions
acceptable to the Bank and shall have appointed a suitably
qualified and experienced Program Coordinator to head the
PMU (para. 3.10 and Section 6.01(b) of the DCA).



39
6.02      The following agreements were obtained at negotiations:
(a)  the MWR will establish the Technical Steering Committee and
the Inter-ministerial Review Committee under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank (para. 3.14 and Sections
3.06 (b) and (c) of the DCA);
(b) the PMU will prepare a quarterly status report on the
implementation of the project and forward it to the Bank
within six weeks of the end of each quarter (para. 3.14 and
Section 3.08 (c) of the DCA);
(c) the Government will approve the annual budget of a project
town only if it provides for a surplus in the General Rate
Fund beginning January 1, 1985, for Eldoret, Nakuru, and
Thika, and January 1, 1987 for Kitale and Nyeri (para. 4.02
and Section 3.11 of the OCA);
(d) the local authorities, PMU, NHC, and LGLA will have audit
reports prepared by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank and will submit themL to the Bank within eight months of
the close of their fiscal year.  Where project expen,ditures
are disbursed on the basis of SOE's, the auditor's report
will contain a special reference confirming that claimed
expenditures were used for the purpose for which they were
provided (para. 3.24 and Section 4.01 of the DCA);
(e) the LGLA will furnish a complete audit of its loan accounts
to the Bank by December 31, 1983 (para. 4.13 and Section
4.03 of the DCA);
(f) Kitale Municipal Council will agree by June 30, 1984, on a
schedule for the reduction and eventual elimination of
overdue repayments on outstanding loans made to KMC by NHC
and LGLA (para. 4.09 and Section 4.04 of the DCA); and
(g) the Government will review from time to time the interest
rates under the onlendingr and subsidiary loan agreements and
introduce such modifications, acceptable to the Government
and the Bank, as shall be deemed necessary (para.  2.24 and
Section 3.02 (e) of the DCA).
6.03         Subsequent to the Board Presentation for the Secondary Towns
Project, the Bank will prepare a statement of the legal provisions of the
Second Urban Project showing which provisions are at  variance with the
agreements of the Secondary Towns Project.  It is expected that the legal
agreements for the Second Urban Project: would subsequently be modified to
conform with the provisions of the Secondary Towns Project.



40
6.04        With the understandings and agreements as indicated aLbove, the
project is suitable for an IDA credit of SDR 20.4 million (US$ 22 million
equivalent) and a Bank loan of US$ 8 million. The credit will be amortized
over 50 years including 10 years of grace, and will carry a service charge
of 0.75X on the principal amount of the credit withdrawn and outstanding.
The Bank loan, which includes a capitalized front-end fee of 0.25% on the
loan amount, will have a term of 20 years, including 5 years of grace at
the standard variable interest rate.  The borrower will be the Government
of Kenya.



41                             Annex 1
Page 1
KENYA
SECONDARY TOWNS PROJECT
THE PROJECT TOWNS
ELDORET
1.        Population.  Eldoret is a Dis1trict administrative capital serving
a catchment population of over 600,000. It is inhabited by a population of
60,000, making it the fifth largest towns in Kenya and the second largest
to be included in the Secondary Towns P'roject.  Between 1969 and 1979, its
population has increased by more than 150%.
2.          Linkages.  Eldoret plays an important role as a transport and
communications centre, channeling agricultural products and manufactured
goods to Nakuru, Nairobi and is located on the main road to Kampala.
The town also connects the northern part of the Rift Valley to the rest of
the country. Manufacturing constitutes the simple most important contribu-
tion to employment and production earnings.   Eldoret has several medium
scale industries as well as small scaLe industries and depots, including
the Kenya Industrial Estates supportied by a Bank-financed IDF project
(Credit 750-KE).
3.         Housing.   Eldoret has the most critical housing problem of all
the towns included; 38% of the population of the town resides in approxi-
mately 1250 unplanned and unauthorized structures.
4.        Development Potential.  In spite of increased costs of transport,
Eldoret remains attractive for industrialists because of the lcwer wage and
service cost levels than in Nairobi.   Future commercial development,  if
undertaken, will probably be in the manufacturing of consumer products, the
assembly of machinery and various inputs to the agriculture sector, rather
than the exploitation of local resources.
KITALE
5.         Population.  Kitale is the seat of the district headquarters of
Tranz Nzoia, a wealthy agricultural area, and serves a catchment population
of 300,000. The town was founded in 1908 as a service center, when Europe-
an farmers started settling in the region. Its importance as a growth pole
increased with the construction of the railway, which reached the town in
1925.  The population density in Kitale is the lowest of the five towns,
whereas its unplanned areas are the most densely inhabited.
6.         Linkages.  The main economic linkages of Kitale are with the im-
mediate catchment area. Kitale is also the service center for the north-
west part of Kenya, particularly the districts of West Pokot and Turkana.



Annex 1
42                              Page 2
However, the distance from Nairobi, deficient telecommunications and the
fact that the town is removed from the main transportation route across the
country, have had the effect of minimizing the economic links with other
urban centers in Kenya.
7.        Development Potential.  Development in the catchment area has re-
cently swung towards large-scale ma:Lze production, although the traditional
dairy, beef and quality seed production has been maintained as well.
Tranz-Nzoia is now one of the most important maize production areas of Ken-
ya. There is only one major industrial plant, a seed processing and pac-
kaging company.  Kitale's maize storage silos form part of thje country's
strategic food reserves.  Future economic growth in Kitale will likely be
dependent on the development of agriculture and livestock activities in the
catchment area.
NAKURU
8.        Population.  Nakuru is the provincial capital of the Rift Valley
Province and also accommodates the City Council of the Central Rift. With
approximately 100,000 inhabitants, Nakuru is the fourth ltrgest town in
Kenya and the most populated included in the Secondary Towns Project. Its
catchment area population is estimated to be almost 700,000.
9.        Linkages.  Nakuru is a marketing, processing and transport center
for the agricultural and livestock production of the catchment area. Types
of produce from this area are grain crops, beef cattle, dairy products,
sheep and wool, oil seeds, pottoes and vegetables as well as timber. Naku-
ru is thus one of the most iportant centers in Kenya for the processing,
export and distribution of agricultural produce.
10.        Development Potential.  The future expansion of Nakuru is likely
to be based on the trade, service and public employment sectors and not on
manufacturing. The latter trend is partially caused by re!cent pollution
control measures which have already resulted in the relocation of two major
chemical and textile factories.
NYERI
11.         Population.   Nyeri, a thriving agricultrual community, is the
capital of Central Province and its catchment area population is estimated
at 500,000.  Nyeri is situated cn the lush slopes of the Nvrandarua Range,
147 km. north of Nairobi, and receives considerable rainfall which assists
intensive horticulture and the cultivation of tea and coffee.  Large parts
of the municipal area are still used for agriculture purposes and no major
industries exist at present.
12.       Linkages.  Nyeri is most active as an administrative centre and a
site for health, education and trade services. Moreover, it is one of Ken-
ya's main timber processing and sawmilling centres. As a result, Nyeri is



4 3                               Annex 1
Page 3
a major transport node providing an outlet to the southern markets for its
agricultural produce and its timber.  It is also an important link in the
Mt. Kenya/Aberdares tourist circuit and the northern tourist circuit to
Samburu and Lake Turkana.
13.        Development Potential.  Future growth of the economy of Nyeri is
expected to be in the commercial, government and other service  sectors.
Opportunities for the development of manufacturing are limited by resource
constraints and it is unlikely that industrialists will locate in Nyeri
unless there are substantial financial iLncentives that alleviate transport
costs. Water and sewage services are currently inadequate for industriali-
zation.
THIKA
14.        Population.  Thika is the seat of the district headquarters ser-
ving approximately 300,000 people in thea Central Province. With a current
population of almost 50,000, Thika can be compared with the larger indus-
trial centers, such as Nakuru and Eldoret.  Situated at the confluence of
the Chania and Thika rivers, 47 km. north-east of Nairobi, Thika accommo-
dates several textile mills, Kenya's largest canning factcry, tanneries, a
paper mill and a motor vehicle assembly plant.   The population of Thika
rose by more than 80% during the period 1969 - 1979.  The overall popula-
tion density in Thika is the lowest of the eleven towns included, at 445
persons/km2.  The rural sector is estimated to include over 15,000 persons,
or almost 40% of the total population of Thika.
15.         Linkages.  The most significant economic linkage activities of
Thika are:
a)   manufacturing of products by assembly of imported components
and re-export of finished goods;
b)   processing of agricultural produce from the catchment area.
These linkage activities are characterized by a symbolic relationship with
Nairobi on the one hand, and total independence from Nairobi (food proces-
sing, sisal, timber, fruit, vegetables) on the other.
16.        Development Potential. Availability of land and water, excellent
road and rail links to Nairobi and the immediate catchment., and the availa-
bility of labor and agricultural produce, are all factors which have led to
the articulated and natural development of Thika as a processing, manufac-
turing and product assembly  center.   This trend is expected to continue
since Nairobi's industrial area has become unattractive as a site for manu-
facturing due to traffic congestion, the high cost of land and its develop-
ment.  However, a principal constraint to the planned growth of Thika is
the shortage of housing, and the deficiency of infrastructulre services.



BllIYA SDll4RY MM PIIWEr                                                                                  Amex 2
PRJEr COSTS - TINS AND CEt &0VQMIIT1
FLD3WT                  KtlE                     hU:U                     NM                     TIMA                    ceR   ( TEN                         TOTAL
IKSW'OOO  tS$'OOO        FSH'ODD  IE$'000        KRor0 tS$'000          KFC)  IE;S'OOO          KE'OXO   US'(OOO              KW'OOO   DSS'OOO FSH'020   us$'000
A. S.e-idi  of Uriana lar
A.10 On Site Infrastructure                      64,982    5,157           10,400     825          26,790   2,126          8,964       711        17,900    1,420                                            129,036   10,240
A.20 Off Site Infrastructure                      1,778       141              0        0           4,567     362              0        0          1,120       89                                              7 465      592
A.30 Desigi, Eiglmeeri,g and Supervision          2,482       197            600       48           2,343      186           672        53           377       30                                              6,474      514
SIJB-iDL                                   69,242    5,495           11,000     873          33,700   2,674          9,636       764        19,397    1,539                   0          0             142,975   11,346
B. trtuctionm Ieais
B.10  ResideLial and Sasll Enterprise             6,144      488               0        0          14,080   1,117          6,978      554         18,720    1,486                                             45,922    3,645
B.20 Private Sector                              80,000    6,349               0        0               0       0              0         0             0        0                                             80,000    6,349
SJ-'0.L                                   86,144    6,837               0        0          14,060   1,117           6,978      554        18,720     1,486                  0          0             125,922    9,994
C. Inreae aid Business SuppDrt
C.10 Markets                                        311       25               0       0            4,581     364          1,149       91          6,610      525                                             12,651    1,005
C.20 Lrry Paim  and Bus Teonls                        0        O               0        0           1,329     105              0        0            715       57                                              2,044      162
C.30 WDlrkshs                                         0        0               0        0             900      71              0        0            795       63                                              1,695      135
C.40 Design, Eierirg, ard Supervision                32        3               0        0             758      60             87         7           676       54                                              1.553      123
SUB-5119L                                     343        28              0        0           7,568      600          1,236       98         8,796       699                  0          0              17,943    1,425
D. Ctusnity Fad Ilities
D.10  Sdrols                                      6,360      504               0        0               0       0              0        0              0        0                                              6,350      504
D.20 Dispensaries aid Heiath Centers              1,150       91               0        0           3,040     241              0        0              0        0                                              4,190      332
D.30 Design,  ag1reering, and Superdsion            563       45               0       0              365      29              0        0             0         0                                                928       74
SUB-TOTAL                                   8,073      640               0        0           3,405      270             0        0              0        0                   0          0              11,478      910
E. FinancLal and Project Mnanient Support
to Local Authorities
E.10 Finmaial ECP Equ1rprt                        1,OCO       79               0       0            1,OCO      79              0        0             0         0                                              2,00D      159
E.20 Mairetenance Eqpmeet                         3,400      270               0        0           2,700     214              0        0          1,850      147                                              7,950      631
E.20  Project Unit Support                        2,592      206           1,092       87           3,092     245          1,068       85          3,904      310                                             11,748      933
3B-'r7FAL                                   6,992       555           1,092      87           6,792      539          1,068       85         5,754      457                   0          0              21,698    1,723
F. Project Support to Central Covernent
F.10  Project Managewect Unit                                                                                                                                                   7,650        607               7,650      607
F.20  W/LGLA                                                                                                                                                                    5,00        397               5,000      397
F.30  Studies ard Technical Assistanee                                                                                                                                         18,740      .'                ___48
SJB -'TAL                                       0   0                    0        0               0       0              0         0             0        0               31,390     2,491              31,390    2,491
Blae Cost                                       170,794    13,555         12,092      96O          65,545   5,200         18,918    1,502         52,667    4,181              31,390      2,491             351,406   27,889
Physical Cntiny iende                             5,644      448           1,100      87            4,352     345          1,038       86          4,281      340                   0         0               16,465    1,306
Price Contiegncies                               35,678    2,832           5,316  422              IL 22    2,011          8,630      685             5     1,342 11                       ,61 921           103,482    8,213
TOTAL                                           212,116    16,994          18,508   1,469          95,230   7,556         .39,636    2,273        73,863    5,863              43,000      3,412             471,353   37,408
*   1s$ = KoSh 12.60
**   1,yslcal Contirgencies (102 of ServidCr Urban land and Other Infrastructure)
*** Price C tingencdes Based on lplenectation Plan
9* aSl differences in US dollar equivalenen dw to rodnfit



45
Annex 2
Table 2(a)
KENYA SECONDARY TOWNS PROJECT
Table 2(a): Eldoret - Detailed Costs by Component
Amount (KSh'000)
A.    SERVICING OF LAND
A.10  Old Uganda Road Infrastructure an-d Plot
demarcation                                            9,024
A.10  Langas Infrastructure and Plot Demarcation            10,345
A.10  Kamukunji Infrastructure and Plot Demar-               1,200
cation
A.10  Huruma/Mwiyenderi Infrastructure                       6,200
A.10  Kipkaren Infrastructure and Plot Demarcation           5,118
A.10  RHE/Private Sector Joint Venture
Infrastructure                                        33,095
A.20  Off-site Infrastructure, Old Uganda Road               1,778
A.30  Design, Engineering, and Supervision                   2,482
Sub-Total                69,242
B.    CONSTRUCTION LOANS
B.10  Building Loans - Kipkaren (512 @ KSH 12,000)           6,144
B.20  Houses [RHE/Private Sector Joint Venture] 1/          80,000
Sub-Total                86,144
C.    INCOME AND BUSINESS SUPPORT
C.10  Open Air Market                                          311
C.20  Design, Engineering, and Supervision                      32
Sub-Total                   343
D.    COMMUNITY FACILITIES
D.10  Primary Schools                                        6,360
D.20  Health Center                                          1,150
D.30  Design, Engineering, and Supervision                     563
Sub-Total                 8,073
E.    FINANCIAL AND PROJECT MANAGEMENT SUPPORT
E.10  Financial EDP Equipment                                1,000
E.20  Maintenance Equipment                                  3,400
E.30  Project Unit Support (Salaries, Equipment)             1,500
E.30  Financial Management Technical Assistance              1,092
Sub-Total                 6,992
TOTAL                   170,794
1/    Design, Engineering, and Supervision on Private Sector Joint Venture
included in construction costs.



46
Annex 2
Table 2(b)
KENYA SECONDARY TOWNS PROJECT
Table 2(b): Kitale - Detailed Costs by Component
Amount (KSh'000)
A.    SERVICING OF LAND
A.10  Tuwani Farm Roads and Surface Drainage                 5,400
A.10  Tuwani Farm Water Supply                               2,000
A.10  Tuwani Farm Plot Demarcation, Planning and             3,000
Surveys
A.30  Tuwani Farm Design, Engineering, and
Supervision                                              600
Sub-Total                11,000
E.    FINANCIAL AND PROJECT MANAGEMENT SUPPORT TO LOCAL AUTHORITIES
E.30  Financial Management Technical Assistance              1,092
Sub-Total                 1,092
Total
12,092



47
Annex 2
Table 2(c)
KENYA SECONDARY TOWNS PROJECT
Table 2(c): Nakuru - Detailed Casts by Component
Amount (KSH'OOO)
A.    SERVICING OF URBAN LAND
A.10  Septic Tanks, Pangani                                  1,300
A.10  Services, Including Wet Cores, Bondeni                 2,206
A.10  Services, Mwariki Farm                                 5,284
A.10  Services and Plot Demarcation, Racetrack              18,000
A.20  Off-site Infrastructure                                4,567
A.30  Design, Engineering and Supervision                    2,343
Sub-Total                33,700
B.    CONSTRUCTION LOANS
B.10  Materials Loans (residential), Racetrack
(535 @ KSh 22,000)                                  11,770
B.10  Materials Loans (workshops), Racetrack
(30 @ KSh 17,000)                                      510
B.10  Materials Loans, Pangani
(300 @ KSh 6,000)                                    1,800
Sub-Total                14,080
C.    INCOME AND BUSINESS SUPPORT
C.10  Market upgrading (Bondeni/Lanet)                         972
C.10  Wholesale Market Construction                          3,609
C.20  Lorry Park                                             1,329
C.30  Open Air Garage Workshops (Nakuru East)                  900
C.40  Design, Engineering, and Supervision                     758
Sub-Total                 7,568
D.    COMMUNITY FACILITIES
D.20  Improvements to Existing Dispensaries                    831
D.20  Two New Dispensaries                                   2,209
D.30  Design, Engineering, and Suerpvision                     365
Sub-Total                 3,405
E.    FINANCIAL AND PROJECT MANAGEMENT SUPPORT TO LOCAL AUTHORITIES
E.10  Financial EDP Equipment                                1,000
E.20  Maintenance Equipment                                  2,700
E.30  Project Unit Support                                   2,000
E.30  Financial Management Technical Assistance              1,092
Sub-Total                 6,792
TOTAL
65,545



48
Annex 2
Table 2(d)
KENYA SECONDARY TOWNS PROJECT
Table 2(d): Nyeri - Detailed Costs by Component
Amount (KSh'000)
A.    SERVICING OF LAND
A.10  Services and Plot Demarcation, Kiawara,
Shauri/Yako                                           5,232
A.10  Services and Plot Demarcation, Majengo
upgrading                                             3,249
A.10  Services and Plot Demarcation, Kingongo
Extension                                               483
A.30  Design, Engineering, and Supenrision                     672
Sub-Total                 9,636
B.    CONSTRUCTION LOANS
B.10  Materials Loans - Majengo Upgrading
(136 @ KSh 6,000)                                     816
B.10  Materials Loans (residential) Kiawara/
(217 @ KSh 22,000)                                  4,774
B.10  Materials Loans (workshops)   Shauri Yako
(40 @ KSh 17,000)                                     680
B.10  Materials Loans - Kingongo Extension
(59 Ld KSh 12,000)                                    708
Sub-Total                 6,978
C.    INCOME AND BUSINESS SUPPORT
C.10  Upgrading and Extension Retail Market                  1,149
C.20  Design, Engineering and Supervision                       87
Sub-Total                 1,236
E.    FINANCIAL AND PROJECT MANAGEMENT SUPPORT
E.30  Project Unit Support                                     600
E.30  Financial Management Technical .Assistance               468
Sub-Total                 1,068
Total
18,918



49
Annex 2
Table 2(e)
KENYA SECONDARY TOWNS PROJECT
Table 2(e): Thika - Detailed Costs by Component
Amount (KSh'000)
A.    SERVICING OF LAND
A.10  Extension of Infrastructure, Rental 9 and 10             750
A.10  Plot Demarcation, Rental 9 and 10                        250
A.10 Planning, Surveys, and Plot Demarcation,
Kiandutu                                               2,900
A.10  Loan to Cooperative Society  -- Infrastructure        14,000
A.20  Off-site Infrastructure, TMC                           1,120
A.30  Design, Engineering and Supervision 1/                   377
Sub-Total                i9,39
B.    CONSTRUCTION LOANS
B.10 Building Loans, 600 plots, Existing Sites
and Service Areas (600 @ KSh 22,000)                  13,200
B.10  Building Loans, Rental 9 and 10 (25 plots)             5,520
Sub-Total                18,720
C.    INCOME AND BUSINESS SUPPORT
C.10  Extensions and Improvements, Construction Work-        6,610
shops and stalls, Central Market
C.20  Bus and Lorry Park (Madaraka)                            715
C.30 Market Stalls and Workshop Development,
Kiandutu (15 units)                                      795
C.40  Design, Engineering and Supervision                      676
Sub-Total                 8,796
E.    FINANCIAL AND PROJECT MANAGEMENT SUPPORT
E.20  Exhausters (2)                                         1,000
E.20  Refuse Tipper, Compressor                                850
E.30  Hardware and Training, Treasurer's Department          1,000
E.30  Other Technical Assistance, Personnel and
Equipment                                              1,812
E.30  Financial Management Technical Assistance              1,092
Sub-Total                 5,754
Total                    52,667
1/  Design, Engineering and Supervision not included for Cooperative
Society.



50
Annex 2
Table 2(f)
KENYA SECONDARY TOWNS PROJECT
Table 2(f): Central Government Project Management Support and Technical
Assistance
Detailed Cost by Component
I. Program Management Unit (MWH)1/
A.  Staff salaries and benefits                       KSH
a.  Program Coordinator (1)
(@KSh 11,000/month + 30% benefits)           860,000
b.  Program Engineers (2)
(@ KSh 10,000/month + 30% benefits)        1,560,000
c. Program Financ:Lal Analyst (1)
(@ KSh 7,000/month + 30% benefits)           546,000
d.  Termination benefits (25% of annual sala-
ry)                                          114,000
SUBTOTAL (A)                     3,080,000
B. Operating Expenses
a. Secretarial assistance (2)
(@ KSh. 4,000/month + benefits)              650,000
b. Travel expenses (subsistence plus ve--
hicle operating costs) (KSh 20,000/
month inclusive)                           1,200,000
c.  Recurrent expenses (telephone, etc.)         200,000
SUBTOTAL (B)                     2,050,000
C.  Vehicles (two)                                   400,000
D.  Other Expenses
a.  Local Consultant - Design and Train-
ing for Project Monitoring System
(12 months @ KS'h 75,000/m)                  900,000
b. NHC - training program in communi-
ty development: 1 staff year 120,000
expenses    100,000
travel expenses LA staff  100,000
320,000
c. Preparation of Legal Agreements for
Private Sector Joint Venture (3 man-         450,000
months @ KSh 150,000/m)
d. Local expenses, Project Launch con-
ference and annual project review
meetings                                     450,000
SUBTOTAL (D)                     2,120,000
TOTAL-PMU                        7,650,000



51
II. LGLA
A. Audit LGLA, computerization of
accounts (including computer)                  3,000,000
B. Technical Assistance
(13 man-months at KSh 150,000/m)               2,000,000
TOTAL-LGLA                    5,000,000
III. Preparation of Financial Manual, NHC
(3 man-months at KSh 15(),000/m)                     450,000
IV. Studies
A. Housing Policy Studies
a. Preparation of rhvised housing policy
paper, consultancy services (12 man-
months at KSh 100,000/m)                   1,200,000
b. Implementation of Low-Cost Housing
By-Laws study, Legal services (12 man-
months at KSh 150,000/m)                   1,800,000
Senior consultanit engineer
(12 man-months al: KSh 150,000/m)            900,000
c. Central Bureau of Statistics, Systems
Analyst for Survey of Dwelling Units (36
man-months at KSh 65,000/m)                2,340,000
d.  Two vehicles, M&E unit, MWH                  400,000
B. Municipal Finance Stuadies
(24 man-months at KSh 150,000/m)               3,6(00,000
C. Urban Transport Studies (12 man-months at
KSh 100,000/m)                                 1,200,000
D. Urban Investment Planning, Prepara-
tion of Urban IV (48 man-months at
KSh 100,000/m)                                 4,800,000
TOTAL STUDIES                   16,240,000
V. Kisumu Financial Assistance
- EDP equipment                             1,000,000
- Technical Assistance - 7 man-months
at KSh 150,000/m)                         1,050,000
TOTAL-KISUMU                  2,050,000
GRAND TOTAL (I-V)                 KSh 31,390,000
Notes on Unit Rates:
1.   The PMU is costed on the basis of local individual
contracts.
2.   The financial assistance to LGLA, NRC, and the municipali-
ties is costed on the basis of international rates. An ef-
fort would be made to use local firms for these tasks, with
the expectation that the! rates charged would be significant-
ly lower than the amount budgeted.
1/        The MWH would provide office space, normal recurrent supplies
(stationery, etc.) and clerical and other support staff (drivers,
messengers, etc.) for the PMLI as a local cost contribution. The
estimated cost of these services is not shown in this table.



52
KMN
SEODNDARY TIWNS .PRfJECT                            Annex 2
FlIW CF FUlND'S                                Chart 3
World Barik
Financing,                      Min:Lstry of
GCK Counter-
part Funds
PRIVATE  l
DEVELOPER      l                                                         _
lT _E  NMr*                             LRLA** _
JoINr       (X1jU~TrY                     INErASIRUC-          OJNSRUCIGON T 
V~~NflJRE  FACILITIES                   lURE               INDIVIDUAL BID1MI'ES
*NW = an site infrastructure, construction loans ex-1udirg private developer.
* IGA = off site infratructure, cammanity facilitie, financial arnd project management
support.
= budgetary authority.



NYA 9fNYRY 1W FM                                              krrc 2
EfIIoj    CASH FID                                        TA,le 4
(KIW '000)
1983-
1993          1983      1984       1985      1986       1987      1988       1939      1980       1991      1992       1993
SO= (F UNDS
Bwk IVan c clt                355,4(0        12,583    98,867   131,407   19,527        13,016     -
GX x Otrihtim                  25,953           -         -         -         -         15,958    9,998
Private Deor                   8=               -       100    2),000    20D            2D,OO     10.000
smaxL              471,353        12,583    M,867   151,4W    129,57        48,974    19,99
Y       PWdaY1pe)u            196,857           -         -         -        1,382       1,113   11,665    25,597    37,89    39,775    40,"9         40,8)9
1MeabP4 t OD
RKC  (NE)                    5D,205           -         -        4,435      9,513     10,041   10,041     10,041     5,606        52       -
TaIPL          718,415        12,583   106,867   155,862    939,040      50,128   41,701    35,63B    42,695    40,303    40,809    40,8"
AWPIJf))(1 CF RUI6
ElbzUt (1niliz   MiE)         2i2,i16        1,686    44,33)    65,733    56,5         31,1 'I  
Kitale                         18,SU           175     6 511      7,932     9,89)        -        -
Nmi                            Sb,23)         1,163    2A,2)9    35,583    21,970        8,007    4,298
a28A,636                                        33)      3,315     8,442    10,8         3,752     1,908
Thlka                          73,863         6,149    27,707    21,229      18,778      4,121      882
C(tmd l       -m   Agraes      43,WC          3,00      8,795    12,48B    11,430        6,C43    1,164
SlJKtUL            471,353        12,583   106,867   151,407    1,527       48,974   19,998
Det Sevie tD Germnt           193,219           -         -           -         -        1,093   11,449    15,122    36,4(1    39,638    40,053    40,053
TOL                664,562        12,583   1C8,67   151,407    129,527       50,067   31,444    25,122    35,4C1      398       40,053    40,053
9SEWE (Deficit)                53,53            -         -        4,435      9,513     10,061    10,257    1D,516     6,24       1,355       756        756
aMLgeA   SR1us (Oflit)    53,853                -         -        4,435     13,948     24,ncO    34,356    44,782    51,076    52,341    53,097    53,853



9TPY fM RtnFrT
FVY9qi2ANML  TMII WA7!T(I1 RHF1ThF
(Kq,n)   a        a-        1, 19FB
Y      193          1984          198I          1985          19M          198i          1916         1987          1987          19R3         'rlA
m     7-12           1-6          7-12           1-6          7-12           1-6          7-12           1-6         7-12           1-6
A.10  a
WdM ad   Egirmeri                     186           188                                                                                                                          376
9      {-Asi-                                                    100           in            100           100                                                                  4
(brstnxtixl                                                     1,345         1,110)       2,,000        4,001)        2,0OD                                                 10,345
Etjsica1 Oktin Es,                     19            19          145    110                  210           410           20k                                                   1,113
RlB-ltiAL                             2)7           2)7         1,590        1,210         2,310         4,510         2,200                                                  12,234
A.10 1(anihji
Deigi aid Rgi xg                       2)                                                                                                                                         2)
Lexrvision                                           25           45                                                                                                              20
CAxitnxon                                           600          600                                                                                                           1,200
Rrhsical 0htixwrr1s                     2            62           64
aJB-1t1ThL                             22          687                                                                                                                         1,418
AdO Ilum Mrymderi
DeIp  ad  Iline-ig1                          inX   X                                                                                                                            2)0
9jrdsion                                                          500            5            sn            sn            65                                                     265
Oxstrxtion                                                      1,240        1,240         1,240         1,240         1,240                                                   6,2nn
Py1cal Oort en                         10            10           129          1D            129           123           181                                                    717
Sl,-                                  1K!           1 n)       1,419        1,419         1,419         1,419         1I,486                                                 7,182
A.10  Kla(
Digs  ad EbainrrierL                  60            60           ff4                                                                                                            180
&4vrvisict                                                        50            50            sn            s4                                                                   T4
aistnirucrl                                                     I,1f         1,.0)        1 ,           2,118                                                                 5,1 18
B.10  1idIing 1mE                                                                                            144         1,5(0         1,5(X)        1,9(X         1,50n        6,144
Ptysical    ir ri.es                   6                        AD            105           105           2171                                                          |        9
|  SzEL                         66           66   1    1,220          1,155 ~~661,15              2,533      1 50   1,500                   1_,Col5(n      so1         12.15             1|
A.10 ( d       RI I    I
DLs   ad  glgin irC                                                           100           100(                                                                                21                 
& 94-visi-                l  l              l             l                                                      12k0    2no1          167                                      0567 
I(ctnr1tiDm                                                                                              3,O01         3,000         3,024                                     9,024
f ca Ca1      gefry                                                             10            10           32D           32)           319                                       979
R A 0 Offsit                                                                   1,000 |         778                                                                               1,778
9J~0AL                    l  l              l                                1,110           889         3,520         3,52)         3,510                                    12,548



Y      19M3          19e           1984         196           1f            198           1985          19P7          1987          19M          T1,1
M     7-12           1-6          7-12           1-6          7-12           1-6          7-12           1-6          7-12           1-6
A.10 IQE Jc    V<en
tESB ad F4Ew;i  1,
RVervision
Oxtnurtln                                        7,(X)         7,OM          8,OO1)        8,00          3,0)9                                                                33,(V5
R10  h1lldtlrg Imrs                                              10,00         10,0010       D0O           10,1tD)       10,111)       10,l,o        10,00)        10,0(0        8),00O
AWsical G txir ni                                   250           250           250           250           3r9                                                                 1,10
SJB-7=L                                           7,250        17,250        18,250        18,250        13 ,4Q(       10,00        10,0(M        10(0W         10,()0()     114,4(04
C.10 (O- Air 1hriet
ervision             )                                8             8             8             8                                                                                  32
Qxtnxtion                                            75            75            75            86                                                                                 311
Riy5s1ca1 Qrt( hii                                   10            10            10            11                                                                                  41
9JB-1TXL                                             93            93            93           105                                                                                 38
D.10 Pdmay Silf1s
4p ad HEired)
& 9dr                 )                             119           119           119           12)                                                                                 477
Ccnstnxtio                                        1,99D         1,590         1,I'm         1,59D                                                                               6,360              U,
Eolial attiri    -                                  171           171           171           171                                                                                 6gs
WPML                                              1m            I'mD          I' ,Fe 1,D    1,8                                                                                 7 ,521
D.10 lIlth O(rer
DIsigi ad EFgin
aw-isi-                                 a~     ~~~~~) 21           3)            3619
9sviion                                                                                       2D02n 86
orstruction                      .                  250           250           250)          4no                                                                                1,150
R         Oxtiaies                                  27            27            27            431                                                                                124
S1B-'1ULL                                           297           297           297           469                                                                                1,36
E.10, E20 Ftupnert
DeLd   ad RgLnering
9txton
PyIsical 0xtin iest
SUE.)                               I      1,100         1,100         1,100l                                                                                                   4,40
Lpigl auh Erkg
9itusLon                                                                                                                                                                                 {
kbysicnl cbrtI~tlas                                                                                                                                                                          Qi
SJ-IF1UD L                                          442           43D           43D           43)           430           430 2)592                                                          I. 3, 
T lIPL                                  1,505        12,132        25,988        25,944        26,907        25,816        19,135        15,010        11,50)        11,5(X)      176,433 16
p     Price j tk de3 2/,               181         2,265         3,945  J      5,423         6,4T          6,959         4,659         3,657         1,005          1,125   r 3,67
GRAND ICML                            1,686        14,397       29,933        32,367        33,366        32,775        23,7$5        18,667        12,505        12,625   [  212,116
1/   Design, engineering  and  supervision  cost on RHE  Joint venture  included  in  construction  cost.
27 Price contingency not included on building loans for RHF joint venture.



RSGN1  1".M PjrT
PHSIAIFDX            DHIMTC   aFlI
llT!LE
(K}W(X)) CC9S- JqntwIv 1, 19S3
PFOR9_                  19y1 1983 IcC4                               S   19E5 1985                   1986   9f             1987          1QR.7         198TOA
_4     7-12           1-6           7-12           1            7-12           1-6          7-12            1-6          7-12           1-6
A.10ar Falm
Desigr a-d E&lnewing                                  50            so10
9 4   )                                                     ~~~     ~     ~~~      ~    ~~~      ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~100  100  LSO  L50                            500
(aLxi                                                                          2,500         2,400         2,50W          3,000                                                   10,40D
A4ysical  (xmeie                                       5             5           130           250           255            315                                                    1,100
L         _            _                            ss            ss         2,-O          2,750           ,            3,465                                                   12,10
E3O   t _  __ _  _ 
Coritnxton
SUB-TIAL                               156           156           156           LS6           156            156           156                                                    1 ,(2
T    _                  _         156           211           211          3,()l6        2,9(1         3,()71        3,621                                                   13,192           | 
Priae tYrt6                   ~~     ~~19   33             Sl           35         1,075         1,351         1,8/47                                                   5,316v;
amN  1MIL                               175           249           262         3,951         3,981         4,422         5,46                                                     18.,9         @-



PHYSINRIG   IM1B4NrATIl SIfE7U
NWJ
(Ki'VOM) MwsM  Jamry 1, 1983
Y     1983          1984         198'          195          1985         195           1985          1987         1987          1988        TIL
M     7-12           1-6         7-12           1-6         7-12          1-6          7-12          1-6          7-12           1-6
A.10 PRga
Dedig  ad HgL-rir-g                   45                                                                                                                                     45
a-d jTervision                                     45                                                                                                                        45
CaQtructkz                                                      650          650                                                                                          1,310
B.2) bteria1s 1IB                                                              900          90O                                                                             1 X())
fbYsj   Caltiqwtiia                    4            4            65           65                                                                                            133
R}-lU}L                               49           49           715        1,615           COO                                                                            3,2
AMB Rexrd
IIi a-d FbLrUFg                      65                                                                                                                                     65
&4eMsion                                           90            50                                                                                                         100
Comtnxrion                                                    1,103        1,103                                                                                          2,2 N
Rcal Ctiiwrr-                         6             5           115          II)                                                                                            2
qtgllXl                    ~    ~ ~~~ ~~71  55      1;21 68       1,213                                                                                         2#)7
A.10 Mwrid Far.
Dien aid ir      g                                 9                                                                                                                         9
&WXVIsi-                     1                                   75           75            75           75                                                                 3tl
Corstrutiarn                                                  1,321        1,321         1,321        1,321                                                               5 ,294
PtyusLl Ca xtinories                               10           140          140           140          140                                                                 57)
SR11}WIAL                                         106         1 ,536       1 ,536        1 ,536       1,536                                                               6 ,250
A.10  crack
Dffin and af4Lart                    225          225                                                                                                                       450
U-Visi-n                                                        225     2 5                225          225                                                                 90.
(Xr;trution                                                   3,(0C        3,000         6,000 |    6,000                                                                18,000
LMo  benrials IELmr|    2,456                                                                                        2,456         2,256        2,456         2,456        12,20~
Sh-A1   btig  2t4 72                                          3,5322        3                                                                                             1,532 
JB-IAL                   l247   1                 247   1    3,547   1    3,547   1    6,84+7   1     9,303 6      2,456         2,456         2,456        2,456        33,56Z
AX2 RaeLtrak off-site                                                                                                                                                                         j r
DEiEp and E gLieeg                   142                                                                                                                                    142
9on W                        1             1      100           100                                                                                                                 2k'tl1 
XEtrUxtiDon                                     2,(XO         2,567                                                                                                       4,567
Psa1   (bxtinFmciAe                   14          210           267                                                                                                         491
SUB-MAL                              156        2,310         2,934                                                                                                       9 40



.1 19lF3            19P4          198/4         1            1             19ff I                     1987          1987          1988        TOJW
M     7-12           1-6          7-12          1-6          7-12           1-6         7-12           1-6          7-12           1-6
C.10  ifets
Desig  ard RgLri-T,
Su*visi-                                           137           L8            137          133                                                                                55(1
Cas5trucion                                        790           791         1,500        1 ,5(X)                                                                            4,581
Ptyscal CrtkW=es                                    93            93            93           93                                                                                372
SJ&IUAL                                          1 ,020        1 ,022        1,73D        1 ,731                                                     ..5,5(B
C, lDnrry Pak
LW- a-d 1        Egi-rg
3irisrl                                             30            3D           40                                                                                              100
Cnrstr'ixion                                       40)           400           529                                                                                           1,329
E6Acal OxttIirri                                    52            52            68                                                                                             172
SUB-ITL                                            482           482           637                                                                                           1,601
D-AW and FRineirg
9       nervisi-                                                               47            61                                                                                1(B
CAOytnution                                                                    30           510                                                                                90
8iyaical (httrpri-                                                             44            57                                                                                101
RNB11ML                                                                       481           628                                                                               ,1, 
DEsigpai arg Lnirg.
SuTevision                                                                     1n0          In0           165                                                                  365
Corstrtutimon                                                                I,(M         I ,(1         1,040                                                                3,040
ftsical Cortiries                                                              if)          110           M21                                                                  34t0
JB-TJIAL                                                                    1,210        1,210         1,325                                                               -A,745
E.10, EZ)  &pipt           Tl
Desi    "  Rgineerin
akVsion
Castr=onx2t
Aical  C)rtingemi         I
SUIU1OAL                                         1,000         2,0X0)         70)                                                                                            3,700
E.30 lbr%ment
D-sigi ad F1xgir-zi
&4|  vion
1~ ica1 0tinii                I            1             I                          I             I             I            I             I             I             I             I
SB'1)AL                             515           515           515          515           515           517                                                                V            m 3.2t- > 4
TULAL                                1,038        5,784-.      14,019.0      13,184.0     13,367        12,681.0       2,456        2,456                       2,496        60,897.0 1    
Price CotiWrmy                          125        1,041         3,365        4,(087        4,945         5,50)        1,253         1,449         1,646         1,842        25,333
(R4DA1  |TOW                          1,163        6,825        17,384       17,271      1IP,312         18,261        3,709         3,905         4,102         4,298        95,2    t



FS     [    GJFN~1I UfY;NUP3I(N RIfILF.
(ti'0(f)  (tS1J r-v1 , 1983
Y      1983         198k           19            1968          1985          1986          1986          1987          1987          19F8        TIIAL
N      7-12           1-6          7-12           1-6          7-12           1-6          7-12           1-6          7-12           1-6
A.10 Kimara/Rmuri Yak
DeiW  and  -irmiring                    75           75             75            75                                                                                                30)
Suervision                                                                                      30            31            31                                                      92
Cmstrxtion                                                                                   1,046         1,570         2,616                                                    5,232
B.10 Mterials 1Tr                                                                                            1,091         1,091         1,091         1,091         1,09()        5,454
Eiwsical Cat-ir ries                    8             8             8             8            109           160           265                                                      565
SUI}AL                                83            83             83            83         1,184         2,852         44,03         1,091         1,091         1,C93         11,643
A.10   ji
D-im  aid Hi eng                        5)           50                                                                                                                            1InO
9ovision                                                            50            50            44                                                                                  144
Cor nu!tim                                                        F              830         1,649                                                                                3,249
B. 10 aterials Lkis                                                 272           272           272                                                                                  816
Etysical (ntmineies                     5             5             83           85            168                                                                                 34R
SjB-IOIAL                              55            55          1,207         1,37          2,133                                                                               4,657
A.1 LU   iwrfw
esi,en a;d                             2)                                                                                                                                            A) 2)
9jervisofn                                            8              8                                                                                                               16
CTrstructtin                                         742           241                                                                                                              4R3
B.10 ttrerials TnLs                                                               235         - 23            235                                                                    70
PlysicaL OCat1ngeries                   2            25             25                                                                                                               52
ajb-KU]AL                              22           275           274            23a           236           2365                                                                 1,279
C.1() mre
DeigT ad  wL-irg
94-vMsic                                                            29            29            29                                                                                   87
Co0sxtrxution                                                      333           333           383                                                                                1,149
Hysical  xltinr=Es                                                 41             41           41                                                                                   123
SJB ITUAL                                    l                    453            453           453                                                                                1,359
E.30    ent                              K135          135           135           135           135           135           135           123                                     1if68
Dsigi ad EagerLrg
9on                            I sion
AlscaD     Gatio   lrw r-a                                                                                                                                                                           q Ito 143 
ASUBiUA                                135!  l                                                                                                               liD1 t.- t-j
s  R3BIML       g  1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L 135                 135      1 135              135   1      135 1 1.       3             123                                     1,068   1          oIt  x4
l  l  l   l   l           l             l             I             I             I              |             e             t             I          o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0ult
0                            |  1        295           581A        2,152         2,114         4,141         3,223         4,133         1,214          ip            I'M  1(3     2n,CM    {F
Prc Go LiwWr eg                                r        99   |       516   |       655   |     1,532   |     1,41R   |     2,110   |       716   |        731           pi Rt8 ,63f   {
C R^Nl 1nOM                              339   |       f+7   |     2,Wf.         2,769 0 |     5,67.3   |    4,641   |     6,240          1,9 W-        1,822   |      ,C)T         R63 



DEAE
('()00)  mDs Jaury 1, 1983
Y      1983         198&         198           1985          1985         19%           1986         1987          1q87         1988         11L
M     7-12           1-6         7-12           1-6         7-12           14          7-12           1-6          7-12          1-6
A.10 R1tal 9 and 10
Figi ad  rin ,                                     35
aq nrvisi                                                        20           3)                                                                                              40
Cbrstnxtion                                                     4(0           a(Xn                                                                                         1,0(X
R10  Hlindirg ID                                                                           2,(Y)        2,0(X)        1,520                                                 5,520
Pftsical Oxiriries                                 4            42           62                                                                                             1(
SUB-UDXL                                           3            462           6i2        2,0(X)       2,0(X)        1,520                                                 6,703
A.10 IL ('xpnati
fAigi adl FiffLg                                                                                                                                                                                    0
matrucion                                                     2,W0         2,)          2,8)0         2,800        2,800                                                 14,0(D
MPF'C{IS1x=,                                                     n        3        0        w           23G           &Um                                                  1 ,400
SUJX1JAL                                                      3,010         3,08)        342           3,0(X        3,09D                                                 15,400
A.10 Kiau
Deig  aid R eirig
servision                                         109           109                                                                                                         218
PlariLng, 9ies
a-d cemzxation                                   1,450        1,450                                                                                                       2,900
Ptysical Crtir,ries                                156            6                                                                                                          312
SJMIAL                                           1,715        1                                  I                                                       ___1_            3,4_
AX Of-site lfras-aure                                                                        _
1LIgP ard Favnair xv                               3r)           30                              I
aipevision                                                                    24                                                                                             24
Gocrtnr-tim)                                                    5W   |        W SH1 2n 
R sical Crtingrries                                 3            9                                                 9                                                        121
SI 9W                         1L                     33           ( 09         6 3                                                                                                 1,3    1
~~~~BLIJrAI.~~~~~~~~~~~ _9                                                                                       e
Ex3 IacistiT Sites ard
Services
IDeai ard Froeni          III
Supervision
Caistructon                                                                         I
BLxEldtrg3Loors                     4,4C00       4.400         4 4,4X               1lll                                                                                  13,200   1        h
EPhystcal C(xtb-tin   e              404 )         40           440                                                                                                        1,32n)         '0
SJEIAL                            4_840        4,840        _4,PO                                                                                                        14,520



1983            1984          198'4         19E5           1985          1985          ] 985         1987          1987           1988 3
HUM                 L_                                                                        
M      7-t17          1-6          7-12           1-6          7-12           1-6          7-12            1-6          7L-12          1-6
C.10 kdts
Dei  "Hher-                                                     12                                                                                                               124
!prsion                                                                          124           124           124                                                                     372
Casnictnion                                                      1 ,652        1 ,653        1,652           1653                                                                  6,610
AWi-1  (brtL-Wi-                                                   213           213           213           213                                                                    852
SLE                                                              1 ,983        1,990         1,9Rq         I,99@                                                                   7 ,958
C-T R1s & lor-rY RUI(S
Dsim "d LV*ag
9wrvisio                                                            30)           31            25                                                                                    85
Constuiction                                                       258           25i3          2t                                                                                    715
frysica1 (]artirgeris                                               28 9                 23     2                                                                                     70
SOMA                                                               311           311           257                                                                                   P;79
9uPorian                                                                                        47            48                                                                      95
Constnction                                                                                    39.5          400                                                                     795                    a
Hycal Ca(iarAs                                                                                  44            45                                                                      89
SFIUPzL                                                                de~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~46  493                                                      979
Corstrumion
SULT%                                                80          1,000                                                                                                             1.850
D-igi aOn Ry-irrI 
9one.vi ion
Constnxtion                                                                                                                                                                                t
Ebyscal Obntin2rAies       1l1 tF
%JR-TM,                                6T    65r)    6sn          6fi5                  65n    6             6.S%                                                                  3,9  1       o4i
.                               5,490         8,127         14,6S5         7,356         8,462         8,217         4,070                                                    56,W            u 
|Pri ae CortkWerries                      659   |        ,4(13   | 3,421   |      2,9w          3,131   |     3,615         2,34w                                                    16,915 | 
GM ad    UTAL                                                                                  11 |9 6,149  9 '990   | 18,117   | 9,636   |    153 | 1,F832   6,46                  7 l  861  



CML  aWER  AGES
WO00) (XSrS Jany 1, 1983
Y     19e3         1984          1984         1985         1985         19%           1986         l9R7         19R7         1988         TIAL
M     7-12          1-6          7-12          1-6         7-12          1ti         7-12           1-6         7-12          1-6
1.                                  1,250         'O0           C6           700           750          511t         75n          -I            750         ff)          7,65()
2. IXaA                             1,500        1,500         I,(K^0       1,n(oo                                                                                       5J)
3. NE                                                           45n                 .                                                                                     450        
4.91SUMSE
-',,, Flti,-,C %4tJv60                                        gn, t t 1,00)          1,(ll )    1',m       n    I,(M         I,/w)                                   6,640
13. Piicipal hnao-                                                       90            w            COO          9.5                                                 3,fiO
C. llrban hirsps-rt                                         300          310Q          3rX           3-O                                                             1,200)
D. U}rban In%ctnp
PSarrrarg                                                   ~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~1,200  I J10  1 ,2m  I,"X                         4,FM
5. KISLill FIMMAL ASSIS                                                                                                                                                                n t2s m
IE                                                           500        1,00D          550                                                                           2,05()       'IO t- >
UFL                             2,750        3,040         4,200        4,900        4,700        3,900        3,850         2,70()         75()         fWl        31 ,390        ti,
_~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                                 I     1. 
HI(:E (MIOC                       330          547         I,O(B        1,519        1,369        1,716         1,964        1,971          622          56         11,610 
(RA  TUA                           3,080)       3,587        5,203        6,419         6,069        5,616   |    5.814   |    4,671         1 i372       1,164       43,().f0 '



63
ANNEX 2
Table 6
KENYA SECONDARY TOWNS PROJECT
Table 6: Procurement Arrangements
(US$ Millions)
Total
Not          Base
Project Element                         ICE      LCB       Applicable       Cost
On site infrastructure                           10.24                      10.24
(9.73)                     (9.73)
Off site infrastructure                           0.59                       0.59
(0.56)                     (0.56)
Design, engineering and
supervision                                      0.71                        0.71
(0.67)                     (0.67)
Markets                                           1.00                       1.00
(0.95)                     (0.95)
Lorry parks and bus terminals                    0.16                        0.16
(0.14)                     (0.14)
Workshops                                        0.14                        0.14
(0.13)                     (0.13)
Community Facilities                             0.84                        0.84
(0.65)                     (0.65)
Financial EDP equipment               0.16                                   0.16
(0.16)                                (0.16)
Maintenance equipment                 0.63                                   0.63
(0.6C0)                               (0.60)
Technical assistance and                          1.88                       1.88
studies                                         (1.88)                      (1.88)
Project unit support                                             0.93        0.93
(local authorities)                                             (0.93)      (0.93)
Program Management Unit                                          0.61        0.61
(0.61)      (0.61)
Construction loans
- residential and small                                        3.64        3.64
enterprise                                                 (3.46)       (3.46)
- private sector                                               6.35        6.35
(-)         (-)
0.79      15.56          11.53       27.88
(0.76)   (14.71)          (5.0)      (20.47)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts. financed by the
Bank/IDA.



64
Annex 2
Table 7
KENYA SECONDARY TOWNS PROJECT
Table 7: Estimated Scheduling of Disbursements
Fiscal                  Semester            Cumulative           % Cumulative
Year                     Ending           Disbursements          Disbursements
(US$ millions)       (US$ millions)
1984  12/83               3.00                   3.00                  10.3
06/84              0.06                   3.06                  .10.6
1985  12/84              0.72                   3.78                   13.0
06/85              1.32                   5.10                   17.6
1986  12/85               1.83                  6.93                   23.9
06/86              2.35                   9.28                   32.0
1987  12/86              3.02                  12.30                   42.4
06/87              3.09                  15.39                   53.0
1988  12/87               3.23                 18.62                   64.2
06/88              3.07                  21.69                   74.8
1989  12/88               2.82                 24.51                   84.5
06/89              2.52                  27.03                   93.2
1990  12/89              0.66                  27.69                   95.5
06/90              0.67                  28.36                   97.8
1991  12/90              0.64                  29.00                  100.00



KENYA
SECONDARY TOOWNS PROJECT
Table 8:  Aggregate Cost Recovery       (KSh'000)
DIRECT COST RECOVERY                          REVENUE CODNTRIBUTIONS
Base         Total                            %                             %       Central         %
Component                  Cost         Percent      Plot charges       Cost     Local Authority       Cost    Government    Cost
Base Cost     and User Rates               General Revenues             Revenues
A. Servicing Ur-             142,975         40.7            137,971         96.5           5,004            2.12
ban Land
B. Construction and
Materials Loans          125,922         35.8            125,922        100
C.  Income and Busi-          17,943          5.1             17,943        100
ness Support
D. Conuqunity Faci-
lities                    11,478          3.2                                          11,478          100
F.  Project Manage-           21,698          6.2                                          21,698          100
ment Support to
Local Authorities
C.  Project Support           31,390          9.0                                                                       31,390      100
to Central
Government
TOTAL                    351,406        100.0           281,836          80.2          38,180           10.9        31,390        8.9
0DX



66
Annex 2
Table 9
KENYA SECONDAIRY TOWNS PROJECT
FINANCIAL IMPACT ON TOWNS
(KSh' 000)
Eldoret     Kitale       Nakuru       Nyeri      Thika
Investment               90,794      12,092       65,545      18,918    52,667
Outlays
Annual Debt
Service I/               10,637       1,417        7,679       2,216      6,170
Less: Direct Recovery
from plot charges
and user fees             8,616       1,289        5,912       2,083      5,368
Balance of Debt
Service to be
Identified from
General Revenues
Plus:                     2,021         128        1,767         133        802
Recurrent and Main-
tenance Costs Attribu-
table to Towns               90           0          788           0         56
Equals: Required Con-
tribution from General
Municipal Revenues        2,111          125       2,555         133        858
Total Municipals
Revenues
Without Project 2/       29,400      16.,700      58,000      12,760    35,320
Required Revenue
Contributions as
% of total revenues
without project             7.0%        0.8%         4.4%         1%       2.4%
1/    Assuming 27 year loan at 11.25% interest.
2/    Based on estimated 1982 total revenues.



KENYA: SECONDARY TOWNS PROJECT
Table 10: Affordability Calculation
Minimum
Minimum Income       Income Level                       Percentage
Level for            as Percentile       Number of    of House-
Estimated Monthly      which rent is         Urban Income        Households   holds in
Type of Components           Rental Range 1/        Affordable 2/         Distribution 3/    Served          Project
I.    Site and Service             KSh 250-400,            KSh 1000-1600        40th-65th               4500          15%
Development on               depending on                                 percentile
Public Land                  level of services
II.   Servicing of
Private land
a.  Partial  Servicing      KSh 100-150             KSh 400-600           lOth-15th             13,000          45%
percentile
b. TMCECS
Cooperative
Venture                 KSh 400                 KSh 1600             65th percentile          500            2%
III.  Upgrading of
Existing Settlements         KSh 40-100             KSh 160-400           5th to 10th             7500          26%
percentile
IV.   Eldoret
Joint Venture               KSh 500                 KSh 2000              75th percentile         1500           5%
V.    Construction Loans
in Existing Site and
Service areas               KSh 400                 k>Sh 1600             65th percentile         2000           7%
TOTAL                                                                                                 29,000         100%
1/ As observed for similar housing and including utility charges.
2/  Assuming households can afford 25% of their income for housing, services and recurrent utility charges.
3/  Using an income distribution developed for Nakuru and representative of other 4 proiect towTs.



S AN) 8 T  SlEFAN AIN RINMIC ROMv OF 1WM104
YDiR (F II-             RIUIV                      CID             RE         IIN)                                     IARK       lAlE                                   X     U             3                )D
PI1M         IAAS   MIIBH           KIIIREN     vi' 1D             r ViIUME   F4   1N(   KRIM    RAM3                    FAR4   9WI           MUEWJ    K113    5v Al Rv ( YAXThF                              C
(1)       (2)         (3)          (4)             (5)         (6)      (7)       (8)         (9)        (10)       (11)        (12)       (13)             (14)             (15)             (1-15)
1           215        114          69                                    12,583       51       74         257                     86       4,843       23             4,576                 0            22,891
2         1,869      1,583       1,337                       26,416          629      795    2,638       3,946      1,708          173      1,242      571             9,673             3,203             55,790
3         5,529      2,951       3,7A0          2,078        39,1(           629    2,615       136     16,517     3,195         1,493        242      491             2,789            11,T88             92,9)4
4         6,978      3,021       4,194          7,322        24,340          629      173       136     17,936      1,597        7,129        242      245              3,661            11,398            89,001
5           730        39.       3,12)          3,650        28,8M3          629      173       136     23,045       325         2,269        242       66              1,033              831             57,403
6           730        334       1,560           652         10,403          629      173       11       2,554       315         1,134        242       66              1,033              831             2D,819
7           733        3>4         701           652          5,5            618      173       136      2,357       325           614        242       66              1,033              81              14,431
8           731        334         701           652          5,589          629      173       136      2,357       325          614         242       66              1,033              831             14,431
9-25         739        3r4         701           652          5,5g8          629      173       131      2,357       325          614        242        66             1,033               831             14,431
1            0          0            0             0             0            0         0        0          0          0            0          0         0                 0                 0                 0
2             0          0           0             0             0         2,160        0      316           0         0            0       1,041        0                 0                 0              3,547
3             0          0           0             0          6,232        2,160        0       524     12,366         0            0       1,041        0                 0                 0            22,323
4             0          0           0             0         12,465        2,160      900      524       6,933         0            0       1,041        0             3,033              1,977            29,033
5         1,9)         879       1,013          1,121        18,693        2,1I3      9C0       24      10,505     1,815         1,542      1,041        0             6,066             3,95              52,186
6         3,840      1,758       2,026         2,256         24,930        2,160      900      524      10,S5(     3,630        2,337       1,041      219             9,190             5,99D             71,325
7         5,760      2,664       3,072          3,423        24,933        2,160      90       524      10,505     5,5          2,337       1,041      478             9,193             5,990             78,471
8         7,683      2,664       3,072          3,42)        24,93D        2,160     9D        524      10,505     5,500        2,337       1,041      478             9,190             5,993             83,391
9         9,60)      2,664       3,072          3,420        24,933        2,130      930      524      10,505     5,5C0        2,337       1,041      478             9,190             5,99)             82,311
10-25      9,603      2,664       3,072         3,42)        24,93)        2,160       9O       524      10,505     5,503        2,337      1,041       478             9,190             5,993            82,311
ERR          29         2)          14            18            17           12        a)       16          2)        34           14          13       18                26                17                20
Gats +1CrD )
BnFlts-31C)   26            16          10            14            12            8        15       11          16        33           10         10        15                24                13                15



69                          Annex 2
Table 11 (2)
KENYA SECONDARY T'OWNS PROJECT
Economic Analysis Calculation
Costs
1.        Costs used are January 1983, net of taxes calculated at 4% of
base costs.
2.        Shadow price of foreign exchange taken as 1.12.
3.        Annual operation and maintenance are 5% of investment costs.
4.        Plhysical contingencies included in the costs amount to 10% of
infrastructure costs.
Benefits
Current rents on similar housing in the same municipality used to
estimate incremental benefits.
Langas
2,000 plots, 4 households (HH) per plot, 8,000 HH. KSh 100
rental per HH per month.
Huruma/Mwiyenderi
555 plots, 4 HH per plot, 2,220 HH. KSh 100 rental per HH per
month.
Kipkaren
512 plots, 2 HH per plot, 1,140 HH. KSh 250 rental per HH pr
month.
Old Uganda Road
570 plots, 2 HH per plot, 1,140 HH. KSh 250 rental per HH per
month.
RHE Joint Venture
831 plots, 2 HH per plot. Owner spends 30% of his income and has
two tenants at KSh 500 each per month. Monthly income owner estimated at
KSh 5,000.
Tuwani Farm
500 plots, 6 HH per plot, 2,000 HH. KSh 60 rental per month.



70
Annex 2
Table 11 (3)
Pangani
300 plots, 1 additional HH per plot, 300 HH. KSh 250 rental per
HH per month.
Bondeni
91 plots, 8 HH per plot, 728 HH. KSh 40 rental per HH per month.
Mwariki Farm
764 plots, 4 HH per plot, 3,056 HH. KSh 150 rental per HH per
month.
Kiawara/Shauri Yako
257 total plots; 217 resiclential, 40 workshops. 3 HH per
residential plot, 651 HH. KSh 250 rental per HH per month. Workshop site
and building rent KSh 800 per month.
Majengo
136 plots, 8 HH per plot, 1,088 HH. KSh 80 rental per HH per
month.
Kingongo
59 plots, 2 HR per plot, 118 HH. KSh 250 rental per HH per
month.
Existing Sites and Services (Includes rental 9 and 10)
851 plots, 2 HH per plot, 1,702 HH. KSh 400 rental per HH per
month.
TMC Cooperative
312 plots, 2 HH per plot, 624 HH under project. KSh 400 rental
per HH per -month. 624 HH additional at 16,000 per HH (32,000 per plot),
rental 400 per month per household.
Racetrack
743 total plots, of which 178 sale plots @ KSh 50,000 each, 535
residential plots, 2 HH per plot financed undner project, KSh 400 per HH
per month, 2 HH per plot financed from private capital at cost of 16,000
per HH, 32,000 per plot, rental 400 per month per household. 30 workshops
@ KSh 600 per month.



KENYA SECONDARY TOWNS PROJECT                                       Annex 2
Table 12
Table 12: Project Reporting
REPORTS        FREQUENCY      CONTENT                                      RESPONSIBILITY             REVIEW
PROGRESS       Quarterly      1.  Status of contract implementation.    Local authority or            PMU
REPORT         (Within        2.  Indicators of physical progress.         NHC (Nyeri, Kitale)
(for           3 weeks        3.  Status of financial administra-
each           after end          tion (disbursements, material
town)         of each             loans, cost recovery etc.)
quarter.)      4.  Projected financial commitments
for next 4 quarters.
5. Key issues affecting implementa-
tion for local discussion or
referral to Technical Steering                                                                                             .
Committee.
PROJECT        Quarterly      1.  Key indicators of project                PMU                        Technical Steering Committee,
STATUS         (Within 6          status.                                                             Bank referral of outstanding
REPORT         weeks after   2.  Key issues for discussion.                                           issues to Interministerial
end of each   3.  Summary of special studies.                                          Review Committee.
quarter.)      4.  Review of financial status
SPECIAL        As re-         Will provide more detailed follow-           Evaluation Unit of         Technical Steering
STUDIES       quired.        up on issues identified in progress           MWH                        Committee.
and status reports. May provide
comparative analysis of a topic across
towns or may involve a more in depth
analysis of project implementation in
one town.



72                         Annex 3
Page 1
KENYA SECONDARY TOWNS PROJECT
Annex 3: LOCAL AUTHORITY PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
1.        Eldoret Municipal Council (EMC).  EMC is well-staffed technically
and has been carrying out a variety of capital schemes, including current
projects in water supply and slaught,erhouse and market construction. EMC
manages a housing stock of approximately 2,000 units and has recently
completed a large site and service development, which was implemented by
NHC. Because Eldoret has the largest problem of unplanned housing deve-
lopment of all the towns included in the Secondary Towns Project, as well
as having the highest expected growthl rate because of its sound employment
base, the project will focus on the Large-scale servicing of urban land at
a reduced standard of service. Implementation will be managed by a project
team led by a senior administrative officer, who will be recruited in the
Town Clerk's Department on a three-year contract basis. In addition, the
project team will include an assistant municipal engineer, a community
development organizer, and a surveying assistant on a full-time basis.
These positions and that of the senior administrative officer will be
financed by the project for a period of three years only. EMC will provide
office space and additional support staff as required (e.g., draftsmen,
building foremen, community development assistants, secretaries, and
messengers) and will cover the salariLes of the support staff and the
operating expenses of the project team from general revenues (to be
recovered from plot charges and user fees). All final design and engi-
neering will be carried out by consu]Ltants appointed by EMC, and all civil
works will be tendered to contractors.
2.        Nakuru Municipal Council (NMC).  The NMC has established a
Housing Project Unit (HPU) under the council's Department of Social
Services and Housing, which is already staffed with a project coordinator,
engineer, and architect. The project will provide salary support for these
positions for a three year period, and the permanent position of community
development organizer will be added to the HPU and likewise financed by the
project. The services of a valuer will be financed for a two-year period
to assist the municipality in preparing a supplemental property valuation
roll. Because of a shortage of office accommodations in the city hall, the
project will finance rental office space for a three-year period, with NMC
providing a revenue contribution for operating expenses and support staff.
NMC has carried out a variety of capital projects in the past, and no
problems of implementation are forese!en.
3.        Thika Municipal Council (TMC).  The TMC administetrs a number of
site and service developments, most of which were constructed by NHC.
However, 40% of the sites in these areas have not been developed because
of inadequate materials loan funds. The largest component of the TMC
project will consist of materials loans to stimulate development of these
sites. TMC will form a project team to implement its components, and



73                          Annex 3
Page 2
project funds will be provided for the following staff for a period of
three years: assistant town clerk (project coordinator), assistant
muncipal engineer, principal social welfare officer, chief building
inspector, surveyor/draftsman, and building inspector. The approval of MLG
is required to establish these positions. TMC will provide office
accommodations, operating expenses for the project team, and the salaries
of support staff.
4.        Nyeri Municipal Council (NyMC).  The Nyeri component will be
implemented by the Technical Department of NHC, in cooperation with the
provincial Physical Planning Department. NyMC will create posts of
community development assistant and assistant building foreman, who will
work with the NHC team on community development and administration of
materials loans. A sum of KSh 600,000 has been set aside to cover the
costs for the NyMC community development team and the NHC project
coordinator.
5.        Kitale Municipal Council (KMC).  The Kitale component will be im-
plemented by the Technical Department of NHC. No materials loans will be
provided, as the area to be upgraded (Area 1 of Tuwani Farm) consists main-
ly of low-grade rental housing on private land.
Project Management _Support, by Town
Eldoret
Salaries
Senior Administrative Officer (3 years)                   200,000
Project Engineer (3 years)                                200,000
Community Development Organizer (3 years)                 160,000
Surveying Assistant (3 years)                             140,000
TOTAL                              700,000
Equipment
Vehicles (2)                                              500,000
Survey Equipment                                          160,000
Other Specialized Equipment                               140,000
TOTAL                              800,000
Nakuru
Salaries
Project Coordinator (3 years)                             200,000
Architect (3 years)                                       200,000
Engineer (3 years)                                        200,000
Community Development Organizer (3 years)                 160,000
Valuer (2 years)                                          140,000
TOTAL                              900,000



74                            Annex 3
Page 3
Equipment
Survey Equipment                                          160,000
Vehicles (2)                                              500,000
Other Specialized Equipment                               140,000
TOTAL                              800,000
Office Space                                              300,000
Thika
Salaries
Assistant Town Clerk
Engineer
Principal Social Welfare officer
Chief Building Inspector
Surveyor/Draftsman
Building Inspector
TOTAL                            1,200,000
Equipment
Plans Printing Machine                                    200,000
Engineer's level and equipment                             32,000
Station Wagons  (2)                                       380,000
TOTAL                              612,000
Nyeri
Project Unit Support                                      600,000
Maintenance Equipment to be Procured Under Project
Eldoret
Lorry (2)                                            680,000
Grader                                             1,500,000
Vibrator-Roller                                      200,000
Bitumen Spreader                                   1,000,000
Chip Spreader                                         20,000
Nakuru
Grader                                             1,500,000
Cleansing Vehicle                                  1,200,000
Thika
Septic tank exhausters  (2)                        1,000,000
Refuse tipper                                        500,000
Compressor                                           200,000



75                                Annex 4
Page l
KENYA SECONDARY TOWNS PROJECT
Annex 4: DESCRIP'TION OF STUDIES
I. Housing Policy Studies
A. Implementation of Kenya low-cost housing by-laws study
Net Cost:  US$ 170,000
Agency  :  Department of Housing, MWH
Objective: The Kenya low-cost housing by-laws study was financed
under the Second Urban Project to provide a model for
the revision of buiLding by-laws, to be more
compatible with the objectives of low-income housing
projects. The Secondary Towns Project will provide
the services of a legal advisor and a senior
consultant engineer to turn the study into draft
legislation for consideration by the national
parliament.
Timetable: MWH will prepare a timetable and terms of reference
for the study by June 30, 1984.
B. Survey of dwelling units
Net Cost:  US$ 180,000
Agency  :  Central Bureau of Statistics (CBS)
Objective: The CBS is carrying out a large survey of dwelling
units in urban areas of Kenya to provide better
information on current housing conditions. MWH is
providing financial support for the data collection
from its own budget. The Secondary Towns Project
will provide a systems analyst for three years to
assist CBS in analyzing the data.
Timetable: CBS has been authorized to begin recruiting a systems
analyst, to be financed by the PPF.
C. Housing Policy Paper
Net Cost:  US$ 100,000
Agency  :  Department of Housi'ng, MWH
Objective: The last official housing policy paper was approved by
the Parliament in 1966. Since then, a number of
changes have occurred in housing policy in Ke?lya,
including greater emphasis on a basic needs approach
to shelter provision, more experience with site and
service projects and upgrading, and a number of



76                               Annex 4
Page 2
studies have been completed on specific aspects of
housing policy. MWH has been asked to prepare a new
housing policy paper. The funds will be used to hire
consultants to prepare draft policy papers,synthesi-
zing existing mnaterial and setting directions for
future policy initiatives.
Timetable: MWH will prepare a timetable and terms of reference
for the study by June 30, 1984, with a completion date
for the draft housing policy paper no later than June
30, 1986.
II. Municipal Finance and Investment Planning
A. Studies of municipal finance
Net Cost: US$ 200,000
Agency  : MLG
Objective: The Bank is scbheduled to carry out a sector study of
municipal finance in Kenya in spring, 1984.  A number
of particular topics have already been identified,
such as accounting requirements regarding trading un-
dertakings. Additional topics are expected to be
identified by the sector study. The Secondary Towns
Project will provide funds for MLG to engage consul-
tants to prepare guidelines on specific topics, to be
adopted by the local authorities.
Timetable: The terms of reference for the studies will be agreed
during the sector study, to be confirmed by June 30,
1984.
B. Urban Investment Planning, Urban IV
Net Cost:  US$ 400,000
Agencies:  MWH, MLG
Objective: Consultancy funds for the preparation of local
authority invesitment proposals, to be financed by the
Bank in the next: urban project (Urban IV).
Timetable: Variable, depenrding on scheduling of Urban IV in
lending program.
III. Urban Transportation
A. Urban Transport Studies
Net Cost:  US$ 100,000



77                            Annex 4
Page 3
Agency      Development Division, MLG
Objective: As part of the discussions of the Kenya Urban Trans-
port Project (prepared in 1980 and subsequently
dropped due to funding constraints), the Government
established an ad hoc committee on urban transporta-
tion to develop policy directions in this area. The
ad hoc committee has released its report and has
recommended the establishement of a permanent policy
group on urban transportation, to be chaired by MLG
and including representatives of the Ministry of
Transport and Communications. This group has already
begun to carry out selected studies, such as a study
of urban transport problems in western Kenya. The
Secondary Towns Project will support these policy dis-
cussions by providing funds to carry out studies on
topics such as transport alternatives for western Ken-
ya and a Mombasa Urban Growth Study.
Timtetable: MLG will prepare a timetable of studies and terms of
reference by June 30, 1984.



73                                Annex 5
Page 1
KENYA SECONDARY TOWNS PROJECT
Annex 5: Documents in Project File
Waweru & Associates - Project Preparation Reports
Volume A               Towns
Volume B               Sites
Volume C              Technical Appendices
Draft Interim Report - February 1981
Appendix to Draft Interim Report
Final Reports -       Eldoret
Kitale
Nakuru
Planning and Engineering Standards and Designs
Executive Summary Final Report
MWH/MLG/NHC Task Force
Nyeri
Thika
Private Developer/Eldoret Municipal Council Joint Venture
R.H.E. on Block 15/3 Eldoret
Project Proposal
Report and Detailed Notes of Appraisal, R. van Puymbroeck
National Construction Corporation
Financial Analysis by W. Whitesell
Technical Analysis by Derek Miles
Study Of Operations of National Housing Corporation (Coopers & Lybrand)
- Interim Report
- Draft Final Report
- Final Report
Kenya Low-Cost Housing By-Laws Study (Saad Yahya, Kitolo, Halcrow Fox)
- Two volumes
Study of LGLA, NHC, and Local Authority Finances, by A. Kennefick
(Alexander Grant Company)
Water Supply and Waste Disposal, by J. Skytta



SUDAN            .             h4                                                                                            2
I                                                  'x~~~~~~~~-- - -   NETHIOPIA
4                                                                                                                  /
K.1t~ ~~ -gN
UGANDA                                                    oMrbt
4I                                                       oN           2                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~SOMALIA
2~~~'  ~   ~        0   
'vs    ~ ~   5     T    A                     rnE
4'                                                                       -4'   -
02222222222 f    8290000  fleoret  jy Orvrg22                                /~~~~~~~~~~4hd
A P$/ESTE~~~~~~~~~~9Nk  N             sock    .~~~~~~~~~~~                                                         [2T.0-222 7
NYAA/ZA  }   '    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~y  k    2         .-~~z,R ~                                                 KEY
Or , 024P,1c
Kecoco  Pro ocr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3i



i



IBRD 16821
2                                                                                             DECEMBER 1982
KAMWENJA                                                                                                                                                                                                   C
School
} AI~~~~~~~URINGATO   >-   w
W ~~~~~~~~~(NURSERY)  w 0X'>f
FOREST RESERVE                                                                                                   -, /                               '
Church                                                                 j _S-'                \
A                                  E l  School &,   Z\
S YKMY                                                                                          '4              .f</         \N 
HosGlpitoptaal\                                                                                                                                                                  ~    ~     #/~
MA1IARI                                                                                                                    riXson5~  
'p                              \     \       ---.                                                     >.        ..4'J 
/ N' .                                                                                .        ,OC iv ic   C e n te r <' H o e
vessegnrsse  vet    ifGeArtdS'A'drAei        N.                                                                          '4 tMarkeE                           9                                 \4'
*r: 2.%2tW2212,                                         N                                       -,          w  an A INy/h eraoa eo: C,o36 N IJ 1  
-SUDAN~~~~~~~~~~~ iX   I                                                                   Show GroundT                                                      t 
AT'      9                    'N Aloo                                                                                                                                / U D A N   1    t JBOU,Ti,  /   _ ___  A4/rOO  |
SU DAN  Wq.             E T   IO  I             JN                                                                                                                                                     /  ,tK E 11Y A/T
/ ~ ~   ~    ~ ~ ~ -'                                     'Ndoe           A E  N      OAIN._x   t                  ,,        rjc
/    rur    Nyr                   k       o                     N     iX             iS                                 i>/ ArS;CUdf1
MUY                ,--4-ol
--- J------------d h^At-A>@2 MOZAMblX   <  -        - InT  *n --io--- b-U d.wr
sF   Ur]                     Z A ME, I A a   LE   4p   '    SM^*,---                                   A                                          - '/
SUDAN.  E T H I 0 P l"~~~~~ECODAR
(~KAoIe    K  E  N  Y  A  SbMALIA     SUANKNY AR
/  EIo,,e[         if""4                 -r' o;A I                                         .      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Project:
- I                      I                           SW';                                                      .   72< ~~~~~~~~GNIAIAreos inCluded for servicing
IN           NE.IN                                                                                                                  Retail markeR
RW c~A DA  C                                                            T
>  N.;ob                                         D/     Tr'                                                                    Buildings/ Built-up    oreas
Roads
AOcCk  A NZAIA           cCV'A'                                               River
New boundary
TANZAN IA                          CAWCAN--T  Old boundary                                                                                                                       Na reliable scale available
A~~~~~~~~ -
'4   -  >4   MACNAJ5 MOZAME u~~~~~~~~~~~   'AV ~~------- International boundaries






IBRD 16822
r   /                                                                                                                          ~~~~~~~       ~     ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K ENsYA  DECEMBER 1982
SECONDARY TOWNS PROJECT
'   \\   ,,'  \\                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K ITALE
Projlect:
5                                         ,r:Ec, t ' \\ / \ \ Areas included for servicing
j,  \   \/s'  \   *      Markets to be improved
T TUWANI FARM    ,           \  ,,                                          \\                                                                         ,Br, Buildings / built-up areas
(fIUl    1125 u a  -        \                                                                                                                               'Roads
! (full upgra ing), ........... -R    Railways
pAreia 2                                                                                                                             .1                   -  New boundary
|(partial                                                                                                                                            -l -iX 's \\ S- Old boundary
O upgrading                                                                               )     jX I  N   g -                                           -International boundaries
/ / , -, ',-:&, , !r =-tfi S  ; \"'  No reliable scale available
A  _                                          N. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-~~~1.--.4--- 0-- -10
A;\    -&'   r                                  A                                  S [n i      \                                                       <   S U D A N ~i              <         I)=U
%     . 'i :.}i '*      i       ~~~~~Tank     'Av]     Sot                                                                                      | ,vrn, AN  ETH        !P       
A           -gicltra                                         .-->   ShowGround            f'S                                                           i  A-1SCt  M-are  -,,
't'9i.                               Cererery
4 r            -                  t                                                                  K SUYD N KAS
\           C                            ,\       \           \                      /                          J,/ *KV Club
N                                                                              31~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T                 
\ SchoOI   '          /        \   / \               \                 (                           t   Nakuru  oNFrest Nurser
-                                                                           AFR t N 5            ETHIOPIA
:&  Agric\ultCntra Maket -                     SGolf                                 Cemeteryound
Szr  \   ow                                        rANZAB IA 3005
SLJ AN DA/iT4t0N
E T '                                              I                    OP I Ar  . 
,,, 4                             -qs  rO E/doret                                             I         RoForest Nurser  I      TANZAN A 
Tank~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
5                                                                                                                                         LToogaoy/ka          OCEANateTowe
ii  N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ E NY
IV~~~~~~~~~~~~I
V  -e  ~~~~AaAoAsq eAe A
/  Department  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AZAN5iA A A                                                              k,



I



IBRD 16823
KENYA                                 DECEMBER 1982
SECONDARY TOWNS PROJECT
THIKA
lee                                                                            ~Proje t
-  c S *> ~          ,  zJ  ;               01                                                                                                                  1       Areas included for seruiAing
Markets
\\,f,Club                                                                                                                                                             Park
d A     rExisting sites and services
KAKUZI ROAD                                                                    FQ           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Buildings / built-up areas
.n . ,n r 1> = -K@ ,,, r ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Roads
-i-n--s.Railroad
t),.M<&m.us  -~~   >  Imcani  t-4 .-                                                 |  +  | Rivers
Se   \  kt   aX   %  <  School  %                                                             Bridges
T.  -,,,                       -   -  Old boundary
Nesw boundlary
.  -  Internaonol boundaries
-n  SUDAN                b
* atC.enrcj X k
Hospitafl                                                                                                         . )       a,  StoALn
m                                                                                                            F~~~~~~    *  Am  ZAIE     jANIIAKNY 
Mun  a                                                                                                                      ANAI 
a  I              ~~~~Mare and      S'                               coo                           atr,kcCA
j  /               ~~~~~Workshops                                                     OnoAdaraksa
Tnf'/o,rnbi                     ,,,n    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~?/s                                                                GASHANGI           SUDAN.-BIS E
9eA'  '"            -- -1')E Ann
i                  K  Et Nollu N     Yj
N.                                                                                                                         u~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..
No reliable scale available                        No.i - N i,bi*
TANZANIAN
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ / X                                                                                                         ;uoouo   The IC,oooaCo beo m o_d rdo bOok, SOC _1, _lu foa To A 01 IA
,  ro   Nr   irob:  \  /  \\ On Ih r;-l zv g FnV rdGrv er Bny k htF_tfl FV sace r nvvv,, \C  na,dO                          000   C0001  0'CarChd,OCO,i0'  oCenne0'  09   1  ieC



I



IBRD 16824
-\t                     j                       TIUtoIe.\       tTeEoAlyeJ                                    j                                                                                             DEC[EtOEt 1982
T,~~~md
/  \  /  Boogooco      K~~~~~~~~p~~HeN ~KENYA
I  5?                    /                                                       )lrnsromo V   mpo/oo           ,:                                                         SECONDARY TOWNS PROJECT
I /  ;   t'  /,'            ,/'/                                 ELDORET
1/                      ~~~~~~~~Project:
If                                                                                            r                                                      1/                                   Areas included for servicing
/                           12                                <o'fAW     u           / KA;MAKUNJI KI                                                      iMob-                    3       Wholesale market
I  HURUMA  C-  "                                                                    Buildings / Buil--up areas
5'Yint''\"o                            -Xc- O      Cemetery                                                        ii                                     Roads
/",                      //    3i                                              W        h    o I          r,                                          --i---- Railway
/                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sew~eragej                                          [    Brae
..                  I             gy           _>/Ma~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Wrks                                                             Bridges
I  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~      ~     ~     ~     ~      ~     ~     ~    ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~~ -   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ricer
rIg;' -:/                                                                                                                                                                                   Newrob  bo\undaryill  '   \]   /   +-N o
-  MWIYONDERI     -        BAHATIY                                                          /                                -        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Old boundary
N,   RURAL HOUSING                                                                                                      N   lw.                 ----- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CubInternational boundaries
ruRutlr~~~~~~~~~~~~~E                                                 School/ ;ScolV           \   ,2   Eatoy>
LaLs\,&~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~ET TCemZeNtery: t (l Xh\|                                                                         /    |                                        t               
ri)   , l   Q                                             \\                                                   ;    z                          |           ik  >/<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~!Shol ,
N~~~~N
-nekeneo  Na  -,HAtMOZAMblOtr  2 ' b b  t;l:                                                    'A.gz$'                                                          '              ' '                                                 <KPAEHopt
ttNK E N Y AKAP YA
"'A R E l, N                        
f~~~ ~                                                                                                Ne  HillON Bl|  ;X                                                                            i
'a- \. V                                                                "I                                                          'I                  '
[on  30'    f      0/NOUT~~I' DI   A V                                                               School
SUDA   SUA ,N
JGAND~~~~~~~
K   EDA   N                                                 N A  SOMALIA
VIAN ~ ~   ~     ~
TANZANIA   C   )/0OCk/t/    ThitU3Dhr6fednrtsrSettyTheWoCtf33nAsstreasusive/y/Ortfeconvo yMn.tt/                          '    fueTERso      5ft    1,000   1,5050( 1,0PO   1,50 o2o )O32050
TAZN ANOANA00             oc   'n 
\,   f        rnen Cor r tton t 3f m7m,as,1 <Icsd rd y18th 5--- daa an-h3h   tf0                                                         FEET 0       2,000     4,000     6,000     8,000    10,000
_s   35   jS ,*0       b    o/ n ho 3S r h Wd/rakAn nd/smAtorg-clNc  ohbo dt



-



IBRD 16825
DECFMBFR 1982
KENYA
__ --,8                                                                                 S                SECONDARY  TOWNS PROJECT
\sN,<                    n~                                               =                                 NAKURU
NAKURU FOREST
N                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pro ect:
|~4                                                                                      __'____ Areas included for serv c,ng
_'N        -\    *s,,~~'~'                    .s.t    I    !1                                         . Whp  r    - ' *oleale market
_j                                                                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dispensories to be impro,,ed
{   j                               ir                        s4eg                                       :       A               |~~~~~~~~~~~~~' N   -  Mb Pro tse  dispensaries
X  L  Club  :2                     .       \                                .r          "=                        [3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~u   Workshops
Lorry pa rk
, j [ t;Zf- *    ffi    4   ___   j   21  \\  > > =^ =-NProposed by-pass
tw        X r 1~ 1} School n                                                                                     i . - r " r j b , >  ,2:;  ;   r N >  Rairoad
I Vet v I -Q,   - i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N" 7RA- Buldings
,  ,,,;/ et+>*'                                       L                                                         't  Church.4 S  t r e " f g  * /  Old boundary
I,  r,dustrial  %,  *lW. rrsezl                 zK    Hospital   " --i g    / /[                          ,g, r              <                             S           ___New boundary
'it Area        4u;~~; Xe  '    *1w Q  S;cX    =                        Lorry Park   -t *SGs                                                      -.-International boundaries
< k.)        ;" f " , \   W hol sal   M ar                         W    o  r  k     h ; r               =                     N                               -  sU'C >/ _                    in'-<
e  r->  1l 6 1i t 0 ==;TEi w | | t i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ SDANr  
gWorkss  Bi                                                                                                                                        EtONlENI  CemeteryN
/~~ \ \    /   t   - -  -  ra  11                                 < T    I ',~~~~~~~~</         m         - '                    UGANDA) j I ~~~~ K E N Y A        OLI
/ TUGEN      /          --WfS                    ,=          y         =                                                                                                                    Lakr|o
t   RHONDA              ,              gS xi  ;               r -  - - - - -                                                                                       Itr.EAN A,r
/OILANo reliable scale avaIble                                                                     >'  STANZANIA J                                      0 -[4N
&                                                                    SUD~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DN AN  ORA
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ i,A .EnY HwssnslAa 
ZAI 'R E fU-Ac KEY
A ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-NA
RHONDA  ANOANL-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  r-p-------. ~ ~ ~        ~       ~        ~       ~       ~       ~       ~      ~      ~      ~      D    
/~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N relal spale avaDsilaePrstbl e Wor t                                                                                -Tssu sib/AINGnamneo      0 < 6t     0
'-4                                            N                      /                                                                                       CC/AN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TNAl
)  PA ETRACK ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ (       /                                                                                          )~~~~~~~~~~ZMBAA
/ \                                           1           h e leszzem a tJ5 eact ivey {or  f  th d d hnd r hOSsustanes sho n a' /l  Bap to gol   _ |   $   1 < iiZAMdlQUE A
o               MWAR K                  /                                                                                                                                       N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2bats1 s ttoayhertyayt7ypo s nne oprhawu ma  MdAn;MDyA)A



