Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3596-KI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIONS
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN OF US$7 MILLION AND
CREDIT OF SDR 20.4 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR A
SECONDARY TOWNS PROJECT
May 24, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       =    Kenya shilling (KSh)
KSh 1.00            =    US$0.08 /1
US$1.00             =    KSh 12.60
US$1.00             =    SDR 0.924527 t2
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CIR  -  Country Implementation Review
DOH  -  Department of Housing
EAC  -  East African Community
EMC  -  Eldoret Municipal Council
GDP  -  Gross Domestic Product
GNP  -  Gross National Product
KMC  -  Kitale Municipal Council
LGLA - Local Government Loans Authority
MEPD - Ministry of Economic Planning and Development
MLG  -  Ministry of Local Government
MOF  -  Ministry of Finance
MWH  -  Ministry of Works and Housing
NHC  -  National Housing Corporation
PMU  -  Program Management Unit
PPF  -  Project Preparation Facility
SOE  -  Statement of Expenditures
FISCAL YEAR
Central Government    -   July 1 to June 30
Local Authorities      -   January 1 to December 31
/1 Since December 1982, the Kenya shilling has been pegged to the SDR at a
rate of SDR 1.00 = KSh 14.06. The rate vis-a-vis the US dollar has
fluctuated since that time. A rate of US$1.00 = KSh 12.60 was used for
appraisal of this project, based on the approximate exchange rate in
January/February 1983.
/2 As of April 29, 1983.



OYFFICIAL USE ONLY
KENYA
SECONDARY TOWNS PROJECT
Loan/Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:             Republic of Kenya.
Beneficiaries:        About 29,000 lower and middle-income households in the
secondary towns of Eldoret, Kitale, Nakuru, Nyeri, and
Thika.
Amount:               A loan of US$7 million equivalent and a development
credit of SDR 20.4 million (US$22 million equivalent).
Terms:                The loan would be for a term of 20 years, including 5
years of grace, at the standard variable interest
rate. The credit would be on standard terms.
Relending Terms:      The loan and credit proceeds would be on-lent by the
Ministry of Finance to the National Housing Corpora-
tion (NHC) and the Local Government Loans Authority at
11% for 27 years, including 4 years of grace. These
agencies would on-lend to five towns at 11.25% for a
similar term and grace period and the towns to the
beneficiaries at 12% for 25 years, including 2 years
of grace. In all cases, interest payments would be
capitalized over the grace periods. For the Eldoret
joint venture component, the loan and credit proceeds
would be on-lent to NHC at 11% for 7 years, including
2 years of grace during which interest would be
capitalized. NHC would on-lend the funds to Eldoret
Municipal Council (EMC) at 11.25% for a similar term
and grace period. EMC would recover the cost of the
infrastructure from the developer at the commercial
bank rate or at 12%, whichever is higher, over 5
years. The Government would absorb interest rate
variations and bear the foreign exchange risk for the
loan and credit. Based on anticipated inflation rates
during the life of the project, the interest rate
charged to the beneficiaries would be nominally posi-
tive in real terms in the medium and long term.
Project
Description:          The proposed project continues efforts to strengthen
local capacity and procedures for urban development.
Its objectives would be to assist in the development
of an integrated urban network to support rural econo-
mic growth and to improve the population holding capa-
city and urban employment base of five secondary
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
towns, to improve the financial and project management
capabilities of these towns, to encourage a larger
role for the private sector in lower-income shelter
delivery, and to .assist in the development of a cen-
tral government institutional structure capable of
supporting urban development on a decentralized basis.
The project objectives would be achieved through the
servicing of urban land and the provision of construc-
tion loans for residential and small enterprise deve-
lopment, community facilities, and financial, project
management, and maintenance support, and urban policy
studies.
Risks:                 The project's main risks relate to the execution capa-
city of the towns, the coordination capacity of the
central government: agencies, and the innovative nature
of the joint venture between a private real estate
developer and EMC. Adjustments in the project time-
table, institutional strengthening under the project,
and the keen interest of the parties to the private
sector joint venture and the actions to limit EMC's
exposure under the project would reduce these risks.
Close Bank Group supervision of these risky areas
early in the project implementation period would be
essential.
Estimated Project
Cost:                  Component                           Local  Foreign  Total
-----US$ million-----
Servicing of urban land             6.81     4.54   11.35
Construction loans                  5.99     4.00    9.99
Community facilities                1.40      .93    2.33
Financial, project management,
and urban maintenance support
and urban policy studies          2.11     2.11     4.22/a
Base Cost                       16.31   11.58   27.89
Contingencies
Physical                           .84      .47     1.31
Price                             5.24    .2.97    8.21
Total Project Cost             22.39    15.02   37.41/b
Front-end fee                       -         .02      .02
Total Financing Required       22.39   15.04   37.43
/a Including Project Preparation Facility advance of US$1 million
(P-220-KE), approved in September 1982.
/b  Including taxes totaling US$1.50 million equivalent.



- iii -
Financing Plan:      Source                    Local      Foreign      Total
---------US$ million-------
IBRD loan                   -          7.00       7.00
IDA credit                 6.54       15.46      22.00
Government of Kenya        2.13         -          2.13
Private real estate
developer                6.30        -          6.30
Total                  14.97      22.46       37.43
Estimated
Disbursements:      Bank/IDA FY  1984  1985  1986   1987   1988   1989  1990  1991
-------------------US$  million------------------
Annual                          3.06  2.04  4.18   6.11   6.30   5.34  1.33  0.64
Cumulative                      3.06  5.10  9.28  15.39  21.69  27.03 28.36 29.00
Economic
Rate of Return:             About 20% (weighted average).
Staff Appraisal
Report:                     No. 4427-KE, dated May 20, 1983.
Map:                        IBRD No. 16820.



I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN AND CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR A SECONDARY TOWNS PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan for US$7 million and development credit for SDR 20.4 million (US$22
million equivalent) to the Republic of Kenya to help finance a secondary
towns project. The loan would be repaid over 20 years, including 5 years
of grace, at the standard variable interest rate. The credit would be on
standard IDA terms. The loan and credit proceeds would be on-lent by the
Government through the National Housing Corporation (NHC) and the Local
Government Loans Authority (LGLA) to five secondary towns. The Government
would pay the standard commitment and capitalized front-end fees on the
loan, bear the foreign exchange risk for the loan and credit, and assume
the interest risk due to the Bank's variable lending rate. Based on anti-
cipated inflation rates during the life of the project, the interest rate
charged to the beneficiaries (about 29,000 lower and middle-income house-
holds in five secondary towns) would be nominally positive in real terms in
the medium and long term.
PART I - THE ECONOMY1/
2.        A Basic Economic Report entitled "Growth and Structural Change in
Kenya" (Report No. 3350-KE), dated August 31, 1982 and a report entitled
"Kenya - Country Economic Memorandum and Annex on Agricultural Issues"
(Report No. 3456-KE), dated June 1981 have been distributed to the
Executive Directors. A summary of social and economic data is in Annex I.
Long-Term Economic Growth and Structural Problems
3.        Kenya became an independent nation in 1963.  During the entire
period since then, the country has experienced remarkable continuity in
both political leadership and development strategy. That strategy has been
to promote rapid economic growth by means of public investment,
encouragement of both smallholder and large-scale farming, and promotion of
accelerated industrialization, by providing incentives for private,
including foreign, investment in modern industry. The Kenyan development
model can be characterized as "mixed", in the sense that it incorporates a
diversity of organizational forms and incentives and combines private
enterprise with a significant amount of Government participation and
guidance. The country made a smooth transition to new leadership following
President Kenyatta's death in 1978.
4.        Kenya's first decade as an independent nation was one of remark-
able growth and structural transformation. Total GDP grew at an annual
average rate of 6.6% during 1964-73. Both agriculture and manufacturing
grew rapidly, at 4.7% and 8.4% per annum respectively. The expansion of
1/ This chapter is the same as the one included in the President's Report
for the National Extension Project.



agriculture was stimulated by redistribution of large estates to
smallholders, rapid diffusion of hybrid maize, and growth of smallholder
output. Growth of manufacturing was made possible very largely by the
expansion of domestic demand due to rising agricultural incomes, while
investment for domestic production was being encouraged by high levels of
protection, a liberal attitude towards foreign investment, and active
Government promotion of and participation in manufacturing ventures.
5.        Following this period of rapid growth, the rate of growth of per
capita income declined substantially after 1974. Kenya remains a poor
country, still heavily rural and dependent upon agriculture. Average GNP
per capita in 1981 was US$430. Agricultulre accounted for more than a third
of GDP and about two-thirds of exports (other than refined petroleum pro-
ducts) in 1978-81. Since the growth of the industrial sector has been
largely confined to the major urban areas, agriculture remains the prin-
cipal source of income in the rural areas where over 80% of the population
live and work. Kenya still has significant problems of poverty and under-
employment. About one-fourth of the population is estimated to have
incomes placing them below the absolute poverty line.
6.        A fundamental problem Kenya faces is posed by the rapid growth
rate of population, currently estimated by the Government to be 3.9% per
year, which is among the highest in the world. This is, ironically, partly
the result of Kenya's past success in raising health and general living
standards, which has resulted in a steady decline in mortality and has
probably resulted in an increase in the country's already high fertility
rate.
7.        With rapidly increasing population, pressure is beginning to
mount on Kenya's limited arable land.  Of the country's total land area of
about 575,000 sq km, about 520,000 sq km are categorized as potentially
productive.  However, on the basis of annual rainfall and fertility, only
9% can be regarded as high potential land, with 9% of medium pctential and
82% low potential arid- and semi-arid areas. Of the less than 20% of land
area which has good arable potential, much is now densely settled.
8.        Rapid population growth has created other problems as well.
First, there is the strong likelihood that, unless growth slows dramati-
cally or ways are found to increase the rate at which income earning oppor-
tunities in agriculture expand, excess rural labor will be pushed into
urban areas. Even if the non-agricultural sector were to grow very
rapidly, it probably would be unable to absorb all the new urban labor
force entrants, resulting in rising urban unemployment and
underemployment. Second, considerable budgetary pressure has already been
created by the growing demand for social services, especially education.
Finally, efforts to improve the distribution of income and alleviate
poverty will be impeded by the relative lack of access to land and
education for the children of the poorest section of the population.
9.        A second problem area has developed in the manufacturing sector.
The rapid growth of industry in the past was based largely on investments
in simple import-substitution industries by multinational companies. To a
lesser extent, manufacturing production has also catered to the export
market in neighboring countries, particularly in the protected markets of



- 3 -
the former East African Community (EAC). The scope for further
industrialization along these lines is limited, as most of the easy
import-substitution possibilities have been exhausted and the EAC
preference for Kenyan goods has been abolished. The past pattern of
industrialization has left the sector increasingly dependent on imported
raw materials, components and spare parts, and therefore it is vulnerable
in case of a shortage of foreign exchange. To maintain growth it will be
necessary to reorient industry toward increased use of domestic inputs and
increased production for export.
10.       A third major problem has been the slow growth in agricultural
output, which averaged only about 2.9% per year over 1972-79. This
reflects generally less favorable climatic conditions, a weakening of the
structural factors fueling earlier growth and problems of policy and insti-
tutional support. The latter, which has been one of the most serious impe-
diments to sectoral performance, includes inconsistencies in pricing policy
and inadequacies in marketing and input supply. In addition, the concen-
tration of land holdings, insecure land tenure issues and problems in plan-
ning and execution of agricultural projects and programs are inhibiting
agricultural growth. Measures to deal with these problems are essential to
revitalize the agricultural sector.
11.       Other problems are the slow growth and lack of diversification of
exports which have consistently grown at a slower pace than GDP, and the
rising cost of oil imports which has had an adverse effect on the balance
of payments. From 1964-74, the volume of exports expanded at an average
annual rate of 4.6%, but over the past five years, export volume has grown
more slowly. In 1981, export volume was 3% below the 1976 level. To some
extent, this is a reflection of production problems in agriculture and
industry, but it is also an indicator of the need to direct more resources
toward export-oriented activities.
Economic Performance 1974-82
12.       Kenya's growth performance since 1974 has been especially vulner-
able to swings in the country's international terms of trade. The GDP
growth rate fell sharply during 1974-75 when the dramatic increase in
petroleum and other import prices required restrictive economic policies,
accelerated rapidly in 1976-77 as the impact of the "coffee boom" following
frost damage in Brazil worked its way through the economy, but began to
decelerate in mid-1977 with the rapid decline in coffee prices.
13.       During 1978-82, Kenya again experienced strong external shocks as
a result of the latest round of petroleum price increases and declining
coffee prices. The effects of these external shocks on the balance of
payments, and incomes, were compounded by poor weather affecting coffee and
maize production. As a result, GDP growth slowed to 3.2% in 1980,
recovered somewhat in 1981 to 4.8% and slowed down again in 1982 to an
estimated 2%. The trade deficit rose sharply in 1978, and foreign exchange
reserves were rapidly depleted. The balance on current account deterior-
ated from an exceptional surplus of US$60 million in 1977 to a deficit of
over US$650 million in 1978, while reserves fell by US$200 million. To
prevent further depletion of the country's foreign exchange reserves, the
Government introduced a program of import restrictions in late 1978,



affecting a sharp decline in imports and reductions in Kenya's resource gap
and current account deficit in 1979. This, together with increased
external borrowing, resulted in a recuperation of about US$179 million in
gross reserves in the same year. The improvement in the balance of
payments proved to be short-lived. The increase in petroleum prices,
combined with the need for additional food imports, resulted in a 39% rise
in the value of imports in 1980.  While exports rose by 22%, tlhis was not
sufficient to prevent a rise in the current account deficit to almost
US$900 million and, despite increased external borrowing, a decline of
US$195 million in foreign exchange reserves. However, due to improved
agricultural output and the Government's restrictive import poLicy, the
value of imports declined by 16% in 1981 Although the current: account
deficit declined by 17% in 1981, foreign exchange reserves had to be drawn
down by US$134 million due to a slowdown in official aid flows. In 1982,
the extraordinary conditions which prevaiJled during the second half of the
year together with restrictive credit policy led to a sharp contraction in
imports of about 20 percent in volume. The current account deficit is
estimated to have narrowed to US$423 mill-ion; however, the foreign exchange
reserve position remained under considerable pressure throughout 1982.
Fourth Five-Year Development Plan, 1979-83
14.        The emphasis of the Fourth Five-Year Development Plan was on
restoring growth to the levels that prevailed before 1974, while alleviat-
ing poverty through creation of income eaLrning opportunities and provision
of social services to meet the basic needs of the population. The Plan
correctly identified the key problems that Kenya faced and set forth a
development strategy appropriate to their solutions.
15.        The Fourth Plan recognized the strong link between agricultural
growth and poverty alleviation. One of the most significant changes
proposed in the Plan increased the access to land through legalizing
subdivision of high-potential large farms. The Plan also proposed that
marketing and pricing polices pay closer attention to the structure of
domestic and international prices and that the marketing system be made
more competitive and efficient to improve prices to farmers. Research and
extension services were to be more closely linked to the needs of small
farmers, and ways of encouraging land use and intensification and labor
absorption were to be reviewed.
16.        The major thrust of industrial policy was to effect a transition
from import substitution to a strategy emphasizing industrial efficiency
and export diversification. This involved further rationalization of
tariffs and elimination of quantitative restrictions on imports over a
five-year period. This policy required considerable external balance of
payments support. The Plan proposed no fundamental change in Kenya's
traditionally liberal policy on foreign investment with the important
exception that review and approval of projects for which special
concessions or Government's participation were being sought would rely more
on economic criteria and be centralized in the Ministry of Finance. On the
whole, the Plan called for a more limited role for Government in terms of
direct participation and intervention.
17.        The Fourth Plan acknowledged the heavy burden rapid population
growth and the provision of basic needs pLaced on the economy. In view of



- 5 -
this, the Government made promotion of family planning a matter of public
policy of high priority. The emphasis of government action was to be on
building up infrastructure and training personnel for delivery of family
planning services. The Government has undertaken an expanded information
and education campaign. Although Kenya is doing more to promote family
planning than most other African countries, the rate of population growth
is projected to remain extremely high (3.9%) because of strong cultural and
traditional factors, and even greater efforts will be required to bring
about a significant decline in fertility.
18.       Due to Kenya's worsening financial and budgetary constraints,
which had not been anticipated when the Plan was written, implementation of
the Fourth Plan has been slow. As a result, the Government had to reassess
the Plan targets and has already introduced two revised shortrun economic
programs (incorporated in Sessional Papers of 1980 and 1982), while
maintaining the overall development strategy set out in the original Plan
document. The Sessional Papers identify and deal with Kenya's short- and
mediuim-term problems in a frank and consistent manner. They offer, among
other things, a revised set of policy initiatives designed to overcome the
country's urgent financial problems resulting from continuing budgetary and
balance of payments pressures.
Structural Adjustment and Economic Prospects
19.       The Government is determined to carry out the strategy outlined
in the Plan despite adverse international and domestic circumstances and
administrative constraints. In order to do so, it has devised and is exe-
cuting a program of structural adjustment.
20.       The Government's first program, which was supported by the Bank
Group and an EEC Special Action Credit, involves: (a) revising the
Government's investment program to make it more consistent with the
country's new economic circumstances; (b) ensuring the country's credit-
worthiness by improving extErnal debt management and introducing better
planning and control of external borrowing; (c) beginning the process of
rationalization of the trade regime; (d) improving the incentives for
exports and ensuring that exports are competitive; and (e) reviewing and
revising interest rate policy to ensure that it is consistent with develop-
ment objectives. The program has, on the whole, been carried out satisfac-
torily. While the general thrust of the program has been maintained,
attempts to execute the policy measures have revealed some weaknesses in
planning and administration that need to be remedied.
21.       A second structural adjustment program was approved by the Bank
Group on July 1, 1982. In addition to supporting continued rationalization
of the system of industrial protection and improvement of incentives for
exports, it includes measures aimed at revitalizing the agricultural
sector, increasing domestic supplies of energy, encouraging energy
conservation and introducing policy initiatives in population.
22.       In line with the agricultural development objectives and the
policy principles set out by the second structural adjustment program,
producer prices for major food crops have been increased substantially in
recent years. The Government is currently undertaking a full-scale review



- 6 --
of the marketing system to determine the optimal division of responsibili-
ties between the public and private sectors. It is studying measures to
accelerate the process of regularization of de facto subdivision of large
farms so as to realize the maximum output potential of the high quality
agricultural land. The government is also planning to address systemati-
cally the entire set of land-related issues, including land tenure, optimal
patterns of land use and conservation of soil, water and forest resources.
23.       In the industrial sector the quantitative import restrictions are
gradually being eliminated and replaced by equivalent tariffs. This will
be followed by a period during which tariffs will be reduced and made more
uniform. Adoption of a more moderate and uniform tariff structure will be
coupled with appropriate levels of export compensation for industrial
exports. To reduce the bias against agriculture, compensating adjustments
have been made in the exchange rate. Further such actions will be required
to ease problems of industrial transition and to provide incentives for
agriculture and exports. The Government is now in the process of preparing
guidelines for fiscal and other support for industrial investments and
exports and has already introduced measures to rationalize the selection of
public sector investments.
24.       The Bank Group conducts frequent review missions to discuss pro-
gress in achieving the release of the second tranche (US$50.0 million).
Although significant progress has been made in implementing most aspects of
the policy reforms under the Second Structural Adjustment Program, there
has been some delay in completing studies which are to be the basis for
some policy decisions. Satisfactory progress has not been made in prepar-
ing a new tariff structure. A series of transitional strategy studies
aimed at developing policies for presently over-protected and inefficient
industrial subsectors have been delayed. An action program for the
restructuring of grain marketing has not been completed. There is also
little evidence of real progress toward the formulation of a program to
accelerate the regularization and rationalization of subdivision of group
owned farms. In addition, the broad review of institutional support to
exporters to develop a program for export promotion has not so far produced
the expected results. A further review mission is now scheduled for June
1983.
25.       While the structural adjustment program should have a favorable
impact on the balance of payments over the longer term, the early years of
the 1980's are going to be difficult ones for Kenyan policymakers and for
the Kenyan economy. The country's international terms of trade are likely
to continue to deteriorate at least unti:L the second half of the 1980s. In
addition, external debt service obligations will be high because of borrow-
ing associated with the large current account deficits of the past several
years. At the same time, the Government's fiscal operations are likely to
be subjected to extreme pressure because of slower growing revenues and
demands for increased expenditures. It is within this context that criti-
cal policy decisions must be made involving a fundamental restructuring of
the pattern of development.
26.       Given the slow recovery of the world economy and unfavorable
export prospects, it will be difficult to maintain positive growth of GDP



7-
per capita through 1984. However, growth prospects appear somewhat better
from about 1985 onward provided the Government's structural adjustment
program is continued and there is adequate external assistance to enable
its successful implementation. The country's terms of trade should also
stabilize, the growth of external debt should decelerate, and current
account deficits should remain stable during 1985-88. A growth rate of GDP
around 5% per year should be attainable during the second half of the
decade.
External Debt
27.       The expansion of government and government-guaranteed commercial
borrowing in recent years has adversely affected the debt service ratio,
which has risen from 3.9% in 1977 to about 22.2% in 1982. This includes
service payments on a notional 50% share of the debt of EAC corporations.
The debt service ratio is expected to increase from about 23% in 1983 to a
peak of nearly 25% in 1986, before declining to around 20% in 1991. Debt
service payments to the Bank in 1982 accounted for 14.4% of total debt
service payments; the IDA's share was 0.7%. The Bank's share of total debt
service payments is expected to rise to about 18.8% by 1986, while IDA's
share would rise to 1%. The Bank is currently holding 16.7% of Kenya's
total outstanding and disbursed external debt, and IDA 10.2%. The Bank's
share is expected to rise to 23.3% and IDA's to about 13.4% by 1986. The
expected rise in Bank exposure is attributable to limited new commercial
borrowing and anticipated repayments of loans with short maturities. An
additional factor, however, is the gradual switch by other donors from
loans to straight grants (including conversion of some loans to grants).
Because of the long-term balance-of-payments constraint, Kenya's develop-
ment program will require substantial financing in excess of public savings
and available non-Bank Group external capital combined, and we therefore
expect to continue our practice of financing a substantial portion of total
project costs, including some local costs when necessary.
East African Community (EAC)
28.       The developments affecting the East Africa Community (EAC) were
outlined to the Executive Directors in a memorandum dated December 29, 1977
(R77-312) and in a statement made on May 6, 1980 (SecM80-364). One of the
positive results of the ongoing mediation effort has been the Partner
States' decision, taken upon the Mediator's recommendation, that the East
African Development Bank -- one of the former Community's institutions --
should continue, and a revised charter to this effect has been enacted.
The three Governments commented on the mediator's proposals for the three
Partner States during their meeting in Nairobi in July 1981, and decided to
commence negotiations based on the mediator's proposals. The negotiations
started in December 1981 in Arusha and continued in April 1982 in Jinja, in
September 1982 in Nairobi and in December 1982 in Kampala. It is expected
that the next major step will be a meeting of the three Presidents in May
or June 1983. The discussions have passed the fact finding stage and are
now focussing on details of a division formula for assets and debts. While
it is generally accepted that both location of assets and the principle of
equal rights of all former EAC partners should be taken into account, the
weight to be given to these principles from case to case remains the major
issue in the continuing negotiations.



PART II - BANK GROUP O:PERATIONS IN KENYA
29.       To date, Kenya has received 41 Bank loans, including three on
Third Window terms, and 39 IDA credits amounting to US$1,587.7 million,
which supported 71 operations. In addition, Kenya has been one of the
beneficiaries of 10 loans totalling US$244.8 million which have been
extended for the development of common services (railways, ports, telecomr
munications, and finance for industry), operated regionally for the three
partner states of the EAC. Annex II contains summary statements of Bank
loans and IDA credits to Kenya and to the EAC corporations, and notes on
the execution of ongoing projects.
30.       The Bank Group has begun to reorient its lending program to
assist the Government in its efforts to restructure the economy. This has
meant the inclusion in the program of structural adjustment assistance. A
first credit in support of the Government's structural adjustment program
was approved in 1980 and a second structural adjustment operation was
approved by the Bank Group on July 1, 1982 (paragraphs 19 and 20). Recent
economic work has also focused on the structural problems in specific
sectors, including the energy sector, and' the Basic Economic Report
addresses comprehensively the issues of income distribution, pcpulation
growth and appropriate long-term agricultural and industrial policies
(paragraph 2).
31.       The selection of projects for financing and the design of such
projects have been influenced by the need to complement policy actions
under the structural adjustment program. Continuing priority has thus been
given to the agricultural sector, but increasing emphasis also has been
placed on sectors such as population and energy. So far in FY83, the
Second Structural Adjustment Operation, an Agricultural Technical Assis-
tance Project, the Olkaria Geothermal Power Expansion Project, and the
Agricultural Extension Project have been approved. A fifth power project
is under preparation.
32.     Project implementation has deteriorated in recent years, in con-
trast to the successful implementation performance in the past. Factors
accounting for implementation delays have varied widely, but some of the
more pervasive factors have been institutional/management constraints, pro-
curement problems, and budgetary constraints leading to a lack of local
financing. These factors, together with delays in preparing and submitting
reimbursement claims have led to a deteriorating disbursement record. A
comparison with the disbursement rate for the total of other loans/credits
in the Eastern Africa region indicates that in 1976, Kenya's disbursement
rate was 38.6% as against 20.7% for the region; while in 1982, Kenya's dis-
bursement rate had decreased to 11.6% as against 23% for the region. An
in-depth review of the causes of the poor project implementation perfor-
mance and poor disbursements has been undertaken by the Bank Group and the
problems and possible solutions were discussed with the Government in March
and September 1982 at country implementation review (CIR) meetings. The
discussions were frank and constructive, and the Government informed the
Bank Group of several new initiatives to improve performance. These
included:



(a) A Task Force on Reimbursement has been established in the
Ministry of Finance (Treasury) to monitor disbursement claims
for Bank Group-financed projects. The use of Procedure III
(direct payment to suppliers) has resulted in significantly
improved disbursement rates for selected projects (e.g. High-
way Sector Loan), and thus the Government intends to extend
its use to other projects.
(b) The Treasury has issued a Circular requiring operating minis-
tries to keep reimbursement claims up-to-date, under penalty
of freezing of releases from the Development Exchequer.
(c) In accordance with its paper on "The Implementation of Deve-
lopment Projects and the Rate of Claiming Donor Reimburse-
ment", approved by Cabinet in April 1982, the monitoring and
coordination of projects is being carried out in two exer-
cises, (i) physical schedules and performance targets, and
(ii) financial monitoring. The Ministry of Economic Planning
and Development (MEPD) has completed a report covering the
physical progress of development projects for about two-thirds
of the ministries. A second such report will be prepared in
conjunction with the forthcoming Forward Budget exercise. The
Ministry of Finance (MOF) is implementing an improved system
of financial monitoring. The overall coordination of these
two monitoring exercises is done by the Project Implementation
Committee, composed of the Permanent Secretaries for Develop-
ment Coordination and Cabinet Affairs, MEPD and MOF. A Secre-
tariat for the Committee is being established, and an Opera-
tions Room is being set up in the Office of the President.
(d) The Government has prepared a report which includes proposals
for containing Government expenditures within the limited
revenue and identifies ways and means for improving efficiency
in resource use. The Bank, through the Second Structural
Adjustment Project, will be reviewing the public investment
program and the implications for the lending program.
During the ongoing CIR discussions, the Government and the Bank are review-
ing the Government's development objectives and investment priorities in
the context of implementation capacity and resource constraints. The pro-
ject portfolio is under review to determine the scope for reducing project
costs through reformulation, rephasing or cancelling projects which cannot
be adequately funded. A meeting is expected before July between the
Government and the Bank to agree on possible further rationalization.
International Finance Corporation (IFC)
33.       IFC has committed a total of US$60.1 million for ten operations
in Kenya. These include loans for five companies: Pan African Paper
Mills, Ltd.; Kenya Hotel Properties, Ltd.; Tourism Promotion Services
(Kenya) Ltd.; Rift Valley Textiles (Ltd.); and Bamburi Portland Cement
Company, Ltd. Also included are a US$2 million credit line to the Kenya
Commercial Bank (Ltd.) a US$5 million credit line to the Kenya Commercial
Finance Company (Ltd.), as well as equity investments in Diamond Trust of
Kenya (Ltd.), US$0.8 million, and Industrial Promotion Services Kenya



- 10 -
(Ltd.), US$0.6 million. As of March 31, 1983, IFC held for its own account
US$60.1 million comprising US$47.6 million of loans and US$1]2.5 million of
equity. A Summary of IFC Investments in Kenya is included in Annex II.
PART III - THE URBAN SECTOR
The Urban Scene
34.        Kenya's urban population2/ is expanding at an annual rate of
7.9%, which is twice as fast as the increase in overall population.  About
15% of the country's inhabitants, or 2.3 million persons, were urban dwel-
lers at the time of the 1979 census. By the year 2000, urban dwellers are
expected to grow to some 8.5 million persons, or 28% of the population.
Traditionally, the major centers of urban growth were Nairobi, the capital,
and Mombasa, the main seaport. However, the urban growth pattern now
includes the rapid expansion of secondary towns, which have populations in
the range of 20,000 to 100,000 persons and strong links to their regional
economies. Between 1969 and 1979, the relative share of secondary towns as
a proportion of the urban population rose from 7% to 30%, while that of the
two major cities fell from 70% to 51%.
35.        Economic opportunity in urban centers acts as a strong force
drawing migrants from rural areas, where poverty predominates in Kenya.
The flow of remittances back to the countryside from wages earned in urban
centers represents an important urban-rural interaction. About one-quarter
of urban wages are remitted, providing a major source of finance for rural
smallholder innovations. Employment prospects are expected to continue to
stimulate rural-urban migration and to contribute to the expansion of
secondary towns in the future.
Secondary Towns in Economic Development
36.        Secondary towns play several important roles in Kenya's economic
development. One is to serve as focal points for the development of
regional economies. Another is to strengthen economic linkages to rural
areas by providing for agricultural marketing and processing activities. A
third is to redirect rural migration from Nairobi and Mombasa. A final
role is to provide the basis for strengthening local government initiatives
in urban development, which will be important for the establishment of an
institutional structure to supply basic services to a large urban popula-
tion.
37.        Expansion of secondary towns complements the Government's struc-
tural adjustment policies for the economy, particularly on issues of indus-
trial promotion and agricultural development. Planned adjustments in
Kenya's trade policy are designed to cause industrial production to shift
to smaller firms having higher labor absorption capacities and closer ties
to the agricultural resource base. Experience in other countries has been
that such firms locate closer to areas of resource availability and further
2/ Defined as inhabitants of urban centers with 2,000 persons or more
in population.



- 11 -
from major cities. Thus, structural adjustment policies in Kenya are
expected to strengthen the diversification of economic activity throughout
the country and the decentralization of urban growth into secondary towns,
thereby enhancing urban-rural linkages.
38.       Decentralization of urban growth in response to emerging patterns
of population settlement and regional needs of the economy was emphasized in
the Government's Fourth Development Plan, 1979-83. Limited incentives were
proposed to attract economic activities to secondary towns. However, the
main Government policy instrument to promote the growth of secondary towns
is expected to be the choice of urban investments. Urban investments have
followed a basic needs strategy, which emphasizes the provision of water
supply, low-cost shelter, primary education, and basic health care. Consid-
erable progress has been made in the expansion of urban services. Water
supply has been extended to the majority of urban residents. Low-cost shel-
ter programs have been initiated, mainly through site and service and upgra-
ding developments. Free primary education through the middle grades and
universal schooling have been encouraged, particularly by Government assump-
tion of the financing of teachers' salaries. Finally, basic health care has
been supplied in hospitals, dispensaries, and clinics.
39.       Despite these achievements, about 18% to 40% of the population in
secondary towns lives in unplanned, unauthorized, and overcrowded slum
settlements where access to the most basic urban services is minimal, with
damaging effects on health, productivity, and social order. To provide for
the growth of population in secondary towns, an investment program will be
needed to extend urban service networks, develop additional land for resi-
dential housing, and provide schools, markets, community facilities, and
essential maintenance equipment for the community. This program would be
supported by the proposed project. Urban local authorities will have to
play an important part in implementation of this program, and their role
will have to be strengthened to cope with the demands of an expanding number
of urban growth centers.
40.       Even with a strengthened role of urban local authorities, urban
development will not be possible without more constructive involvement of
the private sector. Over 80% of Kenya's housing stock (including unplanned,
unauthorized settlements) is privately owned. Between 1975 and 1979, pri-
vate housing grew annually at 10%, while public housing grew at only 2%, in
part because of increasingly scarce public land for low-income housing.
Given the limited financial resources and technical staff available to local
authorities as well as Kenya's historical emphasis on private initiatives,
the private sector must continue to lead in the provision of housing. This
lead needs to be supported by the public sector through the development of
innovative methods to achieve private/public cooperation and a clear
recognition of the profit motivation and relevant time frame for private
sector responses. The proposed project would initiate such methods.
Implementation of Urban Development Policy
41.       Urban development policy in Kenya is implemented at both the local
authority and central government levels. Local authorities are divided
into: municipal councils, which provide the widest range of urban services;
town councils, which provide a more restricted range of services; and county



- 12 -
councils, which provide regional services. Urban councils represent a
transitional form of council for small urban areas and fall under the
jurisdiction of the county council for their region.
42.       At the central government level, four Ministries are
significantly involved in implementation of urban development policy. The
Ministry of Works and Housing (MWH) is responsible for housing policy and
for coordination of lower-income housing projects, with the assistance of
its Department of Housing (DOH) and its National Housing Corporation
(NHC). The DOH handles shelter provisLon for low-income famiLlies, while
the NHC supplies funds for lower-income housing projects and implements
housing projects of behalf of local authorities. The MLG is responsible
for urban development policy (a mandate that is currently being defined)
and for oversight of local authorities, including provision of financial
review and technical support. Its Local Government Loans Authority (LGLA)
finances most local authority investments, except lower-income housing pro-
jects. The Ministry of Water Development manages water systems in several
urban areas and provides technical support to the MLG in reviewing proposed
water and sanitation investments for local authorities that operate their
own systems. Finally, the Ministry of Lands, Settlement, and Physical
Planning controls the allocation of public land and the acquisition of land
for public sector projects. The Ministries of Transportation and Communi-
cation, Basic Education, and Health also assist in urban development, and
Kenya Industrial Estates, supported by Credit 750-KE of November 1977 for
US$10 million, provides support for small-scale enterprises in urban areas.
43.       Urban local authorities generally manage the implementation of
urban investments in Kenya and shoulder the debt burden for such invest-
ments from locally generated revenue. A sound system of finatnce and a firm
capability for management are necessary for local authorities to sustain
urban development. However, local authorities also require strong central
government support for urban development. The legal structure in Kenya
requires that the central government play a role in the approval and super-
vision of activities of local authorities. In addition, the central
government is responsible for providing capital development funds to local
authorities and for ensuring these funds are directed to priority invest-
ments for economic development.
44.       Several factors indicate that institutional arrangements for
urban development in Kenya need to be clarified. On the one hand, the
report in June 1982 of the Government Working Party on Public Expenditures,
while acknowledging that urban local authorities play a positive role in
development, recommended that the central government should assume a larger
role in the management of urban development. On the other hand, the
Government has not been able to establish a clear framework for urban deve-
lopment planning at the central government level, despite a ministerial
level mandate formulated in 1980 (and shifted twice between ministries) to
improve coordination of urban development policy. The Bank Group is dis-
cussing urban institutional arrangements with government officials in the
context of sector and project dialogues. Meanwhile, the proposed project
would include activities to strengthen urban development capabilities of
both the urban local authorities and the central government.



- 13 -
Bank/IDA Experience with Urban Development Projects in Kenya
45.       The Bank Group has assisted two urban development projects in
Kenya3/. These projects reflect three main strategy objectives. One is
the design of urban investment programs that are financially viable and
affordable to lower-income households. Another is the development of
managerial and financial capacity in local authorities to provide for urban
growth. The third objective is the establishment of an institutional
structure at local and central levels to plan and implement urban
investments on a countrywide basis.
46.       The Nairobi Site and Service Project (Loan 1105/Credit 543-KE of
May 1975 for US$16 million) was the first urban development project in
Kenya supported by the Bank Group. The project focused on a single site
and service development at Dandora, with implementation by Nairobi City
Council, the largest and most experienced local authority. Virtually all
of the original objectives of the project were achieved, especially that of
cost recovery. Moreover, the project has been an important factor in
obtaining Government recognition of the objectives of lower-income housing
projects, which have been reflected in the last two Development Plans.
Dandora now is a model for this type of development in Africa.
47.       Building upon this experience, the Bank Group assisted site and
service and upgrading developments in Nairobi, Kisumu, and Mombasa. The
Second Urban Project (Loan 1550/Credit 719-KE of May 1978 for US$50
million) encountered problems which considerably delayed project
implementation. This experience gave rise to several important lessons.
First was that establishment of separate project departments in each city
created internal conflicts and staffing problems that took longer than
expected to resolve. Second was that procedures to effect acquisition or
surrender of private land are time consuming and difficult. Third was that
strong project coordination and technical assistance by the central
government, particularly for physical works and financial management, is
essential. These lessons have been applied in the preparation of the
proposed project.
48.       A particular implementation problem of the Second Urban Project
involves Nairobi City Council, which has been experiencing serious
financial difficulties. A task force, appointed by the Minister of Local
Government, is investigating the situation. On the basis of the interim
report of the task force, the Minister of Local Government dissolved the
Council on March 31, 1983. Council affairs are now being carried out by a
three-man commission, which could legally remain in place for two years
with the option of extension by the Minister of Local Government.
49.       Notwithstanding the current financial difficulties in Nairobi,
the first two projects have yielded valuable lessons for the evolving
institutional framework of urban development projects in Kenya. The
3/ Two urban water supply projects in Nairobi and Mombasa also have
received Bank Group support.



- 14 -
project concepts have been shown to be technically sound, financially via-
ble, and socially productive, and a firn foundation has emerged for contin-
ued Bank Group support of Kenya's urban development activities.
PART IV - TH]E PROJECT
Background
50.        Preparation of the project by the Ministry of Works and Housing
(MWH), in cooperation with the Ministry of Local Government (MLG) and the
five local authorities concerned, began in early 1980. Preappraisal took
place in November/December 1981, followed by appraisal in August and
October 1982. Negotiations were held from May 6-11, 1983 in Washington,
D.C. The Kenyan delegation was led by Mlr. Baldip S. Rihal, Deputy Secre-
tary (Development), MLG. A Loan/Credit and Project Summary is provided at
the beginning of this report, and a Supplementary Project Data Sheet is
attached as Annex III. Staff Appraisal Report No. 4427-KE of May 20, 1983,
entitled "Secondary Towns Project", is being distributed separately.
Approach to the Project
51.        The project is part of a program of support for secondary and
smaller towns in Kenya (the significance of such towns in the economic
development of the country was described in paragraphs 36-39). The program
is being funded by the Bank Group and the United States Agency for Interna-
tional Development. It would extend Bank involvement into five secondary
towns -- Eldoret, Kitale, Nakuru, Nyeri, and Thika. The towns were
screened from a larger group of eleven towns on the basis of several consi-
derations. One was the potential to serve as a regional base for economic
development. Another consideration was the availability of urban service
infrastructure.5/ Together the five towns accommodate 11% of Kenya's
urban population, or some 250,000 persons.   These urban centers have
important economic linkages with their surrounding, mostly agricultural,
areas. In addition, Eldoret, Kitale, NaLkuru, and Thika are among the seven
major municipalities in Kenya legally responsible for providing full urban
services, while Nyeri is a lower category town with fewer res-
ponsibilities. 6/ Attachment 1 provides detailed information on the towns.
52.        Investments in the towns under the project would emphasize ser-
vicing of urban land and provision of shLelter to low-income inhabitants.
This would continue the direction of earlier Bank Group-financed projects
and address major priorities identified by the towns. Investment require-
ments in the towns were reviewed during appraisal to ensure the internal
5/ Including, inter alia, water supply, sewerage, housing, sclid waste,
road construction and maintenance, drainage, markets, primary schools,
and health care and social service facilities.
6/ The central government administers primary schools and health care
facilities.



- 15 -
consistency of proposed investment programs. For example, each town is
planning or implementing the expansion of its urban services, with the
Federal Republic of Germany and/or the African Development Bank being
important donors in this area. The Bank program would help to ensure that
the benefits from such other investments are fully realized and directed to
lower-income inhabitants whose needs are the greatest. Institutional
reforms at local and central government levels would complement
infrastructure investments.
Objectives
53.       The project addresses four broad objectives.  First is to assist
in the development of an integrated urban network to support economic
growth in rural areas and to improve the population holding capacity and
urban employment base of the five towns. Second is to improve the finan-
cial and project management capabilities of the towns. Third is to encour-
age a larger role for the private sector in lower-income shelter delivery.
Fourth is to assist in the development of a central government institu-
tional structure capable of supporting decentralized urban development
based on active participation of local authorities.
Description
54.       The project would include the following components, with the
actual mix in each town depending on its needs and investment priorities:
(a) Servicing of urban land for residential and small enterprise
development 6/ (41% of the base project cost). Basic urban services would
be provided for lower and middle income households in the five towns. The
level of investment concerned would be adequate in three of the towns for
the full growth of population expected in the next five years. The type of
land development to be provided has been adapted to the current state of
the urban land market in Kenya, and would include: (i) site and service
type development on mainly unoccupied public land in three towns; (ii) ser-
vicing of mainly unoccupied private land in three towns; (iii) servicing of
land and construction of middle-income houses by a joint venture7/ between
Eldoret Municipal Council (EMC) and a private real estate developer; (iv)
upgrading of services in slum settlements in four towns; and (v) connec-
tions to off-site infrastructure in three towns.
(b) Construction loans for residences and small enterprises (38% of
base cost). To encourage completion of plot development by lower-income
households, this component would cover loans for: (i) building materials
to finish houses in site and service developments; (ii) construction/exten-
sion of core housing; (iii) construction on unoccupied site and service
plots; and (iv) construction of workshops.
6/ Includes, depending on the site, all or part of the following: land
demarcation, water supply, waste disposal, access roads, and surface
water drainage.
7/ Defined as two institutions entering into an enterprise together on an
equal basis to finance project works.



- 16 -
(c) Community facilities (8% of base cost). Included would be con-
struction/expansion/up2rading of seven markets, two lorry parks, and sixty-
five garages/workshops_; construction of two schools, four dispensaries,
and one health center; and related engineaering and construction supervi-
sion;
(d) Financial, project management, and urban maintenance support and
urban policy studies (15% of base cost). This component would cover: (i)
upgrading of financial management capabilities in the Municipal Treasurer's
Departments of all project towns and Kisumu9/, including training of staff
and services of local certified public accountants; (ii) improvement of
loan management procedures and introduction of electronic data processing
equipment for LGLA as well as preparation of a financial manual for NHC;
(iii) establishment of a Program Management Unit (PMU) for urban
development projects, including design of a project monitoring system and
staff training; (iv) project management assistance for local authorities,
including staff training; (v) procurement of a limited amount of mainten-
ance equipment for three towns directly involved in project implementation;
and, (v) consultant services for urban policy studies on lower-income
housing, municipal finance, investment pLanning, and transportation.
Attachment 2 shows details about the physical components of the project
(items a-c preceding). Legal documents relative to the project would take
the form of Onlending Agreements between the Government and two financial
intermediaries (NHC and LGLA), Subsidiary Loan Agreements between each
financial intermediary and the towns, and a joint venture agreement between
EMC and the private developer (for which the services of a local attorney
are included in the project). Agreement on these documents belween the
Government and the Association is currently being completed.
Features of the Project
55.       Assistance to Women.  The project would provide two types of
assistance to the project towns. One type would be the access to land and
to credit. This would continue the pioneering effort of the first urban
project in Kenya in which the plot allocation system was designed so that
women would gain equitable access to land and credit through full publc
advertisement and random selection procedures. This is particularly
significant in view of the large number of female heads of household in
urban areas. The other type of assistance would be access to family
planning services. The towns would be encouraged to request the Ministry
of Health to designate the health centers included in the project as
service delivery points under the IDA-financed Integrated Rural Health and
Family Planning Project (Credit 1238-KE of May 1982 for US$23 million).
56.       Servicing of Private Land.  A second feature of the project would
be provision for future urban growth through the servicing of large tracts
of mainly unoccupied private land in three towns.  This would help avoid
8/  The workshops in Nakuru would provide space for mechanics who currently
work in on serviced locations and those in Thika would be an adjunct to
the central market.
9/  A town included in the ongoing Second Urban Project that haLs similar
accounting needs as the project towns.



- 17 -
problems that now develop regarding subdivision and titling of private land
after it has become occupied and the shortage of funds from housing finance
and other lending institutions for private developers to install infra-
structure services, particularly at a standard affordable to lower-income
residents. The cost of the infrastructure on private land would be
recovered from landowners through road frontage charges, public utility
fees, and higher property taxes on developed land. Because of their loca-
tion and the low level of servicing to be provided, the sites are expected
to develop rapidly with low-cost rental housing. Partial infrastructure
services (site demarcation, earth roads, water kiosks, and surface water
drainage) would be provided for three sites in Eldoret and Nakuru. In
addition, a site in Thika would be developed with full services, including
waterborne sewerage, through a component involving a direct agreement with
a landholding cooperative.
57.       While these components represent a reasonable and pragmatic
approach to the provision of basic services on a large scale, the problems
of obtaining agreements on land and arranging access to financing for
infrastructure can also apply to housing for middle-income households. In
this case, the private sector should be able to play a more direct role in
project implementation and provide for higher leverage of public sector
funding, so as to increase replicability. To demonstrate these concepts,
the project would include a pilot component for a joint venture between EMC
and a private developer to service land and construct medium-cost houses.
The developer is a Kenyan firm whose general partners have already
constructed large commercial buildings and residential developments in the
country. The firm owns the land involved and has constructed some 90
middle income houses there. A further 831 medium-cost houses would be
constructed, using commercial financing obtained by the private developer.
The land required for wayleaves and community facilities would be ceded to
EMC, which would provide the infrastructure. This joint venture could
serve as a model for cooperation between the public and private sectors to
help relieve the backlog of demand for land and shelter for middle-income
groups and thus to reduce the competition for shelter intended for the
poor.
Implementation
58.       The towns and the central government's MWH and MLG would be res-
ponsible for implementing the project over seven years, with completion
scheduled for June 30, 1990.
59.       Arrangements within the Towns.  The servicing of urban land, the
extension of construction finance, the provision of community facilities,
the support of financial and project management improvements, and the pro-
curement of maintenance equipment would be the responsibility of the
towns. Eldoret, Nakuru, and Thika would establish project teams, with a
coordinator for each team to provide internal liaison and report to the
central ministries and the Bank Group. To ensure efficient implementation,
the Technical Department of the NHC would manage implementation of the
project in Nyeri and Kitale (paragraph 63). Implementation of the joint
venture between EMC and the private real estate developer (Rural Housing
Estates, Ltd.) to service land and construct houses in Eldoret would be
coordinated by a Development Committee comprising officials of MWH, MLG,
EMC, and the developer.



- 18 -
60.       Arrangements within the Central Government.  A Program Management
Unit (PMU) would be established under the project to provide day-to-day
coordination at the central government level for this project and the
ongoing Second Urban Project. The PMU would serve as a focal point to pro-
vide project management assistance to the local authorities and to intro-
duce an improved management information system. In addition, it would pre-
sent opportunities for DOH personnel to gain experience with procedures for
coordinating urban development programs. The PMU would contract with NHC's
site and service division to organize training for local authority staff in
community development activities. A Program Coordinator, two engineers, and
a financial analyst would be locally recruited to staff the PMU. Esta-
blishment of the PMU and appointment of a suitably qualified and exper-
ienced Program Coordinator would be a condition of loan/credit effective-
ness (Sections 3.06 (a) and 6.01 (b) of the draft Development Credit Agree-
ment).
61.       The DOH in the MWH would be responsible for initiating, by
June 30, 1984, the implementation phase of the low-cost housing by-laws
study and revision of a housing policy paper. The Development Department
of the MLG would be responsible for studies of municipal finance (to be
initiated by June 30, 1984) investment planning (initiation depends on
scheduling of a fourth urban project), and urban transportation (initiation
by June 30, 1984). This Department also would assist the towns with
preparation of investment proposals and provide advice on implementation,
particularly of markets, community facilities, and off-site infrastructure.
62.       Because of the close involvement of the MWH and the MLG in the
project, a framework for interministerial coordination would 'be established
under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. It would consist of a
Technical Steering Committee to resolve technical problems and an Intermin-
isterial Review Committee, involving the Permanent Secretaries of the MWH
and MLG with the former in the chair, to oversee project implementation
(paragraphs 70-71 and Section 3.06 (b) and (c) of the draft D,evelopment
Credit Agreement).
63.       Financial Control Arrangements, including Accounts and Audit.
During appraisal, the financial position of each town in the project was
reviewed and various actions were proposed to improve financial management
and revenues. As a group, most of the towns have reasonable financial con-
trol of their operations. The financial positions of Eldoret, Nakuru, and
Thika are sound, although Thika allowed its loan accounts with LGLA to
become seriously in arrears. A repayment schedule to clear these arrears
has now been agreed. Nyeri is in an adequate position. However, Kitale is
in an extremely weak financial position, and requires substantial technical
assistance to prepare a remedial prograim. Investments in Kitale under the
project are therefore limited in scope and would be implemented by NHC to
ensure adequate financial control of project funds. A condition of dis-
bursement for the Kitale component, to 'be reflected in the Su'bsidiary Loan
Agreement between Kitale Municipal Council (KMC) and NHC, requires KMC to
complete the preparation of abstracts of accounts through the 1982 fiscal
year and to prepare a program of action acceptable to the Association which



- 19 -
would result in surplus positions in its various fund accounts by January
1, 1987. In addition, KMC would agree with NHC and LGLA by June 30, 1984
on a schedule of repayments for the reduction and eventual elimination of
arrears on loans outstanding from these agencies (Section 4.04 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
64.       To ensure the continuing financial viability of the towns invol-
ved in the project, the MLG would approve the annual budget of each town
only if it provides for a surplus in the General Rate Fund Revenue Account
beginning January 1, 1985 for Eldoret, Nakuru, and Thika and January 1,
1987 for Kitale and Nyeri (Section 3.11 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). The specific dates reflect the time needed by the towns to
prepare and implement programs to improve their recurrent revenues. Any
deficits in the recurrent accounts of the local authorities before these
dates would be covered by improvements in the collection of arrears or by
transfers from reserve and capital funds, depending on individual circum-
stances.
65.       NHC and LGLA would act as financial intermediaries for on-lending
of the loan/credit proceeds to the towns (paragraph 75); execution of
Onlending Agreements between the Government and each of these agencies is a
condition of loan/credit effectiveness (Section 6.01 (c) of the draft Deve-
lopment Credit Agreement). NHC's main problem is its need to rely on MLG
to enforce sanctions on local authorities that are delinquent in loan
repayments. As MLG has not consistently required repayment by local
authorities, much of NHC's portfolio is in arrears, forcing the agency to
defer repayments to the central government. The first steps to correct
this situation were achieved with the agreement to establish schedules for
Kitale and Thika to repay their arrears (paragraph 63).  When the financial
updating for LGLA included in the project has been completed, MLG will be
better able to monitor and enforce repayments by local authorities.
66.       LGLA is a semi-autonomous financial body that serves primarily as
a conduit for capital funds from central government to local authorities.
LGLA's manual accounting procedures do not allow adequate visibility over
loan accounts. As a result, several local authorities have been allowed to
slip behind in repayments to this agency. To increase LGLA's ability as an
effective financial intermediary for the project, certified public accoun-
tants' services are being financed under a Project Preparation Facility
(PPF) advance to improve its financial control systems and procedures.
LGLA would furnish a complete audit of its loan accounts to the Bank Group
by December 31, 1983 (Section 4.03 of the draft Development Credit Agree-
ment). Project funds would be provided to install modern electronic data-
processing equipment for LGLA, which will allow it to provide more effec-
tive financial management of loan funds.
67.       Both NHC and LGLA depend on borrowing from the Treasury for their
cash resources. However, the Treasury is becoming increasingly constrained
in its ability to provide these funds. The project would introduce two
measures to improve the cash flow management procedures of the two agen-
cies. The first would be the establishment of Special Accounts for NHC and



- 20 -
for LGLA to handle project disbursements (paragraphs 77-78), which is a
condition of loan/credit effectiveness (Section 6.01 (a) of the draft Deve-
lopment Credit Agreement).   The Accounts would be established in local
currency in the Central Bank of Kenya. NHC's financial management proce-
dures are satisfactory for the use of a Special Account, and LGLA will be
suitable after the improvement of its loan management procedures, which is
being financed under the PPF.
68.       The second measure to improve the agencies' cash flow management
procedures would be the introduction of a new project monitoring system
(paragraphs 70-71). This system would emphasize the monitoring of project
cash requirements from realistic and frequently updated implementation
schedules.  Information compiled quarterly by the PMU would be used to
estimate the next quarter's cash requirements. As a result, the liquid
balances of these agencies should be more efficiently managed.
69.       Separate project accounts would be established in the Municipal
Treasurer's Departments for Eldoret, Nakuru, and Thika and in NHC for
Kitale and Nyeri. The towns, PMU, NHC, and LGLA would submit audited
statements of project expenditures to the Bank Group within eight months of
the close of their fiscal year (Section 4.01 (b) and (c) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). Where project expenditures are disbursed on
the basis of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs), the auditor's report would
confirm that claimed expenditures were used for the purposes provided
(paragraph 78 and Section 4.01 (c) of the draft Development Credit Agree-
ment).
70.       Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements.  The PMU would oversee
regular project monitoring. To assist in this effort, a local consultant
under the project would design reporting forms and train local authority
staff in their use. In addition, certain activities would require atten-
tion in the MWH. These include preparation of annual budget estimates,
integration of project reporting activities into the Government's Forward
Budget and project monitoring systems, and executive control over local
authorities in areas such as tender procedures and plot allocations. More-
over, the close involvement of the MWH and the MLG in the project would
require formal recognition to allow a forum for problem resolution and
interministerial coordination.
71.       Monitoring would begin with quarterly progress reports prepared
by the towns and NHC (for Nyeri and Kitale) within three weeks of the end
of each quarter. The PMU would synthesize these reports into a project
status report, to be sent simultaneously to the Bank Group and the Techni-
cal Steering Committee, chaired by the Chief Housing Officer, within six
weeks of the end of each quarter (Section 3.08 (c) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). Key project issues would be reviewed in a meeting at
least semi-annually of the Interministerial Review Committee, which would
receive recommendations of the Technical Steering Committee and provide a
forum for interministerial coordination and input to the Forward Budget
process. The monitoring and evaluation unit of DOH would carry out special
studies at the direction of the Technical Steering Committee to gain
experience and consolidate lessons of past projects. The DOH would prepare
a completion report at the end of the project.



- 21 -
Cost and Financing
72.       Cost.  The total project cost is estimated at US$37.4 million.
This consists of a foreign exchange component of US$15.0 million, or 40%,
and a local currency component of US$22.4 million equivalent, or 60%,
including taxes of US$1.5 million. The cost estimate was based on January
1983 prices. Preliminary engineering remains to be done for 9% of the cost
of servicing of land (3% of the total project cost). This covers sites to
be implemented in later years of the project, which are now being investi-
gated.
73.       Physical contingencies total US$1.3 million, or about 5% of the
base project cost. They were derived using 10% of the cost of servicing
urban land and other infrastructure. Price contingencies total US$8.2
million, or about 29% of the base cost. These were based on cumulative
increases in local prices of 14% for 1983, 13% for 1984, and 12% for subse-
quent years and in foreign prices of 8% for 1983, 7.5% for 1984, and 6%
thereafter.
74.       Financing.  The Bank Group, the Government, and a private real
estate developer would finance the project. The loan of US$7 million,
including the capitalized front-end fee, and credit of US$22 million would
cover about 80% of the project cost net of taxes (77% of the gross project
cost). The PPF advance of US$1.0 million (P-220-KE), approved in September
1982, would be repaid upon loan/credit effectiveness. The loan/credit
would cover 100% of the foreign exchange cost (US$15.04 million) and 54% of
the local cost (US$15.52 million) of the project. Local cost financing is
justified by Kenya's severe domestic resource constraints.
75.       The loan/credit proceeds would be made available by the Govern-
ment, through the Ministry of Finance, to the implementing agencies accord-
ing to the following procedures (Sections 2.02 (c) and 3.02 and Schedule 4
of the draft Development Credit Agreement):
(a) For all local authority project components except the
Eldoret private sector joint venture, the funds would be on-lent to NHC and
LGLA at 11% for 27 years, including 4 years of grace. These agencies would
on-lend to the towns at 11.25%, for a similar term and grace period.10/
The towns would further onlend to the beneficiaries (about 29,000 lower and
middle-income households) at 12% for 25 years, including 2 years of grace
in the case of construction loans and infrastructure costs recoverable by
plot charges and for 10 years including 1 year of grace in the case of
workshops. The loan periods are comparable to those granted by commercial
housing finance institutions in Kenya. The grace periods are based on
current experience, which indicates that local authorities need adequate
10/ This distribution of the on-lending spread differs from current
practice in Kenya, where NHC takes a spread of 0.5% and the local
authorities take 0.5%. The change in favor of the local authorities
was recommended by the "Study of the Operations of the National Housing
Corporation," Coopers and Lybrand Associates, January 1981.



- 22 -
time to construct infrastructure and beneficiaries need adequate time to
complete housing construction before cost recovery begins and loans have to
be repaid.  Interest payments for all of the loans would be capitalized
over the grace periods.
(b) For the Eldoret private sector joint venture component, the
funds would be on-lent to NHC at 11% for 7 years, including 2 years of
grace during which interest payments would be capitalized. NHC would on-
lend the funds to EMC at 11.25%, for a similar term and grace period. EMC
would recover the cost of the infrastructure construction from the private
developer at the commercial bank rate or 12%, whichever is higher, over 5
years.
The interest rate charged to the beneficiaries is expected to be nominally
positive in real terms in the medium and long term and provide an adequate
spread to the on-lending agencies and the local authorities to cover the
costs of loan administration. A surcharge of 5% of the aggregate principal
and interest due would be levied on the beneficiaries to promote a reserve
against the risk of default.  On this basis, the effective interest rate is
comparable to commercial housing finance rates, currently set at 14%.
Because the interest rate structure in Kenya is subject to change, the
Government would or cause the NHC, LGLA, and the local authorities to
review from time to time the interest rates specified and introduce such
modifications as deemed necessary (SectLon 3.02 (e) of the Development
Credit Agreement).
76.       The balance of the total projiect cost (about 20%) would be borne
by the Government and the real estate dieveloper. The Government would put
in US$2.1 million (6% of the total project cost). The developer would
provide US$6.3 million (17%) for the construction of middle-income housing
in Eldoret, to be obtained through commercial financing for which no
difficulty is anticipated.
Disbursements
77.       Loan/credit proceeds would be disbursed against:  95% of civil
works for on-site and off-site infrastructure and the EMC part of the joint
venture component, community facilities, and construction loans; 100% of
foreign expenditures and 80% of local expenditures on equipment and
vehicles; 100% of expenditures for consultant services; 100% of operating
expenses for the PMU; refunding of the PPF; the initial deposits in the
Special Accounts; and the front-end fee on the loan.
78.       The credit and then the loan would be disbursed over seven-and-
one-half years ending December 31, 1990'. The rate of disbursement is
consistent with the Eastern Africa regional profile for the urban sector,
except that the disbursement profile has been adjusted to reflect the
drawing down of the initial deposits in the Special Accounts.
Disbursements would be fully documented, except in the case cf construction
loans and PMU operating expenses, for which SOEs covering about 11% of
total project costs would be used. Internal accounting procedures and



- 23 -
audit controls were reviewed in the agencies that would use SOEs and were
determined to be satisfactory. SOEs have been used in previous Bank urban
projects in Kenya.
Procurement
79.       Civil Works.  The base cost of civil works would be US$13.7
million. Civil works contracts under the previous urban projects have not
attracted international bidding. Therefore, all contracts for civil works
under this project would be awarded through local competitive bidding
procedures acceptable to the Bank Group. The sites involved would be
tendered separately by each of the towns as the designs are completed, and
bunching of contracts for purposes of bidding would not be efficient.
Prior Bank approval would be required for prequalification, selection of
bidders, tender documents, and approval of tender awards for civil works
contracts above US$250,000.
80.       Equipment and Vehicles.  The base cost of equipment and vehicles
would be US$1 million. Contracts above US$100,000 would be awarded through
international competitive bidding (ICB), in accordance with Bank Group
guidelines. Those between US$50,000 and US$100,000 would be based on local
competitive procedures acceptable to the Bank. Contracts of less than
US$50,000 would be let through local shopping, with price quotations from
at least three local suppliers. Major maintenance equipment could be
packaged across towns to encourage ICB procurement. However, vehicles
would be purchased in lots of one or two each by the local authorities and
central project agencies and packaging of vehicle purchases would not be
practical. For ICB contracts, domestic manufacturers would be allowed a
preferential margin of 15% of the CIF price of competitive goods or the
prevailing customs duties level, whichever is lower.
81.       Consultant services.  About 209 man-months would be required for
various purposes (paragraph 54), at an average man-month cost of $8,600
including personnel costs and other reimbursable items, or a total cost of
US$2.4 million.   Services would be contracted in accordance with the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers."
Financial Impact
82.       Cost recovery would follow the procedures established under pre-
vious Bank Group-supported projects, which have not presented any problems,
i.e. a combination of direct plot charges, utility fees, and where appro-
priate, frontage charges and other taxes. About 80% of the costs of the
project would be recoverable from direct fees and charges at a nominal
interest rate of 12%. The balance of the costs (for off-site infrastruc-
ture, community facilities, and technical assistance) would be covered by
revenue contributions from the towns (11% of the base cost) and the central
government (9% of the base cost). To cover their contributions, the towns
would require an increase in general revenues ranging from less than 1% to
approximately 7%, which is well within their increased revenue potentials.



- 24 -
Justification and Risks
83.       Direct Benefits, Including Poverty Impact.  About 29,000
lower and middle-income urban householdsll/ would receive direct benefits
from the project.  The benefits would take the form of access to improved
and affordable housing, which would be constructed, rented, or purchased.
About 71% of the project housing would be affordable on a rental basis to
the urban poor. Rentals in the remainder of the project sites would
generally be affordable to households in the middle of the urban income
distribution (40th to 65th percentile). For each site, benefits were
estimated as a stream of rental values for the houses, based on surveys of
market rents for similar dwellings in the same towns. Costs included all
relevant costs for developing the sites (except for taxes) and were
adjusted for the shadow price of foreign exchange for Kenya. Benefits were
quantified for components totalling 77% of the project base cost (US$21.47
million) and yield a weighted average economic return of 20%.
84.       Indirect Benefits.  These benefits do not lend themselves to
quantification but would materialize through institutional reforms under
the project. They include improvements in financial and managerial capaci-
ties of the towns and of central government agencies, strengthening of
administrative capacity in the towns, and expansion of private sector
involvement in lower and middle-income shelter delivery.
85.       Risks.  The principal risks of the project concern the execution
capacity of the local authorities, the coordination capacity of central
government agencies, and the innovative nature of the private sector joint
venture component. These risks suggest the need for close Bank/IDA
supervision, particularly early in project implementation.
86.       Weaknesses in the execution capacity of the local authorities
may delay the project.  These include lack of experience with the types of
components to be executed, difficulties in obtaining final agreements with
private landowners on the subdivision of certain sites, and problems with
the mechanics of cost recovery. To reduce the risks, implementation
schedules have already been adjusted to reflect possible delays, and a PPF
has been made available to finance consultants services for detailed
engineering. In addition, training of staff and improvement of monitoring
systems have been included in the project.  Finally, to avoid the delays in
implementation associated with acquisition or surrender of private land
under the Second Urban Project (paragraph 47), most of the sites included
in this project have a workable subdiv:Lsion plan, which has been agreed
with the owners and the local authority or is in the process of being
agreed. Bank/IDA supervision missions would maintain firm deadlines on
obtaining land agreements, after which loan/credit proceeds would be
cancelled or reallocated.
87.       Delays and inefficiencies could occur in the central government
agencies, for example in the granting of central government approvals or
management of financial flows. Establishment of the PMU as the principal
/ The Bank Group defines the urban poor in Kenya according to an absolute
poverty criterion, with the poverty cut-off set at US$183 equivalent
annually per year (this figure may differ from that in Annex 1 due to
more updated information).



- 25 -
body for project management would reduce this risk. Moreover, the
Technical Steering Committee would provide a vehicle for problem resolution
and interministerial coordination. These institutional reforms were
designed to avoid the delays related to the establishment of separate
project departments in each city and the problem of insufficient central
government support experienced during the Second Urban Project (paragraph
48).
88.       The private sector joint venture is a risk solely because of its
innovative nature. Circumstances could arise in which the private
developer, who is party to the joint venture in Eldoret, would not be able
to construct the housing or consumer demand may not meet expectations.
Several factors would mitigate these risks. One is that the parties to the
venture are keenly interested in execution. Another is that EMC's exposure
under the project would be limited by a lien on the land so that, if the
private developer were to pull out, EMC could recover its investment by
building the housing with commercial financing or converting the area to a
site and service development. Finally, the site would be developed in
phases, which would limit the risk if sales of completed housing are below
expectations.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
89.       The draft Loan Agreement and Development Credit Agreement between
the Republic of Kenya and the Bank and the Association as well as the
Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the
Articles of Agreement of the IBRD and in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the
Articles of Agreement of the IDA are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
90.       Special conditions of loan/credit effectiveness are the
establishment of the PMU and appointment of a qualified and experienced
Project Coordinator, the execution by the Government of Kenya of On-lending
Agreements with NHC and with LGLA, and the establishment of Special
Accounts for NHC and LGLA in the Central Bank of Kenya.
91.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Annex III.
92.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan and credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the IBRD and IDA.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
93.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan and credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
By: Ernest Stern
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 24, 1983



-26-                           Attachment1
Page 1 of 2
KENYA SECONDARY TOWNS PROJECT
The Project Towns
ELDORET
1.        Characteristics.  Eldoret, a district administrative capital in
Rift Valley Province, serves a catchment area exceeding 600,000 people.
The town has 60,000 inhabitants, and is the second largest urban center in
the Secondary Towns Project. Its population grew over 150% during 1969-79.
2.        Economic Importance and Linkages.  Eldoret is an important trans-
port and communications center, which channels agricultural and manufac-
tured products to Nairobi and Nakuru. It connects the northern part of the
Rift Valley to the rest of Kenya.  Manufacturing is the major economic act-
ivity in the town, which has several small- and mediumrscale firms includ-
ing the Kenya Industrial Estates supported by IDA Credit 750-KE.
3.        Housing.  With 38% of the population residing in about 1,250 un-
planned and unauthorized structures, E:Ldoret has the most critical housing
problem of the project towns.
4.        Development Potential.  Eldoret will remain attractive to indus-
try because of lower wage and service costs than Nairobi. Future commer-
cial development will probably be the manufacture of consumer products and
the assembly of machinery and of inputs to the agriculture sector.
KITALE
5.        Characteristics.  Kitale is the seat of the district headquarters
of Tranz Nzoia, a wealthy agricultural area in Rift Valley Province. Its
catchment population totals 300,000 people. Population density is the low-
est of the towns in the Project, although unplanned settlements are the
most densely inhabited.
6.        Economic Importance and Linkages.  Kitale is in one of the major,
large-scale maize producing areas of Kenya, and its maize storage silos
form part of the country's strategic food reserves. The Kitale area also
yields beef cattle, dairy products, and quality seeds. One major
industrial plant in the town processes and packages seed. Kitale's main
economic linkages are with the immediate catchment area. It also is the
service center for north-western Kenya, particularly West Pokot and Turkana
districts. However, the distance from Nairobi, despite a railway
connection, and from the main cross-country transport route inhibit
Kitale's linkages with other Kenyan urban centers.
7.        Development Potential.  Economic growth in Kitale will depend on
agriculture and livestock development in the catchment area.
NAKURU
8.        Characteristics.  Nakuru is the capital of Rift Valley Province
and also accommodates the Municipal Council of the Central Rift. With



-27-                          Attachment1
Page 2 of 2
100,000 inhabitants, it is the largest town in the Secondary Towns Project
and the fourth largest town in Kenya. Its catchment area population is
almost 700,000 people.
9.        Economic Importance and Linkages.  Nakuru is the marketing, pro-
cessing, and transport center for agricultural and livestock production
(grain, beef cattle, dairy products, sheep, oil seeds, vegetables, and
timber) in the catchment area.
10.       Development Potential.  Economic expansion will hinge on the
trade, public, and service sectors. Manufacturing is declining because
chemical and textile factories were relocated due to pollution controls.
NYERI
11.       Characteristics.  Nyeri, the capital of Central Province, is a
thriving agricultural community about 147 km north of Nairobi. Its catch-
ment area includes about 500,000 people.
12.       Economic Importance and Linkages.  Nyeri is a site for health,
education, and trade services. It is one of Kenya's main timber processing
and sawmilling centers. As a result, the town is a major transport node
providing an outlet to southern markets for agricultural produce and tim-
ber. It also is an important link in the Mt. Kenya/Aberdares and Samburu/
Lake Turkana tourist circuits.
13.       Development Potential.  The commercial, public, and service sec-
tors are expected to expand. Resource constraints, high transport costs,
and inadequate water and sewerage services will constrain manufacturing.
THIKA
14.       Characteristics.  Thika, situated 47 km northeast of Nairobi, is
a district administrative capital serving about 300,000 people in Central
Province. It has about 50,000 inhabitants. Thika's total population rose
by more than 80% during 1969-79. The rural sector includes some 15,000
persons, or almost 30% of the total population.
15.       Economic Importance and Linkages.   As Thika accommodates textile
mills, Kenya's largest canning factory, tanneries, a paper mill, and a
motor vehicle assembly plant, its economic linkage activities are manufac-
turing by assembly of imported components and re-export of finished goods
and processing of agricultural produce from the catchment area.
16.       Development Potential.  Thika's land and water, excellent road
and rail links to Nairobi and the immediate catchment area, labor supply,
and agricultural products should sustain the town as a processing,
manufacturing, and product assembly center. This is particularly likely
since Nairobi's industrial area is unattractive for manufacturing due to
the traffic congestion and high cost of land. The growth of Thika has been
constrained up to now by insufficient housing and infrastructure services.



KENYLA SEXN1(RY I S PROJECT
Physical Project Coaponents, by TwS
A. SECVICI3 OF URBAN LAM                                   B. 01,lC-                             C. CIH4JNI  FACILITIES
TI(N L(Nw
Site and Ser-  Site and Ser- Servicing of  Upgrading of  Private Sec-  Off-site and                    rkets      Lorry Parks    WorkshopB       Schools    Diaspsaries
vice (full in- vice (partial Private Land  Existing Set- tor Joint     other infra-                                                                         ard Health
frastructure)  infrastruc-                 tlments       Venture       structure                                                                            Centers
ture
Extension of                 1 local opr-                                              1 health
EID(xEr                   1,032 plots a/ 2,555 plotsb/   30) plots    831 plots   access roads,   512 loansC/  air market                                   2 schools     center
wmter main,
and surface
water drainage
KIEALE                                                  50D plotsd/
Extension of                 2 open air                  50 oper-air
N&JU         743 plotse/                   764 plots      91 plots                water and sewer 865 loansf/  markets, 1      1 lorry      garage wort-                  4 dispear
mains, access                wholesale      park         shops for                     saries 8/
roads, surface              market                       rental                                          o
water drainage;
on-site sewer
reticulation
for Pangani
Expansion of
NYERI         257 plotsh/     59 plots                   136 plots                                452 loansi/  1 retail
market
Extension of                Extension of   1 lorry        15 work-
THIKA                                     312 plotsi/   700 plotsk/                access roads  1,163 loans!/ central         park           shops for
and water and               market, 1                     rental
sewer mainsi               local market
a/ Two sites (Kipkaren and Old Uganda Road), both of approximately 25 ha.
h/ Two sites, (Langas and Ruruma/Mwigenderi), approximately 250 ha and 54 ha,  respectively.
c/ Loans of KSh 12,000 for construction of two-room houses at Kipkaren.
d/ 25 ha to be provided with partial infrastructure, Area 1 of Tuwani Farm.
e/ 30 plots for workshops, 178 plots for market sale, 535 plots for allocation to lower-income groups at Racetrack site.
f/ 300 loans of KSh 6,000 each to add one room to existing houses in Pangani, 535 loans of KSh 22,000 each for two-room houses with kitchen and wet core at
Racetrack, 30 loans of KSh 17,000 each for workshop construction at Racetrack.
Construction of two new dispensaries and upgrading of two existing dispensaries.
h/ Kiawara/Shauri Yako site (257 plots, of which 40 will be for workshops), a steep hillside near the center of the town with extensive existing settlements.
i/ 217 loans of KSh 22,000 in Kiawara/Shauri Yako, 40 loans of KSh 17,000 for workshop construction in the same area, 59 loans of KSh 12,000 in Kingongo, and
136 loans of KSh 6,000 for construction of wet cores in Majengo.                                                                                                                           r
i/ Land owned by Thika Municipal Council Employees' Cooperative Society (TMCECS). o
t/ Minimum improvements consisting of water kiosks and plot demarcation in Kiandutu.
T/ 1,163 loans of KSh 22,000 in previously developed site and service areas; 312 loans of KSh 22,000 for TMCECS site.



- 29 -                                                      ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                                          Page  1  of  6
KENYA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHET
KENYA                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE AGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                            - KOST RECENT ESTIMATE)I-
TOTAL            582.6                                MOST RECENT         MIDDLE INCOHE              NIDDLE INCOHE
AGRICULTURAL      60.4              1960  /b    1970 lb ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  NORTH AFRICA   MIDDLg EAST
GNP PER CAPITA (US")                 110.0       170.0    420.0                 1053.2                  1253.6
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     143.8       116.2     172.1                610.1                    713.5
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, KID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 8189.0      11253.0  15865.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 7.4         10.2      14.2                  28.3                    47.3
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      36.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                       128.5
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2100
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       14.1        19.3      26.2                 54.7                     35.8
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    145.2       190.5    252.9                 129.9                    420.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         47.7        48.9      50.0                 46.0                     44.3
15-64 YRS.                         49.8        48.6      47.6                 51.1                     52.4
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   2.6         2.5       2.4                  2.8                      3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.4         3.2       3.4                  2.8                      2.8
URBAN                              5.2         6.4       6.8                  5.2                      4.6
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    51.8         52.7      51.4                 47.2                     41.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    23.6         17.8      13.3                 15.7                     12.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.5         3.8       3.8                  3.2                      2.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..        30.9      61.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..          1.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          99.0       100.0      81.0                 90.7                    100.4
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   98.6        95.1      95.6/c               93.9                    108.5
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          67.7        65.1      63.4T7               54.8                     71.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       27.3        26.5      20.07?               17.0                     18.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     29.1        21.9      15.1                 23.9                     15.1
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   41.3         48.7      54.9                 51.0                     56.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          137.5       112.0      86.8                118.5                    104.3
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        15.0      17.0/d                  ..                    59.1
URBAN                               ..       100.0     100.07                   ..                    83.1
RURAL                               ..         2.0       4.07                   ..                    39.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        50.0      55.0/d
URBAN                               ..        85.0      98.07 o
RURAL                               ..        45.0      48.07.
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         10690.6      7830.9/f 11625.2/f            14185.2                   4015.5
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     2265.1/e.f  1474.17i  1085.7/f             2213.2                   1802.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            786.0       774.1     770.8/S             1036.4                    641.7
URBAN                               ..          ..    601.6/g               430.8                    538.3
RURAL                               ..          ..    802.9/               3678.6                   2403.3
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..          ..       9.7/S                  *-                    25.5
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               *-         4.7
URBAN                              4.9/e       4.7
RURAL                               ..         4.7
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN                              2.5/e        ..
RURAL                               ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..



- 30 -                                                         ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
TASLI 3A
KENYA - OCIAL INDICATORIS DATA INERT
KENYA                         IZR1ZNCI GROUPS (WIGIHED AVY44lE
- HOST UECINT 9STIMATEP)
MOST RECFNT          MIDDLE INCOMz              MINDLD  InCO=E
1960  Lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA 6OUTH OF SAHARA  NORTH ARICA A MIDDLU BAT
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARYS     TOTAL                 47.0         60.0      99.0                   83.3                     88.7
MALE                  64.0        70.0      105.0                  96.1                    104.5
FEMALE                30.0        49.0       94.0                  80.4                     72.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  2.0          8.0      18.0                   15.3                     39.7
MALE                   3.0        12.0       22.0                  19.4                     49.3
FEMALE                 2.0         5.0       14.0                  11.3                     29.0
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)  12.2           1.8        2.3/1                 4.7                     10.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            42.0         34.4      33.1/c                 36.6                     34.1
SECONDARY                          15.0         20.6      24.6rc                23.4                      23.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        19.1/e       30.0       49.6                  35.6                     43.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          7.9          8.5       8.0/c                 31.9                     17.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          7.0         44.4      34.8                   71.8                    131.3
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.3/i        1.4       3.9                   17.9                     44.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  11.2         13.8       10.2                  19.1                     31.5
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  1.0            ,,       0.4/c                  0.6                      1.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      3296.5       4314.2    5671.5
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   34.6         34.4      33.6                   36.5                     10.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              86.0         82.0       78.0                  56.5                     42.4
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  5.0          7.0      10.0                  17.7                      27.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                40.3         38.3       35.7                  37.0                     26.0
MALE                                 53.3         50.9       48.0                  46.9                     46.2
FEMALE                               27.5         26.1      23.8                   27.2                      5.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.2         1.3        1.5                   1.3                      1.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..        20.2/h
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          52.67w    60.4/i
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       .          3.9/h     2.67rI.
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..        117.7i     8.97!i
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..     150.0                  507.0                    279.2
RURAL                                 ..          ..     112.0                  200.6                    178.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..     179.0                  523.9                    403.6
RURAL                                 ..          ..     106.0                  203.6                    285.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..       10.0                    ..                     22.1
RURAL                                ..           ..      55.0                     ..                     30.9
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arit:hmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1977; /d 1975; /e 1962; /f Registered, not all practicing in the country; /S 1976; /h Urban only; /i 1974.
May, 1982



- 31 -                                                                              ANNEX I
DMTC  OFSOILIDCT                                                                       Page  3  of  6
Esrem     Although rho data are doa   from sonc  pa-rati  judged tbe  asc atbariativ- an  reliable, it  bald also be sated tbht they -y eat be inter-
satienlly cop-tbl.e hbcaa  of the took of  tsadardiod defin.itioa   and cocpts used by different cooteiem  in collecting tb  data.  Tbe datare
thres-.-ufol to d.scribe orders of  ugntod.   dindat  treds. and characterize certain major differences between                      I cutie..
The tofoeuc  gro.ps ace (1) rho ace          -uoy grop of rho sub]jeot country nod(2) a coutry grop with sosewat bighar averga inc-   the  the coutrygru
of th  ebject coutr .(ccptfo            "High  .ros   011 Fpttprcr" group whc  'Middle lu-a  Nortb Africa ou  Middlc Host"1 J. obos   because of st-og-r
nc-oooaafficitiro).  Ic the  rfroegroup data the er-rgas ur  popolatioc woghted arithmetic man  to  eah  Windito- od oboe  ely shea
majorityof the c-orIle  Jc c grop boo doto f-c thai tidbc-tor.  Sicce the  uerg   f_cutries aec   the  oictr  depeoda cc the  vaitabitlity of dais
ord to nor coifarn, catco        s  ho e..e toed in raatiog averages  t o.e indicator to eothee   Thao averges are oly osful J ioopering the colo  at
_c  indicutor at a time ono  rho c...ctey acd refereoc   groups.
AliEn (ihou....d aqis.)                                                                            Porlatioo  -Er   optl5 -ttl   ra,adre   - PopulatIon  (total.
Totol -Tto  oufce -c  couPoisioc lord urea cod inluadecrees; 1979 data,                           aro,cd rua)dnddb  hi   epctenme   f hoapinal beds-
AoLoL-tofa1 - gotinte ci  gric-ltorot arec und ce-por-ily cc peeunotly                            avilable in peblic sod privat  ganera  sodspeciolteod hospital andro
foe crops, porru   cInt ocd kitcbh   grdeuc or to lie fatton; 1979 data.                      habilitatio   ostera.  HsPitalo sere eatabiabmeta permootly sta.ffe
by ot laast 000 physici"n.  tEtblihbeete pra-idiug prnipally  ato-
IffP PEt CAPITA (US$) - GNP per capita natimate  atrret nackat prices, ccl-                         dial core are nt included,  aR-   heopitalo. h.--oer  include health
coluted by u-s  c-ce-io netbod usWorld HacktAtlas (1970-H0 koala); 1960.                          aod medical  .e.itroout puemaatlY staffed by a phystotu  (but by
1970. aod 19g1 data,                                                                               edical assistut       rs. mdwife, etc.)  hbihb offer lo-patLeot         c
dainne  rda a  imtedi enge of medical facilities.  Poe.sttia-
ENlIgLY CONSUMIPTION PER CAPITA - Acouc  cocuoPnt       g coserfio       "ISetY (oa                 clout pepas-  soba  hospitnlsianlude WiHspinialgnea  haspiti.1
uod ligoite, partoIon,  --1ra  gon oud bydro-, o-1oo  cod geotherma  Ila-ad eu.ath bepitala. loca  or roe1 hopitals and medi-1 ed materity
rItc,ity) to kitlogro     of coal oquilvo tu Par cpite;'1960 . 1971. ca  19719'                  cectr.  IpePilateed hospitals are iIncldedoynede tota.1
data.                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Admissions ear Hspitol fad - Toa  nuber ofadistoo  to or dinchoeges
irnhospitals dtivded by the outer of beds.
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
Total1 Pnpo1atioo, Mid-Yea  (tho...oda) - A. of July 1; 1960, 1970, end 1980                 HOtSINt
dot,.                                                                                        Avereas lice of Houehod (psraoo  perhoushold)   tta'l, b,he, andoso
Orho b   pluo  (p-rr-o  of Itotol  -Rfato o,f..orb   to Itonal popolat"';                         A household cnitsoagroup of  eividu_ .wtho-hr  liJviogqnir
diff eret defi.tirtoo   of cobarurocny pafetr                bills   o f do.te                  ad   itheimin meal.  A boodet or ledge  may or map out he included I
Zso   r_ntioI; 1960, 1970, ood 1980 data,                                                     the ho_sahld for- atalclpoeposas
PopMU -io  Prejroi.n                                                                           Avrae. comber of po.... per coos- total, ora,ad ru- -vrae1m
Population in poor li   -C Corec  populatio yoojortLuou or  booed on 19H0                      her of p_rno   pse roam in al  urban   andura  occupied ocvoiona
tota  ypoonooby oge and acad their netolity and ferItility rar.dsIIIugs,  -epoctivoly.  Dsrelliogo ocode uoprae t urctoros and
yr-j-tclo   puronre-  foe nertolity  -tuic  -optise of theso1-1  I--r       - aaan-nttpied parta.
tog litcepcacyo   ith i-caing cith  -oc-y. Poe capita Lo...e                               Arce.. to g.ottiriy (pc...eet of dwellings) - total, uehau, ao  rura  -
oot, and Ls_lo life nopteruy   _tugilioiog at 77.5t  --ra   rho Para-                        fonatoo. Id"slingo with ot1c-irity to ti'iog qatrasp-rr"tgS.
earoen fI cc-tcility cult olvobor  three levels "uoiog decline in                            of total, utban, cod rural doellings  -epootlely.
fertlIlt  ateodiog to incom 10-1 aud Poo  fo.dly plaoniog peccoeac..
ther      tIoolY is thin  .uo ignad ore ofther  rice conblaatiooa of uceItary           tIfCATIDa
od fetil ity rr-dn for yt-jotior         IP. ppcen.Adjootad Eorolment Rtatic
stationerty popolotlon- Io  a n:ioclnar  population IIerr is no growh  ilc-                    Peano!ty ached1 - tota,  alr od femole - r.no totacl, malo and femal
the hirth rota In equal to rho dooth race, ard oloc the ago otenctfe to-                        enrllentofal  Rgu athptimae  lee  ac petoetgs of respective
neic  contan.   Tit  In ochieved only efrr fertiity rates delioc to                             primary acbool-.eg  PePulationo; nonmally inldas childtoo aged 6-11
theroloono  levl    icl oa  r-prod-ctin eate  when eah geoeatioc                               yroen but adjoted tot differout lengtbo of p isory education; foe
of csecrepoce  italtocotly   Th  otricorypoploioc  leecocoutries cubhninrsl nduatica enrolmet nay enceed 100 percut
octistod  00ro  aio the          prjcne Joetrrifio thehe ipopulation                            rice smppili ce  belo  oraav   the off ica1 -hboo  ogn.
Jc the you  2000, and rho cola of decline of fertility rota to roPloce-                      Secondar  school - total, male and femal  - Computed as above; seconday
nea .leel.                                                                                   edcctooeas  or l.east fou  years of approve.d primary instruction;
Toot ntaicuc    pop tinio  in rourhod -. The yea  whoa  trationary popnlatlon                     proides general. voctio-l,.or teuchee training iott nfar pupIls
uioe ni    _rahod.                                                                             locally uf 12 to i7years ofag; nerepoedeaennos-    oet  generally
Dooltic oaily                                                                                 .nclodoc
Per ci. bok-  rid-your popclotior pe oqoo.. kilonecIr (IfS herturen) ofVo_tiocal ..roillect (-or.ont of seonod-y) - Vo-ratl..al i.titlitio..
corl,,oI   1960  1970 aod 1079 da-.ld  tachgoal  .odua.rIol, or ocher prograa odich cporate  edopand-
Po  u.  a                          Cgiutun .an      opurod on above Icragilcel ad              oty0aadepoemeto rf noondarytoiucc.
ol;1967, 19y0 und 1979 dotc.                                                            Popil-teah-r ratio - Ptisry, aud secondory - Total nidents  -arlle  to
Popolott.c Ago Streror  (ear-nt  - Childroc (0-li Y-r),  -oking-ago  (15-                        pefi-y acd aucondory levels divided by o-ber of tocober  to nb.
66 yrc-),6 cc  rerirod (65 ycueu and orer) an p-rc...goIf nid-poo-  .pop-                       corceapoodig level..
Iotr   91   91  cod 19 01  otAdult litrracy rote (ans)-Litcete odu1ta (able to read  ad write)
puceiy.pflatio   fur 1961-hI  1917,  o8 97-
lorica  fr 191-60  190-,  nud 1970-S                                                  Posue   on(par thoeaaad ppltin                 P Peu-gee cars t-priee mano
CedoHthcc       epr theuar)_    Actuali-o  biothe par  hoc....d of aId-year.  eot toainglo   hnegtyrno   ntoo   ooaru   o                                                 n
population; 1960, 1970, and 1900 dato.                                                         nlnrroit
CrDo -hrbft    Rcrtosn)-hrueeta  e  hoado   i-orodic   cio-or  ie  thousand  pplto)-All tye P..    rucIves  oera
pepulati-o; 1960. 1970, cod 190 data.                                                          he.cudrora to genra -1public Par thcuncnd ofpap o1          r  oc-cludes  w
rouniyoetlrg_-rececce  ofdoJea0coa    ilho  inlion-ed ro-i-o   Jc  -uotria  and in peace ohn r-gint-tuin of radIo
ho   ora  rayrode-tli- ported if nbeo-perl.....o presen  .ge-uprifito f o-                  acts ec  to eff-ct; duia for rIcen  yours may oct ho rmpocablenlu..
tttityec;uely  I t ioe-yeor  -t-rgos oodiug in 1960, 1970, aud 1900.                           net_cIIIo ablishe  lic-a-u-lig.
PonLly Planng- A-ettryo . Arro.. I(thb.....du   n- hra   ubo  faopo                             Viaovr  (pot Ihecua     Ppolatico) - TVceiva for hesedooni to
of blrth-cctrl doricca coder. acpicero   u           a  foulY planin 19P,or                    g--erI public Per thraucod population; e-ld-e - oui-ond TV re-i-et
Ponily Ploocig - grU  (yacoc  ci ucocedfucma) - Pcr_tvgo o1f  ee.id'                              in runtrien cud Ju y-ao when r              Jioato   of TV  rts was is of-te.
cono   hild-beariro  -g  (15-lb year) who u-  bir-h--ct-1l  dovic-  to                 Nfownoepr CircIthic  .ea   iheaad                      Shnalo) - w  the averge tie-
publication dovotd prmetilp  to reoding gosrl  os    tc Jinr..oidared
FOOD AND N11ITION1                                                                                 to be "doily" if it apprun atI.eout fore  ne   al wek.
Ird-c fiPod PredJrrte  par ConIc  19b9 -yl10  - odr  of p-r capita annual                      Cics  A .c.aI At-od-a  -o  Coyga per Year - H.. d on the cue  of
prodctIn e  allroo  concdiien   Prdet-ica.. eldac need and feed ord                   rIIkoo tol..d doriug the year. inloding adilsitoc. to drive-in olnewa
in ocaodryea  banis.  Cordito- covet priory goods. (e..  oga.....o                             cr     ble unity..
iucred of ng-r) ehth 0cc  dilo cod _cnniootitr    eg. cofie. od
teaar  uceudod).  Aggr-got  pr-d-ctio cf each  e...try Ja bue  on. dAHOR POgRCE
naio-a  -rooof  ptcdco-  price  -euhe; 1961-67, 1977. an  1.0  doraTI. .   lr    lao  Pra(eonod)-E.ooia    atclr  P--na  Saclodlog
Poecoit. nupply of cclorion (proto  reoitr..coIn) - Couputed ft co                             aud ior-oaaodcoployed hut oucledig haaui-eu  utudoeta, etc.,
_eregy-quivaloon  of  ct trod soyp)le-nvallble Itacoc..nry per -cpita                          crtgpopolatiuc of .1l ao.R           ieiiniitic     ovaic   _ntncioncr
Par day A-l .        .ve .,h P 1nplla   _psyrtu  demntic prcdcrrieo, iopootn I.n.              co -oParablo; 1960. 1970 and 1990 data.
ocoracdttug-clcsc-ck.  N-tecpl-ou-ccldrui-ulf-d, teds,                                    resole (poct-t  -PF.olnlab-rJortraa  rer___roeoftoss1llabrfr
qo..untit lo  uscd In icd proco...lng, cod Ie..e. l  divitthbtior.  Reqair-                    Agriculece  (percen0t) - Labor forc  Jc farog  fore..rty, bhntiog  -ed
_acr  rotc ectbnetd hy PAO cane d 00 phynilgcc   edn f-r uco  actl-                              flohicgauyecetao of total tahoe force; 1960, t9yg and 1980 data.
olty  _rd h_ath  ...slderiogrnirener:a   tnper_tor_, bcdy weghcu. age                          I.d.ctry (pa-tro      -lbor fore  oniuu.cosrntto               tmsnoicng
nod nordi_rcicrie  of ppua                   11.  o  o ie g 10 p-re-  for oatureat               and ole-nriclty  water ad  go   nprer              f toet ao  force;
hon.obeld Ironl; 19I61-tI,1970 ood 1977 data.                                                    1960. 1971 and190 daro.
Per coylta cepply o  P-porte (gons per day) -Protrin router  of Per caPita                     P_nIciptri- Roto. 1P-etr ) - total, melo, cd feoulo - Partictpatioo
co -spyly c   ou  per day.  Net ..pply of iced to dficed a  above.  in-                     activity eaten are  -op-cd an coral, male, ad fen1l lab-e fioroa
quroeun  o    _lucoo  'I.o  auraliabd by lilA p_idc for ~nlio,                         poecantagc ci total,  "Ila ood focle popuotioc of all a gin  -eputively;
aleara  ci 60 frac  f Itotl Pr.ci  yrday and 11 grins of acme) ucd                             1960, 1970, and 1980 dccc.  Then  ore booe.d c-  ILO'. portInipatio  race
pelor Protoic. of witch 10 gr-u  rho.d  be aclnalproreJr.  Thou  utad-                         reflect tg ageno  oetur_e of the popootio, cod long rime tread.  A
urds or  lo-e  thor rhoo cf 75 fran  ci  e-a  prorin  -ed 23 geueo                              o   siae    r   firo  _otoo ..      uoon
arid peeoicn  ccavoooofur rho  -ool. yroeusd by PAP in  h    hr                      onuofoecer   al                  t fi  oelattn coder 11 and 61 aod core
World Peed itroep  1961-65, 1970 Zcd  977 dta.                                                 to the rural laborfre
Per capita ero_ic supply fre_oie  an             t  -Pro rein repply of food do-
rIced Tre  acol:tad posn  ngre  perda   1961 -6 I,970 cod 1977 dora.                       INCOME DISTRIHUTION
Chld, loans 1-)Jo_         ee(etrcue)              A- ccl duatba partoso.tPratg   fPiaeIrm   (both lo rah andktod) - Re..li-d by rihohet
age group 1-i yor,  to  hild-c  to this age grop, for nea  do=lopiecrcr-. pret, richest 2  prta   p-rt 0  ecu, ad pooes  40 p--ea
rodotod doi-rd fr life toblco; 1960. 1970 aud 1900 data.                                    of b...sIbids.
nial.lIf                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~POVERTY TARGET GOUOPS
lfe InEcto-cy or -irh (yc"r) - A-aago -onbr of y-r  or lifo  r-niciug                         The following esintsr  vry approiatne   mecure  of povety  eeo
atbrh   90   977 and 1901 doto.                                                       ard obould be iaterPrnted  i0th considerable carrion
lefoot nta to hr  (per theo-ad) - Scrod  doaths of iofontu under ouc y-a                       EIc-tincd Abuclote Povery Incomeal (US$ per .a.pita) -  rbaa ond rural -
cf oge PI tho_uad hocv hirtho   90  197  cod1980 dat.                                           Ihooepeot   ncm    otisbha   e1 ba  h                          which amiIma
Arco-c  he- tu    fracoo  oLW--lur(P _ IIr'al aror ao  ruro  - Hu-                               cercarllMd_          ut  doer pb    setllcofodrqaeeoai   e
her of people (too        b ha, and rural)  ith reac--blo .cr.un to  -Id                       of fordblo.
wotagepyly (inlee  teco   un-ta-  ster   or  Intrrtr   but _urutainoted                      fatimated HIi-no  Pavorty Ineum  Lee  (Its$ pe   apita) - urban and rurl
wate  _uh au thor I_o  P-ntetd b-hoblea, uprig., and sairary wells)                            R_.ona  relative p-rery income levelJto m-third ofaerge Par -apta
oRcetoges ut their ronpe-tirepe acos.I  at urban aeca pblir                                    prs..at incus of rho country.  Orbaa lend  is donned ftra  the rura
foctic cr  tiadp.tc lococd cot nato thas 200 acter  iron a house may be                        level sick  djuctmet for higher.. cotof 1ioin to  -rha ara..
rooa ideood as being ethibi  re...        oonso  that h...a.  to rura  o.e.                  Eatiatod Pap..tltion  eIne Ahaulute Poverty Incm  ConS (Perceot) - sehaa
roaoouchlo.o.....n.e.d i,sly t to the -outfa orsbr-                f the household             and ruc1   P.-.ouI of popalstiot  orbes and rura)  h.a sro 0aholote
do cot hav  to opoed a dtsp-cpo-flunt  port of the doy  to fetching the
A-ta   ttora D i-poool ( -ocet uf eo               o)-total, urban, cad rural1
.cto   of  .Peop. (roa.t.   rbac. und rural) sorood byecst  dispoa  as I.
percetages of their rep-tei- popolattono.  tn-et  diseo...l neY inclnde
the_ol1etLo and dimpo..ul, nib or wisot t-t-tear  of hama  nec'
_nd wa.ta-war- by wotor-borue  Yot-e  -r the one of pit privies and sle-
Pueclotiuu pePhynca  - Popolatlan divided by out- of penec~ing phyni-                                                               tEoamde and lariat Sate DlOliam
tInsqoilfe   Ira  a  ad1oal s.obo1 at  n-Iveraty J.ot.                                                                        Econoic Aotysia and Prajnctfns Hepantast
Pouato  pe .osn  Persoc - Popultitot divided by aser of practisiAg                                                                      May 1982
malo and fomal  g-adnte         e  assisnat-ut    ss  practical tame  a-d



-32-                                                             AN= I
Phe 4 of 6
Popultc:    16.467 -f111 (1981)
(2 Per Capita: tS$430 (1981)
- KflC m: INS
Tdiaitor                                    1980
-  mt                            Am1   Growth Rate (X)
(ulic  Us$ at                                       Act_l
en   Priem)          1976      1977     1978     1979        1980   1981  .       /..
National Akwusts
1kcm dwstic pro&xit at  .P b,/            6992.2            2.1       9.5      7.4      4.2      2.4      4.5        2.1
AgriLctule                          1948.3             1.9     10.0       4.2     -1.0    -1.2       6.2        4.0
Industry                            1304.8            -0.4     13.1      10.9      6.8     3.8       3.3       -2.0
Services                            2732.9             4.1      5.8      7.0       7.5     4.7       4.5        3.0
r_xtian                                   8962.4           -3.5       7.9     15.3      6.6      2.3      3.5       -2.3
Gns  Inveoa  t                            1882.0            12.0     35.9     23.9    -24.8    17.3   -12.7         -2.8
Export of MS                              1980.5             6.3      5.6     -4.3     -8.3      5.2    -4.0        -3.9
imports of CR5                           2832.8            -2.7      18.3     26.6    -19.8      8.9    -15.7      -17.6
Gra Nstiml S&vip                          985.1             17.0     64.6   -27.4    -27.1    64.6       11.4        18.7
PrFces
GDP deflator (IS$ deflator)          100.0            71.2     83.6     85.7      91.9   100.0      92.6       89.6
EEcla  rate (K3x./U$)               7.4202           8.367    8.277    7.729    7.475   7.420    9.048       10.922
hamre of GDP at    et Prices (X)                         Average AIl Inrease  CX)
(at arreat price)                                      (at cowstart prices)
1974    1979    1980    1981    1982    1985   1990         1974-79    1981-86      1983-88     1985-90
G     d ric pro&xt          100.0   100.0   100.0   10D.0   100.0   100.0  100.0            4.7        3.3          4.6         5.0
Ariculture                 35.4    34.3    32.5    32.9    33.5    33.8   32.1            4.2         3.6         3.8         3.9
Indutry                   20.7    26.1    21.8    21.6    20.7    20.3   21.1             6.2        2.4          5.1         5.9
services                   43.9    39.6    45.7    45.5    45.8    45.9   46.7            5.4        3.5          5.0         5.4
Conaxticn                   81.5    84.2    85.3    83.2    79.6    78.8   76.1             6.3        2.3         4.0          4.3
Gow inetment                25.8    22.7    26.9    22.5    21.4    21.7   21.8             2.6        3.0         5.4          5.1
&orts GFS                   33.7    25.5    28.3    26.1    24.6    24.9   25.5             2.7        2.7         5.0          5.6
TIDrta GMF                  40.9    32.4    40.5    31.8    25.6    25.3   23.4              -        -0.3         3.8          3.3
rowS imtixl Isavi           14.5    13.0    12.1    13.7    16.0    16.7   19.6             0.6        7.8         6.8         8.4
As Z of GP
1974    1979    1980    1981    1982 a/
PUBLUM FIm c
Orrest revewes                                  16.0    24.7    24.8    24.6    21.7
Qrrent ewesalirures                             14.3    22.5    23.0    24.0    21.3
Supus (+) or deicit  )                           1.8      2.2     1.8     0.7      1.5
Capital ew-pedti                                 6.1     9.7    10.1    10.0       8.9
Foreign fim-rg                                   2.0      4.2     5.4     4.5      3.7
1974-79        198186        1983-88       1985-90
MR IICD      E'
'grcrth rate (2)                            4.9            3.2           4.6           5.0
GP per capt growth rate ()                   1.0          -0.7            0.8          1.2
SYr 0 -t4a   gth rate (2)                    4.9            2.0           2.8           3.0
I03it                                       7.8            6.4           4.7           4.3
}-rgI1 av     rate                          0.26           0.31           0.26         0.31
import elasticity                          -0.4           -0.1           0.8           0.7
a  of Trade odth                 Su= of Trsde with               Share of Trd ith
Indutrial Cautnies (2)           Dei     Countries (2)               Prodsing Coztrie (Z)
1970        1975       1980      1970         1975       1980    1970          1975       1980
DIII=M (F lRlE
Eort                         62.7        52.7       44.8      23.5         27.8       34.9     0.4           0.8        1.3
Prilry                     16.6        11.5         -       74.7         72.5        -       0.8           3.0         -
mmzlfacta s                69.4        59.0         -       16.1          20.9       -       0.4           0.4         -
Imports                     75.4         64.2       57.6      14.9         23.8       11.8     2.8           8.1       29.6
a/ PFliuy-.                                                                                                               )y 1983
t/   tmets are eesss  at factor cost      wiUl not aM de to ebrnm, of ast  irec t       ad  bsiftes.
F/ Oantrl Govrnet cly.



-33-                                                            ANNEK I
Page 5 of 6
Population:    16.467 million (1981)
GNP Per Capita: US$430 (1981)
MEN  - EESRAL TAE
Indicator                                  1980
Amout               Amnl Grawtb Rate (2) a/
(million US$ at                Actual                                     Proiected
curent prices)  1976  1977  1978   1979   1980   M181    1982   1983   1984   1985   1990
EXL TRA
bercbamdise exports                       1247.2        6.4   4.0  -7.7   -2.1    3.2  -2.9    -2.1    0.2    4.1    4.1    5.6
Prin-ry /b                              963.4        12.4   9.0  -3.7    4.8   -7.3   -2.9    -0.8   -0.8    4.3    4.3    5.4
lixfactiires /C                          283.8        0.4  -5.4 -18.6   -3.1   29.6   -2.6    4.0    5.0    3.0    3.0    6.5
*     rchazxiise Imports                       2612.2      -3.8  22.0  16.4  -18.3   14.7  -16.6   -19.0   -0.5    4.1    4.8    3.2
Food /d                                  111.2        5.3   3.0  70.0  -19.2   57.6  -13.0  -25.0  -10.0    1.5    1.2    1.0
Petrolinn /e                            778.6       -8.3   4.0   2.9    0.9   16.7  -16.7   -19.0   -3.0    2.0    2.0    3.0
Sdhinry ad eaquipment /f                706.4      -16.7  36.0  29.4  -2B.4   19.0  -22.0   -10.0   -0.8    6.2    4.5    4.1
Others                                  1016.0        -     -     -       -      -      -3.0   -24.1    2.6    4.3    7.2    2.9
ERI(ZS /Z
Export price  c                                      73.2  102.8  81.2   83.7  100.0   89.9    87.6   89.1   95.2  101.7  144.8
Inport price indea                                   65.2  69.6  68.7   76.8  100.0  102.5   101.1  100.9  109.8  118.4  165.5
Terns of trade inde                                 112.3 147.8  118.2  10B.9  100.0   87.7    86.6   88.3   86.7   85.9   87.5
CQVoition of lrchandise Trade (Z)                Aerage hnial Increase (X)
(at costant 1980 prices)
1974   1979  1981  1982   1983  1985   1990    1974-79   1981-86   1983-88   1985-90
Eprts=
PrfnrY                                 71.0   83.0  82.6  83.7   82.9  83.3   83.0           2.1       2.5       4.8       5.3
rixfactures /c                          29.0   17.0  17.4  16.3   17.1  16.7   17.0    -11.3           1.9       4.3       5.7
Ebod                                    6.6    5.3   4.4   4.1    3.7   3.5    3.1    -10.4           -5.5       1.2       1.0
Petroleun                               21.2   23.7  28.5  28.5   27.7  26.5   26.0          2.8      -2.3       2.6       3.0
Machinery and euipment                  22.8   35.5  26.5  29.4   29.3  29.8   30.8          1.7       1.4       4.4        4.0
Others                                 49.4   35.5  40.6  33.0   39.2  40.2   40.1           ..       -0.1       4.5       3.3
/a Historical growth rates are baaed on 1976 prices; projected grnxth rates on 1980 prices
/b Bas  on wightied quantun indices (base year - 1976) of food, live a-1-1, axd crude materlals
/c Excluies petroleu products. Value of amnfactured exports are deflated by interational inflation index to arrive at constant price
series.
/d Based on quantun in   (base year - 1976) for SITC 0.
Fe Based on quatn index (base year - 1976) for SIMO 3.
/I  Based on quantin inde  (base year - 1976) for SITC 7.
I/ndicw for historical years (1976-80) are based in 1976; those for projection years are based in 1980.



-34-                                                               EX I
Page 6 of 6
Population:    16.467 millIon (1981)
GSP Per Capita: U5$430 (1981)
KENA - BAIA= CF PA'YMWlS,   WAL CAPI  A1D 1T
(millin US$ at curret prices)
Actua]l                                          Projected
1976    1977    1978      1979     1980      1981      1982 a/  1983       ;985        1990
BAIAME CF PADIhTS
Exports of goods ard services         1184.6  1614.9  1581.0   11;29.6   2032.8   1788.6    1686.0   179.4        2240.1     4073.6
of uihch: Merdmmlise f.o.b.          743.9  1130.9   955.8   1017.5   1242.5   1098.5    1039.1   1057.7        L3C8.2     2416.4
Imports of goods and serdees          1300.3  1653.9  2332.6   z'o6.8   3069.4   2569.0    2193.1   2203.3        2812.0     4617.6
of wtich: Merchandise c.i.f.         975.0  1279.0  1875.7   1779.2   2632.8   2243.1    1793.6   1779.4        2278.8     3755.9
Net transfers                           32.3    66.5    91.1   lt0l.1    139.6       89.6      78.4     83.1       93.4       125.0
Omrrset Acoent Balance                 -83.4    27.5  -660.6   -477.0  -897.0  -690.8   -428.7  -340.8    -478.6    -419.1
Private direct investrent               37.7    54.5    32.1      66.4     61.2      60.6      60.6     64.2       71.1        96.6
H&LT loans (net)                       111.9   145.6   410.1    412.5    515.3    3B6.3       339.3    276.3       444.9      373.2
Official                              -       -        -                 -
Private                               -       -        -        -        -
Other Capital                           19.1    44.7    17.6    187.0    125.9    110.1         1.5      1.5         1.5        1.5
Change in reserves                     -85.3  -272.3   200.8   -188.9    194.6    133.8    -32.7    -'1.3         -40.1      -52.1
International Reserves                 425.9   698.2   497.4    886.3    461.5    327.7       360.4    361.7       437.8      663.5
Peaserves as nmths imports               4.3     5.2      3.8      5.1       2.9      1.5       2.0       2.0        1.9        1.7
IERNAL CAPIfAL AND E T
Gmas Disbursets                        180.9   231.6   285.1    376.8    420.8    577.4       606.9    512.7      763.2       844.9
Official grants /b                    -       -        -                 -         -         -        --          -
Concessioral lonsa                    63.3    64.7   104.5    149.9    179.6    158.8       176.1    172.3       247.5      316.6
DAC                                 46.1    33.7    54.0      94.0     81.2    106.1       61.4      56.3      119.5      115.2
OPEC                                -       -        -        -         -         9.9      19.7      21.2       17.9       26.8
IDA                                 13.6    17.7    16.3      21.5      71.6     14.8      61.0      73.8       95.1      133.9
Other                                3.6    13.3    34.2      34.4      26.8     2B.0      34.4      21.0       14.9       40.6
Non-concessional losns                 117.6   166.8   180.6    226.8    241.2    418.6       430.8    340.4       515.8      523.3
Official export credits             18.8    11.0    17.6       8.5      10.1     16.8      20.7      13.6       19.5       37.6
IBR                                 66.7    34.7    42.3      36.7      40.0     62.4     101.6    115.2       166.7      127.4
Other officiaL C/                    2.1    11.5      7.6      4.8      21.0     49.3      178.2    152.9       98.1
Private                             30.0   109.6   113.1    176.8    170.0    290.2        130.3     SS.7      231.5      363.3
terneaL Debt
Debt outstaniirg and disbursae     700.8   917.2  1083.7   1433.2   1743.8   2566.6    2965.8   3242.1        4057.7     622B.2
Official                         605.2   7(9.6   792.8    9;7.6   1179.6   1492.6    1752.9   2000.4        2660.3      4223.8
Private                           95.6   207.6   290.9    455.6    564.2   1074.0    1212.9   124L.7        1397.4      2054.4
Undisbursed debt                   629.1   780.7  1056.6   1252.8   1304.5   1251.2       967.5    829.3       519.2    -614.6
Debt Service d/
TDtal service payments              65.3    74.6   121.6    120.2    183.0    313.9        374.7    413.5      550.4      879.4
Interest                          31.8    39.6    52.4      70.6    104.5    122.7       167.1    177.1      232.2      407.7
Payents as 1 of exports              5.7      4.8     7.9      7.6       9.2     17.5      22.2      23.2       24.6       21.6
Average interest rate on w  loans (%)
Official                             4.5      4.0     4.0      3.8       3.0      4.5       4.5       4.5        4.5        4.5
Private                              7.7     7.7      7.7     12.0       8.0     14.0      12.0      11.0       11.0       11.0
Aerage neturity of new loass (years)
Official                            26.0    30.0   23.0       32.0      32.0     30.0      35.0      35i.0      35.0       35.0
Private                              9.5    11.9    13.0      11.9       5.9      9.0      11.0      11.0       11.0       11.0
As Z of Debt Outstandirg
at end of 1982
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within 5 years
Maturities due within 10 years                          8.0
Interest structure of debt outstarding
interest due within first year
/a Preliminary
/b  Official grants are included in transfers in the bace of peyents current account. Transfers are projected to gpcw at an axwal rate
of 6%
/c IncaLudes use of IMF resources
/d Inwludes Kxya's ontional share of 45Z of EAC debt.
May 1983
FA1A



-35-                                      ANNEX II
Page 1 of 15
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN KENYA
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits as of March 31, 1983
US$ Million
Loan or                                                             Amount (Less Cancellations)
Credit #    Year   Borrower    Purpose                             Bank1   TW   IDA   Undisbursed
Seventeen (17) Loans and Twenty-one (21) Credits and two (2)
Third Window Loan Fully Disbursed                                 236.68 15.00  215.04
477       1974    Kenya        Livestock                                         17.50    5.88
537       1975    Kenya        Group Farm Rehabilitation                          7.50    3.67
1105       1975    Kenya        Sites and Services                  8.00                   0.47
1184        1976    Kenya       Third Education                    10.00                   6.08
1304-T      1977    Kenya       Wildlife and Tourism                     17.00              6.14
1305        1977    Kenya       Rural Access Roads                  4.00                   2.65
1389       1977    Kenya        South Nyanza Sugar                 25.00                   3.51
1438       1977    IDB          Third Industrial Dev. Bank         20.00                   2.36
1449       1977    Kenya        Bura Irrigation Settlement         34.00                  26.85
750        1978    Kenya       Small Scale Industry                              10.00    7.25
1520        1978    NCC         Second Urban Water Supply          30.00                    5.72
( 791      (1978   (Kenya       (Second Urban                                      25.00  (14.84
(1550      (1978   (Kenya       (Second Urban                       25.00                 (25.00
797        1978    Kenya       Fourth Education                                  23.00   14.56
1636       1979    Kenya        Sugar Rehabilitation               72.00                  65.15
1637       1979    Kenya        Rural Water Supply                 20.00                  19.77
858        1979    Kenya       Narok Agricultural Development                    13.00   12.38
1680        1979    Kenya       Telecommunications                 20.00                    4.43
1684       1979    Kenya        Highway Sector                    90.00                   61.02
914        1979    Kenya       Smallholder Coffee Improvement                    27.00   25.07
959        1980    Kenya       Second Integrated Agric. Dev.                     46.00   43.23
962        1980    Kenya       Baringo Semi-Aird Areas                            6.50    5.54
1799       1980    Kenya        Third Power (Olkaria Geothermal)40.002/                    9.82
1817       1980    IDB          Fourth Industrial Dev. Bank        30.00                  22.15
1045       1980    Kenya        Export Promotion Technical Asat.                   4.50    4.40
1051       1980    Kenya        Fisheries                                         10.00    9.99
1107        1981    Kenya       Fifth Education                                   40.00   38.33
1976       1981    Kenya        Railway                            58.00                  49.60
(1143      (1981   (Kenya       (Fourth Agriculture                                10.00    9.56
(1995      (1981   (Kenya       (Fourth Agriculture                 25.00                  25.00
2065        1982    Kenya       Petroleum Exsloration               4.00                    2.24
(2098       (1982   (Kenya      (Forestry IIIJ/4/                   21.50                  21.50
(1213       (1982   (Kenya      (Forestry III                                      16.00   16.00
1237        1982    Kenya       Cotton Proc. & Marketing 3/4/                     22.00   22.00
1238        1982    Kenya       Integrated Rural Health &
Family Planning 4/                              23.00   22.95
2155        1982    Kenya       Second Telecommunications          44.70                  42.69
(2190       (1983   (Kenya      (Second Struc. Adjustment           60.90                  50.00
(1276      (1983   (Kenya       (Second Struc. Adjustment 4/                       70.00    2.14
1277        1983    Kenya       Agric. Technical Assistance4!                      6.00    0.95
1983    Kenya       Olkaria Geothermal Expansionx   12.0    -           -     12.0
Total                            940.78 32.00  592.04  722.89
of which has been repaid         66.01   -       3.76
Total now outstanding            874.77 32.00  588.28
Amount sold                 11.81
of which has been repaid 11.81   .00
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA               874.77 32.00  571.42
TOTAL undisbursed                            458.01  6.14  258.74  722.89
1/ Prior to exchange adjustment.
2/ Includes Loan S-12 ($9.0 million).
3/ Not yet effective.
4/ IDA-6 Credit amounts expressed in dollar equivalents of SDR's.



- 36-                           ANNEX II
Page 2 of 15
B. Summary Statement of Bank Loans for Common Services Involving
Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda as of March 31, 1983
Amount (less cancellations)
Loan No.   Year   Borrower   Purpose                   Bank'    Undisbursed
-----US$ million-----
Nine loans fully disbursed                            196.43
914-EA    1972    EAPTC       Third Telecom.          32.50         0.28
1204-EA    1976    EADB        Second Dev. Finance   14.10           0.90
Total                                             243.03          1.18
of which has been repaid                          82.30
Total now outstanding                             160.73
Amount sold                             24.36
of which has been repaid               24.36        0.00
Total now held by Bank                            160.73
Total undisbursed                                    1.18         1.18
1/  Net of exchange adjustments.



kNtYEA II
-37-                         Page 3  of 15
C. Status of Projects in Execution'
(As of March 31, 1982)
There are currently 35 projects under execution in Kenya.
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Loan No. 1389-KE - South Nyanza Sugar Project: US$25.0 million Loan
of April 15, 1977; Effective Date:  November 3, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
The sugar factory is in operation, agricultural development has advanced
well and nucleus estate development is complete including drainage.
Production in 1981 of cane, particularly from outgrowers, was well below
management estimates due to lower cane yields and a smaller area available
for harvest. A research program is being drawn up to identify reasons for
low yields. All civil works are virtually completed, work on minor roads is
improving and work on major roads is proceeding satisfactorily. Certain
weaknesses in project management, particularly cane handling and transport,
have become apparent, and consultants are being employed to rectify this
problem. Although statutory sugar prices were raised in December 1982, SONY
(the Project entity) is experiencing serious financial difficulties. These
are attributable to unrealistic pricing policies, lower throughput, and
SONY's high fixed costs and debt service obligations. SONY has requested an
immediate cash injection from the Government, which is presently considering
a special financial rescue program.
Loan No. 1449-KE/Credit No. 722-KE - Bura Irrigation Settlement Project:
US$34.0 million Loan and US$6.0 million Credit of June 22, 1978;
Effective Date: June 27, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Some $85.0 million has been invested in this Project, 1100 ha. of
communal area are operational and almost 1000 tenant families are on site.
However, owing to the Government's inability to cover the sizeable financing
gap, the Project is on the verge of bankruptcy. Lack of cash has slowed
development operations, payments on all contracts are in arrears, and one
contractor has begun partial demobilization. Virtually no agricultural
operations are going on and, as a result, tenants will soon start to abandon
the scheme. The Government has promised some emergency finance for 1982/83
but the deteriorating position of the Treasury puts this in question. The
Government has now to take major decisions on the future of the Project,
which will require immediate action to avert bankruptcy and a close look at
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress on projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems being encountered and action being taken to remedy them. They
should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that they do not
purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in
project execution.



ANNEX II
-38-                         Page 4 of 15
possibilities for reducing components (and, probably, the scope of the
Project) together with action to improve the use of external Finance.
Loan No. 1636-KE - Sugar Rehabilitation Project: U$72.0 million;
Loan of December 20, 1978; Effective Date: September 20, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Implementation of this Project is facing a serious problem. The
Government has indicated reluctance to sign the Subsidiary Financing
Agreements for two of the three factories to be rehabilitated under the
Project. Following the Government's request, the Bank is awaiting agreement
by the Associated Sugar Company, Limited (owner of the Ramisi factory) before
cancelling US$23.0 million of the loan. Development in these project areas
is in suspense since the companies have not given evidence that they have a
viable financing plan and since the Government has not provided detailed
plans for the complementary field and infrastructure development.
Rehabilitation of the third factory has been held up by delays in the
recruitment of consultants; serious cost over-runs are expected. Low prices
have led to a drop in cane supply.  In spite of the economic difficulties
facing the sugar production sector, investments in new factories are being
projected.  A study to review sugar markieting prospects has recently been
completed, and will form the basis for Government policy in the sugar
sector. Appropriate changes in project scope and design are being discussed
with the Bank.
Credit No. 858-KE - Narok Agricultural Development Project: US$13.0
million Credit of December 20, 1978; Effective Date: June 28, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
In late 1980, it became obvious that the original project concept of
extending credit to resident Masai to finance purchases of farm machinery for
wheat production could not be substantially met in the remaining years of the
Project. The Masai continue to prefer to, hire tractor and combine services,
or to contract all production activities. The Government and the Bank
discussed means of achieving the production objectives of the Project without
detriment to the social objectives of developing Masai lands, and concluded
that expansion of the feeder road component of the Project would satisfy
these objectives. Project funds have been reallocated from the credit
component to the feeder road component. The Project has experienced delays
in recruiting consultants to carry out studies monitoring project
performance, and has also suffered from poor budgetary management.
Credit No. 914-KE - Smallholder Coffee Improvement Project: US$27.0
million Credit of June 11, 1979; Effective Date: April 3, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
Progress in obtaining principal project activities has further
stagnated. The factory rehabilitation program has been severely delayed yet
again due to deferred release of funds by Treasury and difficulties in the
Cooperative Bank's lending operations. Technical assistance to the
cooperative banks appears to be of crucial importance. The Government has
agreed to direct reimbursements by donors to the Cooperative Bank, which
hopefully will accelerate implementation. Since financial and technical



ANNEX II
-39-                        Page 5 of 15
difficulties are persistent and are expected to prevail in the near future.
A complete project review is scheduled for mid-1983 with a view to analyzing
the options for modifying of the design as a prerequisite to possible
extension of the existing project or preparation of a second phase project.
Credit No. 962-KE - Baringo Semi-Arid Areas Project: US$6.5 million
Credit of March 12, 1980; Effective Date: June 10, 1980; Closing
Date: October 31, 1984
Project implementation started favorably. The Project team of
expatriate and local technicians launched a number of experiments in dry-land
and irrigated farming, soil conservation and water-harvesting, and range
management. Project activities attracted local interest and participation of
area residents has increased in the initial stage. Since 1981, however,
financing constraints, political pressure and lack of direction in the
management of the livestock component adversely influenced project
implementation. Although in mid-1982 the Project was revised in close
cooperation with the ministries involved and realistic work plans were
prepared, the allocated funds were not adequately channeled to the district.
In addition, employment of a qualified accountant and of a livestock
consultant, provided by the Australian Government, was delayed. As a result,
staff morale is at a low level and project management is weakening. A
dialogue is being conducted with the Government to find adequate solutions to
improve project management, possibly by selecting an alternative coordinating
agency, to employ consultants under direct reimbursement procedures and to
assure an efficient flow of funds. If these measures prove to be
unattainable, project design would have to be reviewed.
Credit 959-KE - Second Integrated Agricultural Development Project:
US$46.0 million Credit of April 23, 1980; Effective Date: July 2, 1980;
Closing Date: April 30, 1986
The impact of the Project on production and farmer incomes has fallen
short of expectations: the number of participants is less than expected and
drop-out rates are high. This generally poor performance has resulted
primarily from the failure of the crop production component of the Project
supported by credit. Farmer training and livestock components have
progressed adequately, as have some infrastructure components, although all
have been affected by severe budget cuts. Project problems include late
delivery of credit, inadequate management of cooperatives, inefficiencies of
the farm input delivery system and inadequate crop marketing arrangements.
The Project has also suffered from the inability to effectively coordinate
the many ministries and agencies involved in project implementation. In
September 1982, the Government and the Bank discussed a proposal to
disaggregate the IADP Project into several projects along ministerial lines.
The Government and the Bank have jointly reviewed on-going activities in
order to wind down the Project in an orderly manner. Uncommitted funds,
totalling an estimated $34.0 million will be cancelled. The first project to
emerge from the restructured IADP is the National Extension Project.



ANNEX II
-40-                        Page 6  of 15
Credit No. 1051-KE - Fisheries Development Project: US$10.0 million
Credit of July 14, 1980; Effective Date: October 9, 1980; Closing
Date: September 30, 1987
Project implementation has fallen behind the schedule at appraisal.
Delays and difficulties are related mainly to two factors: under-staffing
and project complexity relative to project management capabilities and
resources. In light of these delays and changes in the fishing industry
since appraisal in 1979, supervision missions have recommended certain
modifications in project scope, phasing and staffing. Simplification and
scaling down of the ice-production and fish marketing component of the
Project has been agreed. This will require a reassessment of the minimum
economic ice-making/transport capacity required for a pilot effort. A
shortlist of consultants to carry out this study has been approved and
requests for proposals have been issued. Proposals for the construction and
initial management of the fish farming center have been submitted and are
currently being evaluated by the Project Unit. The Government has been urged
to complete the essential staffing positions and consider further reductions
in project scope if staffing constraints persist. Several additional
technical assistants have been recommended in the areas of reproduction and
marketing and boat building. Areas of research to be carried out by the Lake
Basin Development Authority and by the Kenya Marine and Fisheries Research
Institute have been agreed in principle and detailed research proposals are
being prepared by these two institutions. A work plan for 1983-84 has been
drafted by the Project Unit.
Loan No. 1995-KE/Credit No. 1143-KE: Fourth Agricultural Credit
Project: US$25.0 million Loan and US$10.0 million Credilt of May 19,
1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Implementation of the institution-building components has started
satisfactorily. Technical assistants in critical areas of financial
management, planning, accounting and computer programming are in place and
have presented initial recommendations for addressing key problems.
Recruitment and training of additional loan officers and accounts officers
for branch operations is proceeding well. The need for substantial work on
accounts, the strengthening of loan appraisal and administration procedures
and skills and the introduction of regular planning and performance reviews
is likely to require more time and necessitate slower growth in new lending
than originally estimated. In addition, greater effort on the part of the
Government to strengthen national credit policies (in process) would
substantially reinforce the Agricultural Finance Corporation's efforts to
strengthen credit discipline and to realize full benefits of the Project.
The Bank is currently involved in a review with the Government of major
agricultural credit issues, both through project supervision aLnd sector
work.
Loan No. 2098-KE/Credit No. 1213-KE: Third Forestry Project:
US$21.5 million Loan and US$16.0 million Credit of March 2, 1982;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
The Loan/Credit is not yet effective.



ANNEX I I
-41-                        Page 7  of 15
Credit No. 1237-KE: Cotton Processing and Marketing Project: US$22.0
million Credit of April 27, 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1987
The credit is not yet effective.
Credit No. 1277-KE: Agricultural Technical Assistance Project;
US$6.0 Million Credit of July 21, 1982; Closing Date: December 31,
1985
This Project supports the Second Structural Adjustment Program for the
agricultural sector through provision of technical assistance. An advisor on
budget and financial management has been recruited for the Ministries of
Agriculture and Livestock Development. The on-going Budget Task Force has
been effective in addressing budgeting problems, and a pilot microprocessor
program in the Ministry has contributed to more effective budgeting. A major
grain marketing and pricing study, which will form the basis for policy
reforms, is now underway and will be completed in September 1983. The Kenya
Rangeland Ecological Monitoring Unit (KREMU) has recently begun a land-use
mapping exercise under the Project.
EDUCATION SECTOR
Loan No. 1184-KE - Third Education Project: US$10.0 million Loan
of December 31, 1975; Effective Date:  March 17, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Overall completion of the Project has reached 85% with 100% of the loan
proceeds committed. As a result of delays caused by weak management and
shortage of counterpart funding, the Closing Date has been extended by 18
months (to December 31, 1983), based on an agreed implementation plan.
However, a shortfall in the timely contribution of local counterpart funds
could further delay implementation. The Government is in the process of
reviewing its investment plan and this is being closely monitored.
Credit No. 797-KE - Fourth Education Project: U$23.0 million Credit of
June 7, 1978; Effective Date: August 25, 1978; Closing Date: December
31, 1984
The Closing Date of the Project has been postponed by two years to
December 31, 1984. To offset cost over-runs for civil works, which were
estimated at about 28% in terms of local currency, the Government and the
Bank agreed to delete 7 of the 13 Nomadic Primary Schools and the storage
facilities for primary schools included in the Project. Implementation of
civil works, after a period of stagnation, is now progressing gradually,
while that of technical assistance is proceeding satisfactorily. In general,
project management and implementation are expected to improve as a result of
the appointments of key personnel in the Project Implementation Unit provided
under the Fifth Education Project. The Project could face a shortage of
local counterpart funds due to overall country financial constraints, and
this is being continuously monitored.



ANNEX II
-42-                         Page 8 of 15
Credit No. 1107-KE - Fifth Education Project: US$40.0 million Credit
of May 7, 1981; Effective Date: July 30, 1981; Closing Date: June 30,
1986
Start-up activities, which began with funding under a Project Pre-
paration Facility, are progressing. Construction at the Faculty of Agricul-
ture is underway, while that for the other five components haws been tendered.
Six staff members of the Kenya Education Staff Institute (KESI) completed
short courses in the United Kingdom.  The training programs cf school staff,
to be carried out by KESI, are proceeding on schedule. Work on the pre-
investment study on business education also is proceeding on schedule. The
Project Implementation Unit is fully staffed and is now able to obtain more
effective cooperation from the representatives of the various ministries
involved in the Project. Problems relating to water supply and staff train-
ing for the Water Resources Training Institute are under study. The Govern-
ment's difficult financial situation is likely to result in delays in project
implementation. This is being closely monitored.
WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
Loan No. 1520-KE - Second Nairobi Water Supply Project: US$30.0
million Loan of March 27, 1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
All major project components shouldl be completed by about October 1983
(22 months behind schedule). Construction standards have been generally
satisfactory. The major cause of project delays continues to be the weak
administration of the Nairobi City Council (NCC) (the Borrower), which
adversely affects the effectiveness of project management by the Water and
Sewerage Department (WSD). All supply contracts financed by the other two
donors (OPEC and Saudi Fund) are virtua:Lly complete. The only outstanding
contract for supply and construction of secondary distribution pipeline (to
be financed by the Bank) is to be awarded by May 1983 and completed by
December 1983. First project benefits are expected April 1983 when an addi-
tional 13,000 m3 pd. will enter the syst:em. WSD's financial performance
remains acceptable following late 1982 tariff increases. However, as NCC's
overall financial position continues to deteriorate, the Treasurer continues
to utilize the Water Fund in contravention of the Loan Agreement. WSD now
faces considerable difficulties in meeting its proportion of project costs.
This issue has been raised with the Government (as the Guarantor), which has
instituted an enquiry into NCC's management and finances.
Loan No. 1637-KE - Rural Water Supply Project: US$20.0 mlillion
Loan of December 20, 1978; Effective Date:  January 24, 1980;
Closing Date: July 1, 1985
As agreed with Government during the September 1982 CIR, the Bank
has thoroughly reviewed progress to determine the Project's future. Progress
is still unacceptably slow and no substantial improvements are foreseen



-,44                     Page 9 of 15
before 1984.  Cost estimates contintue to rise rapidly and the Ministry of
Water Development continues to delay action on implementing a minimal cost
recovery program; the Ministry's reorganization has been only partially
completed. To March 31, 1983. disbursements totalled about US$0.2 million
(1%); while committed reimbursable expenditures are less than US$2.0
million. In view of the Government's intention to concentrate its limited
resources on successful projects, the Bank proposes to recommend that the
present project be terminated and about US$18.0 million in loan proceeds be
cancelled.
TRANSPORT SECTOR
Loan No. 1305-KE/Credit No. 65lKE- Rural Access Roads Projects:
US$4.0 million Loan and US$4.0 million Credit of July 9, 1976; Effective
Datet October 7, 19 76; Closing Date:  June 30, 1983
The Project is about two years behind schedule due to administration and
procurement problems, which initially delayed establishment of construction
units and were not resolved until 1978.  A11 eight Bank-financed construction
units are now fully equipped and satisfactorily staffed and operational. By
August 15, 1982, 1,298 km of access roads had been constructed, or 298 km
more than originally plan-ned. The gravelling operation was slow in starting
because of delays in delivery of tractors and trailers, and the output was
low due to the labor shortage until 1980, inadequate planning, organization
and supervision. As a result, there is a gravelling backlog of about 900
km.  The Government has been requested to take steps to improve gravelling
and is considering furthier action to cl-ear the backlog. The road
construction cost is with'.L appraisal estimates.  Project completion depends
on gravelling outnpit, which .will require about two more years to complete on
the roads already constructed.
Loan No. 168 4-KE   highway Sector Project:  US$90.0 million Loan
of April 30, 1979; Effective Date: June 18, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
Implementation of the Government's Five-Year Highway Sector Plan
(1979-83) has beea delayed by about one year because a critical shortage of
funds causeo   a1-                  26d &k     I-Ighwl >r  -z-ork program during
FY1979-82. This reducticon has detrimentally affected project implementation,
which is pi:esently about 18 mouths behind schedule.  The four contracts for
constructioni of the Uplands-Limuru Road (11 km), one of the six roads for
strengthening/reconstruction under the Project, was completed in April 1982.
The Naivasha-Nakuru Road (136 kmn), the NakurutTimoroa Road (81 km) and the
Mau Summit-Kistium  Road (136 km) are under construction; contracts for the
Uplands-Longonot  'urnOCff Road (26 kom) and the Nairobi-Thika Road (39 km)
were awarded.  '-mplementaLioni of the road maintenance program also is slower
than originally ancicipated due to the finaicial constraints.  Road
maintenance budgetary aliocations for FY83 are about 40% below actual
requirements, therefore resealing and regravelling operations are slower than
projected. Routine maintenance is generally poor due to the lack of funds
and to the inadequate planning, programming and supervision, resulting in low
utilization of existing resources, particularly equipment and manpower.



ANNEX II
- 44--                       Page 10 of 15
Loan 1976-KE - Railway Project: US$58.0 million Loan of May 7, 1981;
Effective Date: September 3, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
This Project, for which the Loan became effective on September 3, 1981,
is advancing. Because of the delay between ordering and delivery, few parts
have yet arrived. A lack of local funds, caused by delay in approving tariff
increases, will result in a reduction in the scope of the Project. The
operating surplus, before provision for depreciation and interest, is
forecast to be approximately the same in 1982 as to 1981. Further progress
in reducing expenses and increasing revenue must be accomplished in 1983.
POWER SECTOR
Loan No. 1799-KE - Olkaria Geothermal Power Project: US$40.0 million
Loan of April 25, 1980; Effective Date: November 18, 1980; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
This Loan includes US$9.0 million for the Olkaria Geothermal Engineering
Loan (S-12-KE), which was refinanced under this Project. Progress has been
satisfactory. The first 15-MW unit was put into commercial service in August
1981, one month later than scheduled, and the second 15-MW unit in December
1982, 3 months ahead of schedule.
Loan No. 2237-KE - Olkaria Geothernmal Power Project: US$40.0 million
Loan of February 8, 1983
Not yet effective.
ENERGY SECTOR
Loan No. 2065-KE - Petroleum Exploration Project: US$4.0 million
Loan of December 8, 1981; Effective Date:  January 27, 1982; Closing
Date: August 31, 1985
The aeromagnetic survey, the most important project component, was
completed August 16, 1982. The promotion report prepared by the exploration
consultants for the Eastern part of Kenya has been sold to 17 companies.
Bids for blocks in this area were submitted by three companies in October
1982, and negotiations have been stalled pending decisions by the Central
Bank and the Ministry of Finance concerning opening of a foreign currency
bank account and repatriation of profits. Preparation of documents for round
II of exploration acreage tendering is under way.
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Credit No. 750-KE - Small Scale Industry Project: US$10.0 million
Credit of November 28, 1977; Effective Date: June 26, 1978;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1983
The Closing Date of the Project has been postponed by 12 months from
December 1982. Implementation of this Project is behind appraisal schedule.
KIE has recruited a new finance manager, who assumed responsibilities in
December 1982. KIE needs to (a) revise and adopt a realistic operational
plan; (b) continue to improve the arrears collection program; and (c) tighten



ANNEX II
-45-                         Page 11 of15
the project selection and approval criteria to improve the quality of
projects it finances. As of March 31, 1983, US$7.0 million had been
committed for 155 subloans and some technical assistance, but only US$2.7
million had been disbursed. About 45% of the commitments were for fifteen
subprojects above the free limit, with the remainder allocated to small
free-limit subprojects.
Loan No. 1817-KE - Fourth Industrial Development Bank Project: US$30.0
million Loan of June 16, 1980; Effective Date:   August 21, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Fourteen subprojects have been approved under the Loan to date.  As at
March 30, 1983, US$17.2 million had been committed and US$7.9 million had
been disbursed. Project implementation suffered because of management
problems, deterioration in quality of appraisal and supervision, local
currency resource constraints and problems in the industrial sector. Recent
financial performance has deteriorated sharply. These inadequacies were
conveyed to IDB and IDB has recently taken a number of positive decisions
that may result in improvements.
RURAL HEALTH AND FAMILY PLANNING SECTOR
Credit No. 1238-KE - Integrated Rural Health and Family Planning
Project: US$23.0 million Credit of May 4, 1982; Effective Date:
February 9, 1983; Closing Date: December 31, 1986
Start-up of project implementation has been slow, but no major problems
are foreseen at this time (except those which could arise from the general
fiscal situation). The National Council on Population and Development (NCPD)
has been established, its members have been appointed, and its meetings have
been regular. The Secretariat of the NCPD has also been established and key
staff have been appointed. Actual population information and education
programs financed from NCPD funds started after a delay of about nine
months. Preparation of the Part A Work Plan for FY1983/84 has been delayed,
but the Plan is still expected to be finalized before the end of the current
fiscal year. Implementation of most Part B components -- family planning
services, manpower and training, drug supplies, construction of rural health
facilities, maintenance, transport, and the non-governmental organizations
complonent -- is proceeding well. On the other hand, progress has been slow
in implementing the health information system, health education,
community-based health care, and innovative activity components of Part B.
This was to be expected, as those latter components have a higher "soft-ware"
content, and are more innovative in nature than the rest of the Part B
components.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Credit No. 1045-KE - Export Promotion Technical Assistance Project:
US$4.5 million Credit of July 14, 1980; Effective Date:  October 15,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Implementation of this Project has been slow to date; only three
activities have been approved for a total cost of approximately $700,000 and
only US$100,000 has been disbursed. The first activity was a Science and



ANNEX II
-46-                         Page 12 of15
Technology Seminar as a first phase in developing technological decision
making capacity among staff at various levels in private and public
organizations; the second is for technical assistance to the Customs
Department to help implement a modified export compensation scheme; and the
third finances the short-term services of an expert to assist in tariff
restructuring. There are, however, a number of proposals under
consideration, including a feasibility study of shipment of fresh fruit and
vegetables to Europe and the Middle East and technical assistance in the
development of an action program for export promotion. It is anticipated
that both the rate of commitment and the rate of disbursement will accelerate
over the next twelve months.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR
Loan No. 1680-KE - First Telecommunications Project: US$20.0 million
Loan of April 11, 1979; Effective Date: August 16, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
Procurement is complete and Loan No. 1680-KE is almost fully committed.
Total loan disbursements as of February 28, 1983 amount to about US$15.0
million. Due to initial delays, a few new facilities are about six to nine
months behind schedule, but the Project is now progressing satisfactorily.
Kenya Posts and Telecommunications Corporation has completed the installation
of 25,000 additional lines in automatic and manual telephone exchanges and
connected 20,000 new subscriber's lines (out of 46,000) under the project.
Extension of the closing date will be required.
Loan 2155-KE - Second Telecommuncat:Lons Project: US$44.7 million
Loan of August 27, 1982: Effective Date: October 13, 1982; Closing
Date: September 30, 1987.
The Project is at the procurement stage. About US$20.0 miLllion of the
loan has been committed. The Bank just approved (March 1983) the Borrower's
award recommendation for the only bid pending, namely the telephone switching
equipment.
URBAN SECTOR
Loan No. 1105-KE/Credit No. 543-KE - Sites and Services Project:
US$8.0 million Loan and US$8.0 million Credit of May 6, 1975;
Effective Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
This Project is virtually complete. The Project has been successful in
achieving almost all of its original objectives. Cost recovery has been good
throughout the Project, and a number of innovative features of the Project
(e.g. self-help building groups, provision of credit to female-headed
households) have been successfully demonstrated.
Loan No. 1550-KE/Credit No. 791-KE - Second Urban Project: US$25.0
million Loan and US$25.0 million Credit of May 75, 1978; Effective Date:
October 3, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The Project provides site and service developments and community
upgrading in three cities, Nairobi, Mombasa, and Kisumu. Two project sites



ANNEX II
-47-                          Page 13  of 15
have been completed and the remaining sites are under construction or will
soon begin. Various delays at the beginning of the Project have put
implementation about two years behind schedule, and the Project has had to be
scaled back due to higher than anticipated inflation. The project
departments in all three cities are operating reasonably well despite chronic
shortages of technical staff. Construction of community facilities and the
health and nutrition components are proceeeding satisfactorily. Both Nairobi
and Mombasa have introduced new property valuation rolls, but Nairobi City
Council has continued to have a serious liquidity problem.
WILDLIFE AND TOURISM
Loan No. 1304-T-KE - Wildlife and Tourism Project:  US$17.0 million
Loan of July 9, 1976; Effective Date:  November 10, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984
After initial delays, project implementation is accelerating. All
physical components of the Project are under construction and nearing
completion with the exception of the Naivasha Training Institute, which is
not expected to be completed before the end of 1983. The delay is due mainly
to the late appointment of consulting architects and slow performance by the
contractors. Following the accidental death of the main contractor in
November 1982, work was interrupted because of legal implications and was
resumed only recently. The Tourism Pricing Study and the Very Large
Herbivores Study have been completed, and recommendations contained in these
two studies are under review by the Government. The anti-poaching units are
fully staffed and deployed, and initial effectiveness of the units appears
good. While satisfactory arrangements have been made for payments of returns
from wildlife to ranchers in project areas, the Government has been unable so
far to complete negotiations with County Councils regarding management of
national reserves as foreseen under the loan. However, negotiations with the
Narok County Council are being pursued by the Government.  In addition, in
November 1982 His Excellency, the President, directed that the collection and
distribution of revenues in the Samburu and Buffalo Springs National Reserves
will become the responsibility of the Wildlife Department in the Ministry of
Tourism and Wildlife. Details are presently being worked out.
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT
Loan 2190-KE/Credit No. 1276-KE - Second Structural Adjustment
Program:  US$60.9 million Loan and US$70.0 million Credit of
July 1, 1982; Date of Effectiveness: August 27, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983.
A supervision mission visited Kenya in late March 1983 to review
progress and exchange views with the Government as provided for in the Loan
and Credit Agreements. The general conclusion reached by the mission was
that insufficient progress had been made in implementing a number of aspects
of agreed policy reform to justify the release of the second tranche at that
time. The mission established and agreed with Government a monitorable
action program to be accomplished before the end of June 1983 which, with one
possible exception, should advance program implementation to the stage where
the conditionality prerequisite to the release of the second tranche could be
deemed to have been fulfilled. The exception is in the area of grain



ANNEX II
-48-                         Page 14 Of 15
marketing where, because of the delay in appointing consultants, the study
will not now be completed until August/September 1983. However, preliminary
findings, coupled with the recommendations of an in-house Government group
studying main policy options which is due in June 1983, may lead to earlier
acceptable policy conclusions and the production soon thereafter of detailed
action programs which can then be reviewed to assess their adequacy and
impact in light of the Government's undertakings.
EAST AFRICAN COMMUNITY
There are currently two projects in execution in the East African
Community.4
Loan No. 914-EA - Third Telecommunications Project: US$32.5 million
Loan of June 22, 1973; Date of Effectiveness: September 19, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The Project included provision for procurement of local telephone
exchange equipment, cables and subscriber apparatus, microwave and UHF/VHF
systems and multiplex equipment, interurban cables and wires, automatic
switching and signalling equipment, telegraph, telex and data equipment, and
training. The Project has never been fully completed due to the problems
associated with the dissolution of the East African Community. About US$32.5
million of Loan No. 914-EA has been disbursed. The Bank is now proposing to
close the loan the cancel the undisbursed amount.
Loan No. 1204-EA - East African Development Bank: US$15.0 million
Loan of March 1, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: June 7, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982
The Loan is fully committed and disbursements were completed by the
Closing Date of June 30, 1982. The economic difficulties of the three
countries in which EADB operates has had a negative impact on EADB's
portfolio. Helping clients to service their debts, therefore, continues to
be EADB's priority.
4/  Since October 1, 1977, the East African Community loans (excluding the
East African Development Bank) have been disbursed on the basis of separ-
ate national guarantees. The agreed allocation of the undisbursed
balances for each loan, as proposed in a report to the Executive
Directors dated December 29, 1977 (R77-312) and approved on January 12,
1978, is given in this Annex. The Closing Dates for Loans 914-EA and
1204-EA have passed. However, since the amount allocated to and guaran-
teed by each Partner State is clearly identified under the terms of the
agreement signed on January 25, 1978, as proposed in the above report
(R77-312), we are continuing disbursements.



ANNEX II
-49-                             Page 15 of 15
D. Statement of IFC Investment in Kenya as at
March 31, 1983
Fiscal Year       Obligor               Type of Business   Amount in US$ Million
Loan   Equity   Total
1967, 1968,
and 1973       Kenya Hotel Properties   Hotels                5.2     0.7       5.9
1970, 1974,
1977, 1979
and 1981       Pan African Paper Mills  Pulp and Paper   22.2         6.3      28.5
1972           Tourism Promotion
Services                 Hotels              2.4       -        2.4
1976          Rift Valley Textiles
Ltd.                      Textiles           6.3      2.8      9.1
1977          Kenya Commercial Bank
Ltd.                      Capital Market    2.0        -        2.0
1980          Development Finance         Development
Company of Kenya Ltd.    Finance              -       1.3       1.3
1981          Kenya Commercial            Money & Capital
Finance                    Market            5.0       -        5.0
1982          Bamburi Portland            Cement &           4.5       -        4.5
Cement Co., Ltd.           Construction
Material
1982          Diamond Trust of            Money & Capital
Kenya Limited              Market             -       0.8       0.8
1982           Industrial Promotion       Money & Capital
Services (Kenya) Ltd.    Market               -       0.6       0.6
Total Gross Commitments                   47.6    12.5      60.1
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                    16.0      1.8     17.8
Total Commitments now held by IFC         31.6    10.7      42.3
Total Undisbursed                          7.4      1.4      8.8



ANNEX III
_50_                       Page I of 2
KENYA
SECONDARY TOWNIS PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country
to prepare the project:                           Three years
(b) The agency which has
prepared the project:                             MWH, in cooperation
with MLG and individual
local authorities.
(c)  (i)  Date of first presen-
tation to the Bank:                          Early 1980
(ii)  Date of first Bank
mission to consider the
project:                                     April 1980
(d) Date of departure of
appraisal missions:                               August 1982
October 1982
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:               May 11, 1983
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:                    September, 1983



ANNEX III
-Page 2 of 2
Section II: Special Bank Group Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) the MWH would establish the Technical Steering Committee and the
Interministerial Review Committee under terms and conditions
acceptable to the Association (paragraph 62 and Section 3.06 (b)
and (c) of the draft Development Credit Agreement;
v        (b)  KMC would agree by June 30, 1984 on a schedule for the reduction
and eventual elimination of overdue repayments on outstanding
loans made to KMC by NHC and LGLA (paragraph 63 and Section 4.04
of the draft Development Credit Agreement);
(c) the MLG would approve the annual budget of a project town only if
it provides for a surplus in the General Rate Fund Revenue
Account beginning January 1, 1985 for Eldoret, Nakuru, and Thika
and January 1, 1987 for Kitale and Nyeri (paragraph 64 and
Section 3.11 of the draft Development Credit Agreement);
(d) the LGLA would furnish a complete audit of its loan accounts to
the Bank by December 31, 1983 (paragraph 66 and Section 4.03 of
the draft Development Credit Agreement);
(e) the local authorities, PMU, NHC, and LGLA would have audit
reports prepared by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association and would submit them to the Bank within eight months
of the close of their fiscal year; the auditor's report would
contain a special reference confirming that, where project
expenditures are disbursed on the basis of SOEs, claimed
expenditures have been used for the purpose provided (paragraph
69 and Section 4.01 (b) and (c) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement);
(f) the PMU would prepare a quarterly status report on the
implementation of the project and forward it to the Association
within six weeks of the end of each quarter (paragraph 71 and
Section 3.08 (c) of the draft Development Credit Agreement); and
(g)  the Government would or cause the NHC, LGLA, and the local
authorities to review from time to time the interest rates under
the Onlending and Subsidiary Loan Agreements and introduce such
modifications as deemed necessary (paragraph 75 and Section 3.02
(e) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).



I



SUDAN                    -               I
v-/                                 _    f-  - --                                                   ETHIOPIA
A.~~~~~~~~~.
A_:;\. /                                                                      NS
j        I    Lks:   j:    A/Al                                       N                                            / 
WE5 T----- --i---------
KA ~            ~             JSKA                                                                                                                           
\   Lodw orIYO                                                                                I ~-__  z
s .t,1 '' X,'>, >,L'' ' ' j' ; ~1/
(                                                                                                                       0               'd \S o  i  - 
U V G A  N ZD  A    \                        ,               \ X                         M:rs:bit              0             i  \                    Ioi
c 5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/
2      t         ,                                   .                     V                        '\                 \                             |~~Th, 
j   \\  '                    .           4 \                                          >              ' --warj SO MA LI A
. ,,    ,,                          ,                        ,                                    ,            ,. 
*4>                                                                                                        \ 2  '-  5 
L.A        --                                                                             -.X8              /    >'          d       mi   w
B59v               O r m EIo & 4          &biB                                                 -         ..t                                   >5             1
3                                      5-
i aC  YA tVzt z                      /                                                                                                                                KE CET   AI$4L
5-'  ,tcho>.5   
KTEANZANI \.       +     '<                .              (              , Y;                  t      ;  0=I=   = 
PR'OJECT  LOCATIONS                             N          1/Ac-Io   [rob lcr71 '  I!bVlgAW  V;t0 ==
W_   Fsrjst ron Pw:ecr                                      K\   J-                                                                               ;         ; 
ADecorc -bLooPro,ect                                            .        X          \_            \>=r  -                                     -N->.       - =
Socu,,k ,-,   0.51 S                                                 Li       -                    0      -?     -   , ==,
Ro:ds unoer cc sr-'on 5 .-                                                           t                                   v rA
61ov nOe                   a1120<0                                                      I t o                                                  ______-______
fl morernroooolorrp on         -.Oit;4E'UD  r 
505- O--g-. 2'.ies -1 ......... 0  0 I;p4\\-Wt :                                                                              t      j      t.'L'      ;;=           f
__                                      ..bId                              /5       4 /5L                t                           v-           ,           {/OAE        :      =1



