OFFIAl
f OFFICIAL CREDIT NUMBER 1390 KE
DOCUMENTS
Development Credit Agreement
(Secondary Towns Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                            , 1983


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1390 KE
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                                , 1983, between
REPUBLIC  OF   KENYA  (hereinafter  called   the  Borrower)  and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower has also requested the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) to provide addi-
tional assistance towards the financing of the Project and by an
agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the Bank
(hereinafter called the Loan Agreement) the Bank is agreeing to
provide such assistance in an aggregate principal amount equiva-
lent to seven million dollars ($7,000,000) (hereinafter called
the Loan);
(C) the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent
practicable, that the proceeds of the Credit provided for in this
Agreement be disbursed on account of expenditures on the Project
before disbursements of the proceeds of the Loan provided for in
the Loan Agreement are made; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called       the
General Conditions).


﻿-2-
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a)  "Loan Agreement" means    the agreement of even date
herewith between the Borrower and the Bank for the purpose of the
Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to time; and
such term includes the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, as made
applicable to such agreement, all agreements supplemental to the
Loan Agreement and all schedules to the Loan Agreement;
(b)  "Project Preparation Advance" means the project pre-
paration advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of lez:ters dated August 12, 1982, and
September 24, 1982, between the Borrower and the Association;
(c)  "Construction Loan" means a loan from a Municipality to
a tenant who has been allocated a Plot in a Project Area for the
purpose of financing materials and services for constructing or
improving (i) a dwelling on such Plot or (ii) a building on such
Plot for a workshop or small scale industry;
(d)  "Eldoret Joint Venture Agreement" means the agreement
to be entered into between the Municipal Council of Eld.ret and
Rural Housing Estates Ltd;
(e) "KSh" means shillings in the currency of the Borrower;
(f) "Local Government Act" means the Borrower's Local
Covernment Act (Cap. 265) of 1963, as may be amended from time to
ime;
(g)  "LGLA" means the Local Government Loans Authority, a
body established under the Borrower's Local Government Loans Act
(Cap. 270) of 1953, as may be amended from time to time;
(h)  "MLG" means the Borrower's Ministry of Local Govern-
ment;
(i) "MWH" means the Borrower's Ministry of Works and
Housing;
(j)  "Municipalities"   means  any  or   all  the   Municipal
Councils of Nakuru, Eldoret, Thika, Kitale and Nyeri as the
context requires;


﻿(k)  "NHC" means the National Housing Corporation, a body
established under the Borrower's Housing Act (Cap. 117) of 1953,
as may be amended from time to time;
(1) "Onlending Agreements" means the agreements to be
entered into between the Borrower and NHC and LGLA, respectively,
pursuant to Section 3.02 of this Agreement;
(m)  "Plot" means a defined area within a Project Area which
has been set aside by the subdivision of a Project Area in accor--
dance with applicable law and which is capable of being, or has
been, allocated to, or acquired by, a tenant;
(n)  "PMU" means the Program Management Unit established in
the Borrower's Ministry for the time being responsible for
housing, to provide project management support, in accordance
with Section 3.06 of this Agreement;
(o) "Project Areas" means the areas, included in the
Project, as shown on the Bank's maps numbered IBRD 16821 through
16825 where the development of Plots and commercial facilities
and provision of infrastructure and community facilities under
the.Project is to take place;
(p)  "Special Account" means an account to be opened and
thereafter maintained pursuant to Section 2.02 (c) of this Agree-
.ment;
(q)  "Services" means the provision to a Plot of water,
sewerage connection, drainage of surface water, access to roads
and refuse collection facilities; and "Partial Services" means
one or more of these components; and surveying and demarcation;
(r) "Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means the agreements to be
entered into between NHC and LGLA pursuant to. Section 3.02 to
this Agreement; and
(s)  "TMCECS Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between Municipal Council of Thika and the Thika Municipal
Council Employees Cooperative Society.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit


﻿-4-
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to twenty million four hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 20,400,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule I to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the
principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges
thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelleds
(c) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of making dis-
bursements from Categories (1) (a), (1) (c), (2) and Categories
(1) (b), (3) (a), and 4 (a), respectively, of paragraph I of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, open and thereafter maintain .two
Special Accounts in the Central Bank of Kenya, in the currency of
the Borrower, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation. Deposits into, and payments out of said Special Accounts
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agree-
ment.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1990
or such later date as the Association shall establish.         The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from


﻿-5-
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association   shall  reasonably  request;   (ii)  without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each
year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each March 15
and September 15, commencing September 15, 1993, and ending March
15, 2033, each installment to and including the installment
payable on March 15, 2003, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to
be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Part D.2 of
the Project and cause the Municipalities to carry out the rest of
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial and engineering
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities,  services  and   other  resources  required   for  the
purpose.


﻿-6-
(b) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the
Borrower shall cause each of the Municipalities, NHC and LGLA to
perform in accordance with the provisions of its respective
Subsidiary Loan Agreement and Onlending Agreement, as the case
may be, which are applicable to it; shall take and cause to be
taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities,
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable
the Municipalities, NHC and LGLA to perform such obligations; and
shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would
prevent or interfere with such performance.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall onlend the proceeds of
the Credit withdrawn under Categories (1) (a) and (2) and under
Categories (1) (b), (3) (a), and (4) (a), respectively, of
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, to NHC and LGLA,
respectively, under Onlending Agreements to be entered into
between the Borrower and NHC and LGLA each, under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Association, including, inter alia:
(i) an amortization period of 27 years including four years'
grace; (ii) interest at the rate of 11% per annum, which shall be
capitalized into the loan amount during the four years' grace;
and (iii) assumption by the Borrower of the risk of fluctuation
in the values of various currencies.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Onlending Agreements to cause NHC and LGLA to onlend the proceeds
of the Credit withdrawn under the Categories referred to in
paragraph (a) above to the Municipalities under Subsidiary Loan
Agreements to be entered into by NHC or LGLA, as the case may be,
and the Municipalities, under terms and conditions acceptable to
the Association, including, inter alia, (i) an amortization
period of 27 years including four years' grace; (ii) interest at
the rate of 11.25% per annum, which shall be capitalized into the
loan amount during the four years' grace; and (iii) assumption by
the Borrower of the risk of fluctuation in the values of various
currencies.
(c) The Borrower shall onlend the proceeds of the Credit
withdrawn under Category (1) (c) of paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement to NHC under the Onlending Agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and NHC, under terms and conditions
acceptable to the Association, including, inter alia: (i) an
amortization period of seven years including two years' grace;
(ii) interest at the rate of 11% per annum, which shall be


﻿capitalized into the loan amount during the two years' grace;
and (iii) assumption by the Borrower of the risk of fluctuation
in the values of various currencies.
(d) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Onlending Agreement referred to in (c) above to cause NHC to
onlend the proceeds of the %.edit withdrawn under Category
(1) (c) to the Municipal Council of Eldoret under a Subsidiary
Loan Agreement to be entered into by NHC and the Municipal
Council of Eldoret, under terms and conditions acceptable to the
Association, including, inter alia: (i) an amortization period of
seven years including two years' grace; (ii) interest at the rate
of 11.25% per annum, which shall be capitalized into the loan
amount during the two years' grace; and (iii) assumption by the
Borrower of the risk of fluctuation in the values of various
currencies.
(e) The Borrower shall, or cause NHC, LGLA and the Muni-
cipalities to review from time to time the interest rates
referred to in parts (a) through (d) above and introduce such
modifications, acceptable to the Borrower and the Association, as
shall be deemed necessary.
Section 3.03. In order to protect the interest of the
Borrower and the Association and accomplish the purposes of the
Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any of the
Onlending Agreements or any provision thereof.
Section. 3.04. Without limitation to its obligations under
Section 3.01 (b), the Borrower shall, in case any of the
Municipalities does not have adequate funds from local resources
at their disposal to carry out the Project in a timely fashion,
lend to such Municipality through NHC or LGLA, respectively,
additional amounts equal to the expenditures oi that Municipality
for its part of the Project net of receipts arising out of the
Project.
Section 3.05. (a) In order to assist in carrying out the
Project, the Borrower shall employ and shall cause NHC, LGLA and
the Municipalities to employ financial, accounting, engineering
and urban planning consultants and experts whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association, such consultants and experts to
be selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines


﻿-8-
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" published ty the Bank in August
1981.
(b) As part of its obligations under paragraph (a) above,
the Borrower shall: (i) not later than December 31, 1983, cause
MWH to employ consultants to design a project monitoring system
and thereafter to train local authority staff in the use of that
system; and (ii) not later than June 30, 1984, cause MLG to
employ consultants to undertake selection of electronic data
processing equipment, development of software and training in its
use for local authority staff of the Municipal Councils of
Nakuru, Eldoret, Thika and Kisumu.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall establish, and thereafter
maintain during the execution of the Project, the following
entities, with such composition, staffing, timetables for
recruitment,   functions   and   responsibilities   as   shall  be
acceptable to the Association:
(a) PMU, to be headed by a Program Coordinator;
(b) a Technical Steering Committee; and
(c) an Interministerial Review Committee.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or to
cause the appropriate Municipalities to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of
use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall
be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower or the
Municipalities, as the case may be, to replace or repair evdch
goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the purposes of
the Project.


﻿Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall furnish and cause the
Municipalities, NHC and LGLA to furnish to the Association,
promptly  upon  their preparation, the    plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower shall itself, and shall cause the Munici-
palities, NHC and LGLA, in respect of the parts of the Project to
be carried out by each of them, to: (i) maintain records and
procedures adequate to record and monitor the progress of the
Project (including its cost and the b4,nefits to be derived from
it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project;
(ii) enable the Association's representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) send to PMU, not
later than three weeks after the end of each calendar quarter,
such information as the Association may reasonably request
concerning the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the
b6nefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds
of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
(c) The Borrower shall cause PMU to prepare, on the
basis of the records sent to PMU pursuant to paragraph (b) (iii)
above, quarterly status reports of such scope and in such detail
as the Association shall reasonably request. Such quarterly
status reports shall be furnished to the Association, not later
than six weeks after the calendar quarter to which such reports
relate.
(d) Upon the award of any contract for goods, works or
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the
Association may publish a description thereof, the name and
nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and the
contract price.
(e) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower


﻿- 10 -
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as
the Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and
initial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits
derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the
Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Credit.
Section   3.09.  The  Borrower   shall  take  or   cause  the
Municipalities to take all such action as shall be necessary to
acquire as and when needed all such land and rights in respect of
land and to subdivide the Project Areas as required for the
construction and operation of the facilities included in the
Project, and shall furnish to the Association, promptly after
such acquisition or subdivision, evidence satisfactory to the
Association that such land and rights in respect of land are
available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall cause MWH: (a) not later
than December 31, 1983, to prepare in cooperation with NHC and
furnish to the Association for its review and approval, terms of
reference for a training program in community development methods
for local authority staff who will be engaged in these activities
in the framework of the Project; and (b) promptly thereafter
carry out such training program, as approved by the Association.
Section 3.11. (a) The Borrower shall approve the annual
budget of a Municipality only if it provides for a surplus in the
General Rate Fund, as defined in Section 216 of the Local Gov-
ernment Act, for the fiscal years beginning January 1, 1985, in
the case of the Municipal Councils of Nakuru, Eldoret and Thika,
and January 1, 1987, in the case of the Municipal Councils of
Nyeri and Kitale.
(b) For the purposes of this Section, a surplus in such a
Fund means, for any particular year and taken by itself, an ex-
cess of revenues from taxes, fees and charges over all expendi-
tures normally chargeable to the General Rate Fund for the recur-
rent operations of the Municipality. Such revenues shall exclude
(i) loans and other receipts intended for capital expenditures,
and (ii) transfers into the General Rate Fund of surpluses


﻿- 11 -
arising from activities of the Municipality, the funds for which
do not form part of the General Rate Fund.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to
be maintained, separate accounts adequate to reflect in accord-
ance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting prac-
tices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of
the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower.
(b) Without limitation to the foregoing, the Borrower shall
cause NHC, LGLA, PMU and the Municipalities to: (i) maintain or
cause to be maintained separate accounts reflecting all expendi-
tures on account of which withdrawals are requested from the
Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditure; (ii)
retain, until one year after the Closing Date, all records (con-
tracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing the expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure; and (iii) enable the Association's representatives
to, examine such records.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts of NTHC, LGLA,
PMU and the Municipalities for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any
case not later than eight months after the end of each such year,
a certified copy of the report of such audit by such auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably   requested  including,   without  limitation   to  the
foregoing, a separate opinion by said auditors' in respect of the
expenditures and records referred to in paragraph (b) of this
Section as to whether the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from
the Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditure have
been used for the purpose for which they were provided; and (iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said
accounts, records and expenditures and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
(d) The Borrower shall cause NHC and LGLA each to have its
accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of


﻿- 12 -
income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year
audited  in   accordance  with  appropriate   auditing  principles
consistently applied by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association and shall submit such accounts to the Association not
later than eight months after the end of each such year.
(e) The Borrower shall cause the Municipalities each to
furnish to the Association, not later than nine months after the
end of each fiscal year, certified copies of their unaudited
abstracts of accounts for each such fiscal year.
Section 4.02.. The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the
Project, cause NHC and the Municipalities each:
(a) to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or
to make other provision satisfactory to the Association for,
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice;
(b) to carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in
accordance with sound administrative, financial and engineering
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers; and
(c) at all times to operate and to maintain its plants,
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time,
promptly as needed, to make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering and financial
practices.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause LGLA to furnish to
the Association, not later than December 31, 1983, a complete
audit of LGLA's loan accounts as of June 30, 1982 carried out by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall, not later than June 30,
1984, cause NHC, LGLA, and the Municipal Council of Kitale to
enter into agreements, acceptable to the Association, for the
reduction and eventual elimination of overdue repayments on
outstanding loans made to said Municipality by NHC and LGLA,
respectively.


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a)- any Municipality, NHC or LGLA shall have failed to
perform any of its obligations under an Onlending Agreement or
Subsidiary Loan Agreement to which it is a party;
(b) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen. which
shall make it improbable that a Municipality, NHC or LGLA will be
able to perform any of its obligations under an Onlending Agree-
ment or Subsidiary Loan Agreement to which it is a party; and
(c) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdic-
tion shall have taken any action without the consent of the Asso-
ciation for the dissolution or disestablishment of any Munici-'
pality, NHC or LGLA or for the suspension of their respective
operations.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof, namely that the events speci-
fied in paragraphs (a) or (c) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement
shall have occurred and continued for a period of 90 days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Association.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Special Accounts referred to in Section 2.02 (c) of
this Agreement shall have bee- opened;
(b) PMU has been duly established and the Program Coordina-
tor has been appointed, as provided in Section 3.06 (a) of this
Agreement; and


﻿-14-
(c) the Onlending Agreements referred to in Section 3.02
(a) of this Agreement have been executed on behalf of the Bor-
rower, NHC and LGLA, respectively.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be fur-
nished to the Association, namely, that each of the Onlending
Agreements referred to in Section 6.01 (c) above has been duly
executed and authorized or ratified by the Borrower and by NHC
and LGLA, respectively, and is legally binding upon the Borrower,
NHC and LGLA, respectively, in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date   .QiAXt'    -          is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Articles
III and IV of this Agreement and the provisions of Section 5.02
of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which
the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date 25
years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the
earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister for the time being responsible
for Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 30007
Nairobi, Kenya
Cable address:                      Telex:
FINANCE                           96322003
Nairobi                           FOREIGN NAIROBI


﻿- 15 -
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives  thereunto duly authorized, have caused      this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By                              AQ
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the Credit and the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, the
allocation of the amounts of the Credit and of the Loan to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
Amount of
Amount of       the Loan
the Credit      Allocated      % of
Allocated       (Expressed     Expendi-
(Expressed in   in Dollar     tures to
Catrgory      SDR Equivalent) Equivalent) be Financed
(1) Civil works                                   95%
for:
(a) On-site        5,940,000    2,000,000
infra-
struc-
ture
(b) Off-site       2,240,000      800,000
infra-
struc-
ture and
commu-
nity faci-
lities
(c) Eldoret        1,930,000      650,000
joint
venture
(2) Construction        1,740,000    1,600,000    95%
Loans


﻿- 17 -
-     Amount of
Amount of       the Loan
the Credit      Allocated      % of
Allocated       (Expressed     Expendi-
(Expressed-in   in Dollar     tures to
Category       SDR Equivalent) Equivalent)   be Financed
(3,) Equipment and                      ...       100% of foreign
vehicles for.                                expenditures
and 8Q% of.
local expendi-
tures
(a) Munici-          720,000      250,000
,palities
.(b) The Bor-         220,000       75,000
rower
(4) Consultants'                                  100%
services for:
(a) Munici-          790,000      250,000
palities
(b)  the Bor-      1,400,000.     500,000
rower
(5) Operating             350,000      100,000    100%
expenses
for PMU
(6) Refunding             930,000                 Amount due
of *Project                        .         under Section
Preparation                                  2.02 (b) of.,
Advance                                      this Agreement
(7)  Initial            2,800,000                 Amount due
deposits                                     under Section
in Special                                   2.02 (c) of
Accounts                                     this Agreement
(8) Fee            .                    17,456    Amount due
* under Section
2.04 of the
Loan Agreement
(9) Unallocated         1,340,000      757,544
TOTAL        20,400,000    7,000,000


﻿- 18 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that the proceeds of
the Credit shall not be disbursed on account of payments for
taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or
supply thereof; on this basis, if the amount of any such taxes
levied on or in respect of items in any Category decreases or
increases, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, in-
crease or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to
such Category as required to be consistent with the aforemen-
tioned policy of the Association.
4.   Disbursements under Categories 2 and 5 may be made against
statements of expenditure which shall be in form and substance
satisfactory to the Association.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures incurred prior to the date of this Agree-
ment;
(b) expenditures incurred by any Municipality under the
Project until such Municipality shall have entered into a Subsi-
diary Loan Agreement, satisfactory to the Association, with NHC
or LGLA as the case may be;
(c) expenditures for infrastructure on the site of Rural
Housing Estates Ltd. in Eldoret until the Eldoret Joint Venture
Agreement, satisfactory to the Association, has been executed by
the parties thereto; and
(d) expenditures for infrastructure on the site of the
Thika Municipal Council Employees Cooperative Society until the


﻿-19-
TMCECS Agreement, satisfactory to the Association, has been exe-
cuted by the parties thereto.
6.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that
the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce  the  disbursement  percentage   then  applicable  to  such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Cate-
gory may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have
been made.
7.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the'
procurement of any item in any Category 'is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
diture for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association
under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Bor-
rower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's
reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's program to assist five
secondary towns: Nakuru, Eldoret, Thika, Kitale and Nyeri, to
develop into urban growth centers and consists of the following
main Parts:
Part A:   Servicing of Urban Land for Residential and Small
Enterprise Development
1.   Provision of full or Partial Services on about 1,850 plots
of mainly unoccupied, publicly-owned land.
2.   Provision of full or Partial Services on about 3,612 plots
of mainly unoccupied, privately-owned land.
3.   Upgrading of Services on about 1,934 plots of occupied land.
4.   Provision of full. Services on a privately-owned site in
Eldoret and construction thereon of about 831 medium-cost houses
for sale to the public.
5.   Connections to off-site infrastructure service networks, as
required.
Part B:   Construction Loans
Sub-loans for shelter and workshop construction.
Part C:   Community Facilities
Construction of markets, workshops, lorry parks, schools and
health centers.
Part D:   Financial and Project Management Assistance
1.   For the Municipalities
Provision of technical assistance and equipment to the
Municipalities and the Municipal Council of Kisumu for financial,
project management and maintenance support.


﻿- 21 -
2.   For the Borrower
Provision of technical assistance and equipment for finan-
cial and project management support, urban policy studies, and
the operating expenses of PMU.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1990.
Q


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Compet!tive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, equipment and vehicles
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with pro-
cedures consistent with those set forth in the current edition of
the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidd-
ing as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For equipment and vehicles to be procured on the basis of
international competitive bidding, in addition to the require-
ments of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall pre-
pare and forward to the Association as soon as possible, and in
any event not later than 60 days prior to the date of availabili-
ty to the public of the first tender documents relating thereto,
a general procurement notice, in such form and detail and con-
taining such information as the Association shall reasonably
request; the Association will arrange for the publication of such
notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the equipment and vehicles
in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information
to update such notice annually so long as any equipment and vehi-
cles remain to be procured on the basis of international compe-
titive bidding.
3.   To the extent practicable, identical or similar items shall
be grouped for purposes of bidding so as to permit bulk procure-
ment.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of equipment and vehicles to be procured on the basis of
international competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required
to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the
imported equipment and vehicles, or the ex-factory price or off-
the-shelf price of other equipment and vehicles, offered in such
bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes levied in connec-
tion with the importation, or the sales and similar taxes levied
in connection with the sale or delivery, pursuant to the bid, of
the equipment and vehicles shall not be taken into account in the
evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland freight and


﻿- 23 -
other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the equipment
and vehicles to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of equipment and vehicles in accordance
with the procedures described in Part A of this Schedule, equip-
ment and vehicles manufactured in the Republic of Kenya may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject
to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of equipment
and vehicles shall clearly indicate any preference which will be
granted, the information required to establish the eligibility of
a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering equipment and vehicles
manufactured in the Republic of Kenya if the bid-
der shall have established to the satisfaction of
the Borrower and the Association that the manu-
facturing cost of such equipment and vehicles
includes a value added in the Republic of Kenya
equal to at least 20% of the ex-factor, bid price
of such equipment and vehicles.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
0                         (3) Group C: bids offering any other equipment and
vehicles.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the equipment and vehicles.
Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be compared with each
other, and if, as a result of this comparison, a bid from group A
or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award.


﻿- 24 -
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
equipment and vehicles offered in each group C bid, for the pur-
pose of this further comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the
amount of customs duties and other import taxes which a non-
exempt importer would have to pay for the importation of the
equipment and vehicles offered in such group C bid; or (ii) 15%
of the c.i.f. bid price of such equipment and vehicles if said
customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group A
bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be se-
lected for the award; if not, the bid from group C which as a
result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the lowest eva-
luated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works
All Contracts for civil works may be awarded in accordance
with local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the Asso-
ciation.
2.   Equipment and Vehicles
(a) To the extent practicable, contracts for maintenance
equipment shall be grouped for purposes of bidding into lots
worth at least $100,000 equivalent so as to permit their procure-
ment through international competitive bidding in accordance with
Part A of this Schedule.
(b) Equipment and vehicles worth: (i) between $50,000 and
$100,000 equivalent may be procured in accordance with local com-
petitive bidding procedures acceptable to the Association; and
(ii) less than $50,000 equivalent may be procured on the basis of
price quotations from at least three reliable local suppliers in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before qua-
lification for civil works contracts in excess of $250,000 equi-
valent is invited, inform the Association in detail of the proce-
dure to be followed, and shall introduce such modifications in


﻿-25-
said procedure as the Assob    on shall reasonably request. The
list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their
qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any appli-
cant for prequalification shall be furnished by the Borrower to
the Association for its comments before the applicants are noti-
fied of the Borrower's decision, and the Borrower shall make such
additions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list
as the Association shall reasonably request.
2.   Awards of final contracts. With respect to all contracts for
civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more;
and all contracts for equipment and vehicles estimated to cost
the equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in suf-
ficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, and such other information
as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be incon-
sistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such con-
tract.


﻿- 26 -
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prompt-
ly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Asso-
ciation of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the
Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies
of such contract, together with the analysis of the respective
bids, recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Bor-
rower and state the reasons for such determination.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or issu-
ing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension
or change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the pro-
visions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for its determination.
0


﻿-27-
SCHEDULE 4
Special Accounts
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)  the term "Category" means a category of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit as set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
Parts A, B, C and D.1 of the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to Cate-
gories (1) (a), (1) (b), (1) (c), (2), (3) (a), and (4) (a) in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
(c) the term "initial deposits" means amounts equivalent in
total to the amount allocated to Category 7 and to be withdrawn
from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special Accounts
pursuant to the first sentence of paragraph 3 to this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of a Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   The Association shall, at the request of the Borrower, with-
draw on behalf of the Borrower from the Credit Account and depo-
sit into the Special Accounts the initial deposits. Thereafter
and on the basis of requests by NHC or LGLA on behalf of the
Borrower furnished to the Association at such intervals as the
Association shall specify, tfte Association shall further so with-
draw from the Credit Account and deposit into a Special Account
such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special
Account with amounts equal to payments made out of the Special
Account for eligible expenditures, but only to the extent that
the amount of any such deposit, together with any amount remain-
ing on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such
request, shall not exceed in the aggregate the equivalent of the
initial deposit. Except as the Association may otherwise agree,
each such deposit after the initial deposit shall be withdrawn by
the Association from the Credit Account under the respective
Categories mentioned in paragraph 1 (b)     hove, and in the res-
pective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by the


﻿- 28 -
evidence supporting the request for such deposit furnished pur-
suant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   Prior to or at the time of each request by NHC or LGLA on
behalf of the Borrower for a deposit by the Association into a
Special Account after the initial deposit, the Borrower shall
cause NHC or LGLA, as the case may be, to furnish to the Associa-
tion in respect of each payment made by NHC or LGLA out    of the
Special Account such documents and other evidence as the Associa-
tion shall reasonably request, showing that such payment was made
for eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this  Sche-
dule, no further deposit into the Special Accounts shall be made
by the Association (a) when the Association shall have determined
at any time that all further withdrawals can be made directly by
the Borrower from the Credit Account in accordance with the pro-
visions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement, or
(b) when the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to
the Categories mentioned in paragraph 1 (b) above, minus the
amount of any qualified agreement to reimburse made by the Asso-
ciation and of any special commitment entered into by the Asso-
ciation pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with
respect to Parts A, B, C and D.1 of the Project, shall be equal
to the equivalent of twice the amount of the initial deposit,
whichever shall be sooner. Withdrawal from the Credit Account of
the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
Categories mentioned in paragraph 1 (b) above shall follow such
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the
Borrower and shall, except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, be made only after and to the extent the Association shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in
the Special Accounts as of the date of such notice have been or
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures..            F
6.   If the Association shall have determined at any time that:,
(a) any payment out of a Special Account (i) was made for
any expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to para-
graph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evi-
dence furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association and,
unless otherwise agreed by the Association, prior to any further
deposit into the Special Account by the Association, deposit into
the Special Account or, if the Association shall so request,


﻿-29-
refund to the Association an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified; or
(b) any amount outstanding in a Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, and
unless otherwise agreed by the Association, refund to the Asso-
ciation such amount then outstanding in the Special Account.
A


﻿Q                          INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the           day of
1983.
FOR SECRETARY


