LOAN NUMBER 2319 KE
DOCUM'OENTS
O                              Loan Agreement
(Secondary Towns Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                               , 1983


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2319 KE
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated ;             ^2'-2, 1983, between REPUBLIC
OF KENYA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter
provided;
(B) the Borrower has also requested the Association to
provide additional financial assistance towards the financing
of the Project and by an agreement of even date herewith between
the Borrower and the Association (hereinafter called the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement) the Association is agreeing to provide
such assistance in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to
twenty million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 20,400,000);
(C) the Borrower and     the Bank   intend, to   the extent
practicable, that the proceeds of the credit provided for in the
Development Credit Agreement be disbursed on account of
expenditures on the Project before disbursements of the proceeds
of the Loan provided for in this Agreement are made; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
OARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, _980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the following modifications thereof (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions):


﻿Section 2.01 (11) is deleted and the following is
substituted therefor:
"1l. The term 'Project' means the Secondary Towns
Project as described in Schedule 2 of the Development
Credit  Agreement   between   the  Borrower   and  the
Association of even date with the Loan Agreement, as
may be amended from time to time by agreement among the
Borrower, the Association and the Bank."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the,
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)  "Credit"  means   the  credit  provided  for   in  the
Development Credit Agreement; and
(b) "Development Credit Agreement" means the agreement of
even date he.ewith between the Borrower and the Association for
the purpose of the Project, as such agreement may be amended from
time to time; and such term includes the General Conditions
Applicable to Development Credit 'reements of the Association,
dated June 30, 1980, as made ai, Lcable to such agreement, all
agreements supplemental to the Development Credit Agreement and
all schedules to the Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to seven
million dollars ($7,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to the Development Credit Agreement, as such Schedule may be
amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or, if the Bank
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1990,
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee
equivalent to seventeen thousand four hundred fifty-six dollars
($17,456).
(b) On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and pay to itself the amount of the said fee in such currency or
currencies as the Bank shall determine.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) pet annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one
half percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for
the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such
Interest Period.
(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
(c) For purposes of this Section:
(i) "Interest   Period" means  the  six-month  period
commencing on each date specified in Section 2.08
of this Agreement, including -the Interest Period
in which this Agreement is signed.
(ii) "Cost" of Qualified Borrowings means the cost,
expressed as a percentage per annum, as reasonably
determined by the Bank, provided that the amount
of $8,520.5 million referred to in (iii) (B)
hereunder shall be reckoned at a cost of 10.93%
per annum.
(iii) "Qualified   Borrowings"  means  (A)  outstanding
borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
1982; and (B) until July 1, 1985, the amount of


﻿$8,520.5 million (representing borrowings of the
Bank between July 1, 1981 and June 30, 1982) less
any part thereof repaid earlier than July 1, 1985.
(iv)  "Semester" means the first six months or the
second six-months of a calendar year.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in the Schedule to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
and Other Covenants
Section 3.01. Articles III and IV of, and Schedules 2, 3
and 4 to the Development Credit Agreement are incorporated in,
and made a part of, the Loan Agreement, provided that the terms
"Association" and "Credit" (other than in "Development Credit
Agreements"), whenever they appear in such Articles and Schedules
shall be read, respectively, "Bank" and "Loan".
Section 3.02. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto, and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall,


﻿-5-
promptly and at no coset to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Bank
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the events set out in Section 5.01 of the
Development Credit Agreement are specified.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that any event speci-
fied in paragraphs (a) or (c) of Section 5.01 of the Development
Credit Agreement shall have occurred and continued for a period
of 90 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Bank.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Condi-
tions, namely, that all conditions to the effectiveness of the
Development Credit Agreement have been fulfilled.


﻿Sectiot 5.02. The date          A        oL o  'XPZ L) , is'
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrover; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister for the time being responsible
for Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General /
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 30007
Nairobi, Kenya
Cable address:                    Telex:
FINANCE                         96322003
Nairobi                         FOREIGN NAIROBI
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INTBAFRAD                       440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their          .
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused      this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District


﻿-7
of Colutbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
By      1             W         UUtt
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
0                                        RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By          ffLWm K                    ck
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
O0


﻿SCHEDULE
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                        (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 15 and September 15         -
beginning March 15, 1989
through   March 15, 2003                 235,000
On September 15, 2003'                        185,000
0
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                          Premium
The interest rate (ex-
pressed as a percentage
per annum) applicable to
the balance outstanding
on the Loan on the day
of prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years                         0.15
before maturity
More than three years but                         0.30
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                           0.55
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not                        0.80
more than 16 years
before maturity
More than 16 years but not                        0.90
more than 18 years
before maturity
More than 18 years before                         1.00
maturity


﻿Q INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day of Qti    198    .
FOR SECRETARY


