Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11924-NEP
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
NEPAL
HIGHER EDUCATION PROJECT
NOVEMBER 23, 1993
Population and Human Resources Division
Country Department I
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit * Nepalese Rupees (NRs)
US$1.00 = NRs 49.58
FISCAL YEAR
July 16 - July 15
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
CDC         -     Curriculum Development Center
CNSE        -     Council for Higher Secondary Education
EMIS        -     Educational Management Information System
GDP         -     Gross Domestic Product
ICB         -     International Competitive Bidding
IDA         -     International Development Association
LCB         -     Local Competitive Bidding
MIS         -    Management Information System
MOEC        -     Ministry of Education and Culture
MOF         -     Ministry of Finance
NEC         -     National Education Commission
PCU         -     Project Coordination Unit
SLC         -     Secondary School Leaving Certificate
TU          -     Tribhuvan University
UNDP        -     United Nations Development Programme
USAID       -     United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NEPAL
HIGHER EDUCATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Credit and Project Summary ....................... . iii
BASIC  DATA   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .  . . .    vi
I.   SECTOR  CONTEXT   ...  .               .   .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .     ..  1
A.   Background   .1..  .             .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  I
B.   The  Education  System   .1..  .                .   .   .   .   .  .   .   .   .   .   .  .   .   .   .   .    .  I
C.   Main  Issues  in Higher  Education  ...  .                    .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  3
D.   Government  Strategy              ...  .         .  .  .   .  .   .  .   .   .   .   .  .   .   .   .   .     .  11
E.  IDA's Country and Sector Assistance Strategy .  . . . . . . . .  11
F.   Rationale  for  IDA  Involvement  ...  .                   .   .  .   .   .   .   .  .   .   .  .   .    .  13
II.   THE  PROJECT   ...  .              .  .  .  .  .  .  .     . ....  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .    13
A.   Project Origin    ...  .               .   .  .   .  .   .   .  .   .  .   .   .  .   .   .  .   .  .   .     .    13
B.   Project  Design  and Objectives  ...  .                    .   .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .   .     .    14
C.   Project  Components    ...  .               .   .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  15
III.   PROJECT  COSTS,  FINANCING,  PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENTS  . .  . . . .    18
A.   Project  Costs  ...  .              .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .   .  18
B.   Financing  ...  .             .   .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .   .    .  19
C.   Procurement  Arrangements    ...  .                  .   .  .   .   .  .   .  .   .   .  .   .  .   .     .    20
D.   Disbursements  ...  .                .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .  .   .  .   .    .  22
IV. IMPLEMENTATION AND SUPERVISION .                                 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  22
A. Project Organization and Management . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  22
B.   Monitoring  and  Supervision   ...  .                   .   .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .   .  .   .     .  23
C.   Auditing    ...  .            .  .   .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .     .    24
V.   PROGRAMS  OF  SPECIAL EMPHASIS    ...  .                     .  .   .  .  .   .  .  .   .  .   .  .  .   .  .     .    25
VI.   BENEFITS  AND RISKS  ...  .                  .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .  .   .  .   .     ..  25
A.   Benefits    ...  .            .  .   .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .     .  25
B.   Risks  ...  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    26
C.   Project  Sustainability   ...  .                   .  .   .  .   .  .  .   .  .  .   .  .  .   .  .     .  26
VII.   AGREEMENTS  REACHED  AND  RECOMMENDATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    27
Staff Review Arranqements:  Messrs./Mmes. A. Hamilton, Director (SA1PH); M. Karcher, Chief, G. Sinclair,
Task Manager (SAIPH); Peer Reviewers Messrs/Mme.. Hykin (higher education, ASTHR); Johnston (policy
development, EAlPH); Selvaratnam (higher education, ESP).
Mission Members:  Messrs./Mmes.  Sinclair (leader), Abadzi (education specialist, SAIPH); Johnston
(education specialist, ASTHR); Min (educational finance specialist), Coyle (architect), Valdez (management
information system specialist), Linklater (librarian), Consultants.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
ANNEXES
Annex 1    Table 1    Enrollment Growth in Tribhuvan University . . . .  28
Table 2    Expenditures of Tribhuvan University  . . . . . .  29
Annex 2    Libraries of Tribhuvan University . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  30
Annex 3    Current Situation and Future Scenarios of Higher Education
Finance in Tribhuvan University . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  34
Table 1    National Financial Situation and Higher
Education Expenditure in Nepal (1981-
1992)  .     .     .     .     .    .    .     .     .    .     .    .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .  37
Table 2    Higher Education Expenditure in the Eighth
Plan (1991/92-1996/97)  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  38
Table 3    Tribhuvan University Financial Scenario
Without Policy Changes  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  38
Table 4    Tribhuvan University Financial Scenario
With Policy Changes (Option 1)  . . . . . . . . .  39
Table 5    Tribhuvan University Financial Scenario
With Policy Changes (Option 2)  . . . . . . . . .  39
Table 6    Comparison of Financial Scenarios for
Tribhuvan University for the Eighth Plan
Period (1992-97) .40
Annex 4    Implementation Issues in Higher Secondary Education Relative
to Higher Education .41
Annex 5    Organizational Structure of Tribhuvan University  . . . . . .  45
Annex 6  Course Examinations .47
Annex 7  Curriculum Development .49
Annex 8    Selected Policy Actions, IDA Interventions, and UNDP Self-
Study  Activities  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  55
Annex  9   Policy  Statements  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  60
Annex 10   Management Information System Needs of Tribhuvan University .  64
Annex 11   Table 1    Expenditure Summary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  69
Table 2    Expenditure Accounts by Components  . . . . . . .  70
Table 3    IDA Disbursement Schedule . . . . . . . . . . . .  71
Table 4    Disbursement Accounts by Financiers . . . . . . .  72
Annex 12   Table 1    Implementation Schedule, Physical Facilities  .    73
Table 2A   Implementation Schedule, Educational
Activities, Examinations  . . . . . . . . . . . .  75
Table 2B   Implementation Schedule, Educational
Activities, Curriculum Development  . . . . . . .  76
Table 2C   Implementation Schedule, Educational
Activities, Higher Secondary Education  . . . . .  77
Annex 13   List of Documents in the Project File . . . . . . . . . . . .  78
MAP        IBRD 25032



- iii -
NEPAL
HIGHER EDUCATION PROJECT
Credit and Proiect Summarv
Borrower:         The Kingdom of Nepal
Amount:           SDR 14.2 million (US$20.0 million)
Terms:            Standard with 40 years maturity
Prolect
Description:      The six-year project is designed to provide tangible support
for the ongoing reform process at Tribhuvan University (TU)
by supporting the implementation of a package of policy
changes in higher education, including the initiation of
much-needed systemic changes in the administrative,
financial, and management processes of the university. It
would finance activities designed to: (a) assist
institutional development, decentralization of management
authority and strengthening of campus-level management;
(b) improve selected facilities at three key campuses;
(c) improve instructional delivery and rationalize the
centralized student examination system; (d) assist the
Ministry of Education and Culture (MOEC) to prepare for
higher secondary education reform; and (e) develop TU's
maintenance capacity. Facilities development would give
priority to upgrading laboratories and library resource
centers plus the rehabilitation of existing facilities at
the main Kirtipur campus, and two other lead campuses
expected to become the nuclei of regional universities in
the future.
8enefits
and Risks:        By rationalizing the use of human and physical resources,
the project would increase the value of the Government's
investment in higher education. Enrollments would be more
closely linked to the availability of physical facilities,
thereby easing pressure on individual campuses and allowing
organizational and management improvements to take place.
Significantly increased resource mobilization and cost
recovery is expected to help alleviate pressure for scarce
resources on central government and improve the prospects
for better funding of books, consumables, and maintenance.
Institutional strengthening would improve prospects for
long-term improvements in instructional delivery and
manpower development. Assistance to MOEC to prepare for the
introduction of higher secondary education into secondary
schools would eventually benefit the university through
decongestion of university campuses, and would also help to
reduce the unit cost of this educational stage. The project
would provide benefits to: (a) university students in the
assisted campuses who would study in less congested



- iv -
conditions, where demonstrated efficiency linked to greater
self-management would be rewarded by better equipment,
books, and maintenance; and (b) disadvantaged rural school
leavers by supporting the development of higher secondary
education closer to communities. Among the latter group,
women would benefit particularly, in view of reluctance of
many families to approve female education away from the
community. The project also faces some significant risks.
The policy measures facilitated by the project may create
levels of student unrest that could be politically difficult
to handle. The Government may be unable to resist the
demands for admission to the university from the expanding
ranks of secondary-school graduates. This could result in
expanding enrollments, worsen the already intolerable
congestion and management difficulties, and create further
strong pressures for re-allocation of scarce funds from
other priority areas. The risk of student unrest will be
mitigated by TU moving to quickly demonstrate benefits
associated with the project in terms of improved educational
conditions, particularly while the more sensitive reform
measures are being implemented.
Poverty Category: Not applicable.
Prolect Costs:
Local   Foreign  Total
------(US$ million)-----
Institutional Development                          4.1      3.6       7.7
Selected Facilities Improvement                    3.8      4.8       8.6
Instructional Development and Assessment           0.9      1.1       2.0
Preparation for Higher Secondary Education         0.6      0.7       1.3
Base Cost                                     9.4     10.2     19.6
Physical Contingencies                             0.5      0.5       1.0
Price Contingencies                                1.8      0.7       2.5
Total Project Cost                           11.7     11.4      23.1  1/
Financing Plan:
Local   Foreign   Total
------(US$ million)----
Government                                         3.1      0.0       3.1
IDA                                                8.5     11.5      20.0
Total                                             11.6     11.5      23.1
1/   Includes duties and taxes estimated at US$1.2 million equivalent.



v 
Estimated IDA
Disbursements
FY       94    95    96    97    98    99   2000 2001
-------------------(US$ million)--------------
Annual                         0.9    2.1   3.5   4.4   4.5   2.6   1.5   0.5
Cumulative                     0.9    3.0   6.5  10.9  15.4  18.0  19.5  20.0
Economic Rate
of Return                 Not applicable
Mav:                     IBRD 25032



- vi -
NEPAL
HIGHER EDUCATION PROJECT
BASIC DATA
POPULATION: 1/
Official estimate (1991)  . . . . . . . . . . .  19.4 million
Average annual rate of pop.growth (1985-90)         2.6 %
Adult Literacy Rate (age 15+)   . . . . . . . .  36.0 t
Female Adult Literacy Rate (age 15+)  . . . . .  13.0 %
GNP per capita (US$)  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 180
ENROLLMENT, NUMBER OF INSTITUTIONS AND TEACHERS (1991): 2/
PRIMARY AND SECONDARY   Number           Enrollments (in '000)
PROGRAMS                 of
Schools   Total    Male    Female   %Female
Primary (1-5)            18,694    2884.3   1811.0  1073.3      37.21%
Lower Secondary (6-7)    4,045      378.5    259.5   119.0      31.44%
Secondary (8-10)          2,079     395.3    281.8   113.5      28.71%
Total          24,818    3658.1   2352.3  1305.8       35.70%
Gross                      Girls' Gross
Enrollment                    Enrollment
Ratios                        Ratios
Primary (1-5):                         106%                             83%
Lower Secondary (6-7)                   40t                             27%
Secondary (8-10):                       32%                             20t
Teachers (1991)                      Total               Trained Teachers
Total       Female          Total      Female
Primary (1-5)                74,495      10,206         31,096       3,758
Lower Secondary (6-7)        13,005       1,485          4,428          583
Secondary (8-10)             11,627         938          5,120          514
Total               99,127      12,629         40,644       4,855 (13%)
SECONDARY SCHOOL LEAVING CERTIFICATE EXAMINATIONS (1992)
ReQular          Exemoted      Compartmental          Total
Appeared            94534             35519              29439         159492
Passed             23213               7837              22154         53204
Pass t               25t               22%                 75%           33 %



- vii -
HIGHER EDUCATION (1991) 3/
Tribhuvan University
Enrollment
Non-degree                       1656
Certificate level               69772
Bachelor's degree               33671
Master's degree                  9673
Total                          114772
Student:Teacher Ratio                           22.51
Teaching Staff                                  5065
Non-teaching employees                          5511
EXPENDITURES: 5/ on education as a proportion of:
1986/87  1987/88  1988/89  1989/90  1990/91  1991/92
GDP                         2.2%      2.3%     2.2%      2.1%     2.0%      2.1%
Government Budget          11.2%    11.5%      9.7%      9.1%     8.9%    11.4%
Total Education Budaet by Category (NRs million)
Primary                   467.3    623.5    698.4    779.2   1003.0   1592.6
Secondary                 196.8    215.8    231.0    231.0    293.0    443.3
University                365.8    379.7    381.4    381.4    485.0    902.2
Vocational Education       24.1      28.1     32.0      32.2     34.0      54.0
Adult Education             3.2       4.5      7.8       7.8      8.0      20.0
Other (Adm., etc.)        229.2    348.2    390.0    367.9    256.0    194.0
Total          1286.4   1599.8   1740.6   1799.5   2079.0   3205.0
e of Total Education Expenditures
Primary                    36.3%    39.0%    40.1%    43.3%    48.2%    49.7%
Secondary                  15.3%    13.5%    13.3%    12.8%    14.1%    13.8%
University                 28.4%    23.7%    21.9%    21.2%    23.3%    28.1%
Vocational Education        1.9%      1.8%     1.8%      1.8%     1.6%      1.7%
Adult Education             0.2%      0.3%     0.4%      0.4%     0.4%      0.6%
Other (Adm., etc.)         17.8%    21.8%    22.4%    20.4%    12.3%        6.1%
Total             100.0%   100.0%   100.0%   100.0%   100.0%   100.0%
Total Education Budget by Tyve (NRs million)
Regular Expenditures       242.6   271.5    286.8    319.7    385.0    471.0
Development Expenditures 1043.8  1328.3   1453.8   1479.8   1719.7   2734.0
Notes;
1/  Social Indicators of Development, 1993.
2/  MOEC, Manpower and Statistics Section, Nepal.
3/  Gross Enrollment Ratios: total enrollment regardless of age as percentage of school age population.
4/  Planning Department, Tribhuvan University.
5/  MOEC (Planning Division), MOF (Budget Speech 1991-92) and Mission estimates.






NEPAL
HIGHER EDUCATION PROJECT
I. SECTOR CONTEXT
A. Background
1.1       Nepal is one of the poorest countries in the world, with a per capita
income of only US$180. Economic growth and development have been hampered by
policies which stifle private initiative and by a public administration system
that is costly and ill-equipped to serve the public. Nepal's indicators of
development are among the lowest in the world: about half the population lives
at income levels below that estimated to be required for a minimum caloric
intake; average life expectancy (52 years) and infant mortality (115 per 1,000)
are similar to levels found in the poorest parts of sub-saharan Africa; and the
majority of Nepal's citizens suffer from malnutrition and/or debilitating
diseases. The country of about 19.4 million people is also overcrowded relative
to its existing resource base; the population is increasing at the rate of 2.6
percent per year and, in the absence of an effective national family planning
program, it will double by about 2015.1/ Only about 36 percent of the Nepalese
over 15 years of age are literate (13 percent of females).
1.2       Major educational investments have been made since 1951 to alleviate
the serious shortage of trained human resources. Primary education has been a
priority area, re-emphasized by the democratic Government that was elected in May
1991. Gross enrollment rates, as a result, have been raised to about 106 percent
(83 percent female) for primary education and 32 percent for secondary education
(20 percent female). Although progress is encouraging, the scarcity of well
trained professionals affects the implementation of all Government programs,
particularly outside Kathmandu. A vicious circle has been created whereby the
low quality of inputs lowers the quality and efficiency of outputs in all areas,
including primary and secondary education. In order to combat poverty, better-
trained and more knowledgeable teachers must be made available at all educational
levels.
B. The Education System
Overview
1.3       Formal education through the secondary level spans a total of ten
years. Five years of vrimarv education (grades 1-5 for students six to ten years
old) are followed by two years of lower secondary (grades 6 and 7 for students
eleven to twelve years old), and three years of secondary (grades 8 to 10 for
students 13 to 15 years old).  Hiiher education may encompass another six years.
Two years at the Certificate level are followed by two years at the Bachelor's
and another two years at the Masters' degree level. As a consequence of the 10-
year schooling system, (a) the equivalents of grades 11-12 are regarded as
higher education and are delivered at the university; (b) Bachelor's degree
holders in Nepal have a total of 14 years of education, compared to the 15-16
l/  Social Indicators of Development, 1993.



years provided in most countries; and (c) Master's degree holders have the
equivalent years of schooling of Bachelor degree holders elsewhere. Thus,
Nepalese university students tend to be younger than their counterparts in other
parts of the world and they have received fewer years of education.
1.4       Despite recent increases in primary education development and
recurrent budgets, overall expenditures for education remain relatively low.
They averaged 2.1 percent of GDP in FY88-FY92 compared to three percent for Asian
countries and about four percent for developing countries during that period.
The education expenditures also averaged close to 10 percent of the total
Government expenditures during FY88-FY92, a level somewhat lower than the 12.5
percent average for Asian countries. In view of the high illiteracy levels and
the low enrollment rates in Nepal, the figures suggest that the education sector
is being under-funded. In terms of the budget allocated to Education, the large
and increasing share being given to primary education (36.3 percent in 1986/87,
49.7 percent in 1991/92) reflects Government's priority on this part of the sub-
sector and is appropriate. The budgetary share allocated to higher education,
28 percent (1991-92) has begun to rise after dropping to 21.2 percent (1989-90)
indicating competition for scarce resources.
1.5       Compared to other sectors, education receives relatively little
external aid. In 1990/91, external aid to education amounted to 12.5 percent of
the total education development expenditures compared to 32.9 percent for health,
45.3 percent for agriculture, up to 86.3 percent for communications, and 98.6
percent for power.
1.6       The Government hopes to achieve universal primary education by the
year 2000 and at the same time to improve the quality of educational delivery and
of teacher training. IDA's Basic and Primary Education project is a large multi-
donor effort that is supporting these goals (FY93-FY2000: total project cost
US$136.5 million equivalent). Nevertheless, severe institutional capacity
limitations are constraining growth and quality improvement at the primary
education level.
Special Features of Hiaher Education
1.7       Graduation from secondary school and admission to higher education are
determined by a single examination, the Secondary School Leaving Certificate
(SLC) examination, which is administered after grade 10. Although only a
fraction of students who enter primary school ever complete all ten years and
pass the SLC, all who do are automatically eligible to enter Certificate programs
at the university. Dropout and repetition rates are high during the first two
years of the university (41 percent and 36 percent, respectively), and only about
31 percent of a cohort complete four years on schedule. After obtaining the two-
year Certificate (after 12 years of education), many students may not go on to
obtain a Bachelor's degree, since the Certificate enables them to teach primary
school or become mid-level technicians.
1.8       Prior to the establishment of Tribhuvan University (TU) in 1959, Nepal
had only a few small colleges affiliated with Indian universities. Since that
date, however, Nepalese higher education has become virtually synonymous with



-3-
TUJ2/ By 1992 enrollment in TU had risen to about 155,000 students scattered
over 195 campuses (65 public and 130 private) throughout the country. Of this
student body, about 61 percent was at the Certificate level, 30 percent was at
the Bachelor's degree level, and eight percent was at the Master's degree
level3/ (see Enrollment Growth, Annex 1, Table 1).
1.9       TU enrollments are highly skewed in other respects as well.  In 1992,
more than 80 percent of the student body was enrolled in humanities, social
sciences, management, and law; less than 10 percent was in engineering,
agriculture, forestry, or medicine. Only about 24 percent of all students were
female, and they accounted for only 15 percent of science-related enrollments.
Moreover, a significant number of them attended one large women's multi-faculty
campus.
1.10      Thus, as greater numbers of students have completed grade 10
successfully, pressures on the TU system have mounted. Enrollment increases have
not been met with commensurate investments in the human, physical or
institutional infrastructure of the TU, and the quality of higher education has
suffered accordingly. Neither the structure nor the financing of the institution
have kept pace with the dramatic growth in enrollments, and the situation has
reached crisis proportions. It has become increasingly clear to all parties that
reforms must be made if Nepal is to develop and maintain a university system
capable of meeting the manpower demands of the twenty-first century. The
Government, which has become aware of the higher education problems and is
dealing with increasingly articulate body of TU students, is beginning to review
its policies regarding all aspects of higher education and has invited IDA to
participate in and support these reform efforts.
C. Main Issues in Higher Education
1.11      Although dilapidated infrastructure and overcrowded classrooms are the
most visible evidence of the crisis in higher education, many of the worst
problems are structural or managerial, the result of patterns of organization and
governance ill-suited to providing responsive and relevant education at the
tertiary level. Essentially, these patterns have produced a higher education
system that is providing a low quality of education as a result of:
(a) runaway enrollment growth;
(b) chronic underfinancing, very low levels of internal resource
mobilization, and a high proportion of expenditures on salaries;
(c) provision of secondary-level education in a tertiary-level system;
2/  At this stage, the only other functioning university is Mahendra Sanskrit University (with about 1000
students), which offers the study of Sanskrit to a very restricted group. Another private institution,
Kathmandu University, was founded recently and will become functional in the near future.
3/  The doctoral level, which consists only of dissertation writing, has approximately 400 candidates, mainly
professors who are not counted in the student body. Also, about five percent of TU students are
private" candidates and are not enrolled in a specific campus.



- 4 -
(d) a highly centralized and unwieldy management structure;
(e) outdated curricula; and
(f) poor physical facilities conditions, chronic equipment shortages,
and very limited maintenance.
Problem of ExDloding Enrollments
1.12      As the population of Nepal increased and access to primary and
secondary education expanded, demographic pressure on the university increased
sharply.  Enrollments have risen from 22,765 in 1975 to about 155,000 in 1992.
The trend implies that there would be about 330,000 university students by the
year 2000 if no changes were made (Annex 1, Table 1).  Infrastructural
investments have been narrowly focused on a few externally aided campuses, so
that physical facilities in many other campuses are badly overstretched. Local
campus administrations lack authority to limit admissions to available capacity.
1.13      Entrance examinations.  Separate entrance examinations to the
university would allow the university authorities to resist demands for admission
and to limit the number of entrants. However, such a system was abandoned in
1979 following student demonstrations. At present, only certain faculties
accounting for 10 percent of enrollments (e.g., medicine, engineering, forestry,
agriculture, and animal science) have entrance examinations. The large arts and
sciences faculties rely only on the SLC results. The variable percentage of
students passing SLC each year makes university authorities unable to plan
operations on the basis of a desirable and predictable number of students.
1.14      University admissions each year consist of close to 100 percent of the
previous year's SLC passes. The demand for enrollment is thus closely linked to
the SLC pass rate. In many countries, when a leaving examination is used as an
entrance examination, admissions are controlled by limiting the number of
graduates. Students who otherwise may have mastered enough material to graduate
from secondary school become dropouts instead, at considerable systemic and
social expense. Of the 95,100 candidates who were tested in Nepal in 1992, only
23,213 (24 percent) passed. Despite the large number of failures, admissions are
not restricted to tolerable levels commensurate with TU capacity and resource
availability. The SLC examination is not developed or scored through
psychometric techniques that would set reliable cut-off scores, and the
Government cannot predict or control how many students pass it each year. When
large percentages of students pass (e.g. 47 percent in 1991), campuses come under
intense pressure to admit as many applicants as possible without getting more
funds. As a result, campuses are inundated with entrants they cannot adequately
accommodate.
1.15      Facilities utilization.   The total number of university campuses
increased from 79 in 1975 to 198 in 1991. Most of the campuses are small (with
an average capacity for 600 students), often offer very similar programs, and
sometimes are placed within a few kilometers of each other. Despite the large
number of campuses, facilities overall are grossly inadequate for the student
body and if operated on a conventional single-shift system, would be able to
accommodate only 30,000 to 40,000 students. Enrollment pressures oblige most TU



- 5 -
campuses to operate on three or even four shifts, limiting each instructional
period to 40 minutes. The 130 affiliated private campuses of the university
operate mainly in secondary schools on early morning or evening shifts,
necessitating the reduction of teaching time from an hour per lecture to 30
minutes. The poor, sometimes dangerous state of facilities and equipment
contributes to staff dissatisfaction and student unrest.
Insufficient Mobilization and Inefficient Management of Resources
1.16      Resource mobilization problems for higher education are diverse and
severe. One of the worst problems is the underfinancing of the sub-sector. In
1990, only 2.1 percent and 0.44 percent of GDP was devoted to education and to
higher education, respectively. This was much below the international average of
4 percent of GDP for total spending on education and 0.7-1.2 percent for higher
education. The proportion of the Government's education budget devoted to higher
education has declined, from 35 percent of the total in 1976 to 21 percent in
1991. Annual budget increases have generally fallen behind inflation, which
averaged 11.8 percent between 1986 and 1992. Since these declining resources
have been spread over an increasingly large student body, the per student
allocations have decreased dramatically.
1.17      The sharp per student decline in university budgets has had serious
operational consequences. Aside from the faculties receiving external support
(such as medicine, engineering, forestry and agriculture), there has been very
little capital investment during the past 15 years. For example, during 1990/91,
recurrent expenditures absorbed 96 percent of the TU budget, (see Expenditures of
Tribhuvan University, Annex 1, Table 2). Moreover, a disproportionate share of
recurrent expenditure (82 percent) has been used to pay staff salaries. Yet
professors' earnings are considered low; as a result, more than 90 percent of
academic staff have supplementary employment, either outside the university or in
additional shifts of the private and public campuses at an hourly rate (NRs 50 in
1992). Although professors devote relatively little time to their primary
occupation, the high wage bill leaves few resources for non-salary items. The
library system (Annex 2) is unable to order many new books or keep up its journal
subscriptions. Equipment in the overcrowded laboratories is not only out-of-date
but also in short supply and in a bad state of disrepair. Buildings are rarely
maintained and some have become dangerous to occupants. Though donor funding to
the supported faculties is substantial (US$9.3 million or 47 percent of the total
university budget in 1991/92), it only benefits a small and select group of
students, leaving the vast majority in continuously deteriorating conditions.
1.18      Generally speaking, underfinancing by the central Government is not
compensated by other sources. Although local governments and communities largely
finance secondary education, they have no part in financing higher education.
The proportion of private financing of higher education is low. There are twice
as many private campuses as there are public ones, but they tend to be small and
to operate in secondary schools. Students must be able to afford NRs 150-600 per
month to attend, compared to NRs 40 per month for public campuses. As a result,
these sites absorb only about one-fifth of the student body, and most students
attend the 65 publicly financed campuses. There is very little cost sharing or
cost recovery in these public campuses. Students pay very low tuition, while
dormitories are heavily subsidized. Many tuition waivers and scholarships are



given, even to students who are able to pay. University authorities are highly
conscious of the need for cost recovery and have begun the ultra-sensitive
process of increasing charges and reducing or eliminating subsidies. Tuition
fees, static for 17 years, were doubled in 1991 from NRs 20 to NR8 40 per month
and direct cost subsidies to cafeterias were discontinued in 1992. Even these
small increases caused considerable student unrest in certain areas. Given the
risk of political protest, the Government is proceeding cautiously with needed
reforms.
1.19      Finally, the centralized control of the higher education budget
promotes an inefficient utilization of the small pool of funds available. Funds
that are provided to the University are allocated to each campus according to
rigid norms which are generally based on precedent. Consequently, there are no
incentives to generate income or to create greater efficiency in the use of
finances at the institutional or campus level; the sizeable land holdings of the
university are under-utilized or rented at below-market prices. In fact, there
are genuine disincentives to promoting cost-effective behavior, since if savings
are realized, the institution may be penalized through a lower budget allocation.
For example, the University's many small campuses have high unit costs, and
diseconomies of scale alone are estimated to reduce efficiency by about a fifth.
However, since rationalizing the use of facilities would not be rewarded in any
way, most prefer to maintain the status quo. Weak financial management and a
dearth of modern accounting technologies and equipment at the campus level
exacerbate the problems of centrally controlled financing.
1.20      Underfinancing and low cost-effectiveness have generated considerable
pressure on the Government to increase allocations to higher education. If no
policy changes are made and the rate of student growth and cost recovery remains
constant, capital and recurrent expenditures will create an unsustainable deficit
of NRs 3.2 billion at the university during the Eighth Plan period (see Current
Situation and Future Scenarios of Higher Education Finance, Annex 3).
Significant policy changes, however, (a reduction in enrollment growth to a
yearly average of 5.5 percent, a 20 percent cost-recovery rate, adoption of
resource mobilization strategies, and transfer of Certificate-level students to
secondary schools) offer the prospect of limiting this additional financing
requirement to about NRs 870 million during the Eighth Five-Year Plan period. It
is clear that the current direction of university finances will compromise the
future financing of the entire sector. If that were allowed to happen, the
Government would be forced to shift priority funds to the university, thus
potentially endangering priority social-sector programs, such as primary
education or public health.
Provision of Secondary-Level Education in the University 4/
1.21      The problems of the university are compounded by the fact that about
two-thirds of the undergraduate population do not properly belong to higher
education and would be attending secondary school (grades 11 and 12) in most
other countries. Their presence in the TU inflates the number of university
4/   For more information see South Asia Regional Series Internal Discussion Paper No. IDP-109, Reforming
Higher Secondary Education in South Asia: The Case of NeDal.



-.7-
students. Thus, the higher education enrollment ratio in Nepal (e.g., ratio of
students enrolled in higher education vs. the higher-education age cohort in the
population) exceeded five percent in 1991, which compared favorably with a median
enrollment ratio for other lower-income countries of 3.7 percent. Without the
younger students, however, the higher education enrollment ratio would drop to
1.95 percent. Furthermore, if this situation is allowed to persist, the
proportion of Certificate-level students in the university will continue to grow.
1.22      As noted earlier, the most obvious consequence of higher-secondary
education studies in the university has been the tremendous upsurge in
enrollments in the university. Perhaps the most problematic aspect of this
system is the low quality of university education for them. The students
themselves are less mature intellectually, less knowledgeable, and less ready for
the challenges of tertiary education. It may be indicative of the low general
level of expectations that faculty members lack advanced training: only 3.8
percent have doctorates, and 23 percent even lack a master's degree.
1.23      In 1989, the Government enacted a law to reassign the first two
(Certificate) years of the university to secondary education, thus creating
grades 11-12, and to expand undergraduate higher education by one year to three
years. The total length of the educational system would then be 15 years. There
would be financial and social advantages to this reform particularly if entrance
examinations are introduced to control admissions. Long-term pressure on the
country's education budget would be reduced; secondary education, which is under
community and private control in Nepal, is managed more flexibly than university
campuses, has much lower per capita costs, and has the potential to provide
students with less costly but higher-quality education. Young students, would
study under closer parental and school supervision. They would be more mature
when leaving their home towns to attend the university. Since mobility and
family investment for female students are often limited, more rural-area women
would have access to higher levels of education. Implementation of higher
secondary education (also called "10+2" or "4+2") would affect nearly all
university functions and policies. Students would be fewer and older; the
crowded campuses would have space for courses of an additional year.
1.24      However, this reform requires curricular, financing, management, and
planning preparation which has not yet taken place (see Implementation Issues in
Higher Education, Annex 4). Most secondary schools in the country are already
crowded and apparently lack the facilities to house two more grades. The
country's secondary level teachers are few, and the professors who teach
Certificate-level students are usually tenured university employees. Although
Certificate-level courses are mainly general (e.g., Nepali, English, math, basic
science), some specialty courses are also taught at that level, such as
constitutional law and macroeconomics; at the very least, the order of the
courses would have to be rearranged. It is expected to be cheaper to educate
Certificate-level students in secondary schools in the long term, but
considerable planning and investment will be needed in the short term.
Investment and initial recurrent expenditures may be unacceptably high if new
human and physical resources are developed solely for this level of education.
If TU resources are reallocated to higher secondary education (e.g., buildings,
professors, budget) political difficulties may arise. Wary of potential costs,



- 8 -
MOEC plans to finance only the development of the program and to leave funding
for its actual implementation to communities. Accordingly, 36 schools opened
grades 11-12 in 1992, mainly in districts lacking university campuses. However,
care will need to be taken in planning to avoid the formation of a parallel
system to the university instead of absorbing Certificate-level students from
existing campuses.
1.25      A semi-autonomous body of the MOEC, the Council for Higher Secondary
Education (CHSE) has been formed to introduce the reform, develop curricula,
conduct examinations, certify students, and monitor the schools. Operating with
limited resources and staff, it has been unable to plan for a phased transfer or
to provide curricular leadership for grades 11 and 12. It is important that CHSE
be strengthened and that joint planning take place between MOEC and the
university to develop: (a) an up-to-date curricular philosophy linking secondary
and higher education; (b) valid and reliable examinations for the end of grade 12
and entrance to the university; (c) a reassignment strategy that would facilitate
the introduction of a three-year Bachelor's degree and alleviate congestion at
the university; and (d) a phased plan to prepare for the transfer of grades 11
and 12.
Organizational Difficulties
1.26      Central control and low level of managerial effectiveness.  Despite
its geographic spread, TU has a highly centralized management structure, which
except at its highest levels, also has limited participatory involvement. His
Majesty the King is the Chancellor, an honorary and symbolic position; the
Minister of Education is the Pro-Chancellor and is only indirectly involved in
university affairs. There is a 50-member University Council, similar to a
central board of trustees, whose effectiveness is limited by its large size.
Daily operations are managed by the Executive Council consisting of the Vice-
Chancellor, who is assisted by the Rector (chief academic officer) and the
Registrar (chief administrative officer). The role of policy-making and funds
allocation to a large number of campuses makes the Vice-Chancellor's office
function virtually as a Ministry of Higher Education (Annex 5).
1.27      Despite the large topographical obstacles that separate many parts of
the country from Kathmandu, individual campuses have extremely limited
administrative control of their operations. For example, they do not have the
authority to set or modify course content, or even score the examinations of
their students. Although technically the campuses are supposed to determine
enrollment, TU's central office has in practice set campus enrollment at levels
relative to demand pressure. Personnel decisions are made at the central level;
although poorly trained, most university employees are permanent, and no
monitoring mechanisms are used to assess their performance. As a result, campus
chiefs have very limited control over their staff and the quality of education
they deliver. Having few opportunities for leadership, the management skills of
campus chiefs are weak.
1.28      Decentralized admissions.  Although most aspects of TU management are
overly centralized, one crucial element--namely, admissions--is inappropriately
decentralized. Students often make independent applications to many campuses and
wait to be admitted by the campus of their highest choice before turning down



- 9 -
others. This system delays the admission of wait-listed students as well as the
commencement and end of the academic year. Students also have the option of
enrolling in two campuses and occupying scarce dormitory rooms in each. If
campuses had technological support, enrollments could be streamlined through
computerized coordination.
1.29      The centralized administration and scoring of annual examinations is
another unusual feature of TU (Annex 6). Its original purpose, when the
university was much smaller, was to minimize possible corruption and to control
the quality of private campuses. Examination questions for all courses in all
faculties are decided in Kathmandu and sent to individual campuses. Answer
papers are sent to Kathmandu and then redistributed throughout the country to
professors who get paid a fee to score them at home. Most results are recorded
manually at the Controller of Examinations office and distributed to students.
The scoring process, particularly for the humanities faculty, takes about four
months as students generate approximately 700,000 answer papers per year.
Besides the expense and inefficiency involved in moving and scoring these papers,
the process directly affects instructional delivery, because students must take
approximately a month off to study, and examinations must be scheduled over
several days so that there is no time conflict for students who must still pass
courses of previous years.
Extremely Low Ouality of Education
1.30      Outside the technical institutes, students are usually unable to
specialize in a single subject. They must choose at least two that are offered
by the same faculty (e.g. faculty of humanities). Although university syllabi
list many subjects to choose from, the majority are offered in only one or two
campuses. In most campuses, students actually have little if any choice. They
may only take courses offered in a specific campus and during a specific shift
and cannot develop a course of study that meets their professional goals.
University majors and their content are not tailored to labor market needs.
1.31      The curricula for most courses, which are developed by subject
committees in Kathmandu, have not been updated regularly, some not since the
early 1970s. All professors throughout the country must teach the same
curriculum. Consequently, professors with advanced degrees and up-to-date
knowledge are forced to teach outdated material for the sake of the uniformity
required by the examinations system; thus, the centralized examinations system
reinforces utilization of outdated curricula. Large-scale curricular undating is
needed in all faculties if the university is to impart usable knowledge to
students and to adjust to the three-year Bachelor's degree and implementation of
higher secondary education (see Curriculum Development, Annex 7).
1.32      Most university instruction nominally takes place in English, and
students are expected to own and be able to read textbooks. However, students
(particularly poorer students outside Kathmandu) tend not to have textbooks
because books are: (a) not commercially available; (b) too expensive,
particularly when more than one must be bought; (c) not helpful for the
examinations, which ask for few, concrete pieces of information; and
(d) sometimes incomprehensible. (They either do not contain sufficient
explanations, or students may not know enough English to read them.) As a



- 10 -
result, many students study from commercially or personally available notes and
may only cover 50 pages of disjointed material in a one-year course.
1.33      The consequence of skyrocketing enrollments, few instructional inputs,
lack of space, low level of financing, and centralized control is that relatively
little teaching actually takes place. Many students find little appeal in
attending courses offered at 6:30 a.m. in classrooms that are intolerably cold
due to a lack of window panes. Examination questions are highly predictable,
student notes of past years are available, and students may prefer to study at
home and take the examinations or go to private coaching classes. In some
respects, TU is a distance education institution that delivers low-quality and
inefficiently managed education at very high cost.
1.34      Limited local authority, combined with Nepal's political past, has
resulted in considerable student influence on the resources of the system and a
distorted perception of student rights and responsibilities. Too often student
expectations center on unlimited access to the university's subsistence-related
resources (cafeterias, dormitories, low tuition) rather than on instructional
delivery.  Without substantive authority to support the decision-making power
they have, campus chiefs feel forced to admit large numbers of students for whom
they have no space. Encumbered by an administrative structure that discourages
local initiative, TU administration has, until recently, been able to accomplish
very little against professor and student interest groups.
University Self-Study - UNDP Tertiary Education Prolect
1.35      The university's long-standing problems are the focus of a 21-month
study, which is being financed by a United Nations Development Programme (UNDP)
grant and executed by IDA (NEP/91/011; US$599,000; August 1992-May 1994). Its
goals are to: (a) assess the long-term trends and needs of the sub-sector and
develop a policy framework for the next 10 years in the form of a master plan;
and (b) study specific priority issues of the university and prepare
recommendations to address short and medium-term problems that could undermine
long-term development prospects. The assessment, which takes the format of a
self-study, consists of a series of workshops and specific studies, which will be
integrated in a final document. Main areas of the study are: (a) organization
and structure (internal efficiency, academic staff policies, higher secondary
education); (b) management and administration (autonomy-regionalization);
(c) planning and financial management (resource mobilization, cost recovery,
financial planning); (d) educational quality control (post 10+2 measures to
control admissions, curricular revisions and updating, examinations,
instructional process); and (e) physical facilities and plant (maintenance,
consolidation).
1.36      The priorities set by the self-study have helped formulate the
proposed IDA-funded higher-education project. The proposed project will further
benefit from the output of the self-study, which is expected to provide valuable
technical assistance and consensus-building for viable solutions in the above
areas. The activities of the two projects, which overlap by several months, have
been coordinated to avoid duplication (see Selected Policy Actions, Annex 8).



- 11 -
D. Government Strateqy
1.37      The Government's strategy on higher education focuses on cost
containment, improvements in educational quality and efficiency, and greater
resource mobilization including cost recovery. Accordingly, the National
Education Commission has recommended: (a) the transfer of responsibility for the
delivery of higher secondary education from the University to MOEC by creating a
separate two-year higher secondary education stage; and (b) an increase in the
number of universities by regionalizing the TU system and creating private
universities. The potential volatility of the university's problems has made
university reform a priority issue. The Government, therefore, has been
supportive of the recent actions of the TU administration (such as increasing
tuition fees and privatizing cafeteria operations). The proposed IDA project and
a UNDP Tertiary Education Project are both reflected in the Government's priority
investment program for the sector.
E. IDA's Country and Sector Assistance StrateQy
1.38      IDA's country assistance strategy for Nepal, has four main areas of
focus: (a) poverty alleviation through productivity gains in agriculture,
expansion in small-scale industries and services, and increased investments in
human resources; (b) an improvement of absorption capacity through strengthening
the finances and management of sectoral institutions; (c) population and human
resources development; and (d) the development of hydropower resources if Nepal's
macroeconomic management and institutional capacity improve. The emphasis on
human resource development reflects a belief that realization of the country's
potential for growth in manufacturing, agriculture, and tourism will require
long-term investments in a healthy, educated labor force.
1.39      IDA's sectoral strategy focuses on supporting Government goals for
universal primary education, and its main vehicle at present, is the Basic and
Primary Education Project (Credit 2357-NEP) which was approved in April 1992.  To
make this goal achievable, however, the long-term financial state of sub-sectors
competing for funds must improve. Also, adequately trained human resources
should be available in provincial and rural areas to staff public and private
entities, including schools. The proposed higher education project will support
the much-needed reforms that will attenuate the long-term financial demands of
Tribhuvan University on the Government. At the same time, it will improve the
quality of instructional delivery and begin to better relate university graduates
training to the labor market.
1.40      World-wide, higher education is in a crisis of skyrocketing
enrollments and financial demands. A recent policy study 5/ suggested that IDA
and Bank lending in higher education should focus on: (a) institutional
development; (b) cost-sharing but also financial support for needy students;
(c) reduced reliance on government funding and linking such funding to
performance; and (d) increasing quality of instruction, responsiveness, and
equity. However, a 1993 OED higher-education study on sub-saharan Africa
underlined the difficulties of introducing cost recovery and the importance of
5/   Higher Education: Issues and Options for Reform. World Bank, July 19, 1993.



- 12 -
concentrating on curricular changes and institutional development rather than
one-sided attention to financial and organizational issues. In South Asia, there
has been relatively little IDA lending from which to draw conclusions, but Asian
experiences in higher education have been quite productive. The OED audit of a
higher-education project in Indonesia, for example (Ln.1904-IND), found that the
project had met most of its objectives, particularly civil works, and improved
student flows through the system. A long-term perspective was introduced in
higher-education planning and the project succeeded in building an
administrative, institutional, and personnel framework for a coordinated approach
of the subsector. The proposed project includes many of the features considered
important world-wide as well as within Asia that are reflected in a recent Bank
Paper "Higher Education the Lessons of Experience" (September 30, 1993).
1.41      IDA's initial involvement in the education sector of Nepal was in
higher education. To increase the supply of technical manpower, IDA has financed
four projects that were implemented in University faculties: Technical Education
(Credit 772-NEP); Education II (Engineering Education, Credit 1198-NEP; 1982),
Agricultural Manpower Development (Credit 1534-NEP; 1985), and Engineering
Education (Credit 2044-NEP; 1989). The four Credits total US$39.8 million
equivalent. Sector work in the early 1980s pointed to the need for improving
access to and quality of basic primary education, leading to two projects: the
Primary Education Project (Credit 1463-NEP; 1984) and the Basic and Primary and
Primary Education Project (Credit 2357-NEP; 1992). After a devastating
earthquake in 1988 which extensively damaged primary and secondary schools in
eastern Nepal, IDA responded with the Earthquake Schools Rehabilitation Project
(Credit 2047-NEP; 1989). A Population and Health Project is currently being
appraised.
1.42      The lessons learned from the implementation of higher education
projects in Nepal are significant. First, successful implementation is directly
tied to (a) adequate and timely budget releases for project components, (b)
early recruitment of qualified personnel (including consultants) for project
management and implementation activities, and, (c) a stable political climate.
Second, in addition to the need for a well-staffed, experienced, and organized
project management, project success is linked to an understanding of, and
identification with, project objectives by university authorities indicating a
need to ensure that this area is adequately addressed during project development.
Third, the management of construction programs in Nepal can be difficult and can
result in prolonged start-up delays. Care must be taken during the preparation
and pre-investment phases to ensure agreement on an implementation plan that
would address the need for early selection of consultants and a prompt start to
construction and equipment procurement. Fourth, in all four projects substantial
implementation time overruns have occurred or can be anticipated given the
shortcomings in these areas. Even so, the development impact of these projects
has generally been satisfactory.
1.43      Lessons from the four higher-education projects have been taken into
account in project design in terms of: early staffing and consultant selection
for implementation; and through discussion of changes in budgetary procedures for
the project with the Ministry of Finance (MOF). Previous IDA projects in the
sector have resorted to the use of project implementation units (PIUs) as an
expeditious way of ensuring visibility of the project and capacity for



- 13 -
coordination of project implementation in a generally weak management
environment. A longer-term goal is to encourage development of implementation
capacity as a part of the regular administrative structures of government, and in
this case the university.
F. Rationale for IDA Involvement
1.44      Although IDA has provided extensive support to the education sector,
including the university since 1978, it has not been involved in higher-education
policy issues per se; donor support to the university has tended to target
faculties that fulfill specific manpower training objectives. As a result,
university development has been very uneven. The drastic funding decline for
non-aided faculties and the main campus6/, in particular, has created
potentially explosive and politically sensitive congestion and resource problems.
If unresolved, this situation could result in pressure for the diversion of
scarce funds that are urgently required for basic education and for combatting
illiteracy in Nepal. The proposed project would initiate and facilitate reforms
designed to: regulate the runaway growth in enrollments at the higher level and
reduce pressures for increased Government spending on TU. An on-going IDA sector
study of secondary education is expected to lead to rationalization of policy in
that sub-sector. The development of higher secondary education with its own
examinations would provide a window of opportunity to mitigate the problem of
runaway enrollment growth in TU by the introduction of tighter university
entrance requirements in the interim.
1.45      The political and financial difficulties of the university have
discouraged other donors from large-scale involvement in the university. They
have limited their activities to the specialist technical faculties of TU.
Demonstrated progress in implementing policy reform measures could begin to
attract greater interest from donors who have not yet invested in the university
system as a whole.
II. THE PROJECT
A. Proiect OriQin
2.1       In October 1991, HMG through TU proposed the preparation of a higher
education project to assist the University to carry out badly needed upgrading of
existing facilities, and support the modest reform process begun by the
university during 1991 in the wake of democratization. Project preparation was
carried out substantially by the university using preparation funds advanced from
Credit 1534-NEP, Nepal Agricultural Manpower Project.
2.2       During preparation, modification of a number of existing policies was
identified as being necessary to achieve the required systemic changes in the
administrative, financial, and management processes of the university to permit
Government and TU gain control over rapidly escalating costs and so improve the
low quality of higher education. These were:
6/   The main campus of the university is located in Kirtipur, a town on the outskirts of Kathmandu.



- 14 -
(a) Recaulation of Enrollment Growth by: (i) limiting enrollment to the
capacity of each campus and department; (ii) devising measures to
enroll students on merit basis, and (iii) regulating new campus
affiliations;
(b) Improving Resource Utilization and Mobilization by: (i) developing
policies for cost recovery and income generation; (ii) privatizing
service units within TU; and (iii) increasing private responsibility
for tuition and other fees;
(c) Preparation for Higher Secondary Education Reform by working jointly
with the Ministry of Education and Culture to implement a higher
secondary education program in accordance with a 1989 law enabling
higher secondary education;
(d)  Improving the Organization, Planning, and Management Capacity of TU
by: (i) increasing organizational effectiveness through
decentralizing managerial responsibility to institutes, faculties,
research centers, and campuses; and (ii) strengthening the central
administration to perform policy planning and evaluation functions;
(e) Improving Ouality. Utility, and ResRonsiveness of Higher Education by:
(i) improving the quality and relevance of higher education by
establishing three-year Bachelor's degree programs and updating the
curricula; and (ii) improving the examination system of TU;
(f) Improving and Maintaining Physical Facilities by (i) rectifying
current serious facilities and equipment deficiencies through a
program of renovation, upgrading and maintenance; (ii) developing
maintenance plans for facilities and equipment; (iii) establishing
capacity within TU's central administration to plan and advise on
future facility development and maintenance operations of TU campuses
to ensure sustainability.
B. Prolect Design and Obiectives
2.3       In designing the project, it was recognized that implementation of the
proposed policy reforms would be a long term process and it was decided to phase
implementation by way of sequential project support. Thus the objectives of the
first (the proposed) project are limited but integrate closely with the
objectives of Nepal's Eighth Five-year Plan (FY93-FY97) for the sector which has
been given priority for rapid development by Government. The project will
support the reform process through financing that would promote much-needed
systemic changes in the administrative, financial, and management processes of
the university, and make such reforms feasible by improving physical facilities
at a limited number of key University campuses. This stage would make use of the
outputs from the ongoing UNDP-financed and IDA-executed study which has been
revised to take into account the proposed project activities, and avoid
duplication (see UNDP Self Study Activities, Annex 8). A policy statement and a
detailed action plan for policy implementation were prepared by TU and submitted
to IDA. (see Policy Statements, Annex 9).



- 15 -
C. Prolect ComDonents
2.4       The project will finance physical and technical assistance activities
designed to: (a) assist institutional development, with particular emphasis on
provision of a management information system, decentralization of management
authority and strengthening of campus-level management; (b) improve selected
facilities (particularly libraries and laboratories) at three key campuses and
develop institutional maintenance capacity; (c) improve instructional delivery
and rationalization of the student examination system; and (d) assist MOEC to
prepare for higher secondary education reform.
Institutional Development Comvonent ($7.7 million)
2.5       OrcTanizational Reform (US$1.1 million).  This subcomponent will
include a systematic review of the current organization of TU, as well as
redefinition and reallocation of responsibilities and authority to the campus
level to facilitate decentralization. The project would finance: (a) a
systematic review of the current organizational structure of TU; (b) policy
studies on decentralization and reallocation of responsibilities to lower levels;
(c) central and campus-level managerial staff training; (d) upgrading campus-
level technical capacity to process information; (e) development of staff
performance standards; and (f) a policy implementation fund (US$500,000) to
provide support to campuses within the TU system (except Kirtipur and cluster
campuses being funded under the project) which demonstrate measurable progress
in: self-reliance; resource mobilization; improvement in campus operation
management; and educational achievements. During negotiation it was agreed that
funding will be allocated on the basis of eligibility criteria satisfactory to
the Association to be provided by TU.
2.6       Educational Manaqement Information System (EMIS) (US$1.5 million). The
component will cover Kirtipur and at least two regional campuses. The system
will be based on stand-alone computer units (rather than a large central
computer) and will commence with installations at the central administration
level, within the Planning Division, gradually extending to several locations
within Kirtipur campus, as well as the Controller of Examinations, and selected
regional centers (see Management Information System Needs of Tribhuvan
University, Annex 10). It is proposed that the structure of the information
system include a series of "modules" of relational data bases linked through
common-coded items (campus, student, and teacher identification codes).
Financing would include computer hardware, software, staff training, foreign
fellowships, technical assistance for system planning, implementation, staff
development, vehicles, and supplies.
2.7       Regional Cluster Development (US$3.6 million).  The component will
fund the formation of two regional campus clusters to support EMIS development,
decentralization, and ultimately, autonomy. Each cluster would consist of a lead
campus and up to seven satelaito,,oampuses formed into an infotmal association
(cluster). During negotiations it was agreed that by June 30, 1994, guidelines
satisfactory to IDA for the establishment of clusters will be issued by TU. The
guidelines would specify procedures to be followed and would include provision
for IDA's approval of each of the following three stages by cluster:



- 16 -
Staae 1 (US$0.5 million) upon formation of a cluster in accordance with the
guidelines (which would include the name of the main campus and associate
satellite campuses), the main campus would become eligible for book provision,
equipment, and an allowance for minor essential maintenance. Each satellite
campus would be eligible for an initial allowance for books and equipment.
Stage 2 (US$1.6 million). Preparation of a management plan acceptable to
IDA for cluster development covering all campuses in the cluster which would
include: decongestion of the lead campus by redistribution of Certificate-level
students to participating campuses or +2 schools by progressive reduction leading
to elimination of Certificate-level courses in the lead campus, and a timetable
to achieve this within a two-year period; an analysis of facilities required at
recipient campuses to receive Certificate-level students; maintenance plans
including resource mobilization for maintenance and evidence of appointment of
suitable personnel. Upon completion of this stage, the lead campus would be
eligible for an allowance to upgrade existing facilities, library
expansion/upgrading as appropriate, equipment including fax, photocopiers, EMIS
computer (from EMIS component), and books. The satellite campuses would be
eligible for approved facilities upgrading to accommodate largely or exclusively
additional Certificate-level students, equipment including fax, photocopier,
books, and an allowance for essential maintenance.
Stage 3 (US$1.5 million).  Financing would be linked to evidence
satisfactory to IDA of:  (a) operationalization of Certificate-level student
disengagement at the lead campus and acceptance of the approach by satellite
campuses; and (b) resource mobilization within the individual campuses.  Resource
mobilization from acceptable sources would include fees, public and private
donations, earmarked local taxes, but not from central budget allocations.
Funding would be allocated on a campus-by-campus basis with funds allocated for
approved investments, including facilities development, equipment, books, and
furniture. Matching funds of at least 25 percent would be required from the lead
campus and 15 percent from the satellite campuses.
Facilities Improvement (US$8.6 million)
2.8       Maintenance Capacitv Develovment  (US$0.6 million).  Assistance will
focus on the organizational structures, staffing and development of preventive
maintenance programs for buildings and equipment. The component will include:
workshops on preventive maintenance; the development of maintenance centers at
each of the three principal campuses; staff training; maintenance and testing
equipment.
2.9       Facilities Improvement at Kirtipur (US$7.9 million). Financing
priority is given to expansion and upgrading of science and library facilities.
The component also includes upgrading of facilities for the humanities,
education, and management faculties. In addition, the proposed component
includes: improvement to site services; boundary wall construction; re-alignment
of a neighborhood access road to alleviate security problems; female dormitory
for 100 students; refurbishment of the students' center; boys dormitory and
cafeteria; equipment; furniture; library books; and professional fees.



- 17 -
2.10      Regional cluster development is also expected to include elements of
construction estimated at about US$0.8 million that will be identified for
financing only after completion of cluster development Stage 2 (para. 2.7).
Instructional Delivery and Assessment (US$2.0 million)
2.11      Examinations (US$0.8 million).  Proposed financing includes the
provision of new facilities to replace unsuitable premises occupied by the
Controller of Examinations, equipment including computers, technical assistance,
staff training and fellowships.
2.12      Curriculum Development and Textbook Revision (US$1.2 million).
Curriculum revision will span the duration of the UNDP-funded tertiary-education
project (para. 1.35) as well as the IDA-funded project. IDA will finance the
revision of undergraduate and graduate curricula in about 20 specialties. In
general, these are science and technology, humanities, education, management,
law, as well as a new course in environmental science. Financing will include
international and local technical assistance, development of teachers' guides,
expenditures to conduct dissemination workshops, and expenditures to ensure the
availability of affordable and understandable textbooks through the private
sector. To manage the multiplicity of specialties, twinning will be encouraged
with more advanced institutions from countries in the region (e.g., India,
Thailand, Sri Lanka). Although specific labor market assessments are not
planned, the curriculum revision process is expected to make the skills of
graduates more usable by the labor market.
2.13      The project will strengthen the Curriculum Development Center (CDC) of
TU to enable it to undertake a leadership role in the curriculum exercise. The
project will finance salaries for additional CDC staff, consultants services, and
equipment.
Preparation for Higher Secondary Education Reform (US$1.75 million)
2.14      Higher Secondary Education (US$1.2 million).  Financing will include:
(a) civil works for +2 classes in about 10 selected secondary schools that would
facilitate the transfer of Certificate-level students from TU campuses; (b) re-
furbishing for about two satellite campuses within regional clusters that would
receive exclusively Certificate-level students (under Regional Cluster
Development component, para. 2.7); (c) foreign and local technical assistance
for curriculum and textbook development in the +2 grades; (d) technical
assistance to develop a higher secondary school leaving Certificate; (e)
instructional materials and equipment for +2 schools willing to provide matching
funds; and, (f) technical assistance to refine and start implementing a plan for
the country's transition from university Certificate to higher secondary
education. MOEC leadership in developing an effective higher secondary education
program is critical to the eventual disengagement of TU from the provision of
secondary education within the TU system and the problem can only be solved by a
willingness of MOEC and TU to work together on the development of an
implementable transition framework for disengagement. An acceptable draft ioint
MOEC-TU Policy statement for transferring the certificate level to higher
secondary education was provided to IDA. (see Policy Statements, Annex 9)



- 18 -
2.15           Financing would include the costs of related equipment, furniture,
vehicles, architecture/engineering and other consultancy services related to the
elements listed above.
2.16          The sum of US$0.75 million is included for the preparation costs of a
follow-on project in the sector.
III. PROJECT COSTS. FINANCING. PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENTS
A. Prolect Costs
3.1           Cost  Summary.    The  total  cost  of  the project  is estimated  at  US$23.1
million equivalent, including applicable duties and taxes estimated at US$1.2
million. Details of foreign exchange costs by category of expenditure, IDA and
Government financing, and expenditure by components are shown in Annex 11.
TABLE 3.1: Project Cost Seyar7
%      % Total
(NRs M0lon)                   (USS Millbn)         Foreign    Base
Local              Tot        Loa    ForLdgn   Total   Exchge   Coet
A. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
Orpnization Reform                           31.6     25.0       56.6      0.6       0.5      1.1        44        6
E_Joa MuagBnx
Inlvmaion System                           31.9     41.5       73.4      0.6       0.3      1.5        57        8
Rgionl Chuter Dvelopnt                      33.5     97.3      110.8       1.7      2.0      3.6        54       19
Projed Manment                               57.4     15.2       72.6       1.2      0.3      1.5        21        7
Subtotal   ~204.4    179.0       333.4      4.1      3.6       7.7       47        40
B. SELECIED FACILITIES IMPROVEMENT
FaWilitiesDevelopment-Kirtipur              182.1    211.8      393.9      3.7       4.3      7.9        54       41
Mantenance Capacity Development               3.0     24.2       32.2      0.2       0.5      0.6        75        3
Subtotal        190.1    236.0       426.1      3.3      4.3       3.6       55        44
C INSTRUCTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
AND ASSESSMENT
Curriauhim Development                      21.3      31.9       60.2      0.6       0.6      1.2        53        6
Examinations                                 14.4     23.6       33.0      0.3      0.5       0.3        62        4
Subtoal          42.7     55.5        93.2      0.9      1.1      2.0        57        10
D. HICHER SECONDARY EDUCATION                  27.5     34.2       61.8       0.6      0.7      1.2        55        6
Totel BASELINE COSTS                   464.7    504.3       969.5      9.4     10.2     19.6        52       100
Physical Contingencies                       26.6     27.0       53.6       0.5      0.5      1.1        50        6
Price Contingencies                          87.1     36.9      124.0       1.3      0.7      2.5      30.0      13.0
Total PROJECT COSTS                    578.4    568.6     1147.0      11.7     11.5     23.1       50.0    113.0



- 19 -
3.2       Basis of Cost Estimates.  These are mission and TU staff estimates.
Civil works costs are based on current market rates and experience with ongoing
IDA-assisted projects in Nepal, including tertiary level projects. Costs of
vehicles, equipment, furniture, books and supplies are based on lists of items
prepared by TU and IDA at prevailing c.i.f. prices or local market rates as
applicable. Cost estimates of consultants services for technical assistance
reflect a mix of the United Nations rates for foreign (including regional) and
local consultants. Overseas fellowship costs are based on TU experience with
regional and international placement in ongoing projects. Architectural/
Engineering services are costed at the competitive rates generally prevailing in
Nepal for the engagement of local consulting services. Costs of salaries and
allowances, including training rates, are based on current university scales.
3.3       Customs Duties and Taxes.  Goods specifically imported for the project
may be admitted free of duties and taxes. Locally procured goods and services,
including materials for construction and construction contracts, carry duties and
taxes at varying rates. Project costs include import duties and taxes estimated
at US$1.2 million.
3.4       Contingencies and Allowances.  Project cost estimates include physical
contingencies (US$1.1 million) averaging 6 percent of base costs (10 percent of
civil works, and vehicles and five percent of equipment, furniture, books and
periodicals). Price contingencies (US$2.5 million; 13 percent of base costs) are
estimated on the basis of local cost escalation at the following annual rates:
7.5 percent in 1994, 6.5 percent in 1995, 6 percent in 1996, and 5.5 percent
thereafter; and, foreign costs as follows: 1.2 percent in 1994, 2.4 percent in
1995, 3.2 percent in 1996, 3.4 percent in 1997, and 3.3 percent thereafter.
3.5       Foreign Exchange Component.  As shown in Table 3.1, above, the
estimated foreign exchange component (US$11.5 million), including contingencies,
represents 54 percent of total project costs. It has been calculated as follows:
(a) civil works 35 percent; (b) equipment and vehicles 90 percent; (c) furniture
40 percent; (d) books and periodicals 90 percent; and (e) foreign consultants and
fellowships 90 percent.
B. Financing
3.6       The IDA Credit of US$20.0 million  (equivalent to SDR 14.2 million)
would finance about 90 percent of project costs net of taxes and duties estimated
at US$1.2 million. IDA would finance 100 percent of foreign exchange costs and
73 percent of local costs. His Majesty's Government would contribute US$3.1
million equivalent (13 percent of total project costs). In the event that donor
financing acceptable to IDA can be secured by the borrower for overseas
fellowships and external consultant services (estimated at US$2.2 million total)
or for other elements of the project, the amount of the IDA credit may be
reduced. During negotiations, an understanding was reached with Government that,
in the event that suitable donor financing is not forthcoming by the time such
training or expert services are required, IDA funds will be used for external
fellowships and consultant services required for the project. During
negotiations agreement was also reached with HMG that annual lump sum budgets
will be provided to TU within the Government's overall budget framework of



- 20 -
priorities (including TA and fellowships), and the University confirmed that it
has adequate flexibility with regard to expenditures against allocated funds.
C. Procurement Arrangements
3.7         The procurement methods are summarized as follows:
Table 3.2: Procurement Arrangements
(US$ Million)
Procurement Method
International      Local
Competitive     Competitive      Local
Bidding         Bidding       Shopping      N. A.       Total
1. Civil Works                   -              9.3             -                      9.3
(7.4)                                 (7.4)
2. Goods                                                                               7.8
(7.2)
2.1 Vehicles                    0.1             0.1             -
(0.1)           (0.1)
2.2 EquipmentandFurniture       3.9             1.9            0.4
(3.7)          (1.8)           (0.3)
2.3 BooksandMaterials           0.7             0.6            0.1
(0.6)           (0.5)          (0.1)
3. Consultancies and Training a/                                                       4.2
(4.1)
3.1 Institutional Development                                              2.2
(2.2)
3.2 Project Preparation and                                                 1.6
Implementation Support                                                 (1.5)
3.3 Training/Study Tours                                                   0.4
(0.4)
4. Miscellaneous
4.1 Salaries                                                               0.3         0.3
4.2 Operational Costs b/                                                    1.5        1.5
(1.3)      (1.3)
Total                                 4.7            11.9            0.5         6.0        23.1
(4.4)           (9.8)         (0.4)       (5.4)       (20.0)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by International Development Association.
a/ Services will be procured in accordance with World Bank Guidelines: Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
(August 1981)
b/ Includes $0.75 million for future project preparation.



- 21 -
3.8       Civil Works (US$9.3 million) and Architectural/Enqineerina Services
US$0.4 million). These will consist of: site improvements (including
boundary walls, water and electrical services upgrading); repair and
renovations of existing buildings; and expansion of selected facilities such
as science laboratories and libraries at three principal campuses.
Architectural/Engineering (A/E) consultants will be engaged by the university,
in accordance with IDA guidelines, to prepare the necessary designs and
bidding documents and this work is expected to be carried out by stages during
the project period in accordance with an acceptable implementation schedule
submitted by TU to IDA. Priority will be given to site improvement works and
urgently required repairs and renovations at Kirtipur Campus, with such works
expected to begin implementation shortly after Credit Effectiveness. Bid
packages for construction works are expected to be small with the largest
possibly about US$2-3 million at Kirtipur. It is unlikely that foreign
contractors not already operating within Nepal will be interested, and
contracts will be awarded on the basis of locally advertised competitive
bidding. This would not exclude interested firms from outside Nepal from
bidding. It was agreed that ICB procedures may be used if larger bid packages
are practicable. Contractors for construction works greater than $250,000
will be pre-qualified on the basis of procedures acceptable to IDA. Standard
World Bank bidding documents for "Small Works" will be used, amended as
appropriate for the project. These were submitted and approved by IDA. Terms
of reference for all A/E consultants will be reviewed by IDA and prior review
will be carried out by IDA for all A/E consultant contracts exceeding
US$100,000. Civil works exceeding US$250,000 will be subject to prior review
by IDA. This is expected to cover about 75 percent of the value of such
contracts.
3.9       Goods (US$7.8 million).  Equipment, vehicles and furniture will be
grouped into packages of US$150,000 or more whenever possible and will be
procured through International Competitive Bidding (ICB) in accordance with
IDA Guidelines. Furniture suppliers will be pre-qualified. Local
manufacturers will be accorded a preference of 15 percent or the applicable
rate of duties and taxes whichever is lower. For contract packages of less
than US$150,000, locally advertised competitive bidding procedures acceptable
to IDA may be followed except: (a) contracts under US$50,000 (up to an
aggregate of US$500,000) for urgently needed items, may be procured under
prudent local or international shopping with price quotation from at least
three suppliers; and (b) books and journals will be procured on the basis of
agreed lists with quotations invited directly from bona fide distributors and
inviting discounts from publishers' list prices. Standard bid documents for
"Goods" have been approved by IDA and will be used for goods procurement.
Prior IDA review will be required for contract award in bid packages exceeding
US$100,000. This will cover about 80 percent by value of such contracts.
3.10      Technical Assistance, training, fellowships, and other non A/E
consultant services (US$3.8 million). Financing under this component will
include local and foreign technical assistance and training for:
(a) institutional development and capacity building, specifically
organizational reform, development of an EMIS at Kirtipur plus 2 regional
campuses, curriculum and examination improvements, regional cluster
development and maintenance capacity development; (b) consultants services for



- 22 -
project implementation; and (c) staff training and limited study tour
opportunities in order to promote modernization of the educational and
organizational system and improve prospects for longer-term sustainability.
Consultants will be selected in accordance with IDA Guidelines. Training
financed by IDA will be carried out in accordance with program objectives and
procedures to be agreed with TU. Fellowship placement and institutional
twinning will be negotiated by TU directly with training institutes in
accordance with an overall training program agreed with IDA.
3.11      Procurement Plan.  In accordance with IDA requirements for early
project start up, TU provided a procurement plan for the first two years of
the project period showing commitments expected to be entered into during this
period.
D. Disbursements
3.12      The proposed credit will finance about 90 percent of total project
costs, net of duties and taxes, and will be disbursed at the following
percentages: 80 percent of expenditures on civil works; 100 percent of
expenditures on professional fees for Architectural/Engineering services and
other IDA-financed consultants; 100 percent of foreign and local ex-factory
expenditures, and 75 percent of other local purchases of equipment, vehicles,
furniture, books and journals, and consumable materials; and 95 percent of
agreed local training costs and 80 percent of operating costs of the project
unit. The project will be implemented over a six and a half-year period and
the Closing Date of the project will be June 30, 2000.
3.13      Disbursements against contracts for goods and consultants services
below US$50,000 and civil works less than US$100,000 equivalent will be made
against itemized statements of expenditure. Documentation supporting these
statements will be retained by the university for review by IDA missions. All
other expenditures will be fully documented. A special account will be
established at the Nepal Rastra Bank to facilitate payment of eligible minor
expenditures. This account will be maintained in US Dollars with an
authorized allocation of US$500,000. The account will be used for both local
and foreign payments for items costing less than US$50,000 equivalent each
under all categories. All other expenditures will be submitted to IDA for
payment.
IV. IMPLEMENTATION AND SUPERVISION
A. Proiect Organization and Management
4.1       The project will be implemented by TU.  A project coordination unit
(PCU) will be established under the office of the Vice-Chancellor to
coordinate the various project activities. A Project Board comprising
representatives of TU, MOEC, Ministry of Finance, National Planning Commission
and the PCU will be established to facilitate inter-agency cooperation. The
PCU will be headed by a full-time coordinator assisted by deputy coordinators
for four major functional sections: finance and administration; physical
planning and development; institutional development and educational



- 23 -
development for which terms of reference have been provided by TU. Essential
equipment, furniture, two motorcycles, two vehicles, and incremental operating
costs will be provided to the unit under the project. TU and IDA are in
agreement that the unit will be structured to serve primarily as a
coordinating unit and as such would make use of existing operational capacity
within TU wherever feasible, except that separate accounting for the project
would be carried out by the PCU staff. During negotiations it was agreed with
the Borrower that the formal establishment and staffing of the Project
Coordination Unit will be a condition of effectiveness.
4.2       TU will create a Physical Facilities Development Division (PFDD)
under the PCU. Initially the unit will perform largely a construction
development and procurement role for the project but will gradually assume a
broader facilities planning and technical assistance role for facilities
development within the university system as a whole as the University lacks
this capability. The staff will include an architect, an engineer, and a
procurement and maintenance expert. TU will also create and develop a
Facilities Maintenance Management Unit initially attached to the Facilities
Division in the expectation that this unit will also eventually form part of a
reorganized TU administrative structure. TU provided an organizational and
staffing plan for the maintenance unit. Essential equipment, furniture,
vehicles, staff training and incremental operating costs will be financed
under the project.
4.3       Proiect Start-up Activities.  A preparation coordination unit
assisted by a faculty team was established to carry out preparatory activities
identified as part of a strategy for early project start-up, including:
(a) a policy implementation matrix; (b) preparation of an overall management
and financing plan for the project; (c) selection of architectural
consultants for preparation of: a facilities master plan, site development
works, and renovations at Kirtipur campus; and building condition assessment
reports for regional campuses; (d) terms of reference for the appointment of
an EMIS task force, and development of a TU implementation plan for
introduction of the EMIS system; (e) an action plan for maintenance at
Kirtipur and at regional campuses; (f) workshops for regional cluster
formation; (g) criteria for policy implementation fund operation;
(h) advance librarian training; and (i) the preparation of standard bidding
documents. The unit is expected to evolve into the planned full-time PCU by
credit effectiveness.
B. Monitoring and Supervision
4.4       Project Monitoring and Mid-Term Review.  The PCU will send IDA
semi-annual reports on project progress that will include: (a) a summary
statement on the status of execution of each project activity; and (b) a table
showing compliance with project covenants, and progress in implementing agreed
policy objectives. TU agreed to provide IDA with the final format for semi-
annual reporting by March 31, 1994 together with appropriate monitoring
indicators. Quantitative and qualitative data would become available through
the project as the EMIS system begins operation.



- 24 -
4.5       Monitoring will be important to measure the effects of the project
on assisted campuses and on the system-wide effects of the university's
proposed policy actions. Indicators to be developed for reporting will
include:
-    comparative campus-by-campus enrollments;
-    number of days spent in studying for examinations, examining
students, and scoring papers;
-    measurement of resource mobilization levels and cost recovery
rates;
-    the rate of implementation of higher secondary education, as well
as problems encountered in the transition from university based
Certificate-level education;
-    faculty performance measurements, including absenteeism and
instructional effectiveness, as well as the incidence of
disciplinary measures and rewards;
-    indicators of decentralization and campus autonomy, including areas
of decision-making actually undertaken by campus chiefs and their
assistants; and
-    indicators showing the state of maintenance of various campuses to
monitor improvements following project interventions.
4.6       The information will be collected by campus chiefs and supplied to
the project coordination unit for aggregation and reporting. PCU staff will
undertake spot visits to confirm the accuracy of the information.
4.7       Supervision.  The project would not require special supervision
arrangements but in early missions implementation start-up activities will be
emphasized. The first full IDA mission would take the form of a project
launch workshop, continuing and expanding the working format developed with TU
during the project preparation and appraisal process. The workshop should
reconfirm annual implementation targets for the various campuses and
faculties, and agree on an appropriate format for reporting, including
monitoring procedures. The borrower agreed to conduct with IDA a
comprehensive mid-term review of the project by March 31, 1997.
C. AuditinQ
4.8       Project accounts will be audited annually by an independent auditor
acceptable to IDA, and copies of the audited statements will be sent to IDA
within 12 months after the end of the fiscal year. The auditor's report will
include an opinion and comment on the project accounts and on methods employed
in compiling the statements of expenditures, the operations of the special
account, their accuracy, the relevance of supporting documents, their
eligibility for financing in terms of the project's credit agreement, the
standards of record-keeping and internal controls, and the compliance with



- 25 -
credit covenants including the status of the local contribution to the
project. The terms of reference for the audit would specify the size of the
sample for vouching of supporting evidence, which should be no less than 70
percent of the total expenditure for the period of the audit. Annual audits
will be financed by the Credit if necessary and the inclusion of financing was
agreed during negotiations.
V. PROGRAMS OF SPECIAL EMPHASIS
5.1       Environmental Protection.  The project is rated category C as the
main emphasis is on renovation, refurbishment and equipping of existing
educational structures. New construction would be relatively minor and would
be linked to the expansion of library and instructional laboratory facilities
at three existing sites. Such buildings would require only minor disturbances
of land for foundations.
5.2       Women in DeveloDment.  While the project does not have specific
women's development objectives, the assisted campuses have relatively high
female enrollment and refurbishing of existing campuses plus increased female
dormitory capacity will improve their educational environment and encourage
further growth in female enrollment. The assistance to MOEC to develop higher
secondary education will have longer-term benefits for women through the
provision of educational opportunity closer to home. This will help to
address the additional family reluctance to allow females to study outside the
community.
5.3       Povert .  The project does not have a specific poverty focus.
However, slowing the growth of Higher Education expenditures will reduce the
pressure for re-allocation of scarce funds from basic education, a significant
part of the IDA poverty focus for Nepal. Free-ships and scholarships are made
available by TU and improved targeting of these to needy scholars is being
examined by the university.
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
6.1       By rationalizing the use of human and physical resources, the
project would increase the value of the Government's investment in higher
education. Enrollments would be more closely linked to the availability of
physical facilities, thereby easing pressure on individual campuses and
allowing organizational and management improvements to take place.
Significantly increased resource mobilization and cost recovery will help
alleviate pressure for scarce resources on central government and improve the
prospects for better funding of books, consumables, and maintenance.
Institutional strengthening would improve prospects for long-term improvements
in instructional delivery and manpower development. Assistance to MOEC to
prepare for the introduction of higher secondary education into secondary
schools would eventually benefit the university through decongestion of
university campuses. It would also help to reduce the unit cost of this
education stage. The project would provide benefits to: (a) university
students in the assisted campuses who would study in less congested



- 26 -
conditions, where demonstrated efficiency linked to greater self-management
would be rewarded by better equipment, books, and maintenance; and
(b) disadvantaged rural school leavers by supporting the development of higher
secondary education closer to communities. Among the latter group, women
would benefit particularly in view of reluctance of many families to approve
female education away from the community.
B. Risks
6.2       The project faces some significant risks.  The policy reforms
supported by the project may create levels of student unrest that could be
politically difficult to handle. The Government may be unable to resist the
demands for admission to the university from the expanding ranks of SLC
graduates. This could result in expanding enrollments, worsen the already
intolerable congestion and management difficulties, and create further strong
pressures for re-allocation of scarce funds from other priority areas.
Specific project risks could be: (a) difficulty in obtaining bilateral donor
assistance for fellowships and needed external expert services, and a
reluctance by Government to utilize IDA funds for these activities, leading to
poor performance or non-fulfillment of important project component objectives
where these resources are critical; and (b) inadequate, delayed project
budgets and the use of a line-item veto by the MOF. The risk of student
unrest will be mitigated by TU moving to quickly demonstrate benefits
associated with the project in terms of improved educational conditions,
particularly while the more sensitive reform measures are being implemented.
The budget problem was raised with Government at various stages including
negotiations and it is expected that the University will be given
responsibility for budget development and subsequent expenditure. Agreement
was reached regarding the use of IDA funds for technical assistance if donor
financing is not found within the time frame required by the Project.
C. Project Sustainability
6.3       Sustainability will be enhanced by:  the preparation of a longer-
term business plan, currently being formulated under a UNDP grant (para.
1.35), as a basis for planning TU's future development; improved management
practices (including decentralization of authority to campus level and staff
performance standards); streamlined admissions and examination procedures; and
maintenance programs. Income generation and cost recovery measures currently
being undertaken and proposed, would increase resources available to higher
education and contribute to significantly improved funding for maintenance,
books, and consumables. The close involvement of key University faculty in
project preparation and articulation of policy initiatives, will help to
ensure a TU commitment to the project. However, the long-term benefits of the
project will depend on sustained commitment by the university to the reform
process, and the Government's willingness to push through reforms of higher
secondary education that would ease the intolerable enrollment pressures on
the University.



- 27 -
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.1       During negotiations, the following agreements were reached with
Government:
(a) funding for policy implementation will be based on eligibility
criteria acceptable to IDA (para. 2.5);
(b) by June 30, 1994, guidelines, acceptable to IDA, will be issued by
TU for cluster formation (para. 2.7);
(c)  that annual lump-sum budgets will be provided to TU, and that TU
will have the authority to allocate the budget for implementation
priorities in accordance with the provisions of the Development
Credit Agreement (para. 3.6); and,
(d) that the borrower will conduct with IDA a comprehensive mid-term
review of the project by March 31, 1997 (para. 4.1).
7.2       The following is a condition of effectiveness:
the formal establishment and staffing of the project coordination
unit (para. 4.2).
7.3        ecommendation.  Subject to the above conditions, the project would
be suitable for an IDA credit of SDR 14.2 million (US$20.0 million equivalent)
to the Kingdom of Nepal on standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity.



- 28-                                                  ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 2
NEPAL
HIGHER EDUCATION PROJECT
Table 1: Erollmet Growth in Tribbuvan University
Enrollment                          Projected Enrollment 1/
LevWel of Training         1975n6   19t8Ol1   195/86  1990/91             1991/92  1995/96      2000
NON-DEGREE
FirmtYear                       770      *73    1,269      1,317             -
Second Year and Rqete           425      265       393      339              -         -         _
Toal                           1,195    1,141    1.637     1.656              1,700    2,100    2.700
CERTIFICATE
First Year                    5.047   14,567   17,453   40.964               65,000    33,500   130,000
SecondYearandR peaten         5.773   11,377   22,543   26.308               41,000   74,500   I0S,000
Total                         14,180   25.944   39,996   69.772             106,000   163,000   233,000
BACHELOR
First Year                    3.045       110    4,826    13,772             20,000   27,000   40,000
Sed Yea atnd Rpeater          3.549    5,039    4,960    13,099              16,000   22,500   33,000
Total                         6,594    5,149    9.736   33.671               36,000   49.500    73,000
MASTER
,,s Year                        561       45     1.733     6,999              7,500    10.000    15,000
3Scond Year and Repeaters       215    1,512    1,434      2,674              4,000    5,500    3.500
Total                           796     1,960    3,167     9,673             11.500   15,500   23,500
TOTAL
Fird Year                     12.803    15,598   25,301    68,052            92,5C0   125.500   155.000
Second Year and Repeaters     9,962   13,496   29,335   45.720               62,700   104.600  152,200
GRAND TOTAL                  22,765   34.094   54,636   114,772             155,200  230.100   337,200
oMislion estimates
source: Constmeted by the miuion according to information from Tribhuvan University. Janury 1992.
I/ Projected fiom preliminary 1991-92 dat.



- 29                                                    ANNEX I
Page 2 of 2
NEPAL
HIGHER EDUCAMION PROJECT
Table 2: Expendltures of Tribhuvan Univenrty 1/
lms Yar                        1912/33   1913/84   1984/ 191M/86  1986/17   1937/38  1933/39  1919/9   1990191991)92
A. Capita Ispmim                  33.483   20.753   15.748    9,s90    14,316   16,158    10.184   13.037   16,159   45,925
1. U      Lndeoed Land               210      III        50      770     1,570    -            66   -          -          300
2.  kildbq                        20,099    6,249    5,944    1,.86      3,830     3,692    3,424   s5s59    4.0O0    23.335
3.  Paltmr                         1.791     2,343    1,466    1,792     1,150     1.474    1,389      997    2,015    3,94
4.  EqulmeW                       11,333    12,045    3,233    5,562    7,716   10,992      5.305     6.531   10,144    17.44
S. R         _awuwlmdltue        126,272   141,508  181,637   130,487  192,543  224,875   255.041  309,527  395,957  439.707
1.  aud"                          93n,573   102,501  141,633   137,933   156,025   172,378   195,983  235.603  325,606  350.700
Timbers                        53,541    64,326   92,564   92.593  1O5,S65   103,637   129,111  160,535   211,390  216.706
A_lie3ou                       35,032   37,675   49,069   45,315    50,460   63.791   66,372   75,070  113,776   133,994
2.  bitude.                        1.697    2,794    2,539      1,838    5,S21     5,766    6.948    8,422      ,5.92    10,531
3. ;i    Welar                     6,855     7,372    7,626    9.202    5,617      3,206    7.243   12,374   13,717   17,935
4.  Rhae8md                        2,870     3,892    4,293    3,298       677     8,241    12,658   17,012   11,608   15,614
5.  Remare ad Pub'mjuom            3,636     3,627    4,075    2,502    1,350      2,197    1,93s    2,102    4,050    4,926
6.  OehweRleur  Eul_murs          17,641   20,822   21,466   20,664   23,346   28,107   30.241   34,013   32,384   39",95
TOTALPENDITURE             159,755   162,261   197,435   190467  206,ss9  241,033   265,225  322,564  412,116  435,632
1/ EzIdI foreip f bah  of four TU inslitutmL



Annex 2
Page 1 of 4
- 30 -
NEPAL
HIGHER EDUCATION PROJECT
Libraries of Tribhuvan Universitv
1.        The Tribhuvan University library system consists of a central
library, four regional libraries, and a large number of campus libraries. It
is intended that the central library (acting as a regional library for the
Central Development region) and the Regional Libraries provide professional
leadership, policy and management direction, and a measure of technical
support to their respective regions. The Central Library is also meant to
provide overall leadership and policy direction to the system.
2.        The libraries, however, do not function as a system.  The central
and regional libraries operate essentially as separate entities and the campus
libraries operate under the direction of the campus chief. The central
library has managed to provide some training input to the system but this is
relatively recent and has been based on a very low level of technical
competence. The reasons for the breakdown of the intended system are:
(a) shortage of staff, particularly qualified professional librarians,
but also trained para-professional, technical staff;
(b) under-developed service and management policy;
(c) the lack of any technical infrastructure within the libraries or
the system.
3.   The library system clearly requires systematic and continuing assistance
and appropriate technical and financial inputs if it is to function
efficiently and effectively as an information provider and an academic service
to the University. The inputs to the system should provide for
regionalization and decentralization; training in modern information
technologies and services; training in internationally accepted computer-based
bibliographical data standards; and increase in the number and quality of
qualified staff; and for the inculcation of modern service concepts, thereby
providing the base for future library coordination and cooperation at the
regional, national and international level.
4.   The following is a listing of the areas that will upgrade the system so
that it can best service the needs of the university as a whole.



Annex 2
Page 2 of 4
- 31 -
Finance
5.   The percentage of the recurrent budget spent on library materials at
Kirtipur in 1991 and 1992 compares favorably, though at the low end of the
range, with the comparable percentage in many western and Southeast Asian
universities but the spread of disciplines and the research emphasis would
point to the need for the percentage total to be closer to 3 percent than 2.66
percent in 1991 at the 2.55 percent in 1992. The current percentage, 1.69
percent, is simply not reasonable if the library is to fulfil its role as an
information provider. Budget continuity is essential if the library is to
maintain periodical subscriptions and course support, and ensures that the
library gets a fair and consistent share of funding in good land bad funding
years.
6.   One possible area of financial assistance might be the establishment of
a compulsory academic services (or library) fee on a short, medium or long-
term basis. This imposition of a service fee is common in many other
countries, but the principle and the relative level of the fees is an issue
that can only be resolved in the TU setting.
Buildings
7.   The central library at Kirtipur requires extensive renovations to its
power supply, lighting and plumbing. Structural alterations are also needed
to allow for more solar warming in winter. Extension of the building by
approximately 1122 sq m along with associated furniture, fittings and shelving
is also required in order to provide for user space and an expanded
collection. The building is very cold in the winter. Heating should be
provided for the entire building with the exception of the area housing the
Nepal collection which should have a separate air conditioner and dehumidifier
for conservation and preservation of nationally important documents.
8.   The regional libraries are generally in need of renovation and upgrading
for their current roles. Selected campuses may develop into regional
universities, and the libraries ought to be able to serve these future
autonomous units.
Books and Periodicals
9.   The reference collections at the central library and the regional
Libraries require significant upgrading. Modest and selective upgrading of
the reference collections in some of the satellite campus libraries in these
regions is also needed. This input of library materials and associated
shelving should be phased over a three year period to ensure its formal
inclusion into the collections.



Annex 2
Page 3 of 4
- 32 -
Eauivment
10.  The central library requires a range of microform equipment; a camera
for preservation and conservation of unique and/or cultural materials such as
local newspapers, Nepal materials, etc; and associated microform readers and a
read-printer to access this material. Binding equipment is needed for the
central library and the regional libraries.
Research Support
11. The limited bibliographic research tools available in Nepal and the lack
of appropriate automation and communications facilities make contracted
external research support a necessity. A service database searches despatched
by facsimile and document supply by airmail should be instituted as soon as
possible.
Manpower Reauirements
12. There is an urgent needed for qualified and trained librarians. There
are no professional courses available in Nepal, and training to date has
mostly taken place in India. Only paraprofessional (technical) courses are
available in Kathmandu and are conducted by the Nepal Library Association with
certification by the Council for Technical Education and Vocational Training.
13.  It is desirable that subsequent international training be provided in as
advanced an institutional setting as possible. The reason for this is the
very dated curricula available in the Indian library schools. The technical
courses offered in Kathmandu should be supported by the university, and staff
should be released to teach and/or attend these short programs.
14. The vacant university librarian position should be advertised at the
professorial level and filled. As soon as practicable after appointment, the
university librarian should undertake a study tour to Malaysia and Australia
for one month with the primary objective of establishing, on return, library
policy, standards, service guidelines and management directives for the
library system.
Cataloguing; Regional Purchasing and Processing of Library Materials
15. With the appropriate technical infrastructure, finance, and training,
the central library can order, receive, account for, catalogue, and make
shelf-ready all library materials for the campus libraries in the Central
District. The regional libraries can provide the same service.
16. A large-scale cataloguing project is proposed that would use a team of
qualified librarians, appropriately trained technicians and typists, and
computerized databases accessed through compact disc technology. The team
should also have UNESCO-sponsored CDS/ISIS software and personal computers.
This team can catalogue the backlog of usable but uncatalogued material in the
three regions, input all cataloguing data into the CDS/ISIS data base and
provide for production of listings of library materials across the university



Annex 2
Page 4 of 4
- 33 -
or regionally in author, title, subject or classified format. The approximate
time frame for this project would be one year.
17. The highly skilled staff used in the project would, on completion,
provide the core manpower for central technical processing in the regions. A
level of local training using local and foreign experts is required as part of
the project design, and study tours in library automation and networking
should be provided after project completion. This would ensure that full
advantage is taken of the data, the computing skills, and the enthusiasm of
the staff. Training by local and foreign experts would required in the
cataloguing Project but short-term curricular support by a foreign expert for
the library technician program run by the Nepal Library Association would
benefit the university.
Nepal Collection
18. There are several collections of books related to Nepal within the
University system, and also in the parliamentary and national libraries. The
collection in the Central Library is extensive and well maintained and the
library has commenced entering much of their cataloguing data for this
collection into a database (CDS/ISIS). The cataloguing data for Nepal
material at the regional libraries should also be incorporated into this
database, thereby producing a university listing.
19.       The university library should act as the instigator of a
cooperative project with other major libraries in Nepal to incorporate
listings and holdings into what would ultimately be a national catalogue of
great value to scholars. The national library and the parliamentary library
are very receptive to this concept and the parliamentary library is also using
CDS/ISIS for part of its collection.



Annex 3
Page I of 7
NEPAL
HIGHER EDUCATION PROJECT
Current Situation and Future Scenarios
of Higher Education Finance in Tribhuvan University
1.        As indicated in Table 1, the total government education expenditure
in Nepal (including foreign aid) has accounted for about 2 percent to 2.5
percent of the country's GDP, which is relatively low by international
standards. The average total education expenditure as a percentage of GDP (or
GNP for some countries) for the developed countries is about 6 percent, that
for developing countries is about 4 percent, and the overall world average for
all countries is about 5 percent. Therefore, it seems appropriate to
recommend that Nepal increase its expenditure on education as soon as the
state of the economy allows.
2.        As indicated in Table 1, the higher education expenditure as a
percentage of the total education expenditure in Nepal declined from more than
30 percent in early and mid 1980s to about 26 percent in 1991/92. Although
this percentage for higher education is not low by international standards,
the per student allocation in constant prices from the government was reduced
from NRs 2551 in 1981/82 to NRs 1282 in 1991/92, showing the serious financial
constraints of TU. This is probably because the overall spending on education
is low but also because the enrollment of higher education expanded too
quickly. Table I also shows a remarkable increase of total TU expenditure in
1991/92, which is mainly due to large foreign-aid programs implemented at the
technical institutes of TU. Since foreign aid may fluctuate considerably from
year to year, budgets may decline in future years.
3.        Table 2 provides information about planned higher education
expenditures for the Eighth Plan period (1992/93-1996/97) of Nepal; the total
education expenditure as a percentage of GNP is 2.4 percent, and the higher
education expenditure as a percentage of total education expenditure is 28.9
percent. The overall pattern of allocation to education and higher education
remains unchanged in this period.
4.        Table 3 gives a financial scenario of TU if no sicnificant policy
changes take vlace. This means: (a) TU continues the "open-admission" policy
and ex=ansion of enrollment based on past experience; (b) no adoption of new
strategies for resource mobilization and utilization including new cost-
sharing and cost-recovery policies; (c) no implementation of higher secondary
education (+2 schools); and (d) no organizational reform for higher level of
institutional efficiency and effectiveness. In this case, the higher
education enrollment will reach 337,000 by che year 2000. (This figure
includes about 30 percent students at the TU private campuses. However, in
the projection of financial needs of TU, this proportion of enrollment is
excluded.) The financial projection is in 1991/92 constant prices. Recurrent
expenditure requirements are estimated by multiplying the enrollment number
with the estimated unit recurrent cost of 1992 (though it is considered low).



Annex 3
Page 2 of 7
- 35 -
The needs for capital expenditure are estimated by additional facilities
needed for the increased student enrollment, without taking into account the
urgent needs for improve the existing facilities. The current level of cost-
recovery (student tuition fees) is taken into account. As the result shows
that in the Eighth Plan period (1992/93-1996/97), TU will have a shortage of
funds for about NRs 3.2 billion. This scenario should not be acceptable to
the Government.
5.        ODtion 1:  Table 4 gives a financial scenario of TU with some
significant policy changes. This means: (a) TU will regulate enrollment at no
more than 7 percent annual increase; (b) TU will adopt new strategies for
resource mobilization and utilization including new cost-sharing and cost-
recovery policies (recovering 20 percent of the unit recurrent costs from
admission fees, tuition fees and registration fees); (c) gradually
implementing higher secondary education (+2 schools) to phase out Certificate-
level students over more than 10 years; and (d) carrying out organizational
reform for higher level of institutional efficiency and effectiveness. In
this case, enrollment will be 131,000 by the year 2000. (This figure includes
students at the TU private campuses. However, in the projection of financial
needs of TU, this proportion of enrollment is excluded.) The financial
projection is in 1991/92 constant prices. The needs for recurrent expenditure
are estimated by the multiplying the enrollment number with the estimated unit
recurrent cost of 1992 (though it is considered low). The needs for capital
expenditure are estimated by an annual increase of about 5 percent capital
outlay for improving and expanding the existing facilities, which are only
suitable for about 40,000 students on a single-shift basis. As the result
shows, during the Eighth Plan period (1992/93-1996/97), TU will have a
shortage of funds for about NRs 1.6 billion under this scenario, (with an
assumption of 15 percent of total government commitment be reallocated to the
newly developed +2 schools). The NRs 1.6 billion deficit under this scenario
is still going to be problematic for TU and the Government.
6.        Ontion 2:  Table 5 gives a financial scenario of TU with
significant policy changes. This scenario implies that: (a) TU will regulate
enrollment at no more than 4 percent annual increase before 1995/96 and no
more than 7 percent from 1996/97 to the year 2000; (b) TU will adopt new
strategies for resource mobilization and utilization including new cost-
sharing and cost-recovery policies (recovering 20 percent of the unit
recurrent costs from admission fees, tuition fees, and registration fees); (c)
the Government will implement higher secondary education (+2 schools) to phase
out Certificate-level students by the year 2000; and (d) TU will carry out
organizational reform for a higher level of institutional efficiency and
effectiveness. In this case, the higher education enrollment will be 69,302
by the year 2000. (This figure does not include students at the TU private
campuses.) The financial projection is in 1991/92 constant prices. The needs
for recurrent expenditure are estimated by the multiplying the enrollment
number with the estimated unit recurrent cost of 1992 (though it is considered
low). The needs for capital expenditure are estimated by an annual increase
of only about two percent capital outlay for improving and expanding the
existing facilities because the student enrollment will decrease. As the
result shows the during the Eighth Plan period (1992/93-1996/97), TU will have
a shortage of funds for about NRs 0.9 billion under this scenario, (with an



Annex 3
Page 3 of 7
- 36 -
assumption of 10 percent of total government commitment be reallocated to the
newly developed +2 schools. This is based on an additional assumption that
when Certificate-level students are transferred to +2 schools, the direct
private cost for students' families will be increased according to current
tuition structure in Nepal, which might reduce the demand for this level
education, so the government will only reallocate 10 percent of its commitment
to +2 schools). The NRs 0.9 billion shortage might be handled by mobilizing
resources through better utilization of the assets, from contribution of local
governments, communities and private business, revenues generated from
consultation services, and through improved internal efficiency of the TU
system.



- 37                                                  ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 7
NEPAL
HIGHER EDUCATION PROJECT
Table 1: National Financial Sitution and Higher Education Expenditure in Nepal (1981-1992)
(a )hluion Nb)
19S112   19S2183  1953/54  1914/85  19S51S6  1986187  1987/13  19SS/S9  1989/90  1990t91   1991/92
ODP                                  30.983   33,761   39,390   44.417   50.428   59,246   61,358   73,259   38.711  100.628  129.975
Oovemment Revms                       2.676    2.35    3.406    3.916    4.644    5,975    7,350    7.776    9.287    9,625   12.057
Goamnet Expenditure                   5.361    6.976    7.437    8.394    9,797   11.513   14.105   lt.005   19.669   19.792   24.3S5
Total Education Expeaditur              623      121      g53      910    1.241    1.286    1,599    1,740    2.078    2.0S5    3.205
Education Expcadltw  as % of GDP        2.0      2.4      2.2       2.0      2.5      2.2      2.3       2.2      2.3       2.1      2.5
among whick
Educatin Dcvpt Expenditure'           412      604      675       64       379    1,036    1,226    1.458    1.430      1,719    2.734
Higher Edue. Expere (TU)*             203      352      336       349      459      407      422       333      452      463       *59
as   of Educ. Expue rc                 32.6     42.6     38.0      3t.4     37.0     31.6     26.4      22.0     21.8      22.2     26.8
amo       : whlc
ovewmatetOnot                         131      144       162      170      212      200      226       234      270      314       369
Foreign Aid                            72      208      174       179      247      207       196      149      132       149      490
TU Income                              1S      I1        is       15        15       15       45        32       42       42        49
ToIa TU Ddg*et                        213      367      351       364      474      422      467       415      494       505      908
TU Studet Number                     51,356   52,070   43.229   55,332   54,355   61.133   65,161   74,358   79,432   93,753  110.239
Per Staden AlioctUan from
Govefimiet (in Rs.)
in etutm pries                        2,551    2,766    3,359    3.072    3,900    3,272.   3,465    3.146    3.399       3,349    3,347
in 1951 cenata price                  2,551    2.426    2,776    2,431    2,671    2,152    1.1S5    1.511    1.559       1.401    1.252
Pilce Index                            too       114      121      126       146      152      154      199       211      239       261
Per Student TotAl ExpenditureS (in Rs.)
in icwent price                       4,245    7,048    7,273    6,S78    5,720    6,903    7,166    5,579    6,219    5,336    1.237
in 1981 condant price                 4,245    6.1S3    6.015    5,221    5,973    4,541    3,895    2.303    2.853    2.254    3.156
iNocluding foreip aid.
Source: Tribbivan University Plannin  Dividon and mlioca atmates.



11    I[l [                         1   III8 111
I           1                        {1  1  1 
X                     II Ui   If fE                        I I}I"  
l~~ ~ ~~~~ l                        I|  i |l|tt9E;          2  
*1  |                                                 S. F   lX    f  !       | |   |    Xi    3
|~~~p, E                                          Il                      w flSE  
t~~~~ M                     I                                           0;1                       E
I                   I                  
1              "1 1SS                                      i ;  ekXW 
Ii R9 s                              



-39 -                                                    ANNEX 3
Page 6 of 7
NEPAL
HIGHER EDUCATION PROJECT
Tbke 4: Tribhuvan Univergity Finacial Scenario with Policy Clanges
(NRs OCO in 1991/92 costan prices)
Optin I
Year                                 1992t93   1993t94   1994U95   1995/96   1996197    1997198   199U/99 19991209 0
Enrollment 1/                        155.600   144,300   132,900   145.400    143,300    140.400   136,300   131.000
Recurring ExpcdiMutss                675,304   626.262   S76.7U6   631,036   621,922    609,336   591,542   568,540
Capital Expeadiue                    622.950   654,093   686,S92   721.142   757.200   795,060   834.813   376,553
Total Needed                        1.298.254  1.280,360  1,263.588  1.352.17S  1.379.122  1.404.396  1,426,355  1,445.093
Total Needcd in the Eighbt Plan Period (1992/93-1996t97):                    6,573.502
After Cost Recovery frin Studnt:                                             5,916,152
GovenMe=t ComXitment                                                         5.000,000
Ra-allocatioa to +2 Schools:                                                  750,000
Resowce Mobilization Needed                                                  1,666.152
1 Enrollmet amber includes xtdeau at private campuwe  However, they are excluded wben projecting TU rumial needs.
Table 5: Tnbbuvan University Fmancial Scenario with Po0icy Changes
(NRa '000 in 1991/92 constat prices)
Optioa 2
Year                                 1992/93   1993/94   1994/95   1995/96   1996/97   1997191   199S/99 1999A200
ErolmenAt 1/                         115,000   107,166    97,144    91,.77    S5,713    79,959    74,482    69,302
Rwcrr  Expenitus                     713.000   664,429   602,293   56U,705   531.423   495,747   461,790   429,672
Capital Exditures                    622.950   635,409   648.117   661,010   674,301   6S7,737   701.543   715,574
Toal Needed                         1,335,950  1,299,U8  1.250,410  1,229.734  1.205,724  1,13,535  1,163.333  1,145,246
Total Needed in the Eghth Plan Period (1992t93-199697):                       6321706
After Cost Recovery hf   Student:                                            5,373,451
Government Coemittes                                                         5,000,000
Rec-lcatilo. to *2 Schools:                                                   500,000
Resource Mobilization Needed:                                                  373,451
1I Enrollment number does not include sudents at private campues.



- 40 -                                      ANNEX 3
Page 7 of 7
NEPAL
HIGHER EDUCATION PRO7ECT
Table 6: Comparison of Financial Scenarios for Tribhuvan University for the Eighth Plan Period (1992-97)
Parameters                       No Significant     Option 1           Option 2
Policy Change
Annual enrollment increases      Open admissions    7%                 4%
Recovery of recurrent costs      9%                 20%               20%
Certificate phaseout             No                 After 10 years    by year 2000
Organizational reform            No                 Yes                Yes
Enrollment (1997/98)             270,000            140,400            79,959
Recurrent expenditures           1,172              609               496
(1997/98)
Capital expenditures             1,046              795               688
(1997/98)
Total funding required           2,218              1,404              1,184
(1997/98)
Total budget need                8,810              6,573             6,321
(Eighth Plan Period)
Total after cost recovery        8,281              5,916             5,373
(Eighth Plan Period)
Government fnancial cornmitment    5,000            5,000             5,000
(Eighth Plan Period)
Reallocation of TU funds to +2   0                  750               500
schools
Funding Shortfall                3,282              1,666             874
(Eighth Plan Period)
Note: Financial figures in NRs million



Annex 4
Page 1 of 4
- 41 -
NEPAL
HIGHER EDUCATION PROJECT
Im=lementation Issues in Higher Secondary Education
Relative to Higher Education
1.        The implementation of higher secondary education provides a unique
opportunity for a positive project impact on Nepalese higher education and on
the national budget. However, various important issues need to be addressed
during strategy development. These are:
A. Imulementation Strategy
2.        The Government policy is to replace the two Certificate years
offered at TU with higher secondary education; the Certificate-level
enrollment in university campuses would gradually increase eventually stop.
However, the MOEC plan that was implemented in 1992 could work at cross
purposes with that goal.  The +2 grades would gradually open in about 125
secondary schools in the country (about seven percent of all secondary
schools) which would be willing to self-finance the task. These schools would
be mainly located in districts without university campuses in order to serve
the local population.
3.        The 36 pilot-project schools that offered +2 grades in 1992 met the
above criteria. But rather than decreasing enrollment in university campuses,
they appear to have succeeded in attracting students from the poorer
population who could not afford to live away from home. Although increased
access is a worthwhile goal, elimination of Certificate-level courses from TU
would require actions focused on specific campuses. These would require plans
and investment costs that the Government is now starting to consider.
4.        The fact that +2 grades are opened only in schools able to finance
the program themselves has created an oversupply of cheaper humanities and
commerce courses. In 1992, only three schools opted for the more expensive
science courses. Aside from labor-market implications, this issue has
socioeconomic consequences. The poorer students, who cannot afford to live
away from home at a university campus are more likely to be tracked into
cheaper, lower-returns specialties.
5.        The thinking in Nepal on 10+2 is still evolving.  The complexity of
the task and the potential short-term sacrifices have created considerable
concern at the university. Various timetables have been proposed for full
implementation of higher secondary education, ranging from five to 15 years.
Experts who have implemented +2 in India, however, believe that +2 could be
implemented in most areas of Nepal during a two-year period if about four
years were spent on planning for civil works, curricula, teacher training, and
financing. During 1993, the Government and the university are expected to
make clear decisions regarding their expectations from higher secondary
education and the strategy by which they plan to achieve them.



Annex 4
Page 2 of 4
- 42 -
6.        Implementation is most important in light of preliminary
projections from the IDA-financed secondary-school sector study which indicate
that under a 10-year implementation schedule, investment (US$69 million
equivalent) and recurrent costs would be about US$123 million if no resource
transfer takes place from TU to MOE. IDA will finance regional technical
assistance for the development of a phased implementation plan that will take
into account lessons from other countries which have implemented +2. The UNDP
tertiary education grant is financing studies of secondary-school space,
professor availability, and identification of feeder schools to various
campuses as well as technical assistance for the initial development of a
transition plan.
B. Physical Facilities
7.   Under the current supply-driven plan, the +2 grades are only opened in
schools that have space or can undertake civil works at their own expense. To
eliminate Certificate-level courses from campuses, however, alternative
schools should be made available to absorb students who would be most likely
to attend those campuses. This could be achieved through: (a) reassignment
of specific campuses for the exclusive use of Certificate-level students; and
(b) additional civil works in strategically located secondary schools that
would facilitate the evacuation of specific campuses. School space and feeder
school studies would be undertaken through the UNDP tertiary education grant
to facilitate this task.
8.   Specific campuses, under the prospects of regionalization, have agreed
in principle to the campus separation idea if it is accompanied with
refurbishment of facilities. The regional cluster development subcomponent is
intended to plan and test possible models of +2 implementation in interested
campuses. For example, professors could decide as a group how to meet the
short- and medium-term teaching needs in the +2 schools or classes.
C. Curricular PrinciDles
9.   Until about 1991, there was de jure tracking at grade 9 in secondary
schools of Nepal into humanities and sciences. Students who did not study
science, offered in few schools in the country, entered into the humanities
track. Now science is compulsory, but still not taught in the secondary
grades of many schools. Tracking prematurely limits student options for
university entrance (normally at age 16). To some extent, tracking is a
consequence of socioeconomic status; although science was made obligatory
through grade 10 in the early 1990s, poorer provincial secondary schools often
lack facilities to teach it and their graduates become permanently ineligible
to enter science faculties in the university; as a result, the better-off
urban students (who can also afford private tutoring for the secondary school
leaving examination) are more likely to study sciences than students with
fewer family resources. No policy or bridging courses exist to mitigate the
inequality. Tracking goes against world trends, which point towards general
education up to grade 12 with some language, mathematics, science and social
studies for all students. Increasingly, countries also facilitate later
decisions on specialization and provide avenues for students to change
specialties.



Annex 4
Page 3 of 4
- 43 -
10. CHSE is intent on providing to +2 students an equal or better quality of
education than that provided by university campuses. For the time being,
however, the first two years of university curricula have merely been
transported to the +2 grades with minor changes. Students are tracked in four
specialties in grade 11 (humanities, sciences, education, commerce) and will
only be eligible to enter the university in those specialties. The proposed
project will encourage the Government and the university to decide on the
extent of tracking that should exist in various ages and on the goals which +2
curricula should achieve.
11. Certificate-level students often lack textbooks and may study from
bazaar notes, which are frequently available for the more populous lower-level
courses. The same problem continues in the existing +2 schools. The proposed
project will encourage the provision of affordable and readable textbooks for
grades 11 and 12 by identifying suitable textbooks in the international
market, making the necessary provisions to make them available, or, if
absolutely necessary, develop certain new textbooks.
D. Examination Issues
12. CHSE is expected to conduct annual examinations for grade 11 and leaving
examinations for grade 12. No policy has been developed yet regarding the use
of the future higher secondary education leaving certificate for university
entrance.  The default is that, as with current secondary school leavers,
graduates will freely enroll at the university. It is likely, therefore that
failing as many examinees as possible will remain the main strategy to limit
entrance to the university.
13. The introduction of the higher secondary education leaving examination
would present an opportunity for the Government to institute fair and socio-
economically sensitive graduation criteria while installing barriers to limit
student admissions to the university. Students should be examined for
graduation and certification through criterion-referenced principles (even
without the development of sophisticated criterion-referenced tests). This
means that graduation per se would be determined by whether students have
achieved an acceptable level of mastery of the material. Students meeting
rough mastery criteria should be allowed to graduate and enter the labor
market. Entrance to the university, on the other hand, should be determined
by norm-referenced princiDles (i.e. only a certain percentage of the highest-
scoring students should enter) or by different, norm-referenced tests. The
Government is still studying the feasibility of this proposal.
14. CHSE has no capacity at this time to conduct examinations, score them,
record, and issue certificates. The project will finance technical
assistance, hardware, and software for this purpose.
E. Teacher Recruitment and Training
15. Master's-level teachers or experienced teachers with lower credentials
will be needed to teach the +2 classes. Sector assessments (e.g., Asian
Development Bank) have concluded that there is a shortage of trained teachers
at the secondary level. Since Master's degrees in the humanities have
expanded their programs, potential teachers may be available in local labor
markets for Nepali, English, and possibly mathematics. Science teachers,
however, may be less available.



Annex 4
Page 4 of 4
- 44 -
16.  Since +2 grades are still community-supported, teachers have been
recruited locally. However, they lack teaching experience and they should
receive training in the subject matter as well as in instructional
methodology. CHSE in conjunction with MOE and the TU faculty of education
(which trains secondary-school teachers) should develop and carry out a
training program. The project will finance investment and recurrent
expenditures for materials development and desktop publishing, salaries of
teacher trainers, travel and subsistence allowances for recruited teachers.
Professors currently teaching Certificate-level courses could serve as
trainers.
17.  Use of professors for +2 cqrades.  In very rough terms, removal of all
Certificate-level courses from campuses would diminish the need for 65 percent
of professors who teach in campuses other than the three exclusively graduate
campuses. A third year in the university would utilize some of them. Current
dropout rates, however, indicate that third-year students would probably be
few, around 15,000. The university might still have a considerable staffing
excess. All this professor time may not be usable in the +2 grades, because
teacher needs will depend on curricular decisions. If early specialization
continues, professors of all courses taught in the Certificate-level would, in
theory, be candidates for reassignment. But if the Government follows world
trends and develops general curricula for grades 11 and 12, the professors to
be reassigned would mainly be those of Nepali, English, math, and science.
Specialty professors (e.g., law) would be of little use to +2 schools.
18. It will probably not be necessary for surplus professors to be assigned
permanently to schools. They may be asked to cooperate in covering some +2
classes for the short term if necessary and prepare the educational
institutions for the transition.
F. Lonc-Term University Stratecr
19. University authorities would like, in the long run, to concentrate the
university in as few locations as possible within an area. This strategy
would be consistent with the reassignment of specific campuses to higher
secondary education and with the creation of a smaller, higher-level academic
institution. Most or all of Tribhuvan University in Kathmandu could be
relocated in Kirtipur, which has much land available for future construction.
This strategy would concentrate resources, facilitate the studies and work of
professors and students, and lower the high unit costs associated with small
multiple campuses (which number about 29 in Kathmandu). The UNDP grant
includes a study on facilities rationalization for the Kathmandu valley
campuses.
20.       The proposed project will finance additions to about 10 schools
(US$0.5 million) office equipment and a vehicle for CHSE, foreign and local
technical assistance for textbook development, teacher training development,
and a higher secondary school leaving examination (US$0.2 million). It will
also finance instructional equipment as well as reference books for 30 schools
willing to share costs.



Annex 5
Page 1 of 2
- 45 -
NEPAL
HIGHER EDUCATION PROJECT
Organizational Structure of Tribhuvan University
1.        The organizational structure of Tribhuvan University consist of TU
Council, Academic Council, TU Service Commission, institutes, faculties,
divisions, constituent campuses, affiliated campuses, research centers, and
other bodies.
2.        The Chancellor of TU is His Majesty the King of Nepal, who appoints
the Vice-Chancellor for a period of four years as the Chief Executive Head of
the University, assisted by the Rector (4-year term) and the Registrar (4-year
term) in their academic and administrative functions, respectively. The
Offices of the Vice-Chancellor, the Rector and the Registrar constitute the
Central Administration of the University that executes its Academic and
Administrative functions through three main organs: the University Council
(50 member highest legislative body), the Academic Council (50 members), and
the Executive Council (seven members). The first is headed by the Chancellor;
the remaining two are headed by the Vice-Chancellor.
3.        The University Council meets twice a year and formulates the basic
policies of the university, directing and approving its programs. The
Academic Council is concerned with curricular development and approval of
academic programs, sanctioning and awarding diplomas, certificates and
degrees. The Executive Council deals with the administrative, financial, and
examination procedures of the university and is responsible for the execution
of the decisions made in the TU Council. The Executive Council also deals
with appointments, recruitment and disciplinary measures for approximately
5065 teachers and 5511 administrative staff.
4.        The Service Commission of the university is headed by the Chairman,
who has a three-year tenure and two members (also with three-year tenure)
appointed by the Chancellor. It deals with selection and recommendation of
all teachers and staff for appointment and promotion to the university.
5.        Directly under the Vice-Chancellor is the Planning Division as well
as a Legal Advisor, the Council Secretary, and the Publications Unit. The
Rector and the Registrar chair several committees and divisions. The
Registrar is responsible for the Examination Committee and the Financial
Administration, General Administration, Inspection and Personnel Divisions.
The Rector is responsible for the Curriculum Development, National
Development, Research, and Coordination Divisions as well as the Central
Library and the Student Welfare Unit.
6.        TU has five institutes, four faculties, and four research centers.
The institutes and faculties are directed by deans with academic as well as
administrative functions. The institutes are autonomous in academic and
administrative affairs and establish their own minimum requirements for
entrance. The research centers are under the Rector of TU and coordinated by
the Research Coordination Committee which formulates research policies,
evaluates, and monitors research activities.



Annex 5
Page 2 of 2
- 46 -
7.        Institutes and Faculties have each a faculty board responsible for
the approval of syllabi and instructional programs. In addition to the
faculty boards there are Subject Committees responsible for preparation of
courses. Campuses have Instructional Committees responsible for individual
subjects at campus level. There are 33 Graduate Central Departments under the
supervision of the Rector to handle financial and administrative functions,
curriculum design and implementation measures for specific courses taught
throughout the university.
8.   Each campus has its own administration headed by the campus chief
appointed for five years by the Executive Council of TU. Under a campus chief
there are assistant campus chiefs, instructional committees, and units with
several branches: General, Financial, Examination and Property. The
populations of the public campuses vary from 400 to 8000 students.
9.        In addition to the 65 public campuses there are approximately 130
private campuses run by individuals or by non-profit community organizations.
They usually lack buildings and operate as early-morning or as evening shifts
in local secondary schools. The proprietors are usually the campus chiefs.



Annex 6
Page 1 of 2
- 47 -
NEPAL
HIGHER EDUCATION PROJECT
Course Examinations
1.   Possibly no other country in the world uses a centralized examinations
system as extensively as Nepal. The university has approximately 68
examination centers in Kathmandu and 48 outside Kathmandu for Certificate-
level students, 36 for Bachelor's degree students, and 7 for Master's degree
students. The examination process is expensive, does not accurately assess
student knowledge, and is of little value to students as performance feedback.
It does, however, serve some quality control functions: (a) all students,
including those of private campuses, have to perform to the same standards;
(b) undesirable influences on scoring are relatively difficult to achieve; and
(c) professors feel protected from student pressure.
2.   The examinations system creates a vicious cycle.  Since student
performance is only measured once a year, there is a premium on passing that
examination by any means possible. This tendency forces the university to
further tighten and centralize the examinations, making it too expensive and
impractical to assess students more often than once a year. Examinations
simply promote or fail; they do not provide any feedback to students. Since
all campuses must teach and test the same material, curricula cannot easily be
updated and remain antiquated. As a result, the system sacrifices
instructional effectiveness for centralized control.
3.        Since examinations tend to drive the curricula world-wide, a system
that forces students to analyze and synthesize the information might result in
improved quality of education at the university. The project will finance
activities for the.development of an examinations system that facilitates
quality control and also has the following characteristics:
(a) To diminish measurement error, assess multiple modes of
performance, and make students study throughout the year, there
should be multiple examinations, including short tests and grades
on field work, research papers, case studies, etc.;
(b) Tests must measure comprehension, application, analysis, synthesis,
and evaluation of information. Currently, they merely measure the
recall of unrelated items (e.g., dates, definitions);
(c) Examinations must be valid (i.e. related to content actually
taught) and reliably measure student performance;
(d) To serve as an instructional tool, feedback must be timely and an
integral part of a course. Currently, examinations are not within
professors' responsibilities; professors who score examinations are
paid extra.
4.   University authorities are planning to decentralize scoring of final
examinations to each of the country's five regions. Also, encouraging
international experience exists on campus- or cluster-based scoring, which
could be used in Nepal. With student names hidden, professors of a campus or



Annex 6
Page 2 of 2
- 48 -
a cluster of closely located clusters could exchange papers and score them.
If scoring took place on campus premises (rather in professors, homes, as is
currently done) the work might be completed in days rather than months.
However, university professors and authorities must decide on possible
procedures that meet quality control and instructional effectiveness criteria
and pilot-test them. Also, the payment currently given to professors who
score papers (NRs 5-6 per paper) needs to be distributed differently and could
be combined with the salaries of all professors involved in scoring.
5.   The UNDP tertiary education study will conduct a workshop during 1993 to
develop an agreement on procedures that will make the system more flexible,
less centralized, and more likely to assess desirable course objectives. The
recommendations of the workshop will be translated into activities to be
financed by the proposed higher education project. The project will also
strengthen the Controller of Examinations Office in order to facilitate
testing-related research and capability to carry out standardized achievement
testing for entrance examination. The project will finance:
-   pilot projects to test various decentralization methods;
-   civil works for the Controller of Examinations office in
Kirtipur;
-   a management information system for the Controller of
Examinations;
-   desktop publishing facilities for the Controller of
Examinations office;
-   photocopying and faxing equipment for all campuses able to
raise matching funds;
-   microfilming equipment for controller of examinations archives;
-   office furniture;
-   foreign fellowships for advanced studies in educational
measurement;
-   development and maintenance of computerized item banks of good
essay and short-answer questions; development of item
statistics for such questions;
-   computer hardware and software to conduct item analyses, obtain
item statistics (on the basis of holistic scoring), measure
test validity and reliability, and select test items by
computer.
6.        The proposed project will finance a new building for the Controller
of Examinations, computer hardware and software, office equipment and
furniture (US$0.2 million). It will also finance foreign technical assistance
for the development of test items, scoring workshops (US$0.1 million). There
will also be a fund to pilot-test alternative arrangements to the current
centralized examination scoring (US$20,000).



Annex 7
Page 1 of 6
- 49 -
NEPAL
HIGHER EDUCATION PROJECT
Curriculum Development
1.        As a result of prior short schooling (10 years) and obsolete
academic policies, Tribhuvan University curricula have the following problems:
(a) low entry level and need to continue general courses (e.g., Nepali,
English) throughout the university years); although English is the
official instructional language at the university, many students in
poorer areas do not understand it well enough to learn subject
matter from English-language textbooks;
(b) low level of professional attainment in most fields due to general
courses and required double majors;
(c) outdated subject matter, infrequent revisions;
(d) little actual need for classroom attendance (students are able to
pass courses by taking coaching classes and studying the questions
of previous years);
(e) a single examination per course, which allows students to spend
much of the academic year without having to study;
(f) teaching and examination of bits of information rather than
comprehension, application, analysis, synthesis, or evaluation;
(g) limited use of textbooks due to high cost, scarcity, and limited
English comprehension; students often study from class or informal
circulating notes;
(h) lack of professorial responsibility for delivering instructional
material and helping students pass a course.
2.        However, world trends point towards:
(a)  a structure of major, and minor fields of study as well as useful
core courses (e.g., computer literacy, expository writing, reading
of English textbooks);
(b) functional mechanisms for periodic curricular revision;
(c) a single, affordable textbook per course, which actually meets
students' instructional needs;
(d) incentives for classroom attendance through multiple and
unannounced tests and emphasis on material to be tested in final
examinations;



Annex 7
Page 2 of 6
- 50 -
(e) professorial discretion and responsibility to teach material and
measure student performance on it.
3.         Tribhuvan University would like to update its curricula and add an
extra year to its Bachelor's degree, but its academic policies must be
reviewed and determined prior to curricular revisions. Some important issues
are:
(a) When should student specialization start? Accordingly, what should
the +2 curricula teach?
(b) Should tracked students enter the university and remain tracked?
If not, how should course offerings be structured to maximize
flexibility?
(c) What level of skills should students acquire by the end of each
degree? What would be the terminal objectives of each specialty?
(d) What structure of majors, minors, and prerequisites would achieve
the final objectives of each degree? (such issues as well as
advanced placement, part-time, interdisciplinary studies, honors
program have been resolved elsewhere through systems of academic
credits)
(e) Should professors be responsible, to some extent, for student
achievement? Through what mechanisms?
(f)  Which fields of study and courses are more likely to meet the needs
of Nepal's labor market and culture? (e.g., environmental studies,
communication courses, computer technology, tourism). Which fields
of study could be amalgamated or abolished? (if any)
(g) If the course structure is radically altered, how will new and old
curricula be phased in specific campuses and specialties?
4.         The UNDP tertiary education study will finance workshops on the
above issues during 1993-1994.
Curriculum Revision Process
5.         The ongoing UNDP study will finance (a) workshops and (b) foreign
technical assistance for priority specialties through institutional twinning.
On the basis of workshop recommendations, authorities will decide the extent
to which academic policies will be modified as well as a timetable for these
changes. Specifically, the following activities are expected to take place
through the UNDP study in 1993-1994, prior to or in the first year of project
effectiveness:
(a) workshops to review the university's general academic orientation
and requirements as well as policies of professors' attendance and
performance;
(b) contacts, communications, decisions regarding twinning institutions
that will help various faculties with curricular revisions; 1993;



Annex 7
Page 3 of 6
- 51 -
(c) Curriculum conferences to be held for about 20 possible majors.
These will bring out the problems that professors have with the
subject matter and informal needs assessments. They should involve
staff from remote campuses, who often face greater problems.
Consultants from the twinned institutions will be present and will
develop overall revision proposals on the basis of the conference
feedback (1993-94);
(d) Work of international consultants from twinned institutions with
faculty boards for the revision of terminal objectives for three-
year degrees and general course breakdown (1993-May 1994).
Detailed work with subject committees for the revision of specific
course syllabi will also be carried out to the extent allowed by
the duration UNDP study.
6.        The proposed IDA project will continue the work of the UNDP study.
Activities will include:
(a) Continue work not completed by the UNDP study in activities (c) and
(d) above;
(b) Complete the revision of three-year terminal objectives and general
course breakdown for about 20 majors (by mid-1995; feasibility
linked to +2 implementation);
(c) Determine compulsory and elective courses for major and minor
fields of study; schedule course sequences in each year of studies
on the basis of world trends (1995-1996);
(d) Develop entrance prerequisites to each course (i.e. what a student
should know before entering); develop remedial courses whenever
necessary (1995-1996);
(e) Develop specific course syllabi, identify textbooks for each
course; identify reference materials for campus libraries (1994-
1999);
(f) Identify or develop teacher guides; include instructional
activities to emphasize (i) application, analysis, synthesis, and
evaluation of material and (ii) multiple assessments, particularly
field work, projects, student research, case studies for law
school; (iii) use of audiovisual techniques where available (1994-
1999); (The project will finance development in high-priority
courses);
(g) Revise examination questions to assess material in the new
curricula and focus on comprehension, application, analysis,
synthesis, and evaluation of material.
7.        Since some specialties influence the country's development more
than others, curricular development of priority areas (e.g. sciences,
education) will take place earlier. It is expected, however, that the
curricula of all specialties will be reconstructed to fit the new three-year
programs by project completion. The development of syllabi and teacher guides



Annex 7
Page 4 of 6
- 52 -
would be carried out each year for field-testing and use in the following
year. Dissemination workshops will precede implementation.
8.        Given the complexity and magnitude of the task, low professor
qualifications, and limitations with textbook availability (see below), the
new curricula may have to be based, in the short term, on the material
presented in suitable textbooks. High-quality but also accessible textbooks
could dictate the curricula for the time being. As professor qualifications
improve and experience is gained with curricular revisions and textbook
distribution, further course development may be more responsive to
professional discretion.
Textbook Availability
9.        Many courses (particularly in non-science subjects) lack specific
instructional materials. Professors typically recommend one or more textbooks
for a course, but these books are often treated as general reference materials
rather than actual study guides that help students pass a course. Many
students do not systematically study from them because the textbooks are:
(a) not commercially available (particularly in remote areas); (b) too
expensive, particularly when more than one must be bought (textbooks above
NRs 100 seem unaffordable by many); (c) not helpful for the examinations,
which ask for few, concrete pieces of information; (d) incomprehensible (they
either do not contain sufficient explanations, or students may not know enough
English to read them); or (e) boring. Instead, students may study from
informal notes (which are inexpensive but may contain many mistakes) or from
photocopies of recirculating class notes. The reading material for a year-
long course may amount to as little as 50 pages. Students, therefore, tend to
learn a low amount of unconnected information and are particularly weak in
comprehension and application of what they learn.
10.       The subject committees revising and developing each course under
the proposed project would ascertain that a textbook is realistically
available. The university would also look into the provision of direction to
the printing and distribution industry that effectively sells informal notes
all over the country. Subject committees will:
(a) obtain sample textbooks available in the international market (see
below, role of CDC);
(b) assign to courses books that appear affordable to less affluent
students;
(c) field test proposed textbooks with students, particularly in
campuses of less affluent areas.
11.       When comprehensible and reasonably published materials cannot be
made available to students, the following options will be pursued:
(a) translate or adapt existing textbooks in collaboration with local
publishers, particularly for courses with large enrollments;
(b) as a last resort, write and publish selected textbooks (e.g.,
Nepali language);



Annex 7
Page 5 of 6
- 53 -
(c)  purchase copyrights'for limited printing in Nepal;
(d) for particularly good but relatively expensive textbooks, encourage
campuses to develop a mass acquisition and rental scheme of
textbooks with depreciation and cost-recovery on a three-year
basis; (This scheme would be particularly important in putting
high-quality, illustrated science books in the hands of poorer
students.)
(e) facilitate the development of a second-hand book market, possibly
through campus libraries.
12.       Subject committees must also anticipate and focus on the backup
solutions of students who cannot afford, find, or understand the textbooks.
These could be:
(a) identification and recommendation of acceptable foreign-language
textbooks, where possible;
(b) help to the writers and publishers of bazaar notes for the updating
and improvement of these materials (CDC will find them and
interface);
(c) desktop publishing or photocopying of class notes and commentaries
for courses which lack commercial bazaar notes, for sale at a small
profit by campus libraries;
(d) providing campus libraries with multiple copies of textbooks; and,
(e) financing photocopy machines in each campus library to run at a
small profit.
13.       The project will finance the ordering of sample textbooks world-
wide for teachers' review. CDC will have the responsibility for placing
orders of sample textbooks (which are often free) and paying for them when
they are not.
Dissemination Workshops and In-service Training
14.       The cascade process will be used for in-service training.  A team
of professors will be trained by international consultants on new course
content (about five days of training per course). They will visit various
regions and hold workshops in central campuses. Teacher guides will be used
during workshops. Professors from nearby campuses will be asked to attend.
CDC will coordinate, and travel allowance for professors will be financed by
IDA.
15.       In-service training for textbooks.  In countries with chronic
textbook scarcity, teachers themselves have studied from notes and may not
consider textbooks necessary. Some professors in Nepal, apparently, do not
know how to make effective use of textbooks. They should also be trained in
the use of new textbooks and in teaching their students how to use them. In-
service training on the new curricula should include this issue.



Annex 7
Page 6 of 6
- 54 -
16.       Each course should also be accompanied by a set of reference
materials, which will be ordered for campus libraries. CDC (see below) will
also have the responsibility for compiling and reconciling these lists by
campus and for procuring them for libraries.
Imvrovement of Instructional Delivery
17.       Professors teaching the revised courses should have a clear
syllabus available, a teacher's guide, and a copy of their own textbook. Due
to the separation of testing from instruction and the long delays in
examination results, professors generally do not know how many students pass
their course and they are not held accountable for results. Accountability
for helping students master the course objectives could be reinforced by
monitoring pass rates for each subject and providing feedback to the
professor. (This task will be much easier when a management information
system is installed.) Class activities of professors with particularly low
pass rates could be constructively monitored by peers. A pilot project in one
campus may be undertaken after an MIS is installed in the office of the
Controller of Examinations. The proposed project could monitor whether pass
rates improve after constructive feedback.
Institutional Strengthening for Curriculum Development
18.       Tribhuvan University actually has a well-developed structure for
curricular development (campus instruction committees, subject committees,
faculty boards, academic council). The problem lies in activating this
structure. This would be accomplished by strengthening the Curriculum
Development Center (CDC), which was developed to act as a curriculum
dissemination agency to the university's many campuses.
19.       CDC has the organizational structure to conduct its work, including
divisions for: (a) textbooks and curricula; (b) equivalence for foreign
diplomas; (c) textbook writing; (d) publication of a journal; (e)
administration; and (f) extension (workshops, seminars). It has 15-20
clerical or junior professional staff, computers, photocopying equipment, and
a vehicle. The low levels of university funding have enabled CDC to develop
and disseminate curricula only for university-wide compulsory courses, i.e.
English, Nepali, and Nepal Parichaya. For the duration of the curriculum
revision process of the proposed project, CDC should function as a
dissemination agency but also as an organizational and coordination body.
Given its resources, CDC will organize the curriculum revision process, set up
realistic time frames, monitor the activities of various task forces and
groups, prepare lists of activities, and provide administrative secretarial,
and logistical support.
20.       By project completion, faculties should develop sustained
curricular leadership, and CDC functions would be again limited to
dissemination of updated curricula and syllabi.
21.       The proposed project will finance rehabilitation, furniture, a
vehicle, and instructional equipment for the Curriculum Development Center
(US$0.1 million), technical assistance in the form of institutional twinning
for curriculum development and dissemination activities, books and teacher
guides (US$1.3 million), and additional staff for CDC.



Annex 8
Page 1 of 5
- 55 -
NEPAL
HIGHER EDUCATION PROJECT
Selected Policy Actions, IDA Interventions, and UNDP Self-Study Activities
Policy Objectives         IDA Project Activities    UNDP Self-Study Activities
1994-2000               August 1992-May 1994
I. Regulate Enrollment
Growth
- Limit enrollment to      Enrollment monitoring      Workshop on admissions
the capacity of each       through EMIS               policies and
campus and department                                 alternatives
Workshop on academic
policies
II. Improve Resource
Mobilization and
Utilization
- Examine and decide                                  Workshops, exploration
upon policies for cost                                of policies to protect
recovery and income                                   the poorer students
generation
- Examine and decide                                  A financial planning
upon procedures to                                    study
maximize income from
commercially viable                                   A property inventory and
assets owned by TU                                    appraisal
- Increase student                                    A study of scholarship
responsibility for                                    awards will be
tuition and other fees                                conducted.
- Encourage local          Civil works and
governments,               equipment for campuses
communities, and private  that raise matched
businesses to become       funds.
active participants
through provision of
support to local
campuses



Annex 8
- 56 -                          Page 2 of 5
Policy Objectives         IDA Project Activities    UNDP Self-Study Activities
1994-2000               August 1992-May 1994
III. Implement Higher
Secondary Education
- Initiate preparatory      Curriculum, examination,   Space survey for all
activities                  and textbook development   secondary schools
assistance for +2 grades
Professor employment
Equipment and materials    survey
to higher secondary
schools providing           Feeder schools survey
matching funds
Grade 11-12 students
separated in cluster
campuses to be financed
- Implement a transition  Technical assistance to    Short-term technical
plan                        develop a phased plan       assistance to develop a
for TU and MOE              phased plan for TU and
MOE
A plan and timetable for
transition in the
regional and clustered
campuses
- Improve facilities at    Provide civil works to       A facilities
selected secondary          selected schools taking    rationalization study of
schools and campuses        over campus +2 students    the approximately 23
devoted to +2 students                                  Kathmandu valley
Refurbish and maintain      campuses.
campuses that will
become +2 schools



Annex 8
Page 3 of 5
- 57 -
Policy Objectives         IDA Project Activities    UNDP Self-Study Activities
1994-2000                 August 1992-May 1994
IV. Imnrove
Orqanizational
Effectiveness
- Decentralize              Formation of two            Self-study to set
managerial                  regional clusters of        standards for achieving
responsibility to           campuses; minor             autonomy-regionalization
institutes, faculties,      maintenance, books,
research centers, and       office and instructional   Study to address the
campuses                    equipment to be financed  long-term development of
new universities
Policy studies on
decentralization
A policy implementation
fund for interested
campuses
- Strengthen the central   A computerized
administration to           educational management
perform policy planning    information system at
and evaluation              Kirtipur and at least
functions.                  two regional campuses
Review of organizational
structure, policy
studies, staff training,
study tours
Development of a master
plan of the Kirtipur
campus site



Annex 8
Page 4 of 5
- 58 -
Policy Objectives         IDA Project Activities    UNDP Self-Study Activities
1994-2000                August 1992-May 1994
V. Improve Ouality,
Relevance, and
Responsiveness of Higher
Education
- Establish three-year      Technical assistance to   Workshop on academic
Bachelor's degree           revise all curricula,       staff policies
programs and update the    develop teacher guides,    (absenteeism,
curricula                   conduct dissemination       instructional
workshops, make usable      responsibility,
textbooks available         promotions dismissals,
consulting, teaching in
Instructional equipment    +2 schools, advanced
and library books to        training)
regional and clustered
campuses, also campuses    Study of instructional
that mobilize matching      processes
funds
Technical assistance for
curriculum development
(short-term, general),
curriculum conferences
- Improve the               New Controller of           Workshop to recommend
examination system of TU  Examinations building         simpler scoring and
testing procedures
Technical assistance,
equipment, training, and
fellowships



Annex 8
Page 5 of 5
- 59 -
Policy Objectives             IDA Project Actions    UNDP Self-Study Activities
1994-2000             August 1992-May 1994
VI. Imnrovement and
Maintenance of Physical
facilities.
- Facilities                Upgrading of selected
improvements at Kirtipur   buildings, protection of
campus and the Office of   the campus
Controller of
examinations                Upgrading of science and
library facilities
-Upgrade facilities at                                  Workshop on facilities
two regional cluster                                    maintenance policy with
centers through core                                    student participation
provision and matching
fund provision
- Develop a maintenance    Maintenance plans,
plan for facilities and   workshops, and
equipment at Kirtipur       activities, some
and regional campuses       maintenance equipment
Creation of maintenance
centers and Kirtipur and
two regional campuses
Provision of maintenance
funds to campuses that
mobilize matching funds
Staff training,
maintenance funding
program.



Annex 9
Page 1 of 4
- 60 -
NEPAL
HIGHER EDUCATION PROJECT
Policy Statements
A.   Higher Education Policy Obiectives
Objective I.   Regulate Enrollment Growth
The exploding enrollment during the past decade has far exceeded the
rate of increase of available resources and the growth in institutional
capacity of TU. This has resulted in serious deterioration of the quality of
education. TU is therefore committed during the project period to limit
enrollment to the capacity of each campus, introduce entrance examinations to
all programs and to enroll students based on merit. TU will cease granting
new affiliation for Certificate-level courses, and will seek ways to extend
opportunities to the under-served.
Objective II. Options for Resource Mobilization and Utilization
Given the current serious financial constraints, TU is committed to
adopting and implementing cost-sharing and cost-recovery policies by
increasing tuition fees to 20 percent of TU's recurrent costs and raising
examination fees to cover at least 100 percent of examination costs,
administering financially optimal use of commercially valuable assets owned by
the university, and encouraging local governments, communities and private
business to become active participants in financing higher education through
support to local campuses.
Objective III. Implementation of Higher Secondary Education
TU is committed to working jointly with the Ministry of Education and
Culture to implement a Higher Secondary Education Program in accordance with a
1989 law enabling higher secondary education. TU and MOEC will develop a
transition plan acceptable to IDA that will include curriculum strengthening
for +2, phasing out of Certificate-level courses from TU, and development of a
pilot program to improve physical facilities at selected higher secondary
schools.
objective IV. Improved Organizational Planning and Management Capacity
To improve the organizational effectiveness of the current highly
centralized and inefficient higher education system, TU is committed to:
(a) decentralize institutional authority and administrative responsibilities
to institutes, faculties, research centers and campuses; (b) strengthen the
campus level management capacities by providing training to campus chiefs and
senior administrative staff; (c) initiate the development of regional clusters
of university campuses as a basis for future formation and development of
regional universities; and (d) enhance the central administration to perform



Annex 9
Page 2 of 4
- 61 -
policy formulation, long-term planning and programming, and evaluation
functions including establishment of a computer-based education management
information system.
Objective V. Improve Ouality, Relevance, and Responsiveness of Higher
Education
This objective will be achieved through the establishment of three-year
Bachelors degree programs and development of appropriate curricula. The
examination system of TU will be strengthened through decentralization,
enhancement of reliability and validity of examinations, and by improving the
linkages between teaching and testing and between curricula and examinations
content. In addition computerized data processing will be introduced to
streamline the examinations process.
Objective VI. Improvement and Maintenance of Physical Facilities and Equipment
TU policy is to rectify current serious facilities and equipment
deficiencies through a program of renovation, upgrading and maintenance, and
through development of the financial and managerial capacity necessary to
ensure sustainability of investments in the areas of infrastructure and
equipment. Sustainability of investments in facilities will be improved
through strengthening of construction and equipment maintenance policies and
procedures. Facilities Management Plans will be developed and implemented for
those campuses receiving civil works and equipment investments under the
project. The University is committed to establishing capacity within its
central administration to plan and manage future development and operations of
TU campuses and facilities.
Note:     A Policy Action Matrix has been prepared by TU for implementation
of above policy objectives.
B.   Joint Policy Statement of Ministry of Education. Culture and Social
Welfare and Tribhuvan Universitv
1.        Higher Secondary Education is envisaged as a continuation of
secondary school. The National Education Commission, too, recommended two
more years of secondary education to make it a programme of comparable
standards with the schools of South Asia.
2.        Higher Secondary Education will be the only vehicle for delivering
the programme. The precise timing and modalities of phasing in and phasing
out as well as the overlap period will depend on the Transition Plan being
developed.
3.        All the existing below Proficiency Certificate Level and
Proficiency Certificate Level technical courses will be phased out gradually
from the university. These programmes and Vocational Training (CTEVT) now
empowered to do so under the recently amended Act.



Annex 9
Page 3 of 4
- 62 -
4.        The curricula of the Council for Higher Secondary Education (CHSE)
will be revised and integrated into a single programme with a limited number
of elective courses. The Council's curriculum will have only a core course
with additional optional groups. Mathematics and Sciences may eventually be
among the core courses.
5.        Immediate renaming of Proficiency Certificate Level courses as
higher secondary without curricular revision is unlikely to benefit the reform
because it might actually slow down the phasing out of the Proficiency
Certificate Level programme from the campuses. However, Tribhuvan University
will adopt the higher secondary curricula and phase out its Proficiency
Certificate level courses once the higher secondary curricula are redesigned
and the Transition Plan is formulated and approved by the MOEC, the CHSE and
the University.
6.        It is the policy of the Government to make higher secondary
education accessible, particularly in the disadvantaged areas of the country.
The National Education commission, in its Report to the Government,
recommended that the higher secondary schools be encouraged in the districts
with no university campuses. It is also the Government policy to encourage
urban schools to introduce higher secondary programmes. The Government has
also decided to allow to conduct higher secondary programmes in other
institutions where minimum requirements have been fulfilled. Both these
measures will help decongest the university campuses.
7.        Although the current policy of His Majesty's Government is to run
the higher secondary schools mainly with community financing, the Government
will provide additional funding as capital non-recurrent lumpsum grant by
mobilizing both internal and external sources. (The Eighth Five-Year Plan has
allocated NRs 100 million to support higher secondary schools. His Majesty's
Government has also signed a Secondary Education Development Credit with the
Asian Development Bank).
8.        The University will share with the CHSE its surplus resources.  The
modalities of such sharing will be worked out with the Ministry and the
Council once the Transition Plan and the Facilities Rationalization Study are
finalized and approved.
9.        The concern of the private sector to participate constructively in
the reforms will be addressed through the following policy initiatives:
(a) The private campuses will be given options either to run the +2
programmes separately under the ownership of its management
committee, or to integrate this programme with any school as
mutually agreed upon between the school and campus management
committees.
(b) The private campuses opting for higher secondary programmes will be
provided financial incentives in the form of non-recurrent grants-
in-aid.



Annex 9
Page 4 of 4
- 63 -
(c) The university teachers willing to teach in higher secondary
schools on full-time basis will be deputed to such institutions for
short and medium term.
(original signed)                                   (original signed)
Dr. Ishwor Prasad Upadhyaya                        Kedar Bhakta Mathema
Secretary                                  Vice Chancellor
Ministry of Education, Culture                     Tribhuvan University
and Social Welfare                              Kathmandu, Nepal
His Majesty's Government of Nepal



Annex 10
Page 1 of 5
- 64 -
NEPAL
HIGHER EDUCATION PROJECT
Management Information System Needs of Tribhuvan University
1.   There is no lack of data in Tribhuvan University.  Most of the
information at present required for existing planning practices is available.
Data collection and processing procedures are in place and systematic records
are kept on most of the data collected. The procedures, though systematic,
are at best slow and rudimentary. Data are processed manually in a
multiplicity of records and ledgers. Recording is a time-consuming task, and
simple queries of the data require tremendous efforts. Due to the slow data
collection/processing, there are lengthy delays in the report of results or
output of raw data. Up to two years lapse between data collection and output.
2.   Data are publicized in an annual statistics book produced by the
Division of Planning. It offers highly aggregated data on students, teachers,
facilities, finance, and other topics from government administered-campuses,
institutes, faculties, and centers. Any ad-hoc query of the data requires the
physical handling of ledgers and a page by page browse until the desired data
are located. Furthermore, reporting and use of data is very inefficient. Not
all the data collected are recorded. Not all the data recorded are put to use
or reported. Not all the data required for planning are collected. Very few
data required for research and development are collected. Questions are
frequently raised regarding the reliability of data. Often data are recorded
relying on the memory of senior staff members of the Central Administration
and/or Campus Chiefs. There is no clear or efficient coding system for items
and locations. There is no unique identifier used in personnel records other
than name and a rudimentary school coding system. Unique identifiers exist
only for students through the registration numbers allotted by the Office of
the Controller of Examinations.
3.   Data are collected through standard and recurrent instruments that
originate from the Office of the Controller of Examination, the Personnel
Division, and the Planning Division, who are the main consumers and processors
of information. Campuses, faculties, institutes, and centers report data to
the Central Administration upon request from the Planning Division and/or
Personnel. Ad-hoc data requests are attended to after long delays.
4.   The Vice-Chancellor and the Executive Council of the University are the
main users of the data, but little analysis is performed on the much delayed
information, and few policy recommendations are made on the basis of data. To
make the data usable and easy to collect and process, the use of computers
should be promoted. The offices of the Controller of Examinations, Personnel
Division, and Planning Division, who are the main consumers and processors of
information, would be the first targets for computerization.



Annex i0
Page 2 of 5
- 65 -
Computer Utilization at Tribhuvan University
5.   The level of computer literacy in the administration of Tribhuvan
University is low.  Several computers are scattered throughout the university,
but most of the equipment is either outdated and/or of low capacity, and in
all cases, under-utilized. Four low-capacity computers are installed under
the Registrar's office used basically for word processing and for keeping
records in a Dbase III format and some Lotus files. An attempt is being made
to build a personnel file with selected information for recording
contributions to the pension fund through a Lotus spreadsheet. Also, the
Registrar's Office uses word processing services as well as other members of
the Central Administration. Lotus is being used for simple spreadsheets as
well as Dbase III for some simple tasks.
6.   In theory, some technical capacity exists.  There is a proper computer
training facility with 15 computers at the Engineering Campus in Pokhara.
These are low-capacity XT machines with 640K RAM and two 5.25" floppies.
Though the training facilities are adequate, there are few resources for
maintenance of equipment. In Pokhara, one additional computer is located at.
the Library of the Faculty of Forestry. This is a high capacity machine with
2MB RAM, 120 MB hard disk, 386 processor, VGA color monitor and battery back-
up. The machine was placed at the library by the United States Agency for
International Development (USAID), and little or no training was provided to
an operator. As a consequence, the machine is only utilized as a word
processor. The Office of the Controller of Examinations uses the services of
the National Computer Center for the partial processing of examination data at
a cost of NRs 17/per student (120,000 students).  No expertise is passed from
the National Computer Center to the TU.
7.   Computer Canpabilities in Kathmandu.  Kathmandu has the potential for
supporting and servicing high-capacity microcomputers. There are over 30
computer dealers, and several offer computer consultancy services in addition
to computer sales, software, consumables, service and maintenance contracts at
internationally competitive prices. Computer training facilities for computer
operators in basic software packages is also available in the local market
through several of the computer distribution/sales companies.
Computerizing the TU Administration
8.   Computerization of the major administration and planning procedures will
improve administration, planning and decision-making, and can be carried out
in a cost-effective and locally sustainable manner.
9.   The current generations of personal computer hardware and software (386
or 486 configuration with high disk capacity) would be sufficiently powerful
for planning, administration, and most processing and research requirements of
TU. A mainframe computer would not be needed by TU. Relational database
software should be used. The design and implementation of an information
system must emphasize the processes involved, which in the case of TU include
computer literacy.



Annex 10
Page 3 of 5
- 66 -
10.  Considerable basic research, codification, needs assessment, and ground
work is needed before the installation of the computer equipment.
Installation should run parallel to training and utilization. Initial results
may be expected after a year, and the system should be fully operational in
two or three years. The system will be institutionalized after four or five
years of operations. An operation pilot system at central level could set
procedures for data collection, processing, and output at a limited number of
modules during the first year of project effectiveness.
11. Components of the EMIS will include:
-   assessment of data/information requirements;
-   selection of equipment and peripherals;
-   selection of data items;
-   selection of software components;
-   codification of data items;
-   design of database structures;
-   design of data collection instruments;
-   design of data collection/validation procedures;
-   design of data entry programs and procedures;
-   design of application and data query procedures;
-   design of data output formats;
-   design of data distribution policies and procedures;
-   design and implementation of training procedures;
-   system development;
-   technical support system.
12.       The design of database structure along with the codification of
items and design of data collection instruments must be performed so as to
cover the information requirements of TU while linking a series of relational
databases concerning:
-   student data;
-   professor data;
-   examinations data;
-   admissions data;
-   financial data;
-   physical facilities data
13.       Estimated Manpower Reouirements.  Due to the lack of skilled
manpower and the low level of computer literacy at present found within TU,
the design, implementation and initial operations of the information system
will necessarily have to rely on external support in the form of foreign and
local technical assistance. The EMIS will require a team of skilled
individuals, i.e., a foreign consultant as a long-term technical advisor who
will coordinate a team of local experts and contracted personnel. The team
will train counterparts from TU permanent staff. A major function of all
consultants will be to work themselves out of a job by transferring their
skills to TU permanent staff.



Annex 10
Page 4 of 5
- 67 -
14.       ForeiQn technical assistance.  Due to the structure, equipment and
software recommended, a systems analyst and programmer is not necessarily the
type of personnel required for the design and implementation of the
Information System. There are specificities involved in the design of an
Information System for an Educational Institution which requires understanding
of educational functions and research requirements in addition to management
and administration performance. In addition to systems design skills, the
EMIS foreign consultant will require research skills, negotiation skills,
training skills and coordination skills.
15.       A single foreign consultant with the skills mentioned above should
be recruited and supported by a team of local consultants and contracted
personnel. Experience suggests that it is not practical to divide the tasks
and responsibilities of design and implementation among a succession of short
term consultants over an extended period of time. Apart from being extremely
expensive, shared responsibility reduces, in this case, accountability in the
design and implementation of the system.
16.       Local technical assistance.  Two consultants-programmers will be
employed as needed by the foreign technical advisor. At least one of these
should be familiar with TU financial and accounting procedures. Both should
have basic DBASE IV programming skills. Though the emphasis of the system
proposed is not based on programming skills due to the use of already existing
relational database software, a certain level of programming will be required
to increase the speed and efficiency of certain components related to data
entry and data editing. The design of applications is not a complicated task
included in most relational database packages such as RBase and others, but
the design of data entry screens and data editing procedures can be more
efficient using a combination of other packages such as DBASE IV.
17.       During the operations of the information system it will be
necessary to rely on the services of trained computer operators and will also
be necessary to offer the possibility of querying the databases and producing
output for non-skilled users. This implies as one of the major tasks, the
design of user-friendly applications and Front End screens and programs. This
task should be carried out by local consultants under the supervision of the
long term technical advisor.
18.       As the EMIS expands to several locations such as the Central
Administration, the Office of the Controller of Examination, and the proposed
regional centers, trouble-shooting and on-site support will become key
elements of the system.
19.       As mentioned above, training is to be a major component of the
system. This is the component that will allow the transfer of skills from
external personnel to the permanent staff of TU and will ensure sustainability
of the system after the life of the project. The local consultants would play
a major role in this task.
20.       Once the system begins to grow into several modules (databases)
that include budgeting and accounting procedures, it will be necessary to rely



Annex 10
Page 5 of 5
- 68 -
on the services of an experienced accountant or financial manager for the
design of the financial components of the system.
21.       Contracted personnel.  During the implementation stage and early
operation of the system, there will be a multiplicity of tasks that will
require the assistance of local contracted personnel. These tasks will
include data entry/processing, word processing, equipment installation,
transportation of equipment, minor repairs of electrical components and lines,
minor maintenance of equipment such as cleaning, relocation, etc., mailing,
cataloging of data collection instruments, etc. Three local staff should be
contracted for the functions of electrical, maintenance, word processing and
supervision functions; data entry personnel can be hired separately on a
temporary or on a per task basis.
22.       Once data collection instruments begin to come in to the central
computer center and to the Office of the Controller of Examinations, data
entry would be a monumental task. This task would be expected to be taken
over by permanent TU staff. However, in the early stages of operations such
personnel for TU would probably not be available and data entry personnel
would have to be contracted on a temporary and per task basis according to
local market rates. Data entry personnel can be contracted through local
computer training institutes placed under the supervision of EMIS contracted
personnel and/or the technical advisors.
23.       All contracted personnel, consultants, technical advisors, local
hire, data entry personnel, maintenance personnel, etc., must have TU
permanent staff as counterparts to receive on-the-job training. This will be
the only way to guarantee long-term sustainability of the information system.



- 69 -
Annex 11
NEPAL                           Page 1 of 4
HIGHER EDUCATION PROJECT
Table 1: Expenditure Summary
%    % Total
(NRs Million)           (USS Million)      Foreign  Base
Local Foreign  Total   Local Foreign Total Exchango- Costs
L Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
New                        152.8   79.0    231.9    3.1    1.6    4.7        34      24
Rehabilitation              51.9   26.8     78.7    1.0    0.5    1.6        34       8
Site Improvement            33.6   17.4     50.9    0.7    0.4    1.0        34       5
Subtotal Civil Works          238.3  123.2    361.5    4.8    2.5    7.3         34     37
B. Professional Fees           18.4       -     18.4    0.4       -    0.4        -      2
C. Vehicles                     1.1    9.6      10.6    0.0    0.2    0.2        90       1
D. Equipment                   23.5  205.1    228.6    0.5    4.1    4.6         90     24
E. Furniture                   22.7   14.5      37.2    0.5    0.3    0.8        39      4
F. BooksandMaterials            6.3   55.0      61.3    0.1    1.1    1.2        90      6
G. Technical Assistance
Foreign Consultants          6.5   56.2     62.8    0.1    1.1    1.3        90       6
Local Consultants           48.6      -     48.6    1.0        -    1.0        -      5
International Fellowships    1.6   13.6      15.2    0.0    0.3    0.3       90       2
Regional Fellowships         0.9    7.4      8.2    0.0    0.1    0.2        90       1
Study Tours                 0.5    4.1       4.5    0.0    0.1    0.1        90
Subtotal Technical Assistance  58.1   81.4    139.4    1.2    1.6    2.8         58      14
H. Local Training              28.9      -      28.9    0.6       -    0.6        -      3
t. Follow-on Project Preparation    26.0   11.2  37.2    0.5    0.2    0.8       30      4
Total Investment Costs          423.2  499.9    923.2    8.5   10.1   18.6        54      95
ML Recurrent Costs
A. Incremental Salaries        14.5      -      14.5    0.3       -    0.3        -      1
B. Operations & Maintenance    15.0    4.8      19.9    0.3    0.1    0.4       24       2
C. Travel&Daily Allowance       3.4      -       3.4    0.1       -    0.1        -      -
D. Consumables                  8.6      -       8.6    0.2       -    0.2        -      1
Total Recurrent Costs            41.5    4.8     46.3    0.8    0.1    0.9        10       5
Total BASELINE COSTS            464.7  504.8    969.5    9.4   10.2   19.6         52    100
Physical Contingencies         26.6   27.0      53.6    0.5    0.5    1.1        50      6
Price Contingencies            87.1   36.9    124.0    1.8    0.7    2.5         30     13
Total PROJECT COSTS             578.4  568.6  _,147.0   11.7   11.5   23.1    50.0  118.0



NEPAL
HIGHER EDUCATION PROJECT
Table 2: Exadtre Accounts by Composen
(NR Muilion)
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT             SELECTD JACILmES
EduaaWbl  Regional                    IMPROVEMENT          INSTRUCTIONALDEVELOPMENT
Orgaul-  Magement   Cluster   Project    FaciliI         Maintace            AND ASSESSMENT               HIGHER                  Physical
zatie.    l-foramtieu   Devdop- Masge. Dewdopmeut   Capacity            Curriculum                     SECONDARY              Contingeades
Reform      Syuem        ment      met        lCirpr   Deve_tnem        Dewlopment    Ezamatous   EDUCATION   Total    %    Amount
1. Investi   Costs
A. Cival Works
New                                  -             -      74.6         -         154.4           2.9                -                                  231.9   10.0      23.2
Relabilitalion                    10.2           0.7      12.3       0.5          17.4             -              0.4              9.3         27.9     78.7   10.0       7.9
Site Impromnt                                      -       4.5         -          46.5             -                *                             -     50.9   10.0       5.1
Subtotal CIv Worn                    10.2          0.7       91.3      0.5         218.3           2.9              0.4              9.3         27.9    361.5   10.0      36.2
B. ProfcssinAl Fes                                 0.0        4.7      3.1           8.5           0.1              0.0              0.5           1.4     18.4
C. Vehicles                            -           3.4        1.5      0.0                         3.0              0.7              0.7           1.2     10.6  10.0       1.1
D. Equipmant                         5.0          26.6      44.0       0.5         120.7           9.0              4.8              2.9         15.2   228.6    5.0       11.4
E. Fumitwe                           2.6           0.7       10.5      1.5          17.4           0.3              0.2              0.9          3.1     37.2    5.0       1.9
F.BookssudMaleuials                  2.5             -      23.2         -          14.2           0.6              2.1             15.0          3.7     61.3   5.0        3.1
G. Technical Assstance
Foreig Consultants                 7.3          10.0         -         .           2.9           5.3             27.6              3.5          5.7    62.8                - -
Local Cosuhants                    1.5          17.4       0.9                       -           0.6             22.1              4.1          2.2    48.6       - 
Inteantional Fellowships           2.5           2.5         .                     6.0           4.2                -              0.0                   15.2                      o 0
Regional Fellowships               1.8           3.0         -         *           0.4           3.0                -                -                    8.2     -         -
StudyToun                          3.3             -         -         -           1.3             -                -                -            -       4.5
Subtotal Tecuaja Assistance          16.9         32.9        0.9        -           10.6         13.0             49.7              7.6           7.9    139.4
H. Local Training                    18.7          5.1        0.9       3.4           0.2          0.2                               0.4           0.1     28.9
1. Follow-on Project Preparation                   -                  37.2             -             -                -                -                   37.2
Tot Investment Cost                    55.3          69.4     177.1      46.2         389.8         29.1             57.9             37.3          60.5    923.2    5.8     53.6
IL Recurrent Costs
A. Incmnental Salaries                 -             -         .s      10.8           1.4            -              1.5              0.0                   14.5
B. Op      h ions &Mncae-                          0.8        1.8      11.7          0.4           2.4              0.7              0.7           1.2     19.9
C. Travel l Daily Allowance           0.8           1.8         -         -          0.1           0.6                                               -      3.4      -
D. Consunables                         -            1.4       1.2      3.9           2.1             -                -                -            -       8.6      -
Total Recurrent Costs                   0.8           4.0       3.7      26.4           4.1          3.0              2.3              0.7           1.2    46.3       -
Total BASELINE COSTS                   56.6          73.4      130.8     72.6         393.9          32.2             60.2             38.0         61.8    969.5    5.5      53.6
PhyskalContingencies                  1.5           1.8      13.2       0.2          29.4          1.1              0.5              1.9           4.0     53.6
Pric Coth     ien                     5.8           8.5      24.9       5.8          56.5          2.1              9.3              4.1           7.1    124.0   5.3       7.2
Total PROJECT COSTS                    63.9          83.6      218.8     78.6         479.9          353              70.0             44.0          72.9  1,147.0    5.3     60.8  p
Ta                                    1.8           1.5      15.4       0.2          34.6          1.0              0.4              2.0           4.6     61.5    S.1      5.0 o
Foreign Exhange                      27.4         46.1      111.4      15.5         242.8         26.1             34.7             26.3          383    568.6   5.1       29.0      1J ll
Ox



Annex 11
Page 3 of 4
- 71 -
NEPAL
HIGHER EDUCATION PROJECT
Table 3: EDA Disbursement Schedule
Amounts       Cumulative             Cumulative
IDA Fiscal Year              Disbursed     Disbursements     Disbursements Disbursement
& Semester                 (--- USS Million   )             Percentage      Profile
1994
lst (January 94 - June 94)             0.90             0.90               5%
1995
1st (July 94 - December 94)            1.05              1.95             10%
2nd (January 95 - June 95)             1.05              3.00             15%            3%
1996
1st (July 95 - December 95)            1.75             4.75              24%
2nd (January 96 - June 96)             1.75             6.50              33%            8%
1997
1st (July 96 - December 96)            2.20             8.70              44%
2nd (January 97 - June 97)             2.20             10.90             55%           22%
1998
Ist (July 97 - December 97)           2.25             13.15              66%
2nd (January 98 - June 98)             2.25             15.40             77%           42%
1999
1st (July 98 - December 98)            1.30            16.70              84%
2nd (January 99 - June 99)             1.30             18.00             90%           67%
2000
1st (July 99 - December 99)            0.75            18.75              94%
2nd (January 2000 - June 2000)         0.75             19.50             98%           84%
2001
1st (July 2000 - December 2000)        0.50            20.00             100%
2nd (January 2001 -June 2001)           -                 -                -            98%
2002
1st (July 2001 - December 2001) .
2nd (January 2002 - June 2002)                   -                        -            100%
Closing Date: June 30, 2000
Note: The state of project preparation makes it possible to project disbursements in early years
that are higher than the country's disbursenent profilc.



Annex 11
Page 4 of 4
- 72 -
NEPAL
HIGHER EDUCATION PROJECT
Table 4: Disbursement Accounts by Financiers
(US$ Million)
International
Development                                          Local
Association   Kingdom of Nepal    Total      For.  (Excl. Duties &
Amount  %    Amount   %    Amount  %    Exch. Taxes)  Taxes
A. Civil Works                 7.4   80.0      1.9    20.0    9.3   40.2    2.9    5.4       0.9
B. Professional Fees           0.4  100.0        -       -    0.4    1.8       -    0.4        -
C. Equipment and Vehicles      5.3   94.8      0.3     5.2    5.5   24.0    4.9    0.4       0.2
D. Furniture                   0.8   87.4      0.1    12.6    0.9    3.7    0.3    0.5       0.1
E. Books and Materials         1.2   88.9      0.2    11.1    1.4    6.0    1.2    0.1       0.0
F. Technical Assistance
Consultants                  2.5  100.0        -       -    2.5   11.0    1.2    1.3
Fellowships& Study Tours     0.6  100.0      0.0       -    0.6    2.6    0.5    0.1
Subtotal Technical Assistance  3.1  100.0      0.0       -    3.1   13.5    1.7    1.4         -
G. Local Training              0.6   95.0      0.0     5.0    0.7    2.8       -    0.7        -
H Follow-on Project Preparation    0.8  100.0    -       -    0.8    3.2    0.2    0.5         -
I. Incremental Salaries          -      -      0.3   100.0    0.3    1.5       -    0.3        -
J. Operations & Maintenance    0.4   79.0      0.1    21.0    0.5    2.0    0.1    0.4         -
K. Travel& DailyAllowance        -      -      0.1   100.0    0.1    0.3       -    0.1        -
L. Consumables                   -      -      0.2   100.0    0.2    0.9       -    0.2        -
Total                       20.0   86.3      3.2    13.7   23.1  100.0   11.5   10.4        1.2



Nep
H1'r  Educatin Project
Table 1: imptprnntation SdadL.. PhysIcl Faclls
YEAR 1                        YEAR 2                          YEAR 3                         YEAR 4                         YEAR 6                         YEAR 6
Actiities/Trimn Scheduid               1994                           1996                           1998                           1997                           1998                            1999
J F  M A MJ  J A SO0N  OJ  F MA M    IJ A S  O NOJ  F MIA MJ  .J A S                       N D J  F M A MJ IJ AS  OI4O DJ  F MIA MJ  J A S  OFNIOJ F MIAUMJ  J A S  0Of O
Proqualificat ion and
engagement of consultant
for work for Kiripr end     [.
clusters and assessment
of maintenance works         e J
Detail design work for
Kirtipur Phase I and
assessment of                                                                                                                                                                                                      L
maintenance works         r.,
Master Plan and
conceptual design
Essential maintence
work,.s. road. Boundary
wall construction
Prequalitication of
contractors (neuw buildings)
Kirnipur Phase 1
Tender 1/Award
Construction Period                                                          5 '     ff i            t                               W t   ARRN TY
Kirtipur Phase 11
-tander/award
~5~4    r~*~i  ~     WARRANTY
-constructimnf i                                                                                           =      g       =     1 8|                        t    ==AA    
Cluster Dwelopfnent A
-formation stage I           -i
-management plan. basic                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OX
upgrading stage 2              A ,       .       *S  :  4.* ' t 1"'      b                                                                                                                                                              IJ1FJ
-resowce mobilization
fecilrtile deuelopmaent                                                    -          A    t    _          S          "     5    !Fi-



Hgw Edwction ftcz
TeUe I cont'd: kipl.dentao0n Schedri..  felcal Facitiftes
YEAR I                         YEAR 7                         YEAR 3                          YEAR 4                          YEAR 6                         YEAR B
ActivitlesTri.e Schedule                    1994                           1995                            1950                           1997                            1998                           1999
* F M A M    J A S  o N D J F MA  t    J AS  0  t D    F M                AUI J J A S O N O J  F  M A     iJ  A AS 0    0 D J F MIA  MJ J|  AS  O N D J F MiA M J J  A    O o N o
Cluster Devalopmwnt B
-lurmtion (stage I)                                El
-management plan, basic
Upgladmng                                                                                                    WON B    r  *rt                                                                                          f]
-resoufce mobilization          Li                                                                                                                                                                                      tI
facilities development                                                               B               ^                                                                                      tihi l,
Prqualitication of1
contractor (Rehabilitation
work) - Kiripu,r
Tenders/ward (Rehabilita-                                                                                                                                                                                                               -'
tion Worlk - Kirtpue
Construction (Rehablitta-
tion work) Kirtipur
Equipment requiremant
assessment
Equipement sptcilication        a       A
Eqri1pn,ent tender
Equiprment award
Equipment suply stige I
Select (wnittur conarilsnt
Fuwniture de&ign. spcIckae                                                                                                                                                                                                                    t-
tion ad tender award                                                                                                                                                                                                                          U   t
Firwotura supply                 _                       _                                                       !_



Npal
Higher Education Project
Table 2A tm:lerpmentation Schedul, Educational Activiltie
Examinations
YEAR 1                        YEAR 2                        YEAR 3                        YEAR 4                         YEAR S                        YEAR 6
ActIvlivsdTime Schedule                                 1994                          1995                          1996                          1997                           1995                          1999
J F MA Mi J iJ A S O  N D J F MIA M J J A S o l D J F M A M J iJ A S    ND J F MIA u J J A SO  N D J F MA M J J A S O N  D J F M A   J iJ A S O  N D
Technical sstilance arrangemenis with
qualified instiutions
Arrival of consultants
Award of fellowships to study
educational measurement
Decision workshop on alternative scoring                                                                                                                                                                                       [
end reporting schemes
Decision workshop on feasble alternatives
to crrent factsoriented annual essay
earmintltons
Decision by authorities to adopt pilot
schemes fr tryouts                                                    If
Construction. furnishing, equipment of
Controller of Et rninations bsaldlng
fses Faciltes Implementation Plan)
Staff Training and campus preparation
for pilot schemes mi
Impilmentation of pilot schemes
Date gathering and evaluation of pilot schemes m                                         1       ;          ,  1       ,       
Selection of best alternatives to current
centralized woring                                                                   t:   .  
Selction of best aternative to cuwrent annual
ftat-oriented examintlonsm
Controi1 rof Exsarnlutions staff traning on
computer hardware/soltwere                                                                                                                                                                                                                to
Development of computerized databanks
of examination questIons W
Professor traInIng on scoring and modeation                                                                                                                                                                                                O X
Implemrentation of computerized esetiniation                                                                                                                                                                                               ONw
preparstson and reporting                                                 _                                             _-



Higher Eduriction Project
Table 28: implrnentatlon SieOfe  Educatlonal Actvities
Curriculun Development
YEAR I                         YEAR 2                          YEAR 3                         YEAR 4                          YEAR 5                         YEAR 6
Actiivties/T.n,e Schedule                                  1994                           1995                            1996                           1997                            1998                           1999
JF  M AU M    .J    A S  0 N   J  F M AUiJ J A S  O0N DJ  F M A  MUJ  J A S  O NOi  F MIA UJJ A SO0N  0 JiF  !IA U   JA  SON   DiJP  MIAU M .J    A SO  N D
Study vlils to instlttions that cwn provide
Iscfhnca assistance i Curriculun development
IUNDP Self-study)
Institutiona twinning egreeenmts iUNOP                                                                                                                                                                                                   
Self-study)
Rdfurbishmnent-quipment of Currkulumn
Devlopment Cenic (see Physical Faritrai
Curriculunn conferences. selectiom of majirms 
to revise
Development of twrminal atcer s degree          _
objectr.". course order in mejorse.
p,e-quiste electives, remodel courses                
Development of terminal Bachlor-degres
objectives, course order in majores.
pre-r*quicis electives                                                     y      ? i  
Revision of sytlabi by subject committlsee
and Itinned-institullon consultants                                        ,,        U        .r4 U          0j,               iy ljWI
Te.tbook selecion                                                                       2                                    
Arrngtements for affordab/usable
textbooks in ptovincial campuses                                           4    M     mg;y         t 
Clrcufw diss mintion nd tralng ln
prolfssors                                                                  _                                                               ___
I-,
in 1J



N-
igher Edmration Project
Tabl 2C  Implemetation Schdule, Educational Actvties
HigIw Secondary Education
YEAR I                        YEAR 2                        YEAR 3                        YEAR 4                        YEAR 6                         YEAR 6
ActivitislTime Schedule                             1994                          1995                          1996                           1997                          1998                          1999
J F M A M J J A S O N O J F MAU J  J A S O  N DO    F M  A    J J                  A S O M D J F MIA M J J A S O N D J F  A MI   J A 5 O N D J F MIA M J J A S 0 N D
Prpasration of 8 transitio plan under
UNDP Sel-study                           I
Completion of Spee. feder- school ndW
profesor studies commissioned
by UNDP Sell-study                 ,
Decisions by MOEC on trcks, pace of
implementation. teaIr  me. examinations                                                                                                                                                                                     .
teacher us, examinations formal
related posaclees
Offlce qruipnnl. vehicle for CHSE
Conltant or IsmtitutioalW twInning
arrangements fcr urriculum development
and examinations of Grades 11-12                       4
Consultants to arrIve to work with CHSE        
Curriculum development with CHSE
speciasts In cornurnctlon vth university
subject committees for development
of prerequisites                    Z  
Textbook selection  nd acqtishion                                        s            s      w
Development nd prtesting of
exminatuon item banks                                    1J     1
Development of trecher trainn mtterials
nd procodures
Pretesting mstel end procadurs In
techer tranin semis                                                                                                                                                                                                                        lull
Plan to contruct 10 col editions on                                                                                                                                                                                                           iS
the beasi of the trenslon plan and                                                                                                                                                                                                         OX
Scho  space study                                        _                                                                                                                                                                                  At
-   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~wI~



- 78 -
NEPAL
HIGHER EDUCATION PROJECT
List of Documents in the Project File
1. Linklater, W. Tribhuvan University Library System. Pre-appraisal Mission
Working Paper, November 24, 1992.
2. Project Preparation Committee. Policy Papers on Higher Education
Development in Nepal. Tribhuvan University, November 1, 1991.
3. Tiwari, S. R. Physical Facilities Development and Maintenance. Pre-
appraisal Mission Working Paper, November 1992.
4. Valdes, J. Proposed Higher Education Project: Management Information
System. Pre-appraisal Mission Working Paper, November 24, 1992.
Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Prolect
1. Abadzi, H. Reformincr Hicrher Secondary Education in South Asia: The Case
of Nepal. South Asia Regional Series Internal Discussion Paper No. IDP-109,
World Bank, May 1993.
2. Asian Development Bank. Nepal: Secondary Education Development.
Prepared by the British Council for Asian Development Bank, Manila, May 1991.
3. GTZ. Mastexnlan - Naturwiseenschaftliche Facultdt der Universitat
Tribhuvan, Nepal.  Frankfurt:  Deutsche Gesellschaft fMr Technische
Zusammenarbeit, April 1991.
4. Planning Department. Tribhuvan University: 30th Annual Report. (In
Nepali) Kathmandu, 1991.
5. University of Cambridge. A Report on a Pre-Consultancy to Tribhuvan
University - Nepal. UK: University of Cambridge Local Examinations Syndicate,
1985.



MAP SECTION






,= z  A s  H J ; A < S                                                         ~~~~~~~~~N E P A L
r  s x  \, s       >                                               ~~~~~HIGHER EDUCATION PROJECT
,_' DARC H U L A                            j
.BAJHANG /            ,         J MUGU              *-                                                   -DISTRICBONDARIES
B EA ITrA D l k-     /      JX                                 \_                                                   ZONE BONDARIES
DtDELDHURS  g s  lKA;l KOT   9   DOL PA  <      <  >                                   ~~~~~~~~REGKON BONDARIES
y p  t    DOt l  AHA                    /    <                                 \A                                    INTERNATINAL BONDARIES
,KANCHANPUR                      P  -KAILEKH                                                             4 1JRO       z2E z , 
>        vKAI LALI  j                          R UKUM \  F      i       , MANG'                     .
. jr > ~SURKHET    , , d, -
BARDIYA               AL A /,g                           .yKA    I   LAMJUNGh     
\ / / ~~~ROLPA                           Gt~;-9    8= 
28'               cj-.> r  e ANG            U       GKE wArt\Xz ,\  
"N-                       RGH~~~~'KAIL ASTU  -SYANGJ  TA    A , A              (UINHU-8                      ATPEUG,
~~~~\PALPA          IADI                                       A,   4VSANtKHADUWASAt;s /,- B\,\.)
RUPANDEHIi                                                   SOLU~+sINHLI}tKHUMBU  t        +S 
Kilorheiers ~ ~ ~ ~    ~      ~      ~      ~     ~     " OV 5010A5P00q    .BRg                                                                EJUNG4h    () \ >  :[%  r
M~~~~~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~ IVA 010|NDI                                                 ><-E             MtlDYPR,                  A  
Kioet,                                82 540                                                                                          a6 C5 00BRA  
r_  ,                                              ,                                               .                                             M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~':l l'T



