Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 23713
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-25600)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 14.2 MILLION (US$20.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
FOR A
HIGHER EDUCATION PROJECT
June 19, 2002
Human Development Sector Unit
Nepal Country Unit
South Asia Region
IThisdcu{{iment has a restnricted distribuiotin andf may be used by r'ecipients only in the pe.rformance of the^ir



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 2002)
Currency Unit = Nepalese Rupees (NRs.)
NRs.78.60 = US$ 1.00
US$ 0.0127 = NRs. 1.00
FISCAL YEAR
July 16 - July 15
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CERID         Center for Educational Research, Innovation and
Development
COE           Controller of Examinations
CMC           Campus Management Committee
EMIS          Educational Management Information System
HEP           Higher Education Project
HMGN          His Majesty's Government of Nepal
HSEB          Higher Secondary Education Board
ICB           Intemational Competitive Bidding
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
IDA           International Development Association
MM Campus     Mahendra Morang Campus, Biratnagar
MOEC          Ministry of Education and Culture
MOES          Ministry of Education and Sports
MTR           Mid-Term Review
NCB           National Competitive Bidding
PCL           Proficiency Certificate Level
PIU           Project Implementation Unit
PIF           Policy Implementation Fund
PN Campus     Prithvi Narayan Campus, Phokhara
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
SDR           Special Drawing Rights
SSAIU         School Support Activities Implementation Unit
SLC           School Leaving Certificate
TU            Tribhuvan University
UNDP          United Nations Development Program
WDR           Westem Development Region
Vice President:  Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:  Kenichi Ohashi
Sector Director/Sector Manager:  Charles C. Griffin/Michelle Riboud
Team Leader/Task Team Leader:    Grant Sinclair/Rajendra Dhoj Joshi



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NEPAL
HIGHER EDUCATION PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                          1.
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                         1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry               1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                  4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                   11
6. Sustainability                                                                       13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                        14
8. Lessons Learned                                                                      15
9. Partner Comments                                                                     16
10. Additional Information                                                              16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                    17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                   20
Annex 3.- Economic Costs and Benefits                                                   22
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                    23
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                    25
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                       26
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                   27
Annex 8. HMG - MOES, Tribhuvan University: Implementation Completion Comment            28
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the perfOrmance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.



Project ID: P0 10454                                    Project Name: HIGHER EDUCATION PROJECT
Ta Leader: Grant G. Sinclair                         TL Unit: SASHD
I[R Type: Core ICR                                      Report Date: June 20, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: HIGHER EDUCATION PROJECT                     L/C/TFNumber: IDA-25600
Country/Department: NEPAL                                              Region: South Asia Regional
Office
Sector/subsector: ET - Tertiary Education
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   03/13/1992                            Effective: 05/12/1994        05/12/1994
Appraisal:  04/23/1993                              MTR: 02/19/1998           02/19/1998
Approval:  12/21/1993                             Closing: 06/30/2000         11/30/2001
.Borrower/lImplementing Agency: MIN OF EDU. & SPORTS/TRIBHUVAN UNIVERSITY
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:      Mieko Nishimizu                         Joseph Wood
Country Manager:     Kenichi Ohashi                           Jochen Kraske
Sector Manager:      Charles C. Griffin                       Martin Karcher
Team Leader at ICR:  Grant G. Sinclair                        Grant G. Sinclair
ICR Primary Author:  Rajendra Dhoj Joshi; Pushkar
Bajracharya
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS= Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                       S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
Tribhuvan University (TU) was established in 1959 as the first and only institution in the country chartered
to award higher education degrees. By 1992 it grew into an institution with enrolment of over 150,000
students (including affiliated campuses) making it one of the largest universities in the world. The size of



student enrolment as well as the staff made TU a politically significant entity. Consequently, the
government was not keen to introduce reforms that could alienate students. The failure to introduce timely
reforms in TU for a long period of time made its policies and management paradigms thoroughly outdated,
and its academic environment decline. The characteristic features of the environment in TU, which
accounted for over 95% of the Nepal's enrolment in higher education during the preparation of the project
were: (a) runaway enrolment growth; (b) chronic under-financing, very low levels of intemal resource
mobilization, and a high proportion of expenditures on salaries; (c) provision of secondary level education
in a tertiary-level system; (d) a highly centralized and unwieldy management structure; (e) outdated
curricula; and (f) poor physical condition of facilities, chronic equipment shortages, and very limited
maintenance. This environment resulted in low internal efficiency and poor quality of graduates. Given the
gravity of problems, resources and knowledge base required for undertaking reforms in TU, the
Government, after the restoration of democracy in 1990, sought external support for the initiation of
reforms. This project was essentially IDA's response to the wishes of the HMG of Nepal to initiate long
overdue reforms in TU with a view to help higher education achieve its mission and, consequently, help
Nepal meet its development aspirations.
As a part of preparation of this project the Government formulated the following policy objectives to guide
reforms in higher education: (a) regulating enrolment growth; (b) improving resource utilization and
mobilization; (c) preparing for higher secondary education reform; (d) improving the organization, planning
and management capacity of TU; (e) improving quality, utility and responsiveness of higher education and
(f) imnproving and maintaining physical facilities.
The objective of the project as envisioned in the DCA was "to enhance capabilities and improve facilities
of, and upgrade instructional delivery in higher education in Nepal". According to the SAR, the project was
aimed at systemic changes in the administrative, financial, and management processes of the university, and
making such reforms feasible by improving physical facilities at a limited number of key University
campuses. The SAR recognized that implementation of the proposed policy reforms would be a long-term
process and it was decided to phase implemnentation by way of sequential project support. In this sense the
underlying focus of the project was to test the responsiveness of the system to reforms rather than
accomplishing a given set of reforms. This cautious approach towards reforms was wise because success in
implementation of reforms depended as much on broad social acceptance of the reform agenda as on the
appropriateness of the reform agenda itself.
Project Status Reports (PSRs) of the Higher Education Project (HEP) refer to project components, which
were: (a) institutional development; (b) facilities improvement; (c) instructional delivery and assessment;
and (d) preparation of higher secondary education reform, as development objectives of the project, while
aide memoires indicate that supervision missions mainly focused on policy objectives for monitoring project
achievements. This practice made sense because the project components were designed to facilitate the
policy reforms in higher education that the government had articulated.
3.2 Revised Objective:
No changes were made in the development objectives during the implementation period.
3.3 Original Components:
The project components were:
(a)  assisting institutional development with particular emphasis on provision of a management
information system, decentralization of management authority and strengthening of
- 2 -



campus-level management;
(b)  improving selected facilities (particularly libraries and laboratories), at three key campuses and.
develop institutional maintenance capacity;
(c)  improving instructional delivery and rationalization of student examination system; and
(d)  assisting Ministry of Education and Culture to prepare for higher secondary education reform.
3.4 Revised Components:
With one major exception, project components remained largely unchanged. Initially, the project supported
establishment of two clusters - one each in the eastern and western region. These clusters were to have a
single lead campus and up to seven satellite campuses each. However, during implementation the
Government decided to establish two new universities in each of these regions and the cluster
sub-component had to be changed. The Policy Implementation Fund (PIEF) - initially a small
sub-component aimed at enhancing institutional innovation through small block grants - was expanded,
and 24 campuses took advantage of these grants. The PIEF grants not only allowed campuses to address
needed improvements to the physical plant, but accelerated acceptance of greater autonomy from TU and
responsibility for cost recovery at the individual campus level.
3.S Quality at Entry:
The preparation of the HEP was preceded by the UNDP-sponsored and World Bank-managed Tertiary
Education Project, which commissioned a series of studies on decentralization, financing, rationalization,
manpower planning, scholarships and fee waivers, physical facilities and education reforns, all aimed at
improving the knowledge of and reforms in the sector. This provided a solid foundation for project
preparation and subsequent implementation. IDA's involvement in four other projects within the TU prior
to this project, including the Institute of Engineering and the Institute of Agricultural and Animal Sciences,
were also of great help in project preparation and implementation. Nevertheless, the design of the HEP did
pose a formidable challenge because this project dealt with the more problematic and larger part of the
university as opposed to the earlier projects which had catered to small, relatively well-organized and
-fun,ded faculties. While formulating the project, important lessons concerning deficiencies in project
management, implementation, maintenance and sustainability were taken into account. These included
lessons from past and on-going projects in engineering and agricultural education, as well as experiences
with IDA-financed higher education projects elsewhere. Project objectives were defined to the best possible
extent given the understanding of challenges and the situation in higher education and directed towards
building capacity to produce quality human resources. Development objectives were in line with social
priorities and educational plans of the Government. They were in harmony with the broad policy objectives
articulated by the Government to guide the reform and therefore were appropriate to the problems of higher
education in Nepal. The HEP fit well with one of the four main areas of focus of IDA's Country Assistance
Strategy - population and human resource development.
Moreover, instead of adopting a 'quick fix' approach, project design aimed at obtaining feedback on the
responsiveness of the system to the reforms being introduced. By emphasizing implementation of policies
rather than adherence to a set of strictly defined components, the design provided the flexibility needed to
meet the challenges presented over the seven year implementation period. The development and ultimate
success of the Policy Implementation Fund (PIF) is but one example of the adaptability of this strong
project design.
Though some components were modified to better respond to the dynamics of the reform and the evolving
situation at Tribhuvan University, the basic project design, with its emphasis on implementing policies,
remained valid throughout. Quality at entry is rated satisfactory.
-3-



4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project was aimed at systemic changes in the administrative, financial, and management processes of
the university, thus paving the way for systemic reforms in higher education. The project achieved its
objectives satisfactorily by helping TU (including powerful faculty and student unions) intemalize the need
for initiating reforms with far-reaching implications, such as introduction of block-grant funding and
courses based on full cost recovery.
The project components were designed to support six key policy objectives for reform in higher education.
Achievement of project objectives is assessed based on the contribution of the project toward the
implementation of each policy.
The rapid growth of both enrollment and number of campuses had exceeded both the physical and
academic capacities of the TU and was one of the major concems prior to the project. TU succeeded in
regulating enrollment growth (in spite of the initial strong protest from students) through a variety of
measures, including limiting enrollment to the capacity of each campus and department, introducing
merit-based entrance examinations for all university-level programs, and regulating new campus
affiliations. The achievement of this policy objective is rated satisfactory.
Despite rapid enrolment growth, the share going to higher education had declined over the years - from 35
percent of the total education budget in 1976 to only 21 percent in 1991. This, coupled with failure to
recover costs, resulted in serious under-funding of higher education and, in particular non-salary recurrent
costs. The project was to improve resource utilization and mobilization by increasing private responsibility
for tuition and other fees, outlining policies to cover cost recovery and income generation, and privatizing
TU service units. Except for the last of these, the policy was successfully implemented. A drastic increase
in examination fees by the central administration in 1997 resulted in full recovery of examination costs.
Cost recovery from student fees also increased from 7 percent at the start of the HEP to 24 percent in 1999,
then dropped to 15 percent after a significant salary hike in 2000. In the late 1990s, cost recovery policies
were articulated and a block-grant system was introduced to stimulate cost recovery. The introduction of
new programs with high market demand on a full cost recovery basis is a firm indication of TU's resolve to
improve cost recovery. The HEP, together with the Engineering Education Project, (another IDA-financed
project supporting TU), was able to transform social attitudes toward cost recovery in public education
institutions. Decentralization of authority enabled campuses to retain the resources they generated, creating
a sound basis for better utilization of resources. In this context the contribution of the project to improve
resource utilization and mobilization is rated highly satisfactory.
At the beginning of the project, around 56% of TU enrolment comprised Proficiency Certificate Level
(PCL) - equivalent to higher secondary grade 11 and 12 - students. While the proportion of PCL students
has dropped a little (to around 45%), other significant measures were taken to strengthen the final two
years of secondary education and thus pave the way for full delineation of a three-tiered education system.
For one thing, the project helped the Higher Secondary Education Board (HSEB) improve the quality of
higher secondary through curriculum revision, teaching materials development, teacher orientation,
strengthening of the examination system and the preparation of a plan for transferring proficiency level
students to HSEB. HSEB, which accounted for less than 3% of all upper secondary enrollment prior to the
project (or about 1,400), now accounts for over 50% (around 80,000). The project also improved the
physical facilities of 11 public secondary schools (against the original target of 10) in an effort to establish
a framework for upgrading public secondary schools into fully fumished higher secondary schools. Based
- 4 -



on the above-mentioned achievements, which were in part facilitated by the project, achievement of the
policy objective assisting higher secondary education reform is rated satisfactory.
Prior to the project, size and extensive coverage of TU made it almost ungovemable. Over-centralization
of authority in TU inhibited initiative in the individual faculties, making the system very inefficient. The
project sought to enhance organizational effectiveness by strengthening policy planning and evaluation
fuactions at the center while decentralizing responsibility for managing the individual faculties and
campuses. In spite of broad acceptance of the principle of decentralization, the initiative was also
perceived as a ploy to privatize institutions and thus received little support initially. Eventually, the HEP
initiative was supported by a strong decentralization campaign launched by the Institute of Engineering
(finded by three IDA credits), and this facilitated the adoption by the TU Senate of the landmark
Decentralization Rules in 1998. In the final analysis, the pace at which decentralization (including the more
advanced block-grant phase) spread across the system was beyond both the scope of HEP objectives and
the most optimistic projections by TU authorities. Decentralization is the single most important and far
reaching achievement of the project. Though the goal of strengthening the central administration was only
partially realized the policy objective of improving the organization, planning, and management
capacity of TU is rated highly satisfactory, as the success in the decenntralization initiative far outweighes
the shortfalls in strengthening of central administration.
Within the project period, the Herculean task of introducing a Three-Year Bachelor's degree program in
five faculties comprising 386 courses was completed with inputs from the earlier UNDP project. Similarly,
allhough not envisaged in the project, all Master's degree programs of five faculties comprising 862
courses were revised and implemented. The examination system was improved through massive training of
the faculty in various aspects of examinations and computerization of the Controller of Examinations. The
examination processing time was significantly reduced. All this has helped to change the academic image of
TIJ. Based on the above, the policy objective of improving quality, utility and responsiveness of higher
education is rated satisfactory.
Under-funded for a long time, the physical facilities of TU were both dilapidated and inadequate in the
early 1990s. The project was to address these problems by providing facilities and equipment (primarily for
the Kirtipur Campus), developing maintenance plans for facilities and equipment, and establishing capacity
at the central level to plan and advise on future facility development and maintenance. Project inputs have
significantly improved physical facilities at Kirtipur Campus and -- to a lesser extent - at Prithvi Narayan
and Mahendra Morang Campuses (two major regional satellites). The Policy Improvement Fund (PIF)
Ptogram, which was matched by locally-mobilized resources, contributed to improving facilities and
eq[uipment in over 24 campuses. Although greater self-reliance in facilities acquisition and resource
recovery is likely to engender greater responsibility for facilities and equipment maintenance, the project
failed to significantly improve maintenance in TU. However, taking into consideration the significant
imlpact of the project in improving physical facilities in TU, the achievement of improving and
maintaining physical facilities is rated satisfactory.
4.2 Outputs by Components/Objectives:
A,.    Institutional Development:
Based on the significant contribution of this component towards making the higher education system
responsive to reform ideas, this component is rated highly satisfactory.
- 5-



Organizational Reform:
This sub-component is rated highly satisfactory as it contributed significantly to the overall project
objective of refoming higher education. A number of policy and other initiatives were taken to improve the
organization, planning and management capabilities and practices in TU system. The most notable of these
was adoption of the Decentralization Rules in 1998, which allowed campuses and research centers to
choose between a decentralized or a conventional system. In spite of initial resistance, the eventual
response to this decentralization initiative was so positive that 24 out of 45 campuses covered by the
project and all four research centers chose this option. Of these, five campuses have chosen the block-grant
option, which is an even more advanced stage of decentralization. The response to the decentralization
initiative was overwhelming in the case of the technical institutes as well, which were technically outside
the purview of the HEP. Now campuses are demanding an even greater degree of decentralization,
including academic decentralization. An example of a move in this direction is the introduction of a
four-year Bachelor's Degree Program in Business Administration at two campuses under their own
initiative. Following the implementation of the Decentralization Rules there is an increasing evidence of
change in the perception of stakeholders and particularly campus chiefs with regard to the promises of
decentralization. Decentralization has helped to inculcate newfound confidence in the campuses. It is
expected that decentralization will help to make campuses more sustainable and facilitate greater
mobilization of resources.
The Policy Implementation Fund (PIF) was conceived by the project as a tool for providing small
incentives of US$20,000 to US$50,000 for policy reforms to campuses not targeted for physical inputs
under the project. The individual grant amount was later increased to US$100,000 - 200,000 per campus.
While seemly negligible compared to the amounts targeted at Kirtipur and the two regional clusters, these
small grants were instrumental in spreading organizational reform throughout TU. Ironically, in terms of
facilitating reforms, the PIF seems to have paid off more than HEP's heavy inputs to Kirtipur and the
cluster campuses, indicating that appropriately targeted incentives can play a large role in promoting
reforms.
Decentralization, resource generation and phase out of proficiency level (PCL) programs were the main
policy focus areas of the PIF. Altogether 24 campuses benefited from the PIF. In broad terms, the tangible
outcomes of PIF were the introduction of the concept of stakeholder participation in management of
campuses through Campus Management and Development Committees, and the realization that the campus
level initiative for improvement of campuses makes a difference. Although levels of resource mobilization
differed from campus to campus, achievements in this respect were significant. Three campuses and
Faculty of Law managed to fully phase out PCL programs; others either decreased it or arrested its growth.
Following the Mid-Term Review (MTR) recommendations TU, with inputs from the HEP, prepared and its
Senate adopted a strategic vision and long-term plan for the TU. This was a significant step forward in
providing a road map for continuing reforms in TU.
Education Management Information System (EMIS)
This sub-component is rated marginally satisfactory. The EMIS was another important initiative under the
management improvement scheme. The EMIS was designed and installed at the Office of Controller of
Examinations (COE), Personnel Administration and Financial Administration divisions. The COE seems to
have benefited the most from the EMIS. Expansion of the EMIS to regional campuses and within Kirtipur
Campus was not accomplished.
-6 -



Regional Cluster Development
This sub-component is rated unsatisfactory in this ICR. According to the SAR, regional cluster
development was aimed at promoting greater decentralization of authority, and eventually autonomy, to
eastern and westem regional clusters. After long efforts this concept was abandoned in 1999. The
perceptions within TU about the reasons contributing to the failure of the cluster concept are diverse, and
include:
*   Introduction of the cluster concept without adequate acceptance by stakeholders, including
insufficient understanding of geographic, political and social factors, and rivalries between cluster
campuses.
*   Imposition from the top of a 'lead' campus without due consideration of the limitations of the
institutions so designated or the potential acceptance by the cluster or 'satellite' campuses.
*   Widely held perceptions that the establishment of Purbaanchal (Eastem Region) and Pokhara
(Western Region) Universities, although unfunded, made the cluster concept redundant.
*   Lack of clarity about the concept and its implications.
Akbandoning the cluster concept did not adversely influence outcomes of HEP, as the designated cluster
campuses were allowed to join the PIEF, and the limited inputs that were provided through the block
grants benefitted the cluster campuses. As a matter of fact, the spread of the PIF concept -- which had
wide acceptance - helped to speed up abandonment of the cluster concept without much controversy.
B.     Facilities Improvement
Overall achievement of this sub-component is rated satisfactory in view of the significant contribution that
it has made in upgrading facilities of 26 campuses of TU.
Maintenance Capacity Development
The sub-componenent is rated marginally unsatisfactory. The primary purpose of this sub-component was
to develop maintenance capacity in each of the three principal campuses - Kirtipur, Prithvi Narayan and
Mahendra Morang - through development of maintenance centers. As a consequence of abandoning the
cluster concept, maintenance capacity development was focused on Kirtipur only. A Physical Planning and
Development Unit (PPDU), Facility Management Office (FMO) and Center for Instrumentation Services
(CIS) were established in Kirtipur with a view to develop maintenance capacity. However, at the time of
this ICR, none of these units is operational. Weak commitment to routine maintenance is the apparent
reason these three units have failed to function as envisaged, although some TU officials feel that the units
do not fit into the overall organizational structure of Kirtipur and this prevented them from becoming
operational and effective. They believe that the project efforts have helped to raise general awareness in
TIJ about the importance of maintenance and note that many campuses are starting to operate maintenance
fiuds. One indication of such awareness improvement is the initiative of Patan Multiple Campus - one of
the participant campuses of PIEF - to develop a campus maintenance plan. This may be an indication of
increased realization of the importance of maintenance induced by decentralization.
Facilities Improvement
Overall achievement of this sub-component is rated highly satisfactory.
-7 -



Civil Works: The achievement in civil works is rated highly satisfactory. Physical facility improvements
were designed mainly for Kirtipur Campus and two other lead campuses, Prithvi Narayan (PN) Campus
and Mahenra Morang Campus in the Westem and Eastern Development Regions, respectively. Minor
facilities improvements were also financed through the PIF, cluster development sub-components, and the
higher secondary education component. The scope of civil works in clusters was reduced owing to the
abandomnent of the cluster concept.
Under PIF arrangements and the block-grant option, physical facilities in 24 TU Campuses have been
improved. Eleven Higher Secondary Schools were upgraded with the provision of laboratory buildings,
equipment and books. User reaction from Higher Secondary Schools and PIF campuses was found to be
positive (Site visits to PIF Campuses, Nepal Commerce Campus and Patan Campus and Project feedback).
All planned maintenance and new construction including laboratory buildings at PN Campus were
completed. All the facilities have been equipped and furnished as planned. Although most of the
construction was substantially completed within the contract periods, some contracts were delayed,
affecting the procurement and installation schedules of furniture and equipment, and necessitating an
extension of the Closing Date.
Along with the preparation of a master plan and maintenance of existing buildings, the following facilities
at the Kirtipur Campus were improved or extended: the Library, Controller of Examinations, Girls'
Hostel, Central Administration, Institute of Sciences, and Faculties of Humanities, Education and
Management. Although, the SAR accorded priority to expanding and upgrading science and library
facilities only, a wider construction program was made possible through diversion of some resources from
the Consultants and Fellowships Category to Works. The decision to expand the coverage of the
construction program was wise because it effectively broadened the project's constituency, which in turn,
helped to promote the reforms throughout the university. In fact, expansion of the civil works component
may have inadvertently helped create the Policy Implementation Committee, a powerful body comprised of
deans that came to play a crucial role in securing the success of HEP.
Consultant performance was generally satisfactory, with some problems noted concerning on-site
supervision - a factor that seems to have led to inconsistent quality of construction. However, except for
one block (Zoology, where the defects are being rectified), the quality of construction is satisfactory. Even
though some site development activities (such as construction of a by-pass road and a boundary wall) have
been achieved, lack of attention to minor ground and landscape improvement next to the complex of newly
refurbished academic buildings gives an air of incompleteness.
In a number of campuses PIF resources for civil works were supplemented by resources generated
internally.
Goods: Overall achievement in procurement of goods is rated satisfactory. Although the delayed building
schedule appears to have delayed the procurement of goods - equipment, fumiture and books - all the
planned equipment and furniture have been supplied and installed. The awards of a few bids were cancelled
towards the end of the project to avoid delays and/or cost overruns. PCU perfornance in procurement of
equipment, preparation of specifications, bidding and award processes, and installation management was
satisfactory despite intermittent delays.
Except for shortfalls in maintenance capacity development, the implementation of the physical facilities
components - as designed or as they evolved over the project period -- has been satisfactory. These
-8 -



physical outputs should enable achievement of other educational and management policy objectives.
Routine maintenance is likely to improve as a result of decentralization initiatives.
C.     Instructional Delivery and Assessment
The achievement of this component is rated highly satisfactory.
Examinations
The achievement of this sub-component is rated satisfactory. HEP inputs for improving the examination
system included construction of a new building, provision of equipment including computers, staff training
and commissioning of EMIS. All these activities were accomplished as planned. These inputs have helped
the COE to conduct examinations more efficiently, reducing the time taken to declare results as well as
improving the quality of examinations.
Curriculum Development and Textbook Revision
The achievement of this sub-component is rated highly satisfactory. The HEP complemented the
UNDP-supported Tertiary Education Project in curriculum development for the three-year Bachelor's
Degree programs. It supported core activities necessary for implementation of these programs such as
teacher orientation and procurement of equipment, textbooks, and reference materials. In addition, the HEP
provided support for preparation of instructional manuals for 76 courses and question item banks for 6
courses.
The implementation of Three-Year Bachelor's degree programs took place amid great scepticism.
However, it was a great leap forward for a resource-starved and institutionally stagnant university. This
would have hardly been possible without HEP support.
Conmmensurate with the Three-Year Bachelor's level curriculum, a new Master's level curriculum was
designed and implemented in faculties of Humanities and Social Sciences, Management, Education, Law,
and Institute of Science and Technology. The curriculum was disseminated and teachers/instructors were
also oriented to the new curriculum. While developing curricula, the market needs, global trends and
quality upgrading were taken into account. It has helped to standardize the Master's programs with similar
programs in other countries.
TU has taken notable initiatives to formulate market-oriented courses in order to be responsive to changing
market situations. Examples of such courses are Bachelor's Degree programs in Computer Applications,
Library Science, Business Administration, Information Technology, Information Management and Rural
Development, and Master's degree programs in Computer Applications, Food Technology, Environmental
Science, and Rural Development. These developments -- though not anticipated under HEP - resulted from
the reform process and are an indication of enhanced responsiveness to market needs.
D.     Preparation for Higher Secondary Education Reform
This component is rated satisfactory. The Higher Secondary Education Act had been promulgated in 1989
with an objective of phasing out Proficiency Certificate Level (PCL) programs from universities to the
Higher Secondary Education Board (HSEB), then known as the Council for Higher Secondary Education
(CHISE). Due to the lack of adequate conceptualization, this phase-out plan did not proceed as planned.
The parallel delivery of the higher secondary level program and lack of progress in developing higher
-9-



secondary education programs in public or community institutions/schools created significant confusion in
the education system. The objective of this component was limited in that it aimed at finding a pragmatic
approach for phasing-out PCL programs, rather than phasing-out a finite portion of PCL enrolments from
TU.
Support for upgrading of 10 secondary schools by adding higher secondary classes, refurbishing two
satellite campuses within clusters that would receive PCL students exclusively, and providing instructional
materials and equipment for higher secondary schools were the specific activities designed to test
approaches for PCL phase-out.
HEP successfully supported 11 public secondary schools (against the SAR target of 10 and the revised
MTR target of 60) either upgrading to higher secondary level or strengthening/expanding of higher
secondary programs through civil works, books, computers and, in some cases, equipment. In retrospect,
the MTR target of upgrading 60 schools was overly-optimistic in the context of the recurring management
problems in the HSEB. The following valuable lessons were learned through this exercise:
* Compared with urban areas, upgrading secondary schools in rural areas was a more promising
approach to phasing out PCL programs from university campuses.
* Creating stand-alone higher secondary schools (containing grades 11 and 12) is a less sustainable
approach from both financial and academic perspectives than integrating all secondary grades into a
single institution. Consequently, modalities for system-wide integration at the secondary level and the
transfer of management of higher secondary education to the Department of Education needs to be
developed.
* Defining a realistic funding framework for public secondary schools offering higher secondary
grades (or "+2 programs") is a prerequisite for successful PCL phase-out.
Refurbishing of two satellite campuses and supply of instructional materials and equipment to six higher
secondary schools was accomplshed as planned.
With a view to support phasing-out of PCL programs in 1994, the HEP supported preparation of a
Transition Plan and, in 1999 preparation of micro-plans. The Transition Plan remained largely unused,
whereas the micro-plans were partially used to identify the 11 schools subsequently upgraded.
Other important project contributions in support of higher secondary education reform were:
* Assistance to HSEB in curriculum revision, teaching materials development, teacher orientation in
revised curriculum and training in examination procedures. These inputs seem to have contributed
toward expansion of HSEB.
* The drive for phase-out/stabilization of PCL programs through PIF.
* A TU policy of not affiliating new PCL campuses or programs.
The implementation of this component had to overcome a lot of. difficulties associated with student
resentment, management difficulties in the HSEB, inconsistency with respect to Government support for
higher secondary education reform and, at times, strained relations between the HSEB and TU.
E.     Unanticipated Project Results
Although the main targets for physical improvement under REP were the science. programs, the library at
Kirtipur, and the lead campuses of the two clusters, the project ultimately provided assistance well beyond
this limited scope to 23 other campuses as well as to the faculties of education, management, law and
- 10 -



humanities, and social sciences at Kirtipur. This expanded upgrading program provided incentives for
additional stakeholders to support the reforms and added considerable impetus to the pace of reform. Other
substantive achievements not anticipated at Appraisal (in terms of widespread adoption of controversial
policies or enhanced pace of reform) are summarized below:
* The gradual but steady transformation of social attitudes toward acceptance of cost recovery in
public institutions, making acceptable even full cost recovery with respect to programs with high
market demand. Though the credit for introducing this concept goes to the Institute of Engineering, the
HEP played an important role in spreading acceptance across the entire university community.
* The rapid acceptance of the concept and pace of decentralization of individual institutions once
concems about ulterior motives were overcome and the PIF was in place to provide some incentives.
* The potency of the PIF concept, which proved even more effective than originally visualized and
greatly contributed to enhanced generation of campus-level reform initiatives.
* The preparation of a strategic vision and plan for guiding future reforms in TU.
4.2 Outputs by components:
n.a.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
n.a.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
n.a.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact of the project is rated as substantial. The most important achievement
is die adoption of the Decentralization Rules in 1998, and the speedy implementation thereof.
lmplementation of the Decentralization Rules entailed a change in the management culture of TU from an
organization managed from the central office to an organization that recognizes the role of campuses in
management, and which seeks active participation of stakeholders in its management. Although the process
of this transformation is far from complete, the decentralization initiative has already generated significant
dividends. Local initiatives for campus development include campus improvement plans, local resource
mobilization, and the offering of new market-driven academic programs. Initiatives for local resource
generation, which are TU-wide, is expected to continue to improve the financial sustainability of TU.
The project helped to transform TU from an institution that shied away from reforms to an institution
which is ready and willing to promote further reforms. The decentralization initiative made a key
contribution toward this transformatioii. Rather than sticking to past practice of attempting university-wide
reforms in a "one size fits all" approach -- which had proven counter productive owing to the heterogeneity
of T)U campuses -- decentrlization sparked initiatives and involvement by allowing individual reforms to
take place at the level of the individual campus in a form and at a pace that fit local capacity.
5. lMajor Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
HEP implementation began in 1994, and implementation during the first year was relatively smooth.
However, beginning with the election of a hung parliament in 1995 and for the next four years, HEP
operated in an environment of political instability and frequent changes of government, which made
implementation of the reform agenda much more difficult, with consistent political support hard to come
by. The project was also affected by political infighting within TU and frequent changes in management of
-11 -



HSEB. Political turmoil within the institution and the country partly explains the delay in initiating
reforms. Overall, the political atmosphere during implementation was not conducive to consensus building
and adoption of a reform agenda, which makes the significant gains made under the project even more
impressive.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The project had no problem getting counterpart funding from HBMG of Nepal. Other actions, however,
taken or not taken by the Government, had an impact on the pace of implementation and the ultimate
reform outcomes. Government's decision to establish Purbaanchal and Pokhara universities was
inconsistent with the cluster concept supported under the project and contributed to the sad demise of this
concept. Because of the large size and national scope of the TU system, certain elements of the project's
reform agenda - like PCL phase-out, cost recovery improvement, and regulation of enrolment growth -
had serious political implications nationwide and required committed support of Government.
HEP-supported reforms were facilitated by the fact that they were consonant with the national framework
for higher education reform enunciated in the Ninth Five-Year Plan and the recommendations of the High
Level National Education Commission, 1999. Nevertheless, the lack of tangible Government support to the
TU throughout implementation hampered widespread adoption of some of the more far reaching reforms.
5 3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Although the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) experienced initial turnover of key staff, subsequent
continuity and strong commitment of project staff was a major factor contributing to HEP's success. On
balance, the technical assistance to support project implementation was effective and effectively utilized.
While disagreement over the selection of the EMIS consultant somewhat delayed implementation of that
component, HEP implementation overall benefited from availability of in-house project management
specialists throughout the majority of the implementation period. Another helpful factor was being able to
draw upon experience of implementing reforms under the IDA-supported Engineering Education Project.
Finally, the project benefited from close cooperation among key university executives and valuable support
from the Consultative Committee comprising senior TU faculty. The formation of a Policy Implementation
Committee following the MTR contributed significantly to project success by rallying the crucial support
of Deans. As noted elsewhere, their support was facilitated when the scope for improving physical
facilities was broadened to include minor improvements to their faculties.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The project, estimated at US$23.1 million, was to be financed through a US$20 million IDA credit and a
US$3.1 million equivalent allocation from HMG of Nepal. In 2000, US$1.6 million of the IDA credit was
cancelled because of slow disbursement. When the disbursement later picked up unexpectedly because of
financial pressure, one equipment bid had to be cancelled and other contracts scaled down. The credit in
US$ equivalent also decreased substantially due to the appreciation of US$ against SDR. At the time of
writing the ICR, total disbursement stood at US$16.97 million, which left about US$0.31 million of the
credit unutilised. Total project costs were estimated at US$ 19.52 million.
- 12-



6. Sustainability
6.1 'ationale for sustainability rating:
Project sustainability has been rated as likely even though the maintenance component failed to take hold,
because additional resources for operation and maintenance of facilities are likely to become available as
cost recovery improves and the full impact of decentralization (including responsibility for maintaining
assets) is understood. Enhanced potential for cost recovery is associated with: (a) better physical facilities,
especially up-to-date laboratory equipment; (b) improvement of management capabilities; (c) improved
curricula that is more responsive to the market needs; (d) the move towards enrolment that is consistent
with capacity; and (e) the drive to introduce market-driven courses. Sustainability could be at risk if
Government continues to cut back funding to higher education willy-nilly, in absence of sound funding
criteria. In fiscal year 2001/02, the share of the public education budget going to tertiary education
exclusively (excluding PCL programs), was only around 8 percent.
The reforms introduced with support from the HEP are likely to be sustained because they evolved through
extensive dialogue with the stakeholders and backed by national policies. However, the needed reforms in
higher education are far from complete. Without deepening and widening these first level HEP reforms, it
is unlikely that the mission of developing Tribhuvan University into a university of intemational repute
capable of supporting national aspirations for building a prosperous Nepal will be accomplished. To
pursue further the reforms that the project helped initiate, a commensurate level of investment in higher
education would be required. Moreover, investments needed to develop an infrastructure befitting a
university of repute are still substantial, and a major infusion of resources is required due to the fact that
ovemll physical facilities have been neglected for so long. These needs were clearly identified in the SAR.
Further investments in higher education (including TU) combined with focus on asset management,
utilization, and periodic maintenance could continue to foster long-term reform in the tertiary education
sub-sector. Additional initiatives that TU in particular needs to fully exploit include the benefits derived
from HEP-supported investment pertaining to raising the level of staff commitment to the vision of the
institution, enhancing the academic and professional qualifications of staff, ensuring supremacy of
acad-mic values over political values, and supporting further decentralization and delegation within the
individual faculties.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The project was not involved in the regular operations of the university. HEP's role was managing specific
project investments and creating an enabling environment for reforms through these investments. All key
project staff were regular TU staff on deputation to the project. Experiences gained through implementation
will be retained in TU and are likely to be adequate for sustaining the reform initiatives facilitated by HEP.
All investments in PIF campuses, except for equipment procurement, were managed by regular campus
administration, as the cost of investments in these campuses was relatively small. Nevertheless, the
enhanced management capacity developed through decentralization reforms should assist in maintaining the
imprDvement in regular operations for each of the campuses affected.
Kirti,pur Campus, the apex campus that also received the lion's share of project investment, benefited least
from decentralization reformns. Hence, enhancement of management capacity in Kirtipur campus is
moderate. Further rationalization of management of the Kirtipur Campus will be key in fully utilizing the
- 13 -



potential of the project investments.
The main challenge in transitioning to regular operations is assuring a continued flow of resources to
maintain the infrastructure developed under the project. As explained in Section 6. 1, TU is likely to be able
to generate the required resources intemally. Given this, transition to regular operation is not likely to pose
a problem.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. 1 Lending:
The project concept was developed by TU faculty with assistance from the Bank staff and fully owned by
TU. The Bank was effective in project preparation and the project was prepared and financed over a 15
month period. In retrospect, the cluster concept and decision to focus most of project investments on the
science programs in Kirtipur were not in consonance with the objective of major reform at the tertiary level.
Such apparent errors of project design are understandable given that this was the first attempt at
university-wide systemic reform in Nepal and there were scant experiences to guide such a complex
venture. In all events, this initial weakness in the project concept was later redressed through development
of and enhancements to the all-important block grant program, or PIF. In order to complete all activities,
the project needed two extensions of one year and five months, respectively. Extensions were due in large
part to the turbulent political atmosphere during the bulk of implementation.
7.2 Supervision:
Bi-annual supervision by the IDA was thorough and effective. Supervision was facilitated by the excellent
relationship between the borrower and the IDA supervision team. Supervision became more frequent at a
later stage in project implementation and was matched by effective inputs from IDA country staff.
Continuity of the Task Team Leader throughout the project was unusual and also greatly assisted
implementation of the project. On a few occasions delays in procurement review by IDA affected project
implementation, but this was eventually addressed in a satisfactory manner.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Overall Bank performance was satisfactory. Bank performance was greatly enhanced by the ability to
make use of the rich experience of TU faculty. The ability to mnake quick but measured responses to
challenges and changing circumstances was remarkable in the IDA supervision team. The IDA team played
an important role in the satisfactory completion of the higher secondary component of the project in spite of
persistent problems in TU and HSEB. Finally, the Bank's decision to grant two extensions came at critical
junctures in the final stages of implementation. Without these extensions, successful completion of the
project would not have been possible.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The UNDP-funded, IDA-managed Tertiary Education Project made a substantial contribution to the
preparation of the project. Nearly all studies for the Tertiary Education Project were conducted by TU
staff. Similarly, the contribution of TU staff in preparation of the project was significant. Overall the
performance of the borrower in preparation of the project was highly satisfactory.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government was generally supportive of the project and made important contributions by deputizing
its representatives to the Project Board and always providing adequate counterpart funding for the project.
- 14 -



G;ovemment's decision to establish universities in the eastem and westem regions was unanticipated and
inconsistent with the project design; it necessitated substantial accommodations in implementation,
including abandonment of the cluster concept. Govermment failure to take the initiative in supporting
higher secondary education reform slowed both implementation and the uptake of reform. Govermnent's
political contribution to furthering the reform agenda in general was rather limited - owing possibly to the
autonomous status of TU or to the significant intemal turmoil within the Government itself . On balance,
however, the Govemment's implementation performance was satisfactory.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
1'ribhuvan University was the implementing agency for the project. The Project Coordination Unit (PCU)
implemented the project on behalf of TU. The PCU was assisted by the Project Board, which included
representatives from the Govermment, the Consultative Committee and Policy Implementation Committee.
The initial relationship between the PCU and TU central administration was problematic. Later, however,
TU administration became closely involved in the project and provided crucial. support for the eventual
success of the project. Overall project management by the PCU was satisfactory, particularly after
extemal support for systematizing the project accounts was provided. The satisfactory performance of the
PCU - evaluated in the context of the difficult and complex environment faced - was in significant
measure due to the commitment of the PCU staff.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The project benefited from all three teams of key university executives, who were entrusted with
management of the TU system. All three Vice Chancellors were positive towards the project. The present
Rector, who was involved in the project from the preparation stage to completion, together with a host of
other faculty, ensured commitment and continuity for the project. The Borrower was able to significantly
imnprove implementation at the latter period of the project leading to its successful completion and closure.
8. Lessons Learned
d. 1 Govemment establishment of two new universities and consequent failure of the cluster concept,
which had been quite central to the overall higher education reform strategy, was unexpected. The HEP
was able to shelve the concept and adapt without appreciable damage to the Development Objectives
because of timely enhancement of the block grant system under PIF. This demonstrated two things.
Firstly, projects of high complexity -- such as university reform - are unlikely to capture all the intricacies
cf the system or anticipate every eventuality, no matter how well prepared or designed the investments.
E'roject implementers and supervisors should be able to make the necessary adjustments to project design
with the support of IDA management and Government. Secondly, in highly complex and reform-oriented
projects, it is better to link the achievement of Development Objectives to the implementation of policy
reforms rather than to a specific set of predetermined activities.
8..2 Policy reforms in higher education have serious socio-political implications. At the beginning of
the project, many did not believe that the objectives of decentralization and cost recovery were achievable
in the then prevailing political environment. These objectives also generated a lot of suspicion from the
stakeholders, who questioned their motivation. Only through extensive and sustained dialogue with
stakeholders was the HEP able to convince stakeholders that these policy objectives were actually in their
interest. Experience with the Regional Cluster sub-component demonstrates what can happen without wide
social acceptance. The lesson is that profound systemic reform needs to evolve in an atmosphere of patient
discourse with and broad dialogue among all stakeholders. In young democracies such as Nepal, where
consensus-building is difficult, it is especially important to incorporate extensive public dialogue into
project design, in order to enhance the role of citizen participation in the design of local institutions.
- 15.



8.3 Cost recovery and decentralization initiatives in TU became successful largely due to incentives
provided to the campuses in terms of retention of resources generated internally and grant funds from the
PIF. This demonstrates that appropriate incentives can make a significant difference when promoting
reforms in higher education systems. Incentives surpass complex and well resourced plans in achieving the
goals and objectives of reform oriented projects.
8.4  Higher education policy reform is a long-term process that needs continued support over a protracted
period. Interruptions of support mid-way in reform process can obstruct the full mobilization and use of
benefits acruing from the reforms already implemented. The Government has not yet been able to mobilize
necessary resources to support further reforms in higher education. Considering the significant potential
of reform initiatives facilitied under the project and non-involvement of other donors in this sub-sector, IDA
should be open to a Govemment request for assistance to higher education.
8.S  The project improved cost recovery in TU, but these gains have been offset by the unexpected and
unplanned cutback of Government support. Continuing decline in Government allocations to higher
education may even erode the gains made by the project and undermine. the sustainability of the quality
enhancements resulting from improvements to cost recovery. The failure to stabilize funding levels is due
to lack of agreement between TU and the Government on funding principles. Therefore, in order for cost
recovery initiatives to produce sustainable improvements in the quality of education programs, they must be
accompanied by a strong committment for continued public support.
8.6  Donor assistance to the education sector, which constitutes a lion's share of the development budget,
has been guided by sub-sector considerations rather than by holistic sector-wide considerations. As a result
allocation of resources between the sub-sectors has been strongly influenced by donor assistance. For
example, the current unacceptably low share of higher education in public expenditure for education is a
result of increased interest of donors in primary and secondary education, but little interest in higher
education. Earlier the Government was able to maintain the share of higher education in the public
expenditure for education at around the Government target largely due to IDA assistance to higher
education. To avoid distortion of allocations between the sub-sectors it would be desirable to reach a broad
understanding on sectoral allocations between the Government and donors.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Borrower's comments to the Draft Implementation Completion Report (ICR) have been incorporated.
The Tribhuvan University has communicated to us that they do not have further comments. The Borrower's
ICR is presented in Annex 8.
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
Kathryn T. Johnston, Senior Education Specialist (EASHD), contributed to this report as Peer Reviewer.
- 16 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
*     6W      nI     I              's'g''irq.
;--  .lndloatorlMaijlx  - -    -   r6ijiT  n    apt PSR .                    u- A-' u'eiLMtestEstrnateL ,
Regulafton of enrolment growth        Yes
Umiting enrolment to the capadty                                          Enrolment capacity defined by Planning
Division. Actual enrolment in 2000 was
around 127,000 (excluding affiliated
campuses) whereas the SAR projecton for
the same year, without intervention, was
Devising measures to enrol students on                                   around 337,000.
merit basis                                                                  Entrance examinatons introduced for all
Bacheloes and Masters level programs, and
RegulaUng new campus affilitons                                          some proficiency cerificate level programs.
Permanent affiliation criteria published.
Improving resource ulzation and        Yes                                   De-affiliation of Proficiency Certificate
mobilnraton                                                                  Level-only campuses ongoing. New
affiliations severely restricted.
Developing policies for cost recovery and
income generation                                                            High Level National Educaton Commission
1998 arliculated policies for cost recovery.
Block grant system introduced to stimulate
Privatising service units within TU                                        cost recovery.
Umited progress during project period, e.g.,
Increasing private responsiblity for tuiton                              food services.
and other fees
Cost recovery in examinatons improved to
beyond 100%. Overall cost recovery
improved to 24% from 7% at the beginning of
the project. All new programs being
introduced as full cost recovery programs.
Cost recovery concept has become socially
acceptable.
Preparation for higher secondary education  Yes                              Significant expansion of higher secondary
refomm                                                                       education program. HSEB accounts for over
50% of the PCL/HSE level enrolment in 2001
compared to less than 3% before the project.
Improving the organization, planning and  Yes
management capacity of TU
Increasing organizatonal effectiveness                                    Implementaton of Decentralizaton Rules
through decentralizing managerial                                            1998 in 25 campuses out of 45 within the
responsibility                                                               purview of HEP and all 4 research centers
have improved organizatonal efficiency. Five
campuses and four research centers have
moved to block grant funding.
Strengthening central administration to                                   Establishment of Planning Council,
perform policy planning and evaluation                                       commissioning of EMIS, and preparation of
functions                                                                    Twenty-Year Vision and Strategic Plan have
enhanced capacity of central administration.
Improving quality, uility and responsiveness Yes
of higher education                                                          Three-year Bachelors degree programs
Establishing three-year Bachelors                                         introduced. All Masteres degree programs
degree programs                                                              revised. Four-year Bachelors degree
program In Business Administratfon started.
Quality of examinations improved,
- 17 -



Improving examination system                                          examination results processing time reduced.
Improving and maintaining physical facilities Yes
Rectfying serious facilities and
equipment deficiencies                                                    Significant upgrading of physical facilites
and equipment In Kirtipur Campus, moderate
improvement in PN and MMA campuses, and
some improvements In other 22 campuses.
Developing maintenance plans for                                       Maintenance plan developed for Patan
facilities and equipment                                                  Multple Campus.
Establishing the capacty in central                                    Not accomplished.
administration to plan and advise on future
facility development-and maintenance
Output Indicators:
Indlcator/Matrix.        |-Ii6W In las PSR -at.st Es-,
___________________________  rru5eciaa  PSR         .        ~~~~~~~~~  ~~AciuallLatI' Etimat"e'
Institutional Development            No
Organizational reform:
(a) studies related to organizational                                  (a) Accomplished
structure, decentralization                                               (b) accmplished
(b) managerial staff training                                          (c) artila  m   s
(c) improving capacity to process
information                                                               (d) accomplished
(d) developing staff performance
standards                                                                 (e) PIF implementation was more successful
(e) introducing PIF to stimulate                                        than envisioned. Twenty-four out of 45
self-reliance, resource mobirizaton and                                    campuses within the purview of HEP
improvements in campus operation                                           partcpated In the PIF program.
EMIS Introduced in Contr6l1er of
Educational management information                                         Examinafions Office and Central
system: EMIS establishment in Ksipur and                                   Administration In Kirtfpur as planned.
at least two regional campuses                                             Benefits frfmm EMIS were signiflcant In the
COE Office. EMIS not introduced in regional
campuses.
Regional ctuster development: formation of                                 Regional dusters did not materialize though
two regional clusters                                                     the program contributed to some physical
facility development of cluster campuses.
Some of the regional duster campuses
converted to PIF campuses.
Facilites Improvement                No
Maintenance capacity development                                       Faculty Management Office and Centre for
workshops on preventive maintenance;                                       Instrumentaton Services established in
development of mainance centers at 3                                       K]rUpur. Both units are dose to
principal campuses; staff training;                                        non-functional. Maintenance centres were not
maintenance and testing equipment                                          developed in two other campuses.
Faclitis Improvement at Kirtipur                                       All planned facility improvement completed.
expansion and upgrading of scince and                                      Faality improvement in PIF campuses were
lbrary facilities; upgrading of humanities,                                superior to the original expectatons.
education and management facllies
Instructional delivery and assessment  No
Examinations: to replace unsuitable                                    Fully accomplished.
premises for COE Office, equip it and train
its staff
Curriculum development and textbook                                     lrI pulnned aderves oomplrted. fn additio n
revision: revisin of undergraduate and                                     eurculum deve.ped for 50 addifonal
graduate curriculum In about 20 specialtes                                 specades.
and procurement of books



Preparation for higher secondary educaUon  No
reform:
(a) civil works for higher secondary                                     (a) Accomplished in 11 school
classes In about 10 schools                                                (b) accomplished
(b) refurbishing of two PCL-only cluster
campuses                                                                    (c) fully accomplished
(c) TA for curriculum textbook
development                                                                (d) not accomplished in the absence of legal
(d) TA for developing HS                                                 provisions
School Leaving Certificate                                                 (e) accomplished
(e) instructonal materials and equipment
for higher secondary education schools
against matching fund                                                      (f) fully accomplished
(f TA for transition plan for PCL
phase-out
End of project
19-



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
s' -< S-I*praisalI.. ;Actual/Latest;' 'Perfcentage of
(,: ~~-          ,     .-    .  n.;. *:. '.   Es,tiriiato>.  'E,s,tiratre:''.App s J 
ProjectC.ostB. Componeht .W,S$ million. -* US$ nmillion.,
Institutional Development                             7.70            6.06          82.73
Facilities Improvement                                8.60           10.76         134.47
Instructional Delivery and Assessment                 2.00            1.74           93.6
Preparation for Higher Secondary Reform               1.30            0.96          76.31
Total Baseline Cost                                  19.60           19.52
Physical Contingencies                               1.00
Price Contingencies                                  2.50
Total Project Costs             23.10           19.52
Total Financing Required              23.10           19.52
Source: Higher Education Project and Staff Appraisal Report.
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Enue ICB  .Procurement -Method;- Tt Ct ;
1. Works                      0.00          9.30          0.00         0.00         9.30
(0.00)       (7.40)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (7.40)
2. Goods                      4.70          2.60          0.50         0.00         7.80
(4.40)       (2.40)        (0.40)        (0.00)       (7.20)
3. Services                   0.00                                     0.00         0.00
(0.00)          0            0           (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Local Training             0.00          0.00          0.61         0.00         0.61
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.58)       (0.00)       (0.58)
4. Consultants and            0.00          0.00          2.94         0.00         2.94
fellowships                   (0.00)       (0.00)        (2.94)        (0.00)       (2.94)
5. Incremental Salaries       0.00          0.00          2.45         0.00         2.45
and Operating Costs          (0.00)        (0.00)        (1.88)        (0.00)       (1.88)
Total                       4.70         11 90         6.50          0.00        23.10
(4.40)       (9.80)        (5.80)        (0.00)       (20.00)
Source: Staff Appraisal Report and Development Credit Agreement. Some adjustments made because categories in the DCA do
not match with the categories in the SAR.
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equival nt)
-  e~Cateoiy    -                          iC FRcrrietMthod.
SEipohditr         -     ',       -'IC       - . . -                -           a i sta ..
-  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ~_  - O t hi er.  .i o a L o
1. Works                      0.00          8.92         0.09          0.00        9.01
(0.00)       (7.13)        (0.07)       (0.00)       (7.20)
2. Goods                      5.15          1.69         1.32          0.00         8.16
(5.10)        (1.55)       (.(1.10)      (0.00)      (7.75)
3. Services                   0.00                                     0.00         0.00
- 20 -



(0.00)           0              0           (0.00)        (0.00)
:3. Local Training               0.00           0.00           0.03          0.00           0.03
._______________________        (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.03)         (0.00)       (0.03)
$. Consultants and               0.00           0.00           1.44          0.00           1.44
Fellowships                     (0.00)         (0.00)         (1.44)         (0.00)        (1.44)
5. Incremental Salaries          0.00           0.00           0.88          0.00           0.88
and Operating Costs             (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.55)         (0.00)        (0.55)
Total                         5.15           10.61          3.76           0.00          19.52
(5.10)         (8.68)         (3.19)         (0.00)       (16.97)
Source: Higher Education Project
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by C mponent (in US$ million equivalent)
.  - i  -   -;   -  ~~  .  - -  |   - - '      - z      * , t --  | P;~~ercsnfigle- of Aipraisal 
Component               Appisal Estimate'           .cesii
- . ; *       r-lBtiiiik J G ovt.    *. CoF.'      Banh :. .*'Govt.'. ;,.CoF ....  Banik' PGovt., --CoF.
_                         .  .  . . ........ . .~~~0  nk  ov
Institutional Development  7.81      1.07                5.16       0.91              66.1    85.0
FacIlItes Improvement     8.72       1.19                9.30       1.45              106.7   121.8
Instructional Delivery and  2.26    0.05                 1.67       0.06              73.9   120.0
Assc-ssment
Secondary Education       1.61      0.40                 0.84       0.11              52.2    27.5
Reform
Source: Higher Education Project. In appraisal estimates contingencies distributed to components by prorating.
- 21 -



knnex 4. Bank Inputs
{a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty           Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count          Specialty                     Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
12/1991                     8   Implementation Specialist,
Educators, Education Financial
Specialist, University Facilities
Specialist, Cons (3-unknown
spec)
05/1992                     6   Implementation Specialist,
Educators, Education Financial
Specialist, University Facilities
Specialist, Librarian, Cons (I
unknown spec)
Appraisal/Negotiation
11/1993                     7   Education Specialists,
Education Finance
Specialist, Architect,
Management Infonnation
System Specialist, Librarian
Supervision
0111994                     3   Educator, University
Facilities Specialist, Library
Consultant
06/1994                     4   Educators, University Facilities
Specialist, Hligher Education
Finance Specialist
02/1995                     3   Educators, Higher Education        S            S
Finance Specialist
03/1996                     3   Educators, Higher Education        S             S
Finance Specialist
05/1996                     2   Education Specialist, Social       S            S
Sector Specialist
10/1996                     2   Education Specialists             U             S
02/1997                     2   Education Specialists              S             S
02/1998                     3   Education Specialists              U            U
12/1998                     5   Education Specialists, Architect   S            U
06/1999                     4    Education Specialists,            S             S
Procurement Specialist, Architect
12/1999                     7   Education Specialists, Financial   S            S
Management Specialist
0 12000                     6   Education Specialists, Financial   S             S
Management Specialist
06/2000                      7  Education Specialists, Financial   S             S
Management Specialist,
Procurement Specialist
11/2000                     4   Education Specialists, Financial   S             S
- 23 -



Management Specialist
11/2001                     2   Education Specialist, Financial    S             S
Management Specialist
ICR
12/2001 - 6/2002            5    Operations Specialist,
Education Specialist,
Management Specialist,
Architect
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks             US$ (000)
Identification/Preparation              79.2                       191.9
Appraisal/Negotiation                    35.1                       89.7
Supervision                             95.0                       171.8
ICR                                       9.2                       21.1
Total                                   218.5                      474.5
- 24 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H= High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
FMacro policies                      O H OSUOM O N * NA
FSector Policies                     O H *SUOM O N O NA
F Physical                           O H OSUOM O N O NA
0 Financial                          O H OSUOM ON         O NA
Z Institutional Development          0 H * SU O M 0 N 0 NA
Z Environmental                      O H OSUOM O N * NA
Social
 Poverty Reduction             O H OSUOM      O N   * NA
 Gender                        O H OSUOM O N * NA
LI Other (Please specify)       O H OSUOM O N O NA
X Private sector development         0 H O SU O M 0 N 0 NA
S Public sector management           0 H   0 SU O M 0 N 0 NA
O Other (Please specify)             O H OSUOM O N O NA
- 25 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                Rating
ZS Lending                                         OHS*S OLU OHU
F Supervision                                      OHS OS       O U    O HU
F Overall                                          O'HS      * S  O U  O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                            Rating
Z Preparation                                      OHS OS       OU     O HU
? Government implementation performance             O HS O S    O U    0 HU
Z Implementation agency performance                OHS OS       0 U    O HU
F Overall                                          OHS OS       O U    O HU
-26 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Aeharya, Govind P. and Santosh R. Poudyal. 1996. Improvement and Restrengthening of Examination of
Tribhuvan University, A Study of Examination Management System of Tribhuvan University,
Volumes I & II, HEP. Kathmandu.
Basnyat, Chuman S., Sundar S.B. Mathema, Bidya N. Koirala, Bishwa S. Wagle, Mana P. Nepal. 1999.
Micro-Plans of PCL Programs to HSEB, HEP. Kathmandu.
Bhatt, Bhim D., Upendra B. Pradhanang. 2001. Impact Assessment on Decentralization in Tribhuvan
University, HEP. Kathmandu.
Malla, Kamal P., Govind P. Agarwal, and Pushkar Bajracharya. 2000. Tribhuvan Unviersity Strategic
Vision for Twenty Years, HEP. Kathmandu.
Mathema, Sundar S.B., Bhola N. Pokharel, Bijaya Siwal. 1997. Work Plan for Improvement of
Examination System in TU, HEP. Kathmandu.
Pradhan, Anjiv, Kedar Pradhan, and Upendra B. Pradhanang. 2000. Report on Organizational Structure
of University Campus of Tribhuvan University; Report on Decentralization in TU; Report on
Organizational Structure of TU Service Commission; Report on Formation of Provident Fund
Directorate; Report on Organizational Structure of Central Office; and Report on Staff Positions
in Tribhuvan University.
Ainual Reports (various issues 2000-01). Tribhuvan University.
Approach Paper to the Tenth Plan (2002-2007). National Planning Commission, His Majesty's
Government of Nepal. Kathmandu.
Cost Recovery at Tribhuvan University, 1999. Center for Educational Research, Innovation and
Development (CERID).
Economic Survey 2000-01, Kathmandu. HMGN, Ministry of Finance.
Higher Education Project - Progress Reports (various Reports up to November 2001).
Reports of various Supervision and Review Missions, including Midterm Review. World Bank.
1994-2001.
Siaff Appraisal Report. Higher Education Project. World Bank. 1993.
The Ninth Plan (1997-2002). National Planning Commission, His Majesty's Government'of Nepal.
Kathmandu.
TU 20 Year Strategic Vision, 2000. Tribhuvan University/Higher Education Project.
- 27 -



Additional Annex 8. HMG - MOES, Tribhuvan University: Implementation Completion
Comment
Nepal: Higher Education Project (Cr. 2560-NEP.)
Borrower's Implementation Completion Comment
(April 2002)
A. Project Objective and Components:
Nepal : Higher Education Project (HEP) was implemented to help the Government initiate policy changes
in higher education and reform administrative, financial and management in TU and improve physical
facilities at its three key constituent campuses.
The objective of the project as envisioned in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) was "to enhance
capabilities and improve facilities of, and upgrade instructional delivery in higher education in Nepal."
The policy objectives of the project were to assist TU to: (a) regulate enrollment growth; (b) improve
resource mobilization and utilization; (c) improve organizational effectiveness; (d) improve quality,
relevance and responsiveness of higher education; (e) improve physical facilities and their maintenance; and
(f) help implement higher secondary education reform.
The policy objectives were grouped into four components: (a) institutional development; (b) facilities
improvement; (c) instructional delivery and assessment and (d) higher secondary education reform.
The HEP became effective from May 12, 1994 and the Credit closed on November 30, 2001, with two
extensions: one of one year and another of five months. The grace period ended on March 31, 2002, four
months from the credit closing date.
The project cost was Special Drawing Right (SDR) 14.2 million equivalent to US$ 20 million. The
cancelled credit amount was US$ 1.6 million. The undisbursed balance at the end of the project was US$
0.3 million, which is 1.8% of the total credit after cancellation. His Majesty's Government (IHIMG)
Counterpart Fund was US$ 2.54 million.
B.   Achievement of Project Policy Objectives:
Objective I: Regulation of Enrollment Growth
TU has regulated the enrollment growth (i) by introducing entrance tests and granting admission on merit
basis; (ii) by reducing shifts and sections of Proficiency Certificate Level (PCL) programmes from Policy
Implementation Fund (PIF) recipient constituent campuses; and (iii) by resetting levelwise enrollment
capacity based on available classrooms, labs, libraries and teachers in campuses.
TU has stopped providing affiliation to PCL programmes. TU rules relating to affiliation for Bachelor and
Master Level have been revised and the expansion of Bachelor and Master-level programmes is granted to
the constituent campuses only on self-sustaining local support basis and on the condition of PCL
Phase-out.
- 28 -



Objective II : Improve options for resource mobilization and utilization
With the implementation of TU Decentralization Rules 1998, the Campus Management Committees
(CMC) have generated income in the campuses through various schemes such as: development fees, special
programme fees, library fund, lab fund, full-fee paying programme, and mobilized resources by raising
funds from  local business communities, local administrative authorities and District Development
Committees; and leasing out commnercially valuable real estate for the development of commercial complex.
The Controller of Examinations (COE) has succeeded in raising examination fees substantially achieving
cost recovery rate to 120% of the operating cost. TU had attained the overall cost recovery to 20% by FY
1999/2000. However, after the new revised salary scale of TU 200012001 (2057/58), the overall cost
recovery rate has dropped to about 15% and about 100% in examination.
Objective ImI Higher Secondary Education Reform (Implement Higher Secondary School
Programme)
To facilitate higher secondary education reform HEP has helped the Higher Secondary Education Board
-with office equipment and transport vehicles. It has supported the HSEB to develop curricula and
instructional materials and to organise dissemination/orientation seminars and workshops. HSEB was also
provided with regional-level technical assistance to develop a micro transition action plan for phase-out and
phase-in of PCL students from the TU PIF Campuses and HSE Schools in respective districts.
'Tbe Inter Agency Agreement (IAA) between HEP and the HSEB' was signed on December 1, 1999 to
facilitate Higher Secondary Schools and following the IAA, School Support Activities Implementation Unit
(SSAIU) was established at the HSEB to implement the micro transition plan. On July 5, 2000, the Inter
Agency Agreement between HEP and HSEB was amended, and HEP funneled necessary fund to SSAIIJ.
SSAIU completed the physical facility development in 11 schools to accommodate phased out PCL
students from TU PIF Campuses.
Objective IV: Improving Organization, Planning and Management of TU.
TU reviewed and made necessary amendment in TU Rules in 2056 (1998) to decentralize TU system in all
institutes, research centers, and constituent campuses. The amendments provided increased organizational
effectiveness through decentralizng management responsibility to institutes, research centers, and
constituent campuses. TU adopted TU Decentralization Rules (1998) from the fiscal year 1998/1999, and
Campus Management Committees (CMC) have been formed in twenty-four constituent campuses. Of them,
five campuses have adopted Block Grant System from the fiscal year 2000/2001.
One cluster in the Western Development Region was formed, and it completed Stage 2 (ppl6 Project
Component, Regional Cluster Development, SAR) implementation. Science lab building was constructed
and furniture and equipment installed in the laboratory in Prithivi Narayan Camnpus, the lead campus in
Pokhara. A vehicle was provided, a computer lab was installed and the management plan was developed for
its implementation.
In the Eastem Development Region, though late, a mini cluster was formed with MMAM and PG campus
as members in Biratnagar, and Stage I (ppl6 Project Component, Regional Cluster Development, SAR)
funding was completed. A proposal for management plan was developed.
The TU Twenty-year Strategic Vision was completed and distributed among TU Senate members
for comment and approval.
Educational Managernent Infornation  System  (EMIS), Student Infornation  System, Personnel
Management, Financial Management and the Inventory of facility, have been set up and implemented in
order to strengthen the central management to perform planning and evaluation functions effectively at TU
-29-



Central Office, Kirtipur.
Objective V: Improve Quality, Relevance and Responsiveness of Higher Education
The formulation of Three-Year Bachelor programmes, development and printing of new curricula and
course catalogue, workshop for dissemination and orientation of teachers, preparation of teachers guide for
Bachelor-level courses in some selected subjects, improvement of test and evaluation and development of
prototype item ban k have been completed.
Master level curricula were revised and orientation programmes were organized. Textbooks and reference
books were procured and distributed to concerned departments, Libraries and Campuses.
TU has reformed the examination system. The project constructed a new building for the Office of the
Controller of Examinations (COE) at Balkhu in Kirtipur to help reform and strengthen examination at TU.
The new premises of the COE are fully equipped with Student Information System and Computer Network.
The project has also installed an Offset Printing Machine. Now the COE does not have to go out for
printing purposes. The COE has established a Research Unit with five professionals trained in the USA on
Educational Measurement.The Student Information System Unit processes examination results and
prepares result Statistics and distributes them to Campuses.
The project has supported to upgrade the TU Central Library. The Library building was extended by 1122
sq.m. along with furniture, fittings and shelving. A package of 1500 titles of precious reference books
incorporating all the subjects of all Faculties and Institutes were supplied. The Library is now equipped
with a computer -unit and communication network. The computers for library automation have been
installed and commissioned. A book binding machine and the Library Security System have been installed
and commissioned. Ten Junior Librarians and four Senior Librarians were awarded scholarships to study
Bachelor and Masters in Library and Information Science in India and twenty junior librarians to study
Bachelor in Library and Information Science in TU. Professional Library staffs were provided local
training on Information Retrieval and Sustainability of Library Service in TU Central Library.
Objective VI : Improvement and Maintenance of Physical Facilities
Physical Planning and Development Unit in TU Planning Division, Facilities Management Office, Central
Instrumentation Service in the University Campus have been established. Master planning and conceptual
designs of Kirtipur Campus were developed. Constructions were completed phasewise. Site development
works and renovation works at Kirtipur were completed. Site development included construction of Access
Road to Kirtipur, Boundary Wall on west side, Sports Complex (Basket Ball, Volley Ball, and Tennis
Court), Deep Boring Water Supply (including underground water tank and Water Treatment Plant).
Renovation and External Power Distribution Network of TU Complex were completed.
The installation and commissioning of equipment for the new laboratories at University Campus Kirtipur,
Postgraduate Campus Biratnagar, Prithivi Narayan Campus Pokhara and equipment for 15 PIF constituent
Bachelor-level Campuses at different districts have been completed. Computer Laboratories have been
established with necessary equipment (hardware and software) and accessories at 15 different campuses.
Computers, fax machines and photocopiers were distributed to constituent campuses.
C. Unanticipated Achievement:
The Policy Implementation Fund was enhanced and extended from the original set of three to
fifteen constituent campuses across the country. The motivation of PIF has succeeded in spreading TU
Decentralization Rules, 1998 to 24 out of 45 TU general campuses by regulating gradual PCL Phase out
programmes. Of PIF receipient campuses Shanker Dev and Nepal Commerce Campus (faculty of
- 30 -



rmanagement) totally phased out PCL Programmes and started Bachelor in Business Administration (BBA)
cin full cost recovery principle.
*~     Patan Multiple Campus has leased out its real estate for 30 years for the development of a
commercial complex near Hotel Narayani.
*      Five constituent campuses have adopted block grant scheme under TU Decentralization Rules,
1998.
*      Increasing awareness was generated among Campus Management Committees and stakeholders on
the urgency of income generation and optimum mobilization and utilization of campus resources.
*      Tribhuvan University Twenty-Year Strategy Vision Plan was prepared to chart future course of
action.
D. Lessons Learned:
*      Considering the complex nature of Higher Education Project and the involvement of several
institutions and social communities, continuous discussions, deliberations and wide dissemination among
stakeholders are essential preconditions for its successful implementation.
*      The sailing of a project like HEP in which a component of reform activities of two different
autonomous institutions: one of higher education and the other of higher secondary education is tied up, is,
iF not impossible, very turbulent. It would have been better if the implementation of policy objectives of
each institution were separate, not tagged along. For example: phase-out of PCL programme from TU and
phase-in of +2 students in Higher Secondary Education Schools. The project disbursement was delayed due
to delay in implementation of phase out and phase in programmes. Unless schools for phase-in are ready,
H'IF Campuses will not be able to phase-out PCL students from the campuses. Unless the phase-out policy
is regulated, no PIF is circulated hence, disbursement is made difficult and as a result, project progress is
not observed, inspite of tangible achievements in other components.
*      Considering the huge procurement component, a strong procurement team with wide knowledge of
procurement science and art as well as a strong financial management team with advanced accounting
knowledge are essential. A project like this should include essential staff development component as
technical assistance.
*      In a project like HEP, where several small institutions like PIEF campuses and schools are involved,
there is a need to give authority to carry out small procurement of goods and services for immediate
implementation of assigned project policies, The World Bank Procurement Guidelines have to be flexible
and simple so as to fit local needs.
*.     The foreign exchange rate fluctuations influenced the project disbursement as the payment by the
World Bank is based on reimbursement of expenditure in Nepalese rupees at the exchange rate prevailing
on the date of reimbursement. In the case of HEP, the exchange rate for US$ 1 was equal to Nepalese
Rtupees 49.58 at the time of signing of the DCA, February 14, 1994.The exchange rate of Nepalese Rupees
devalued year by year from  Rs. 49.58 to Rs. 76.30 on the closing date of the project, November 30,
2001. The appreciation of dollar reached up to 50 percent against Nepalese Rupees which means less
disbursement. The appreciation of US$ in terms of SDR and the depreciation of Nepalese Rupees in terms
of dollar, time and again, led the project unintentionally save the credit to some extent as undisbursed
amount.
E. Some Odd Experiences:
Higher Education Project is a small trial project for higher education reform in the country. The
E'roject's physical facilities component was focused on Science Departments at Kirtipur Campus. The
achievement of physical facilities improvement was sought from all the Departments and Campuses, PCU
- 31 -



had to face unwarrented criticism.
*      The Phase-out of PCL Programme, according to SAR, was to launch from two lead campuses of
WDR and EDR clusters. But the PCU had to try for PCL phase-out from several TU Campuses.
*      PCU was locked up for 38 days during the student unrest.
*      The implementation of cluster concept was difficult because of geographical diversities of scattered
constituent campus establishments and the super-ego of cluster members. The Government's decision
leading to establishments of Purbanchal University made the cluster concept redundant in Eastern
Development Region and the Pokhara University in Pokhara nullified the cluster concept that have gained
fairly satisfactory momentum in the Western Development Region.
*      PCU, HEP was treated as the sole responsible agent for all matters pertaining to higher education
reform in the country and was made accountable for every malady in higher education in the country.
*      HEP has a strong feeling that the project should be evaluated in terms of policy objective
achievement rather than disbursement of credit. If with lesser disbursement greater achievement is made as
HEP did, the project should have been rated satisfactory not as problematic.
F.   Borrowers Performance:
HMG, the borrower implemented the project through Tribhuvan University. TU management and HEP
Board both remained active and alert throughout the project period and provided all the necessary guidance
and encouragement to the PCU to implement the project on time. A Consultative Group, comprising five
members including pioneers of HEP, was formed to provide technical and intellectual guidance to PCU,
HEP to implement Institutional and Instructional Development objectives of the project components. A
Policy Implementation Committee chaired by the Rector with Deans of five Faculties and Institute of
Science and Technology, Member-Secretary of TU Planning Council with HEP, was formed to implement
policy objectives in PIF recipient constituent campuses. The PIC made efforts to implement the project
supporting Bank Missions till the closing date of the project. The PCU, though slow in the initial stage,
gained necessary momentum in the later stage to complete the project. Ministry of Finance and Ministry of
Education and Sports and the National Planning Commission provided their co-operation through out the
project period.
G. Bank Performance:
IDA provided strong support to the Borrower throughout the project period. The Task Manager and the
Bank Mission aided by national, regional and intemational education specialists and planners provided very
important guidance to support the PCU, HEP for a successful project implementation. The Bank also
helped HEP to accelerate the speed of HSE reform in co-operation with HSEB Management.
On a few occasions, PCU did experience unforeseen delays in procurement review from IDA side, affecting
project implementation. The assistance of the Task Manager and his Mission Team is highly appreciated
throughout the project. The Bank's decision to grant two extensions, one of one year and another of five
months at critical juncture, is highly appreciated. The two extensions helped a successful completion of the
project. Except for the cancellation of credit amounting SDR 1.2 million, overall Bank performance was
highly satisfactory and commendable.
- 32 -












IIVIMUIIMY3
Report No.:        23713
Type:     ICR



