CREDIT NUMBER 2560 NEP
Development Credit Agreement
(Higher Education Project)
between
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPHMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated       UA        /, 1994


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2560 NRP
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEET
AGREEMENT, dated     "   WAR>N    )(, 1994,
between KINGDOM OF NEPAL (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association),.
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower through Tribhuvan University has
issued a Statement of Higher Education Policy dated August 30, 1993
(the Statement), describing objectives and policies designed for the
development and improvement of higher education, and declaring the
Borrower' s commitment to the implementation of said policies;
(B)    the Borrower has requested the Association to assist in
the financing of measures to be undertaken pursuant to, or in
furtherance of, the provisions of the Statement through the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending the Credit as
hereinafter provided; and                                        0
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section   1.01.  The  "General   Conditions  Applicable   to
Development   Credit   Agreements"  of   the  Association,   dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b} of i s Agreement;


﻿-2-
(b)   "Nepal Rastra Bank" means the Borrower's central bank
established and operating pursuant to the Borrower's Nepal Rastra
Bank Act, 2012 (1955), as amended; and
(c)   "fiscal  year" means   the  Borrower's  fiscal  year
commencing on or about July 16 and ending twelve months thereafter.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to fourteen million two hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 14,200,000).
Section 2.02. (R) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in Nepal
Ra7,tra Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1) per annum.
(b)  The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the


﻿-3-
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association   shall  reasonably  request;  (ii)  without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Secion 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each April 1 and October 1 commencing
April 1, 2004 and ending October 1, 2033. Each installment to and
including the installment payable on October 1, 2013 shall be one
percent (1%) of such principal -imount, and each installment
thereafter shall be two percent (2) of such principal amount.
(b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the  Executive  Directors  of   the  Association  and  after  due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on


﻿-4-
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstandingfrom
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
educational, administrative and financial practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
(b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall:
(i)    carry out the Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement; and
(ii)  make adequate and timely provision of funds,
facilities,  services   and  other   resources
required for the Project.


﻿Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section including those
for the special Account for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)  furnish   to  the  Association,   as  soon  as
available, but in any case not later than twelve
months after the end of each such year, a
certified copy of the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and
(iii) furnish   to   the   Association   such  other
information concerning said records, accounts
and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
0


﻿-6-
(i)   maintain   or  cause   to  be  maintained,   in
accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
records   and,   accounts    reflecting   such
expenditures;
(ii)   retain, until at least one year after the
Association has received the audit report for
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
from the Credit Account or payment out of the
Special   Account   was  made,   all   records
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
and    other   documents)    evidencing   such
expenditures;
(iii) enable the Association's representatives tod
examine such records; and
(iv)   ensure that  such records and accounts are
included in the annual audit referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
report of such audit contains a separate opinion
by said auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the
objectives and policies included in the Statement, or a significant
part thereof, will be implemented.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified, namely,
that any event specified in Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall
occur.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12. 01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that the Project Coordination Unit referred to
in Part 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement has been established.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary, Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
His Majesty's Government of Nepal
Kathmandu,
Nepal
Cable address:                Telex:
ARTHA                    2249-ARTHA NP
Kathamandu
Nepal
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿Cable address:                 Telex:
INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By         JGC"        W
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil works and           5,260,000
professional fees
(a) civil works                            80%
(b) professional fees                      100%
(2) Goods                     4,920,000        100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost) and 75%
of local
expenditures for
other items
procured locally
(3) Local training              410,000        95%
(4) Consultants'              2,090,000       100%
services and
fellowships


﻿- 10 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(5) Activities under            540,000        100%
Part E of the
Project
(6) Project                     270,000        80%
operating costs
(7) Unallocated                 710,000
TOTAL                14,200,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
(c) the term "Project operating costs" include incremental
staff, vehicle and office operation and maintenance costs.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.    The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for
expenditures under contracts for local training, fellowships and
operating costs, for goods and consultants' services not exceeding
$50,000 equivalent, and for civil works not exceeding $100,000
equivalent, respectively, under such terms and conditions as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to enhance capabilities and
improve facilities of, and upgrade instructional delivery in higher
education in Nepal.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Institutional Development
1.    Reform in Tribhuvan University organization to facilitate
decentralization.
2.    Installation of an educational management information system
at Kirtipur and regional campuses.
3.    Phased formation of regional campus clusters.
Part B:     Facilities Improvement
1.    Development of capacity to maintain buildings and equipment.
2.    Improvement of facilities at Kirtipur.
Part C:     Instructional Delivery and Examinations
1.    Simplification of examination procedures and upgrading of
examination facilities.
2.    Revision of curricula and textbooks.
Part D:     Higher Secondary Education
Transition from university certificate system to higher
secondary education.


﻿- 12 -
Part E:     Future Projects
Studies for the preparation of future projects.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1999.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
(a)   For  fixed-price  contracts,  the  invitation to bid
referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that,
when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity
period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for each
week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to
the Association, one" to be applied to all foreign currency
components and the other to the local currency component of the bid
price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the bid
evaluation.
(b)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part
A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents
issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the
Association shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of
the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based
on other internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the
Association.
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$150,000 or more.
3.    Bidders for the supply of furniture shall be prequalified as
provided in paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Nepal may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,


﻿- 14 -
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Works under the Project may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association. Bidders
for contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more,
shall be prequalified as provided      in paragraph 2.10 of the
Guidelines.
2.    Contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of
$150,000 or less per contract, may be awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertized locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
3.    Items or groups of items estimated to cost the equivalent of
$50,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent
to $500,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
4.    Books and journals may be procured after direct negotiations
with suppliers, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review   of   prequalification:   With    respect   to   the
prequalification of bidders as provided in Parts A.3 and C.1 hereof,
the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
2.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to each contract for - works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more and each contract for goods
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of
the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure
that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be


﻿- 15 -
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall
be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
3.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.       For
complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such
consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for
consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as
shallc have been agreed by the Association.    Where no relevant
standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the
Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with the Association.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior
Association review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection
procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and
contracts shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than
$100,000 equivalent each.     However, this exception to prior
i,


﻿- 16 -
Association review shall not apply to the terms of reference for
such contracts nor to the employment of individuals, to single
source selection of firms, to assignments of a critical nature as
reasonably determined by the Association or to amendments of
contracts raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or
above.


﻿- 17 -
SCEEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.    The Borrower shall cause its officials responsible for higher
education, to allocate the funds, facilities , services and other
resources referred to in Section 3.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.    The  Borrower  shall  establish  and  maintain   a  Project
Coordination Unit with staff, resources and powers satisfactory to
the Association.
3.    The Borrower shall by March 31, 1997 or such other date as the
Association shall determine, conduct a comprehensive mid-term review
with the Association with regard to the actions taken pursuant to
the Statement and the implementation of the Project.
4.    The Borrower shall allocate the policy implementation fund
under Part A.1 of the Project in accordance with eligibility
criteria satisfactory to the Association.
5.    The Borrower shall carry out Part D of the Project in
accordance with policies and plans satisfactory to the Association.
6.    The Borrower shall by June 30, 1994, issue guidelines
satisfactory to the Association, for the formation of regional
campus clusters under Part A.3 of the Project.
7.    The Borrower shall carry out, in accordance with programs and
time tables satisfactory to the Association:
(a)   training and fellowships under the Project; and
(b)   technical assistance under the Project.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the  term  "eligible Categories" means any of the
Categories set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the  term  "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2:    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association
requests for deposits into the Special Ac!ount
at such intervals as the Association shall
specify.


﻿- 19 -
(ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
the documents and other evidence required
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
payment or payments in respect of which
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
such request, the Association shall, on behalf
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and deposit into the Special Account
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested
and as shall have been shown by said documents
and other evidence to have been paid out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures.    .
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(b)  once  the total unwithdrawn    amount  of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall


﻿- 20 -
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the As)ociation shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any Ue
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not\ be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


