Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14775
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
PRIVATE SECTOR FINANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 3268-BR)
JUNE 30, 1995
Public Sector Modernization/Private Sector Development Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CurrencSy Equivalents
Currencv Unit
US$1.00                  $R.9200 (August 3, 1994)
$R1                      US$1.087 (August 3, 1994)
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
Abbreviations and Acronvms
BNDES           Banco Nacional do Desenvolvimento Economico e Social
National Bank for Social and Economic Development
FSAL            Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
UNDP            United Nations Development Programme



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation                                                             June 30, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:         Project Completion Report on Brazil -
Private Sector Finance Proiect (Loan 3268-BR)
Attached is the Project Completion Report (PCR) on the Brazil Private Sector Finance project (Ln.
3268-BR, approved in FY91), prepared by the Latin Amexica and the Caribbean Regional Office, with Part II
contributed by the Borrower.
The project supported BNDES, the Government-owned National Bank for Social and Economic
Development, in its efforts to reorient itself towards the private sector and to strengthen its credit policies and
procedures. The US$300 million equivalent loan financed a line of credit for private investments and technical
assistance to help BNDES clean up its loan portfolio and improve its operations. BNDES and the Bank
established multi-year targets calling for a declining proportion of lending to public sector enterprises and
reduced participation of other public financial intermediaries in on-lending BNDES resources.
The project had mixed results. Among the successes, BNDES reduced its total lending to public
sector enterprises below the 19 percent target (to 12 percent in 1993), and, in a narrow sense, achieved the
institution-building objectives by reducing its arrears, adopting criteria for analyzing the creditworthiness of
borrowers, establishing risk management programs and improving its auditing performance. However, these
benefits were outweighed by two factors. One is relevance: the PCR questions the rationale for the project in
the increasingly inflationary environment, which hindered economic analysis of subprojects. The other is
BNDES' continued susceptibility to Government interference. Government pressure on BNDES to increase
funding for the agricultural sector and for two infrastructure projects, for which BNDES refused to take the
credit risk, contributed to an increase in the amounts on-lent through public banks above even modified targets.
Because the public banks did not perform economic analysis of projects, the Bank suspended sub-project
approvals, and eventually closed the loan with an undisbursed balance of US$ 115 million.
The project outcome is rated as marginally unsatisfactory, the institutional development impact as
modest and sustainability as uncertain. The main lessons are that project design must take into account the
macroeconomic environment when it is critical for satisfactory performance, and that technical assistance to a
Government-owned bank cannot be successful in establishing sound banking practices when there are political
pressures to the contrary.
The PCR is of satisfactory quality. No audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted disuribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its contenLs may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



.mt



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BRAZL
PRIVATE SECTOR FINAiNCE PROJECT
LOAN 3268-BR
Table of Contents
Page No.
PREFACE . ............................................ i
EVALUATION SUMMARY  ................................   ii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT FROM THE
BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  ...........................   1
A.  Background    .........................                                      1
B.     Project Components         ..............1............... 
C.  Project Objective .................                                          2
D.    Achievement of Project Objectives ................... .                    2
E.    Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project . .   4
F.   Project Sustainability ................                                     7
G.  Bank Performance .................                                           8
H.    Borrower Performanre  ...........................   8
I.   Government Performance ................                                     9
J.  Assessment of Outcome ...............                                        9
K.    Future Operation ...............................   10
L.     Key Lessons Learned  ............................  10
PART II: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION EVALUATION FROM THE
BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ........................ 11
PART m: STATISTICAL INFORMATON   ......                         ................  17
TABLE 1: Summary of Assessments  ......                  ................  17
TABLE 2: Related Bank Loan  ........                 ..................  18
TABLE 3: Project Timetable  ...........................  19
TABLE 4: Loan Disbursements  .........................  20
TABLE 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation  ....              ........  21
TABLE 6: Studies, Courses & Technical Assisstance
Included in the Project .......................  24
TABLE 7: Project Costs & Financing ......................  25
TABLE 8A: Project Results ...........                                           26
TABLE 8B: Disbursement Flows of Sub-Projects  ......                .........  27
TABLE 9: Status of Loan Covenants  ......................  28
TABLE 10: Bank Resources: Missions ........            ..       ............  29
TABLE 11: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ....... ..                ...........   31
APPENDIX: A. Map
This doctnent has a restricted distnbution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of their
ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
PRIVATE SECTOR FINANCE PROJECT- LOAN 3268
Preface
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Private Sector Finance
Project in Brazil, for which Loan-3268-BR in the amount of US$300 million equivalent
was approved in November 1990 and became effective in March 1991.
The Loan was closed on the original closing date of December 31, 1993. Final
disbursement took place on March 3, 1994, at which time a balance of US$115 million
was canceled. Cofinancing was provided by the Borrower, Brazil's National Bank for
Economic and Social Development (BNDES).
The PCR was prepared by Ms. Francesca Ardito, LAlCO, and reviewed by
Messrs. Paul Meo, Orville Grimes and Roberto Mosse. The borrower and cofinanciers
provided comments that are included as Part II to the PCR.
Preparation of this PCR was begun during the Bank's final supervision mission,
in March 1994. There was no actual PCR mission and therefore it is based primarily on
material in the project file. The borrower contributed to the preparation of the PCR by
preparing an evaluation of the project's execution and commenting on the draft PCR.






- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
PRIVATE SECTOR FINANCE PROJECT
Loan 3268-BR
Evaluation Summarv
Introduction
1.          The Bank has had three previous development banking loans with BNDES.
The first, Loan No. 1206-BR, for US$85 million, financed small and medium scale
enterprises and was signed on March 1, 1976. This loan was never fully committed
mainly because BNDES' lending programs for small and medium enterprises during
1976-1980 carried negative interest rates. The balance of the loan account was cancelled
in 1980 after only 37% of it had been disbursed. The second development banking loan,
No. 2225-BR, for US$220 million, was approved on December 21, 1982 to finance
mainly small and medium enterprises through state and regional banks. This loan was
fully disbursed in August 1985. The third loan, No. 2488-BR, for US$300 million was
approved on January 10, 1985 to provide funds to private industrial enterprises mainly
to support exports. Its major policy achievement is that it established procedures for
project evaluation including incorporating economic analysis into the evaluation of
projects. The loan was fully committed. All of the above Bank loans were directed
towards BNDES because they addressed institution-specific reforms that were to have a
positive impact on the financial sector and the overall economy. BNDES' reforms were
considered fully consistent with the government's objectives for the financial sector and
as BNDES plays a leading role in the financial sector, its reforms were thought to have
a significant impact on the way long-term credit was allocated in Brazil. The Bank's
support for BNDES' policy reforms in the current loan (Loan 3268-BR) were a signal
to the Federal Government and to BNDES' management that it endorsed the Brazilian
financial sector reforms.
Project Objectives
2.          The objectives of the fourth Private Sector Finance Loan, No. 3268-BR,
were to support BNDES' efforts to reorient its focus to the private sector and reduce its
exposure to the public sector; to reduce credit segmentation; and to strengthen its credit
policies and procedures. The loan would accomplish these objectives by: (a) ensuring
that BNDES continues to increase the proportion of its total lending directed to private
sector borrowers and that its operations through financial intermediaries were undertaken
increasingly and predominantly through private sector intermediaries; (b) supporting
BNDES' reorganization designed to reduce BNDES' directed credit lines and to finance
financially and economically sound projects; and (c) strengthening BNDES' credit,



- iii -
planning and audit departments.
3.          The loan's covenants\criteria, were designed specifically to meet the above
objectives. To meet objective (a) above, the BNDES system was to reduce its flow of
credit to public sector borrowers from 36% in 1988 to 27% in 1989, 23% in 1990, 19%
in 1991, and maintain it at 19% through 1992 (extended ,, 1993 by an additional letter
from the President of BNDES). The BNDES system was also to reduce the participation
of public financial intermediaries in allocating the resources BNDES disburses through
financial intermediaries, from 58% in 1988 to 50% in 1989. 45% in 1990 and 40% in
1991, and to maintain the 40% level through 1992 (also extended to 1993). To meet
objective (b) above, the BNDES system was to establish a credit policy including overall
credit limits for financial intermediaries and policies and procedures for determining
creditworthiness and setting individual credit limits for companies that deal directly with
BNDES. To meet objective (c) above, the loan would provide technical assistance, for
the credit department to improve its policies and procedures; for the planning department
to support its program to develop indicators of international competitiveness; and, for the
audit department to develop the capability and procedures for operational-perforrmance
auditing.
Implementation Experience
4.          In its efforts to reduce to and maintain at 19% its lending to the public
sector, BNDES succeeded in consistently achieving or overachieving its objective by
reducing its level of lending to the public sector to 15% in 1990, 12% in 1991, 16% in
1992 and 12% in 1993. In its efforts to reduce to and maintain at 40% the participation
of public financial intermediaries in allocating BNDES resources disbursed through
financial intermediaries, BNDES succeeded until 1992. BNDES reduced from 50% in
1989 to 44% in 1990, 40% in 1991 and then increased to 48% in 1992 and 52% in 1993.
The reasons BNDES gave for not maintaining the target was the government's pressure
to lend to the agricultural sector, (the major Bank able to distribute these funds to the
agricultural sector being the public bank, Banco do Brasil, due to its many rural
branches) and to lend to two special public sector projects. In hindsight this reason does
not appear to hold true because when the loans to the agricultural sector and the special
projects (which went through BNDES' wholly owned subsidiary, FINAME Agricola)
were excluded, BNDES was still over the 40% target (Table 2A). Implementation of the
project was hindered by this lending target not being met since it was the basis for sub-
project approvals being suspended.  Since the public banks were known for not
performing comprehensive economic analyses of projects and accounted for the largest
portion of accounts in arrears to BNDES, the Bank decided to suspend sub-project
approvals.
5.          Regarding the projects institution-building objective BNDES developed
credit limits to be applied to all clients as well as criteria for analyzing the



- iv -
creditworthiness of all companies dealing directly with them. These creditworthiness
criteria included financial ratios and other credit information that enabled BNDES to
assess the financial soundness of its clients. BNDES also established risk management
programs on both company and sectoral risk. Although finally achieved, both the
creditworthiness policies and the risk management programs were fully implemented well
after the original dates agreed upon in the loan documents.  The institution building
component also included, (a) technical assistance for the audit department which
completed an overall assessment of its operations and through training and improvements
now publishes quarterly and annual reports based on Generally Accepted Accounting
Principles, and (b) support for the planning departments work on developing international
indicators of competitiveness for industrial sectors, which BNDES decided to use internal
resources and UNDP grant funds for, instead.
6.           The Bank performed adequately regarding supervision, sub-project
approvals and disbursements. The missions reviewed sub-project documents as well as
visited several project sights--both final beneficiaries and financial intermediaries--to
verify project implementation. However, there are questions to be raised regarding
whether the loan should have been approved or not. Given the knowledge that the
macroeconomic environment in Brazil was already poor (too poor for a structural
adjustment loan to be approved) and with predictions that it would be worsening, why
did the Bank really go ahead with a Private Sector Finance Loan (credit)'? With this
knowledge, and the knowledge that it becomes increasingly difficult to perform
satisfactory project economic analysis in a high and increasing inflationary environment
and knowing that in such an environment lending is usually reduced, it would seem
appropriate to question ttic design\approval of this loan.
7.           The Borrowers performance while satisfactory in some areas was also
questionable when linked to the governments pe.-ormance. With the continuous changes
in both government and BNDES srtff and the frequency with which BNDES employees
were transferred to government positions. it became increasingly difficult to determine
where government ended and 13NDES began and who vas actually making the decisions.
In relation to this particular loan it is not clear whether it was the government who really
forced BNDES to lend to the agricultural sectoI- mnd public sector special projects (as the
Bank was led to believe), or whether it was BNDES' decision as a Federal Bank.
BNDES did however, satisfactorily complete nmost of' its institution-building objectives
as well as the objecLive for direcLing lending toward the private sector.
8.          'I'hc project outcome based primiarily on how well the project achieved its
objectives, is unsatisfactory, due to J3NIDES' inability to maintain the lending target
through public financial intermcdiaries. 13NDES, as a Federal Bank is very susceptible
to government control and with continued lending to public intermediaries, especially in
this high inflationary environmenit, is probably susceptible again to financing uneconomic
projects.



v 
Sunmnarv of Key Lessons Learned
9.          The key lesson learned by this project has been that conditions should not
be imposed on a Federal Bank loan, if the Federal Bank has little or no control over the
conditions. It was emphasized to the Bank that it was government pressure why BNDES
was over the 40% lending target through public financial intermediaries. If this was
indeed the case, BNDES should not have been identified as the independent implementor
of this project. Consequently, covenants should be prepared in such a way that they are
under the sole jurisdiction of the implementing institution to fulfill. The lesson for the
Bank is that it should have taken into consideration the high and increasing inflation in
Brazil and not permitted a credit line knowing that in such an environment it is
increasingly difficult to determine through economic analysis whether uneconomic
projects are in fact being financed.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
PRIVATE SECTOR FINANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 3268-BR)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT FROM TIHE BANK'S
PERSPECTIVE
A.   Background
1.          Due to the complexity of the Brazilian financial sector, the Bank adopted
a broad and flexible strategy of developing investment loans that would complement
adjustment lending. These loans would be conditional upon policy changes which ensure
that changes in the financial sector continue to evolve along the lines of the Bank's
objectives for the sector which were based mainly on reducing Government intervention
in the financial system and improving the efficiency of financial intermediation. This
private sector finance loan came about in lieu of a financial sector adjustment loan
(FSAL). Brazil had already completed many reforms supported by the FSAL but due
to the macroeconomic environment the Brazilian authorities recognized that they would
not be able to continue with their reform program or to sustain those reforms already
achieved. Due to this macroeconomic environment, which was not conducive to an
FSAL, the Bank and the Brazilian Government agreed to replace the original idea of a
financial sector adjustment loan of $400-500 millon with a Private Sector Finance Loan
of $300 million which encompassed some of the same institution-specific policy criteria
of the adjustment loan, supported the efforts of the Brazilian Government to carry out
financial sector reform and also provided a way for Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento
Economic e Social (BNDES- the Brazilian national development bank) to reduce loans
to the public sector. The project was aimed at addressing institution-specific policy
issues through support for ongoing reforms in BNDES. According to Bank policy, credit
line operations are justified only when they improve the overall financial sector policy
framework.  Therefore a program  to improve existing policy was an essential
requirement of a loan to BNDES.
B.    Project Components. The project included:
(a)   a credit line of US$299.5 million to finance technically, financially and
economically justified private investments without regard to sector, region
or company size; and
b)    a technical assistance component not to exceed US$500,000 equivalent for
BNDES' (1) training for the Credit Department to improve its policies and
procedures; (2) Planning Department to support its program to develop
indicators of international competitiveness: and (3) Audit Department to



- 2 -
develop the capability and procedures for operational-performance
auditing.
C.    Project Objective. The project's principal objectives were as follows:
a)    financial sector: to support BNDES' efforts to re-orient its focus to the
private sector and reduce its exposure to t'- e public sector;
b)    institution building:  to' reduce credit segmentation and strengthen
BNDES' credit policies and risk analysis procedures, strengthen its loan
portfolio and improve the quality of its portfolio stock.
2.           The financial sector objectives of the loan were to encourage BNDES to
increase the proportion of its total lending going to private sector borrowers, and ensure
that its operations through financial intermediaries were undertaken increasingly through
private sector financial intermediaries.
3.           The loan was to accomplish its institution-building objective by supporting
BNDES' clean-up of its portfolio of non-performing assets made up mainly of public
companies. BNDES would increase the flow of its resources going to sound companies
mostly in the private sector, and make considerable efforts to reduce its accounts in
arrears to public companies. The institution-building component of the loan also included
supporting and reinforcing the efforts of BNDES' Credit Department to strengthen its
newly-established credit policies and procedures, supporting the program of BNDES'
Planning Department to develop indicators of international competitiveness, and
supporting the program of BNDES' Audit Department to develop the capability and
procedures for operational performance auditing.
4.           BNDES' new credit procedures were designed to ensure that financially
distressed public and/or private enterprises did not receive BNDES credit. BNDES
would also be strengthened as a financial institution by improving its accounting and
auditing procedures and capabilities, increasing its private sector orientation and
improving the quality of its assets. These objectives were important for the sector in that
they would strengthen the largest public bank for long-term lending operations and direct
the allocation of its resources towards profitable private sector investments, allowing
economically desirable industries to emerge or expand nationwide.
D.    Achievement of Project Objectives
5.           To accomplish the project's objectives, BNDES established a set of multi-
year targets for determiniing whether the objectives were being met. In a letter to the
Bank dated August 8, 1990, the President of BNDES defined these targets. If the Bank
were satisfied with its review of the agreed upon targets then it would approve or
continue to approve sub-projects. Through this review method, Bank disbursement



-3-
would be conditional not only on sub-project approval but also on the implementation of
agreed policy reforms.
6.           In meeting the policy reforms of reductions in the flow of credit towards
the private sector, and reducing its exposure to public sector financial intermediaries, the
results were mixed. BNDES succeeded in reducing and maintaining at the reduced level
(most of the time lower than the loan's target level), its flow of credit to the public
sector. Given that the loan is a private sector finance loan, the fact that most of the
assets of BNDES were channelled to the private sector is significant. In 1993, whether
channelled through financial intermediaries or directly, approximately 88% of BNDES'
total lending went to the private sector. In 1993, 90% of BNDES funds lent through
financial intermediaries also ultimately went to the private sector.  Although it is
significant that BNDES did re-orient its lending towards the private sector, it is also
important to note that BNDES did not succeed in its objective to reduce, and to maintain
at a reduced level, the participation of public financial intermediaries in the allocation of
BNDES funds. Therefore, the objective to channel funds to finance the private sector
was met but the policy objective of lending less through public financial intermediaries
was not.
7.           Regarding the institution-building objective, BNDES completed the
implementation of creditworthiness criteria and risk limits for financial institutions which
are intermediaries in allocating BNDES funds as well as institutions which borrow
directly from BNDES. The creditworthiness and risk limit criteria enable BNDES'
management to assess the financial soundness of its direct clients, BNDES is now able
to rate companies in order to determine their eligibility for funding. BNDES has also
completed an overall assessment and improvement of its Internal Audit procedures and
sent several of its employees abroad for intensive, hands-on training and they are now
producing timely, consistent and professional internal audit reports. BNDES has also
made great efforts and had significant success in cleaning up its portfolio of bad accounts
(arrears). During the second half of 1990 BNDES established a department with the
exclusive task of recovering credit that had gone bad. BNDES undertook an aggressive
scheme of provisioning for public sector bad accounts as well as repossessing and selling
off property of private sector companies in arrears. They also improved the quality of
their portfolio by converting public sector debt into private sector debt and assets, i.e.
they received land, buildings, equipment, etc., as payment from newly privatized
companies, under the Governrment's privatization scheme for which they were in charge.
In effect, these actions reduced their portfolio of non-performing loans from $5.8 billion
in July of 1993 to $1.1 billion by the end of 1993. BNDES continues to improve its
portfolio of accounts as a part of its own operational policies. In summary, BNDES has
improved its operational and financial functioning by instituting these improvements and
as a result is a stronger and healthier institution than it was.



- 4 -
E.    Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
8.          The implementation criteria for reviewing BNDES' performance and plans
in relation to its financial objectives (as set forth in the Borrower's letter to the Bank
dated August 8, 1990 and in an agreement to continue to meet the targets in 1993
mentioned in a letter to the bank dated December 30, 1992) were as follows:
a)    In its efforts to reduce to and maintain at 19% its lending to public sector
enterprises, BNDES succeeded in consistently achieving or overachieving
its objective as seen in Table 1.:
Table 1: Lending to the Public Sector
Targets        1989         1990         1991         1992         1993
Agreed         27%          23%          19%          19%          19%
Actual         27%          15%          12%          16%          12%
b)    The BNDES System would steadily reduce to and maintain at 40% the
participation of public financial intermediaries in allocating BNDES
resources disbursed through financial intermediaries:
Table 2: Lending Through Public Financial Intermediaries
Targets          1989        1990          1991        1992         1993
Agreed         50%          45%          40%          40%         40%
Actual         50%          44%          40%          48%         52%
* All figures ( Tables 1 & 2) are at the end of the calendar year.
Table 2A: Lending Through Public Financial Intermediaries
Excluding FINAME Aericola and Special Projects
1990           1991            1992           1993
Public            44.8%           36.8%          39.8%          44.4%
Private           55.2%           63.2%          60.2%          55.6%



9.          Until December 1991 BNDES reduced the participation of public financial
intermediaries in allocating its resources to the agreed-upon 40%, but was unable to
maintain it.   BNDES' management emphasized to the Bank their commitment to
attaining this target and in continuous negotiations with the Bank, attempted to reach
agreements on modified targets. The Bank received a letter from BNDES' President
dated April 23, 1993, proposing that if BNDES reduced the cumulative disbursements
through public financial intermediaries from 49% in March 1993 to 47% in June 1993,
45% in September 1993 and 43% in December 1993 (excluding FINAME Agricola, a
wholly owned subsidiary of BNDES responsible for agricultural sector lending), sub-
project approvals would be continued, beginning with the attainment of the 45%
September 1993 target. BNDES' management convinced the Bank that they had every
intention and desire to meet these modified targets, but in the end they could not meet
them.
10.         In 1992, BNDES came under intense pressure from the Government to
provide funds to finance the agricultural sector. Although BNDES has tried to and has
in some ways reduced the control the Government has over its operations, it nevertheless
still receives 40% of its resources from the Federal Government budget and therefore is
still susceptible to Government intervention and pressure. BNDES emphasized to the
Bank that the Government was pressuring them to lend to the agricultural sector. A
problem arose in this regard, due to the fact that the major bank equipped to handle the
intermediary financing of the agricultural sector quickly was Banco do Brasil, due to its
many rural branches. BNDES was left with few other options but to use Banco do Brasil
to distribute the agricultural financing. This automatically increased the percentage of
funds being distributed through public financial intermediaries to more than the 40%
target. BNDES emphasized their efforts to reduce the involvement of Banco do Brasil
by aggressively seeking the participation of private financial intermediaries with rural
branches such as Bradesco, Bamerindus and Itau. However, this has not been successful.
Another reason BNDES gave for why it failed to achieve the 40% target was a request
from the Government to extend two credits in 1993, one for US$86 million to
Eletronorte to complete implementation of the CHESF-Xingo hydroelectric project and
another for US$30 million to complete the Metro Brasilia project. Since BNDES insisted
it did not want to take the direct credit risk on these projects, both credits were extended
through public financial intermediaries. Although this action improved BNDES' risk
exposure (transferring it to the central bank which will ultimately have to rescue the state
banks) it increased the level of participation of public financial intermediaries in
allocating BNDES resources. BNDES insisted that the reasons it exceeded the 40%
target and was unable to reduce it were, a) the Government's pressure to lend to the
agricultural sector, which went through BNDES' FINAME Agricola; and b) the
additional credits extended for special projects. However, when the Bank agreed to
exclude these unplanned or unexpected criteria, it found that BNDES was still above the
40% target even without these items (Table 2A). This poses the question of whether
these were the real reasons for BNDES' not meeting the target or whether its intentions



- 6 -
to meet the target were never really that strong. There never was a clear explanation as
to why, excluding FINAME Agricola and the special projects, they were still over the
40% target.
11.          Although all the conditions of the loan were being met after the first year,
in this environment of high and increasing inflation, the loan's objectives should probably
have been reviewed due to the inability to perform satisfactory economic analysis of
projects. This was not done because as long as private banks were still lending the
funds, the Bank felt that the private banks were making sure that the projects were viable
by being more careful in their economic analyses. When inflation rose even further,
around January 1993, private banks reduced their lending and therefore their demand for
funds because they did not want to take the risks of default inherent in an inflationary
environment. The public banks then became the only banks willing to take the risks.
12.           Since the public banks accounted for the majority of BNDES' accounts
in arrears, and were known for not performing comprehensive economic analysis of
projects, the Bank decided to suspend sub-project approvals. Implementation of the
project was therefore hindered by this lending target through public financial
intermediaries not being met, since it was the basis for loan sub-project approvals being
suspended from January 1993 to the close of the loan on December 31, 1993. Neither
the modified targets nor the original targets were able to be met, and therefore the loan
closed with an undisbursed amount of US$115 million. Although other project criteria,
such as the institutional objectives and the objective of lending to the private sector were
being met, the Bank felt that the more BNDES lent through public financial
intermediaries the less the projects were being analyzed and given the increasing
inflationary environment, the more BNDES was opening itself up to a repeat of the
previous situation of public projects going into arrears. With this in mind the Bank held
fast to its suspension of sub-project approvals until there was some improvement or trend
toward meeting the target.
13.          The project's institution-building objective required that BNDES -- not
later than December 31, 1991-- review with the Bank its lending portfolio to verify
progress made in reducing its arrears existing March 31, 1990 and furnish the Bank with
a report on actions to be taken to settle any remaining arrears. BNDES fully complied
with this covenant and achieved the objective of reducing its arrears outstanding at the
time of appraisal. BNDES has made further progress in substantially reducing its
portfolio of accounts in arrears.
14.          Under the technical assistance and training program the project included,
a) development and implementation by BNDES' Credit Department of procedures for
determining creditworthiness and risk management not later than March 14, 1992 and
December 31, 1991 respectively; b) the review, assessment and overall improvement in
Audit Department policies and procedures; and c) support of the Planning Department's
efforts to develop international competitiveness indicators for industrial sectors.



- 7 -
15.          On November 18, 1991 BNDES' Board of Directors approved credit limits
to be applied to all clients. Criteria for analyzing the creditworthiness of all companies
dealing directly with BNDES were being fully applied by January 1994. They included
financial ratios and other credit information that enable BNDES to assess the financial
soundness of its clients. BNDES now has the ability to give company ratings and
determine their eligibility for funding. There is also an active Credit Committee which
meets regularly to review, modify and improve credit policies. The project provided
technical assistance funds for the Credit Department's training which was instrumental
in developing these policies. On November 18, 1991, BNDES' Board of Directors also
approved the establishment of risk management programs on both sectoral and company
risk, and these programs went into full implementation in January 1994. Although
finally achieved, both the credit policies and the risk management program were fully
implemented well after the original dates agreed upon in the loan documents.
16.         The project's institution-building component also included technical
assistance. The Audit Department, in November 1992, completed an overall assessment
of it's procedures and capabilities. Improvements were made, i.e., the Audit Department
now publishes quarterly and annual reports based on Generally Accepted Accounting
Principles.  The Planning Department, however, decided to continue its work in
developing indicators of international competitiveness for industrial sectors, using internal
resources as well as grant funds from the UNDP instead of money from this loan.
17.         On December 31, 1993, of the US$500,000 allocated to technical
assistance, US$164,000 had been committed, yet only US$80,000 had been disbursed.
This was due mainly to BNDES receiving funds for training from other sources such as
UNDP in the form of grants, and from BNDES' decision to finance some of its training
internally.
F.    Project Sustainabilit
18.         It is quite likely that BNDES will maintain its level of lending to the public
sector at well below the agreed-upon loan targets. BNDES has consistently emphasized
that this is its own internal policy decision which was then reflected with the agreements
reached with the Bank. According to its own policies, BNDES will also continue with
the cleansing of its non-performing portfolios as well as with its efforts to lend only to
financially sound companies. It seems to have been simply fortuitous that the Bank's
policies were identical to BNDES' own policies. However, if BNDES' policies change
then it becomes questionable as to whether the Bank's\project's policies will continue to
be sustainable. BNDES will sustain and continue to improve upon its institutional
developments, i.e. its Credit Department policies and procedures for risk management
and creditworthiness determination and the improvements in accounting for, preparing
and disseminating its financial information in a timely and consistent manner. The
project should be financially sustainable because funds were lent at rates which reflect
their cost plus a spread.



-8-
G.   Bank Performance
19.         The Bank performed its supervision role adequately.  The missions
reviewed sub-project documents as well as visited several project sights-- both final
beneficiaries and financial intermediaries-- to verify project implementation. The Bank
was also very amenable (possibly too amenable) to BNDES' efforts to solve the problem
of not maintaining the 40% lending target through financial intermediaries, by agreeing
to modified targets and giving BNDES every opportunity to meet the targets and thereby
continue the loan.  The Bank also efficiently approved and disbursed funds up to the
time of sub-project approval suspension.  Many questions are raised in hindsight,
regarding this loan. One of which is, given the knowledge that the macroeconomic
environment in Brazil was already poor (too poor for a structural adjustment loan to be
approved) and with predictions that it would be worsening, why did the Bank really go
ahead with a Private Sector Finance Loan\Credit?  It seems that at the time of loan
appraisal, there was every indication and concern that the macroeconomic environment
would be worsening (meaning inflation would be increasing). With this knowledge, and
the knowledge that it becomes increasingly difficult to perform satisfactory project
economic analyses in a high and increasing inflationary environment, and knowing that
in such an environment lending is usually reduced, why continue with this type of loan?
The Bank may have been too accommodating in this respect. In designing or approving
the loan, the Bank should have paid closer attention to the worsening macroeconomic
environment and in doing so, should have foreseen the pending difficulties in instituting
a line of credit in a high inflation environment which would not be conducive to adequate
economic analysis of projects and therefore would not encourage private sector lending.
H.   Borrower Performance
2.0.        Frequent changes of the President of BNDES caused some anxiety (within
the Bank) as to whether the target agreements in the letter of August 8, 1990 were still
being adhered to in 1993 and 1994. With each successive President, it became more
difficult for BNDES to sign a letter confirming its intentions to continue with the policies
of the loan as well as its intentions to meet the targets. BNDES did complete the loan's
institution-building requirements and thereby improve their functioning, as well as to
meet the target of direct lending to the private sector, and in the end by the time the loan
closed BNDES had completed and implemented most of the loans requirements except
for the lending target through public financial intermediaries. In reviewing the reasons
BNDES gave for not being in compliance with the loan's target for lending through
public financial intermediaries it seems that BNDES was not altogether forthcoming with
the real reasons for not maintaining the target. Therefore, BNDES' performnance can be
rated satisfactory with the exception of its performance related to lending through public
financial intermediaries which was unsatisfactory.



- 9-
I.    Government Performance
21.         Because of continuous changes in Government and the frequency with
which BNDES staff were transferred to Governrnent positions it became increasingly
difficult to determine where Government ended and BNDES began. For example, the
Minister of Planning, the Bank's main interlocutor, is a former BNDES Senior Vice
President, and the President of BNDES is a board nmember of the Central Bank and the
Monetary Council as well as a member of the President of the Republic's economic
team. BNDES is undoubtedly a Federal Bank. However, it has increasingly tried to
operate independent of Government intervention and with a more private-sector
orientation. In relation to this particular loan, the question is raised as to whether it was
the Government who really forced BNDES to lend to the agricultural sector and to the
public sector special projects, or whether it was BNDES' decision, possibly attempting
to gain political leverage. Remembering that even without FINAME Agricola and the
special projects BNDES still exceeded the 40% target, it would seem that it was not
really Government pressure that caused BNDES not to adhere to the loan criteria (as the
Bank missions were led to believe). With the continuous changes in Government and the
frequent interchanging of BNDES employees with the Ministry there is no clear
demarcation between Government and BNDES with regard to decision-making.
J.    Assessment of Outcome
22.         An assessment of the outcome based primarily on how well the project
achieved its objectives, would be that project results were unsatisfactory. BNDES did
satisfactorily achieve the loan criteria for re-orienting its lending to the private sector,
as well as its institutional objectives, however, the financial objective aimed at reducing
its lending through public financial intermediaries was not achieved. It is important to
keep in mind, given that this was a private sector finance loan, that even though BNDES
did not achieve the 40% target for lending through financial intermediaries, BNDES
continued to direct between 86-88% annually (between 1990-1993), of its funds toward
financing the private sector. The aim to reshape BNDES into an efficient and financially
healthy organization able to compete with and operate on the level of the private sector
banks was achieved regarding institution-building, auditing procedures and reporting
capabilities, the capability of rating companies and determining creditworthiness and risk
management as well as the improvement of BNDES' portfolio of accounts. However,
BNDES is at this time a stronger and more competitive financial institution. BNDES is
still very susceptible to Government control and directives, and with continued lending
through public intermediaries, especially in this high inflationary environment, is
probably susceptible once again to financing uneconomic projects.



- 10 -
K.    Future Operation
23.         Intermediaries such as BNDES are likely to become increasingly important
in distributing credit and reaching the smaller targets.  BNDES should remain an
intermediary for Bank lending since it has ways of reaching these smaller regions/clients
and could be an important intermediary specifically in infrastructure, social sector and/or
environmental projects. However, BNDES should be clearly defined as a Federal Bank,
susceptible to Federal Government intervention and future loan covenants should reflect
this. With this in mind, the future operation of BNDES remains uncertain given that
elections are this year, a new Government will be arriving and new policies will be
instituted. In terms of this particular project, it would be interesting to see a study done
possibly three years from now, on whether the projects financed by the loan were sound
projects and whether or not they have been repaid. It is not possible to do this now
because most of these projects had a two year grace period and repayments are in many
cases just beginning.
L.    Key Lessons Learned
24.          The key lesson learned by this project has been that conditions should not
be imposed on a Federal Bank loan, if the Federal Bank has little or no control over the
conditions. One of the main examples of this lesson is BNDES' inability to do much
about the Government's pressure to lend through public financial intermediaries and
finance public projects.  It was emphasized to the Bank that this was more of a
Government decision than a decision over which BNDES had any control. Although in
the end it was not clear whether this was in fact the case, it is still a fact that the
Government does have a great deal of influence over a Federal development bank such
as BNDES. Consequently, covenants should be prepared, as much as is possible, in such
a way that they are under the sole jurisdiction of the implementing institution to fulfill.
In this case the Bank was dealing with a large Federal Bank holding non-performing
public sector (state banks) assets with state guarantees with a potentially large fiscal
impact. Consequently, with a Government interest in keeping these state banks alive,
BNDES could have been utilized by the Federal Government for its political and other
purposes and as such, should not have been identified as an institution capable of
functioning independently. The Bank should also have taken into consideration the high
and increasing inflationary environment and not permitted a credit line knowing that in
such an environment it is increasingly difficult to determine, through economic analysis
whether uneconomic projects are in fact being financed. Credit lines which incorporate
policy criteria which can be greatly affected by a country's macroeconomic situation are
not appropriate in high inflation environments.



- 11 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
PRIVATE SECTOR FINANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 3268-BR)
PART II: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION EVALUATION FROM THE
BORROWER' SPERSPECTIVE
I.    Evaluation of the World Bank's Performance
The World Bank's (WB) performance during the evolution and implementation
of the project was considered satisfactory. Approval of sub-projects by WB personnel
was done at an adequate pace--two to three weeks on average. Loan withdrawal requests
and SOE approvals were handled expeditiously. Given these two positive aspects,
BNDES did not experience any cash-flow problems with the Loan's funding.
II.   Evaluation of BNDES' Performance
BNDES feels that its own performance during the evolution and carrying out of
the project was satisfactory, and that we were able to operate efficiently in a volatile
economic and financial environment, as a long-term investment/development bank.
BNDES channeled a constantly decreasing portion of its disbursements to the
public sector, as agreed with the WB. Actually, BNDES was so successful in carrying
out this strategy that the estimated goal of 19% set for 1992 and beyond was reached in
1990 and has been maintained ever since.
BNDES believes that this goal more than compensates for not meeting the policy
objective of lending less through public financial intermediaries. This topic will be
described in detail in another section.
BNDES maintained a positive yearly average spread between its lending and
borrowing rates, as the WB wished, drastically reduced its portfolio of non-performing
loans and made all the necessary provisions for public sector loans.
During the period under consideration, BNDES continued to exercise a
modernizing influence on the productive sector of the economy, by financing projects
emphasizing the use of new technologies, greater administrative capabilities and better
qualified people.



- 12 -
The extended use of its 100+ intermediary financial agents--public and private--
has been very successful in reaching small and medium entrepreneurs. Certain financial
agents like Banco do Brasil have many branches located in small-and-medium-sized
towns and BNDES feels that this capillarity is extremely important to improve the
distribution of its funds.
III.   Effectiveness of the Relationship between the World Bank and BNDES
During the evolution and implementation of the project, the relationship of the
World Bank and BNDES was always very cordial, friendly, and effective, as in all other
Loans negotiated by the two institutions.
Most issues raised by BNDES in the PCR of the Third Development Banking
Project (Loan 2488-BR) were taken into account in the negotiations of this Loan and
were adopted in the final contract, having contributed to proper disbursement of the
Loan. A few aspects of the negotiated contract, though, should be pointed out at this
stage.
Although BNDES' goals were to reduce and maintain at a lower level its total
credit flow to the public sector and to reduce the participation of public financial
intermediaries in the allocation of its own funds, it is BNDES' understanding that
inserting the two clauses in the Loan contract became a constraint to its activities.
BNDES was in fact forced to accept the notion that this WB loan (for a total of US$300
million) would dictate the allocation of what would involve US$10 billion of its funds in
a period of three years.
An additional topic concerns the commitment fee. BNDES understands that it is
a penalty that executing agencies should have to bear, in case the execution does not go
on as planned. However, if the project is being executed effectively and efficiently
within the timetable agreed upon with the WB, why should the executing agency be
penalized'?
It is understandable that the WB has to meet its own costs and therefore it should
onlend its funds with a reasonable margin to cover them, but why use the commitment
fee to cover part of its costs? Although the reason for this is probably a political one,
as it is more appealing to display a lower interest rate on loans than would otherwise be
the case, BNDES feels that the commitment fee should only be charged if project
execution does not abide by the timetable previously agreed upon.



- 13 -
IV.   Performance of Co-financiers and Assessment of the Effectiveness of their
Relationship with BNDES
BNDES onlent WB funds directly to nineteen of its clients. All other projects
were financed through financial intermediaries. All of those projects are in their pay-
back period. BNDES feels that its relationship with the co-financiers --the entrepreneurs
and the financial agents-- has been very good. There have been no pending problems nor
does it foresee any potential ones. BNDES' credit policy and criteria are well known
and normally acceptable to them.
V.    BNDES' Comments on the Analysis Contained in the World Bank's
Evaluation
The World Bank's evaluation is not based upon an egalitarian interpretation of
this institution's performance throughout the contract and contains some incorrections,
which we would like to clarify.
All targets agreed upon, with the exception of only one, have been in fact fully
met. The target that can be considered the main one, since it conveys the contract's
ultimate purpose, has been fully achieved. The funds intended for the public sector were
reduced to 12% of total investments in 1993, substantially exceeding the 19% goal. New
procedures regarding credit and risk analysis were promptly adopted by the Credit Area,
while the Audit Area reviewed its procedures and reports, as acknowledged in the WB
report.
It should be noted that, rather than merely complying with the contractual clauses
agreed on with the WB, the above results are first and foremost the fruit of the strategic
orientation assumed by BNDES according to the Federal Government's policies.
The only target that was not met, due to purely conjunctural reasons unforeseeable
at the time of contract signing, was the ceiling for onlending through financial
intermediaries. However, the non-compliance of this target should not invalidate the
other positive results presented by BNDES.
The failure to meet the above-mentioned target originates in two facts, namely
the participation of Banco do Brasil as onlender of BNDES' funds and the private banks
relative lack of interest in expanding their long term financing operations, as explained
in the following items.
Settlement of public accounts by the Federal Government involved the
rationalization of resource utilization. Within this context, BNDES was requested to
participate in the financing of machinery and equipment for the agricultural sector.
Agriculture is one of the most efficient and competitive sectors of the Brazilian economy.
BNDES' participation in the financing of machinery for agriculture is intended to ensure



- 14 -
its proper performance, essential to prevent the internal supply of foodstuffs from being
adversely affected, which would hinder the huge effort to control the inflationary process.
Moreover, this is a significant exporting segment whose competitiveness should not be
endangered.
The main financial intermediary for the agricultural sector was Banco do Brasil,
which applied nearly the total amount of resources allocated to that sector.  The bank
is a mixed company with shares negotiated in the Stock Exchange and enjoying a solid
financial condition. The institution competes in the financial market on equal conditions
with private banks.  This financial agent's participation was fundamental to the
agricultural program's success, considering its expertise consolidated throughout almost
two centuries of dealing with rural credit in Brazil.
As acknowledged by the WB itself in the Aide-Memoires related to Loan 3268-
BR, BNDES has been attempting to encourage private banks to be more active in the
FINAME Agricola program. However, those banks' decision to comply depends on the
development of expertise in relation to the rural sector, which up to now is found in only
a few private banks.
Due to its solid condition and tradition, Banco do Brasil started to operate with
all BNDES' credit facilities and quickly rose to the position of chief financial
intermediary, having in 1993 applied 26% of the total funds onlent through agents and
about half of the resources lent through the official banks. Without the performance of
Banco do Brasil, the target in question would have been met at the cost of a reduced
volume of financing mainly those intended for the agricultural sector.
The relative lack of interest shown by private banks in rendering their operations
more dynamic with BNDES' funds is less related to the negative economic evaluation
of their potential clients than to the relatively low remuneration of such operations,
subject to a previously defined del credere, when compared to the remuneration offered
by the financial sector's business. In spite of the risk involved in the latter business,
some of which is merely speculative, the persistently high interest rates sustained by the
inflationary process make such business feasible.
The financially weakened public banks did not receive resources from BNDES,
which adopted in relation to them the same financial and risk evaluation criteria as those
applied to private banks.  Those criteria, verified by the Credit Area, have been
acknowledged by the WB itself.



- 15 -
BNDES' position with regard to the public banks was not all passive as suggested
in the WB's report. Those banks were actually submitted to three types of treatment:
a)    most of them operated normally, in compliance with the credit limits
established by BNDES according to the evaluation of their financial
performance and to risk, in which disbursement suspension was an
extreme measure;
b)    other banks, which had their status renegotiated by the Credit Recovery
Department, were submitted to the zero flow regime, that is, the resources
borrowed were limited to the amount of repayments to BNDES. This
situation should change in subsequent years, according to a schedule
providing for repayments to gradually exceed the funds onlent to new
investments, until the normal limits resulting from the financial and
economic performances are reached;
c)    the third condition refers only to Banco do Brasil, which due to
supervenient reasons was not submitted to such limits, although it has
been decided that the resources onlent through this financial agent in 1994
should not exceed their equivalent in 1993.
Contrary to the WB report's information, the Planning Area carried on and
intensified the competitiveness studies (see enclosed material), which now reached the
company level. For operational facility purposes, UNDP funds were allocated to finance
those studies , which in no way means that BNDES has ceased to consider them as a
foremost priority.
With respect to the report's doubt regarding BNDES' position concerning the
Federal Government, it should be clarified that BNDES is a public agency that belongs
to the Federal Government's administrative structure. As such, it follows governmental
policies, being nevertheless independent in terms of economic analysis and financing
approval, which follow BNDES' own procedures. The Federal Government in fact
required BNDES to conduct the National Privatization program, providing the necessary
technical and administrative support to carry out so significant a program. The reduction
of credits extended to the public sector is also a governmental directive formalized by
several legal regulations.
BNDES' fiscal resources originate in the FAT, formed by the PIS-PASEP's
contributions and are required by law to be included in the federal budget. However,
their onlending does not depend on the Federal Government's decision, since their
automatic transfer to BNDES is ensured by the Federal Constitution (Art. 239 of the
Federal Constitution of the Federative Republic of Brazil).  With regard to FAT
transfers, it should be noted that they are ordinary resources subject only to the
Operational Policies, whose determination is incumbent on BNDES' Board of Directors.



- 16 -
With regard to the allocative distortions entailed by inflation, it should be noted
that BNDES has considerably reduced this effect with regard to project analysis. In fact,
BNDES, which was one of the first institutions in the world to adopt the economic
analysis of projects, has been improving this technique, in order to allow its utilization
in an inflationary context, a long persisting condition in Brazil that would otherwise
hinder the utilization of long term credit.
It should also be noted that the Brazilian economic authorities have never allowed
the inflationary process to reach the verge of hyperinflation, having timely adopted
economic policies to prevent macroeconomic loss of control. At the moment, the Plano
Real is being carried out, with successful results regarding inflation control.



- 17 -
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
TABLE 1:   SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A.   Achievement of Objectives Substantial   Partial  Negligible Not Applicable
Macroeconomic Policies                                          X
Sector Policies                                                 X
Financial Objectives                    X
Institutional Development     X
Physical Objectives                                             X
Poverty Reduction                                               X
Gender Concerns                                                 X
Other Social Objectives                                         X
Environmental Objectives                                        X
Public Sector Management                                        X
Private Sector Development              X
Other (Specify)                                                 X
B.    Project Sustainability    Likely       Unlikely           Uncertain
Institutional Development    X
Financial Objectives                    X
Highly
C.    Bank Performance          Satisfactory  Satisfactory      Deficient
Identification                                              x
Preparation Assistance                   X
Appraisal                                X
Supervision                    X
Highly
D.    Borrower Performance      Satisfactorv  Satisfactory      Deficient
Preparation                               X
Implementation                                              X
Covenant Compliance                                         X
Highly                                     Highly
E.    Assessment of Outcome    Satisfactory   Satisfactory Unsatisfactory Unsatisfactory
x



- 18 -
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS
Loan title & Amount          Purpose              Year of Approval   Status           Comments
First Development Banking    Finance small and           1976         Cancelled       Lending rates to small
Loan No. 1206-BR             medium scale                                             and medium enterprises
US$85 million                enterprise                                               from 1976-1980 were
negative in real terms
Second Development           Finance small and           1982         Closed          Intermediaries were
Banking Loan No. 2225-BR    medium scale                                              trained in project
US$220 million               enterprises through                                      appraisal methodology
financial
intermediaries
Third Development Banking    Finance small and           1985         Closed          US$1.3 million
Loan No. 2488-BR             medium scale                                             cancelled
US$300 million               enterprises and
develop economic
analysis capability
of BNDES and
financial
intermediaries



- 19 -
TABLE 3:   PROJECT TIMETABLE
Date               Date               Date
Item                           Planned             Revised            Actual
- Identification\Preparation   6\89                --                 6\89
- Executive Project Summary    6\89                9\89               3\90
- Pre-appraisal                 11\89             --1 1\89
- Appraisal                    4\90                                   4\90
- Loan Negotiations            8\90                --                 8\90
- Board Approval                10\90              1 1\90             11\90
- Loan Signature                1\91               --                 1\91
- Loan Effectiveness           3\91                --                 3\91
- Loan Closing                  12\93              --                 12\93
- Loan Completion              4\94                --                 3\94
Comments: (Issues raised at each stage of the project cycle)
At the IEPS stage, BNDES and SEPLAN (the Ministry of Planning) objected to the inclusion of
loan targets in the actual loan agreement. They made an alternative proposal to have a side letter
which signified agreement to the targets. The Bank accepted this proposal.
At the time of closing it was BNDES' decision not to ask for an extension given that it was
becoming increasingly difficult and at that point unlikely, to meet the agreed upon targets for
lending through public financial intermediaries.



- 20 -
TABLE 4:  LOAN DISBURSEMENTS
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disoursements
(UJS$M per Fiscal Year)
1991            1992          1993        1994
Appraisal Estimate                  75              150          250           300
Actual                              81              56            71             0
Actual as % of Estimate              108%         37.3%        28.4%         0.0%
Date of Final Disbursement   March 3, 1994



- 21 -
TABLE 5:   KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
I. Key Implementation              Estimated                    Actual
indicators in
SAR/President's Report
1. To reduce BNDES' flow   27% in 1989                27% in 1989
of credit to public sector  23% in 1990                15% in 1990
borrowers to:              19% in 1991                 12% in 1991
19% in 1992 and thereafter   16% in 1992
l______________________     12%  in     1993
2. To reduce the           50% in 1989                50% in 1989
participation of public    45% in 1990                 44% in 1990
financial intermediaries in   40% in 1991             40% in 1991
allocating BNDES resources  40% in 1992 and thereafter   48% in 1992
to:                                                    52% in 1993
3. To achieve a yearly                                 Achieved
average spread between its
average cruzeiro lending
and borrowing rates to
cover prudent risk
provisioning.
4. The Borrower shall      March 14, 1992              Board approved credit
establish not later than                              limits November 18, 1991
March 14. 1992, and                                   but actual implementation
maintain policies and                                 of full creditworthi.iess
procedures for determining                            assessment procedures did
creditworthiness of clients                            not begin until January
borrowing directly from                                1994.
BNDES.
5. The Borrower shall      December 31, 1991          Board approved risk
establish not later than                              management program on
December 31. 1991 risk                                November 18, 1991 but
management programs                                   actual implementation of
according to consistenLiy                             the program\procedures did
maintained sound banking                               not begin until January
and technical practices.                               1994.



- 22 -
6. The Borrower shall        December 31, 1991            BNDES submitted on
prepare and present to the                                March 25, 1992 a report
Bank a report on the                                      outlining and assessing
assessment of the                                         BNDES' policy for
effectiveness of the                                      obtaining security for it
Borrower's policy for                                     lending operations.
obtaining security for its
lending operations not later
than December 31, 1991.
7. The Borrower shall       December 31, 1991             The Borrower complied
reduce its arrears existing                               with this covenant and
on March 31, 1990 and                                     achieved the objective of
furnish the Bank with a                                   reducing its arrears existing
report on its plans and                                   at the time of appraisal.
actions to reduce such                                    By the end of December
arrears, not later then                                   1993 loan loss provisions
December 31, 1991.                                        were enough to fully cover
their reduced arrears.
8. The project included a                                 Regarding: a) the Credit
training program to: a)                                   Department's training and
improve the Borrower's                                   procedure development has
credit policies and                                       been implemented mostly
procedures; b) support the                                financed with internal
Planning Department's                                    resources and other external
program to develop                                        support. b) the Planning
indicators of international                               Department decided to
competitiveness for                                       discontinue its work in
industrial sectors; and c)                                developing indicators of
develop the Borrower's                                   international
capability and procedures                                 competitiveness. They
for opertaional performance                               have also received UNDP
auditing.                                                 funds in the form of grants
to carry out their studies.
and c) the Audit
Department completed an
overall assessment of its
capabilities and procedures.



- 23 -
II. Modified Indicators
1. The Bank received a                               The targets were not met.
letter from the President of                         BNDES actually increased
BNDES, following a                                   its percentage of lending
Mission agreement,                                   through public financial
confirming BNDES'                                    intermediaries.
intentions to meet the
following modified targets
for lending through public
financial intermediaries:
45 % on or before
September 30, 1993, 43%
on or before December 31,
1993, and 40% by June 30,
1994.
2. After much                                        It was expected that without
deliberations, the Bank                              FINAME Agricola, the
agreed to exclude FINAME                             percentage of funds being
Agricola from the                                    distributed through public
calculations for the                                 financial intermediaries
percentage of funds being                            would be well below the
disbursed through public                             original target of 40%.
financial intermediaries,                            This was not the case and
due to the non-existence of                          therefore, excluding
FINAME Agricola when                                 FINAME Agricola did not
the targets were initially                           make a great deal of
drawn up and the                                     difference.
unforseeable political
pressure the agricultural
program forced on BNDES.



- 24 -
TABLE 6: STUDIES, COURSES & TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE INCLUDED IN
rHE PROJECT
DEPARTMENT               STUDIES,COURSES& TA                   AMOUNT
Audit                    Technical assistance                  US$16,088
to develop and improve
BNDES' auditing capabil-
ities and procedures.
Audit                    Finance for 2nd phase of TA           US$30,000
to improve procedures and
train staff.
Credit                   Purchase computer software            US$12,500
to improve credit collection
and control.
Credit                   Mergers & Acquisitions course, and    US$20,000
Insurance Risk Management course     US$11,500
for improvement of credit collection
and control.
Credit                   Credit Analysis Course                US$6,055
Planning                 Research on the impacts of changes    US$22,500
in income and redistribution
consumption and product demand.
Planning                 Pulp and Cellulose Course             US$16,000
Planning                 Analysis of employment generation.    US$40,500



- 25 -
TABLE 7: PROJECT COSTS & FINANCING
(US$M)                   Appraisal Estimates Estimated Actual
Total             Local Foreign      Total
BANK                                        300.0
184.1
Operations through financial
intermediaries                                                                   127.2
Fixed assets & related working capital                         2.9  124.3        127.2
Working capital only                                          --   --            --
Direct loans to larger private sector companies                                  56.8
Fixed assets & related working capital                        13.6   43.2        56.8
Working capital only                                             --             --
Training & technical assistance               0.5              0.1     0          0.1
Equipment for technical assistance                               --             --
BNDES                                       299.5             184.0    0         184.0
Operations through financial
internediaries                                                127.2    0         127.2
Fixed assets & related working capital                        127.2    0         127.2
Working capital only
Direct loans to larger private sector companies               56.8     0         56.8
Fixed assets & related working capital                        56.8     0         56.8
Working capital only                                             --             --
SUB-BORROWERS                               599.0             244.5    0         244.5
Operations through financial intermedi'ries                   131.9    0         131.9
Fixed assets & related working capital                        131.9    0         131.9
Working capital only
Direct loans to larger private sector companies               113.6    0         113.6
Fixed assets & related working capital                        113.6    0         113.6
Working capital only
TOTAL                                       1,198.5           445.1 167.5        612.6



- 26 -
TABLE 8A: PROJECT RESULTS
Operations with Major Sub-Clients
Throu2h Financial Intermediaries:
Subproject\    Disbursement Amt.    State   Sector        Financial     Objective
Company Narne US$                                         Agent
M D Nicolau   7,024,262             SP     Pulp&Paper    Consorcium      Expansion
Cremer        2,529,945             SC     Textiles       Credibanco     Modernization
Artex         2,359,855             SC     Textiles       Bradesco      Expansion
Citrovita     1,741,206             SP     Beverages      Credibanco    Implementation
Tigre          1,511,380            SC     Plastics       Credibanco     Modernization
Sao Marco     1,410,656             MG    Electric        Credibanco     Expansion
Manguinhos    1,333,526             RJ     Petrochemical  Credibanco     Modernization
Flasko        1,042,599             SP     Plastics       Itau           Expansion
Brasinca       1,000,000            SP     Automotive      BFII          Modernization
Subtotal (Financial Intermediaries)  US$19,953,429
Through Direct Onerations:
Subproject\    Disbursement Amt.    State  Sector         Financial     Objective
Company Name US$                                          Agent
Inpacel       4,686,198             PR     Pulp&Paper   -----            Implementation
Celpav        4,2-43.245            SP     Pulp&Paper   -----            Implementation
Toga          4,099,550             SP     Pulp&Paper   -----            Expansion
Braspet       4.065.050             MG    Plastics                      Implementation
Peval         3,706.414             BA     Mining         -----         Implementation
Fitesa        3,568,540             RS     P2trochemical  -----         Implementation
Tupi          3,561,381             MG    Cement                         Expansion
Morroverde    3,507,529             PR     Chemical       -----         Modernization
Philcoamaz    2,972,689             AM     Electric       -----          Modernization
Solvav        2,476,224             SP     Petrochemical   -----         Expansion
Eucatex       2,352,152             SP     Cheraical      -----         Expansion
Romi           1,749,672            SP     Mechanic       -----          Modernization
Geotecnica     1,670.405            RJ     Engineering    -----          Expansion
Ceval          1,622,285            SP     Foodstuff      -----          Implementation
Globocochr    1,599,945             SP     Graphic         -             Implementation
Grendene      1,563,027             RS     Shoes                         Modernization
Engepack      1,524,719             BA     Plastics       -----         Implementation
Duratex       1,015,919             SP     Metallurgy     -----         Expansion
Subtotal (Direct Operations)        US$50, 004.943



- 27 -
Other Subprojects of less than US$1 million (Includes Training):    US$114,238,233
TOTAL                                                           US$18 .196,605
Less LBRD Funding                                                       147,094
GRAND TOTAL                                                    US$184,049,511
TABLE 8B. DISBURSEMENT FLOWS OF SUBPROJECTS
Region               IBRD               %              Objective              IBRD              %
Contribution                                            Contribution
US$ Thousands                                           US$ Thousands
North                   2,971              1.61        Expansion              40,312           21.90
Northeast               5,779              3.14        Installation           28,737           15.61
Southeast              66,636             36.21        Modernization          35,863           19.49
South                  29,307             15.92        POC*                   79,058           42.95
Center-West               300              0.16        BNDES Training             so            0.04
POC*                   79,058             42.95
TOTAL                  184,050           100.00        TOTAL                 184,050          100.00
*     POC is larger than each of the other regions because it is made up mostly of small to medium sized loans of
US$5,000-1,000,000, and the sub-projects were grouped under one application number titled Various, therefore it
would be extremely difficult if not impossible to break out each individual project accurately.
Distribution by Size of Enterprise:
Small Companies defined as companies with assets of up to $500,000 and loan sizes of less than
$150-200,000.
Medium Companies defined as companies with up to $2million in assets and loan sizes of $500,000
and higher.
*(World Bank Private Sector Development Department definitions)
US$M                %
Loans smaller than US$200,000                  36.6             20.0
Loans from  US$200,000-500,000                 47.0             25.5
Loans above US$500,000                       100.5              54.5
TOTAL                                         184.1            100.00



- 28 -
TABLE 9:  STATUS OF LOAN COVENANTS
LOAN 3268-BRAZIL
Legal Agreem.        Coven                                                          Compli-
Section              TYP            CONDITION                      DATE             ance            COMMENT
LA 2.02 (b)           M        Maintain a Special Account        April, 1991          OK
(CESA) at the Central Bank
LA 2.02 (c)           M        Maintain a Special Account        April, 1991          OK
(FESA) at a foreign bank
LA 3.01 (c)           M        Inform private financial          April 26, 1991       OK
intermediaries about avail-
ability of Bank Loan Funds
LA 3.01 (d)           T        Inform Bank of Training           April 2. 1991        OK
Program under Part B (i)         March 26, 1992
LA 3.04 (b)           F        Review of Achievement of          November 19,         OK          Out of five obligations
Objectives/Borrower's            1993                             for the twelve months
letter of August 8, 1990                                          ending December 1993
BNDES fully complied
with four except that
one related to the
participation of public
financial intermediaries
that went up from
47.5% in 1992 to
51.8% in 1993.
LA 3.05               F         Establish and maintain overall   January 1, 1991      OK
Credit and Risk Limits for
Financial Internediaries
LA 3.06               F         Establish procedures and Criteria    November 9,      OK          Fully operational as of
to determine Creditworthiness    1993                             January 1994.
for Direct Lending
LA 3.07               F         Establish Risk Management        November 9,          OK          Fully operational as of
Program and Prepare Report on    1993                             January 1994.
its Effectiveness
LA 3.08               F         Review with Bank Whe Borrower    November 19,         OK
Lending Portfolio                1993
LA 4.02(a)            F        Furnish Bank with audited                              OK
Financial Statements for each
year
LA 4.03               F        Continue to fully hedge its       November 19,         OK
Foreing Exchange Exposure        1993
Side Letter           F        Continue to apply indexes which   November 19,         OK          See L.A. 3.04(b)
Aug 8, 1990                    protect the real value of its     1993
lending operations



- 29 -
TABLE 10: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Stage of     Month\ Year    Number   Days in  Specialized    Performance Rating    Types of
project                      of         field    staff skills                        problems
cycle                        persons              represented  Implemen  Develop
tation     ment
Status     impact
Through      Identification    2        17        Financial
Appraisal    Mission- June                        Project
1989.                               Specialists
Pre- Appraisal
Mission- Nov.
1989.          2          11        Saie as
above
Appraisal    Appraisal       2          14        Same as
through      Mission- April                      above
Board         1990.
Approval
Board
approval
through
effective-
ness



- 30 -
Stage of     Month\ Year    Number   Days in  Specialized    Performance Rating    Types of
project                      of        field     staff skills                       problems
cycle                        persons             represented  Implemen  Develop
tation     ment
Status    impact
Supervision   1st-April 1991   1       13        Same as      1          1          None
above.
2nd-Nov 1991
1         7                      I          1          None
3rd-March
1992, Mid-
Term Review    1          13                     1        1           None
4th-Nov 1992   2          3        .            2           1          BNDES
unable to
meet
loan
target for
lending
through
public
financial
intermedi
aries.
5th- April     2          8         .2                      1
1993                                                                  Same as
above.
6th- Nov 1993   2        8         .            2          2
7th-March      I          10                    2          2
1994, Final
Supervision
Completion   September       I         0         ,            2          2
1994



- 31 -
TABLE 11: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
STAGE OF PROJECT                               FISCAL YEAR
CYCLE
89       90       91        92       93        94        95
To Appraisal            4.3      6.3
Appraisal through               56.0       8.7
Board Approval
Supervision                                3.0      5.7      11.9      12.3
ICR                                                                    10.5      10.0
TOTAL             4.3    62.3      11.7      5.7      11.9      22.8       10.0






70  V E N E Z U E L A      ;)-?         ei            1"                                                                                                       IBRD 20804R1
SURINAME       FR
GUYANA        ~)GUIANA
COLOMBIA                                                        YAN   4 t
;*                   RO      A\/7,,J$                                                                                         A tlaA ntic        Ocean
AMAZONAS                                                                                                                0~RNDE 00 NORTE
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f~y  nd RIN   zn--Soa oudsre
E   ~~~~~~ .P- ve
p5?1O ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~AT                                                 Bong Pave
P~ ~  ~ E R U                                E      NAt_                                                                                                             iOgrw
20                                                                                                                                                                             Und er Constructiron
't ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~___ P;ne                                                                                20'fib  v _d
. Ntn  Cita1
ACRE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SaeCptl
GOASeetdCtean  on
StaeEBundrie
RON   IA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nentonlBudre
ARGENTINA                                                                                         0               LOtEtS~
ATO                                                                                    eSdb    Ab tArS        t 
20'                                                          -      ~       bG.sd                                                      Au    -. .~  -tv.a -a VS -  .t*- 5. .s.a
BOLIVIA,S. l                                                                                                                         .S.ad  dt            b,a
I.       d URUGUAY                                                                      .,A~ ~~Badr..o R.Ab An-   ZW,w. IM* Lae. ~fA
H w tigh, ye_qu  R-ds:    ,a
-  Paved~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
20'                                     I                                    Beig0'e
C-~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OEBt10









Report No:       14775
Type: PCR
PIXTEX



