Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3268-BR
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3268-BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 14, 1991, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and BANCO NACIONAL DE DESENVOLVIMENTO ECONOMICO E SOCIAL 
(the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) the Federative Republic of Brazil (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, 
having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of 
the Project;
(B)
by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith between 
the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of 
the Borrower in respect of
the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set forth in the Guarantee 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Account Bank" means the bank referred to in paragraph (c) of Section 
2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
"Central Bank" means Banco Central do Brasil, the Central Bank of Brazil, 
established by the Guarantor's Law No. 4,595 of December 31, 1964;
Page  2
(c)
"CESA" means the Special Account referred to in paragraph (b) of Section 
2.02 of this Agreement;
(d)
"Cruzeiros" means the currency of the Guarantor;
 
(e)
"FESA" means the Special Account referred to in paragraph (c) of Section 
2.02 of this Agreement;
(f)
"Financial Intermediary" means a financial institution (with more than 
50% of its voting capital owned by persons other than the Guarantor, any political or 
administrative subdivision thereof, or any entity owned or controlled by any of them) 
considered by the Borrower as eligible to participate in the carrying out of Part A of 
the Project;
(g)
"Free-limit Sub-loan" means a Sub-loan, as so defined, which qualifies as 
a free-limit Sub-loan pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 1 (b) of Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement;
(h)
"FSRMM" means Adicional ao Frete Para a Renovacao da Marinha Mercante - 
AFRMM, the Guarantor's Freight Surcharge for the Renewal of the Merchant Marine 
established by Decree Law 1,142 of December 30, 1970, as amended to December 31, 1987, 
or any other tax, levy or charge that, in the reasonable opinion of the Bank, may 
substitute it, in whole or part, after January 1, 1988;
(i)
"Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise (with more than 50% of its 
voting capital owned by persons other than the Guarantor, any political or 
administrative subdivision thereof, or
any entity owned or controlled by any of them) to which the Borrower or a Financial 
Intermediary proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan;
(j)
"Investment Project" means a specific development project in any region 
of Brazil to be carried out by an Investment Enterprise in any sector of the 
Guarantor's economy utilizing the
proceeds of a Sub-loan;
(k)
"Special Account" means either of the accounts to be opened and 
maintained pursuant to paragraphs (b) and (c) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement, 
unless otherwise required by the context;
(l)
"Statement of Policy" means the statement of lending and investment 
policy approved by the Board of Directors of the Borrower on January 18, 1990, as 
amended from time to time;
(m)
"Statutes" means the statutes of the Borrower as set forth in Decreto No. 
73.713 of the Guarantor, dated March 1, 1974, as amended from time to time; and
(n)
"Sub-loan" means any loan made or proposed to be made by the Borrower or 
by a Financial Intermediary out of the proceeds of the Loan to an Investment 
Enterprise for an Investment Project under Part A of the Project.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of three hundred million 
dollars ($300,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with 
each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) amounts 
paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid) by the Borrower, directly or through 
a Financial Intermediary, on account of withdrawals made by an Investment Enterprise 
under a Sub-loan to meet the reasonable cost of goods and works required for the 
Investment Project in respect of which the withdrawal from the Loan Account is 
Page  3
requested; and (ii) for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) 
in respect of the reasonable cost of services required for Part B of the Project and 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain a 
special deposit account in dollars in the Central Bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank.
Deposits into, and payments out of, this special deposit account (CESA) shall be made 
exclusively to meet expenditures in Cruzeiros incurred in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, works and
services required to carry out the Project and to be financed by the Bank pursuant to 
paragraph (a) above.
(c)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain 
thereafter in a bank acceptable to the Bank (the Account Bank) a special deposit 
account in dollars on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, this special account (FESA) 
shall be made exclusively to meet expenditures in currencies other than Cruzeiros 
incurred in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required to 
carry out the Project and to be financed by the Bank pursuant to paragraph (a) above.
(d)
Deposits into, and payments out of, CESA and FESA shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 7 to this Agreement. The Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank each month
certified statements of CESA and FESA.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1993 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the 
Guarantor of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the 
rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined 
in respect of such Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately 
preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning 
with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the 
Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of the 
outstanding borrowings of 
the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, 
excluding such borrowings or portions 
thereof as the Bank has allocated 
to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) 
loans which may be made by 
the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates 
determined otherwise 
than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar 
year.
 
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
Page  4
read as follows:
"(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to 
the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, 
plus one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest 
Period, calculated 
at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the 
Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings 
determined in respect of such 
Quarter."
 
"(c)  (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 
April 1, 
July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on May 
15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project;
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project and conduct its operations and affairs in accordance with sound 
financial standards and practices, with qualified management and personnel, and in 
accordance with the Statutes and the Statement of Policy.
(b)
The Borrower shall enter into agreements, satisfactory to the Bank, with 
Financial Intermediaries for purposes of the participation by such Financial 
Intermediaries in the carrying out of Part A of the Project.
(c)
Not later than sixty days after the Effective Date, the Borrower shall 
inform all Financial Intermediaries about the availability of the proceeds of the 
Loan, such information to include, inter alia, the main conditions for the 
participation of such Financial Intermediaries in the carrying out of Part A of the 
Project, and the procedures for and terms and conditions of Sub-
loans.
(d)
The Borrower shall, not later than March 31, 1991, furnish to the Bank, 
for information, the details of the training program to be carried out under Part B 
(i) of the Project.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes that, unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, Sub-loans will be made in accordance with the procedures and on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower shall, and shall cause each Financial Intermediary to, 
exercise its rights in relation to each Investment Project in such manner as to: (i) 
protect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower; (ii) enable the Borrower to comply 
with its obligations under this Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes of the 
Project.
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 3.04. (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 2 (a) and (b) of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement, within the period of twelve months from the Effective 
Date, the Bank may limit the
Page  5
approval of applications or authorizations of requests under such paragraph 2 (a) and 
(b) to Sub-loans (including Free-limit Sub-loans) in amounts to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan aggregating not more than the equivalent of $150,000,000.
(b)
On the dates falling on the twelfth month and the twenty-fourth month 
after the Effective Date, respectively, the Bank and the Borrower shall review the 
progress made by the Borrower by such respective dates in the achievement of the 
objectives of the Project and the Borrower's plans for the succeeding twelve-month 
period, such reviews to be based on the criteria set forth in sub-paragraphs (a), (b) 
and (d) of the third paragraph of the Borrower's letter to the Bank dated August 8, 
1990.
(c)
If, after each review referred to in paragraph (b) above, the Bank shall 
have reasonably considered as non-satisfactory the progress made by the Borrower in 
the achievement of the objectives of the Project or the Borrower's plans for the 
succeeding twelve-month period, the Bank may not approve applications or authorize 
requests under paragraphs 2 (a) and (b) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement until the 
Borrower shall have taken such remedial action, satisfactory to the Bank, as shall be 
necessary to meet the criteria referred to in paragraph (b) above.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, not later than January 31, 1991, establish and 
thereafter maintain, until at least the Closing Date, overall credit and risk limits 
for financial  institutions which are intermediary in the allocation of the Borrower's 
funds, such limits to be considered technically and reasonably adequate by the 
Borrower and the Bank to achieve the objectives referred to in Section 3.01 (a) of 
this Agreement.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, not later than on the date falling twelve 
months after the Effective Date, establish and thereafter maintain, until at least the 
Closing Date, policies and
procedures to determine creditworthiness criteria and parameters for setting credit 
limits for clients (other than financial institutions) which borrow directly from the 
Borrower, such policies and procedures to be considered technically and reasonably 
adequate by the Borrower and the Bank to achieve the objectives referred to in Section 
3.01 (a) of this Agreement.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 1991: (i) 
establish risk management programs according to consistently maintained sound banking 
and technical practices; and (ii) prepare and present to the Bank a report on the 
assessment of the effectiveness of the Borrower's policy for obtaining security for 
its lending operations.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall: (i) not later than December 31, 1991, review 
with the Bank the Borrower's lending portfolio for the purposes of verifying the 
progress made by the Borrower in reducing the arrears existing on March 31, 1990 under 
the Borrower's lending operations; and (ii) promptly thereafter, furnish to the Bank a 
report containing: (i) the Borrower's plans and actions to settle any such remaining 
arrears; and (ii) the actions taken by the Borrower for such purpose.
Section 3.09. Without limitation or restriction to the provisions of Section 
9.01 of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any 
amendment to the Statutes or
the Statement of Policies.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall: (i) maintain procedures and records and 
accounts adequate to monitor and record the progress of the Project and of each 
Investment Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it) and to 
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the 
operations and financial condition of the Borrower; and (ii) cause each Financial 
Intermediary to maintain records and accounts adequate to record the progress of each 
Investment Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it) 
financed by such Financial Intermediary and to reflect in accordance with consistently 
maintained sound accounting practices the operations and financial condition of the 
Page  6
Financial Intermediary.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, 
its accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, 
statements of income 
and expenses and related statements) and 
records and accounts for the Special 
Accounts for each fiscal year 
audited in accordance with sound auditing 
principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank, as soon as available but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year: (A) certified 
copies of said financial 
statements for such year as so audited, and 
(B) the report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the said 
records, 
accounts and financial statements and the audit 
thereof as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
 
(b)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with Section 4.01 of this Agreement, 
records and 
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
in-voices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the proce-dures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take such steps which, in the reasonable 
opinion of the Bank, are necessary to protect itself against risk of loss resulting 
from changes in the rates of exchange between the currencies (including the currency 
of the Guarantor) used in its borrowing and lending operations. For such purpose, the 
Borrower shall continue to fully hedge its foreign exchange exposure.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the Statutes shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the operations or the financial 
condition of the Borrower or its ability to carry out the Project or to perform any of 
its obligations under this Agreement;
(b)
the Statement of Policy shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the operations or the 
financial condition of the Borrower or its ability to carry out the Project or to 
perform any of its obligations under this Agreement; and
Page  7
(c)
the adjustment on the principal of the loans made by the Borrower in 
Cruzeiros together with the interest rates applicable to such loans shall, in the 
Bank's opinion, have failed to be positive for three consecutive months in relation to 
the prevailing inflation rate in Brazil as measured by the Consumer Price Index of 
Instituto Brasileiro de Geografia e Estatistica or such other index determined by the 
Borrower or by the Guarantor, such index to be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 shall occur; and
 
(b)
the events specified in paragraphs (b) or (c) of Section 5.01 shall occur 
and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been 
given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by the 
Central Bank.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by the Central Bank; and
 
(b)
that all acts, consents and approvals, together with all necessary powers 
and rights in connection therewith, have been duly and validly performed or given and 
that no other such acts, consents or approvals are required in order to authorize the 
carrying out of the Project and to enable the Borrower and the Guarantor to perform 
all of their respective covenants, agreements and obligations contained in the Loan 
Agreement and Guarantee Agreement, respectively.
Section 6.03. The date of April 15, 1991 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous
Section 7.01. The President of the Borrower is designated as representative of 
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA)
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
Page  8
For the Borrower:
Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento
   Economico e Social
Av. Republica do Chile 100
20139 Rio de Janeiro, R.J.
Brazil
Cable address:
Telex:
 
BADEC-BR
0213389
Rio de Janeiro,
BNDE-BR
Brazil
With copies to:
DEAIN
Departamento de Assuntos Internacionais
Ministerio da Economia, Fazenda e Planejamento
Esplanada dos Ministerios - Bloco "K" - 5o andar
70063 Brasilia, D.F.
Brazil
Telex:
0611146
Telefacsimile:
0612254022
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
BANCO NACIONAL DE DESENVOLVIMENTO
   ECONOMICO E SOCIAL
By /s/ Eduardo Marco Modiano
Pedro Luiz Bodin de Moraes
Authorized Representatives
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
Page  9
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                           Amount of the
                          Loan Allocated             % of
                           (Expressed in         Expenditures
      Category          Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)   Goods and works       299,500,000         100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                50% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                financed under
                                                Sub-loans
(2)   Technical                 500,000         100%
      assistance under
      Part B of the
      Project
                         ______________
      TOTAL              US$300,000,000
                         ==============
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Guarantor for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Guarantor; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Guarantor.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made from the Loan Account:
(a)
in respect of a Sub-loan unless the Sub-loan has been made in accordance 
with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(b)
in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of $30,000,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures 
before that date but after January 1, 1990; and
(c)
in an aggregate amount equivalent to more than $15,000,000, in respect of 
any Sub-loan.
4.
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, withdrawal applications shall be 
consolidated so as to apply for withdrawal of aggregate amounts from the Loan Account 
of not less than the equivalent of $500,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (i) to assist the Borrower in financing such 
privately owned or operated productive facilities and resources in Brazil as will 
contribute to the economic and social development of the country; (ii) to support the 
Borrower's efforts to reorient its operations to the private sector and reduce its 
exposure to the public sector; (iii) to support the Borrower's reorganization which is 
designed to reduce the Borrower's directed credit lines and to finance financially and 
economically sound projects; and (iv) to support the Borrower's programs to strengthen 
its credit policies and procedures, to develop indicators of international 
competitiveness and to develop the capability and procedures for operational 
performance auditing.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications 
Page  10
thereof as the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Financing Investment Projects through Sub-loans to Investment Enterprises.
Part B:
A training program to: (i) improve the Borrower's credit policies and 
procedures; (ii) support the Borrower's program to develop indicators of international 
competitiveness for industrial sectors; and (iii) develop the Borrower's capability 
and procedures for operational performance auditing.
*     *     *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1993.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
 
On each May 15 and November 15
beginning May 15, 1996
through November 15, 2005
15,000,000
 
___________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective 
dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed as
a percentage per annum)
applicable to the Loan on the
day of prepayment multiplied by:
Page  11
Not more than three years
0.20
before maturity
More than three years but
0.40
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
0.73
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not
0.87
more than thirteen years
before maturity
More than thirteen years
1.00
before maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Modifications of the General Conditions
For the purposes of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions are 
modified as follows:
(1)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(2)
The words "the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor, terminate 
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such amount. Upon the 
giving of such notice, such amount of the Loan shall be cancelled" set forth at the 
end of Section 6.03 are deleted and the following is substituted therefor:
"or (f) by the date specified in paragraph 2 (c) of Schedule 5 to the 
Loan Agreement, 
the Bank shall, in respect of any portion of the Loan: (i) have 
received no applications or 
requests under subparagraphs (a) or (b) of said 
paragraph; or (ii) have denied any such 
applications or requests, the 
Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor, 
terminate the right 
of the Borrower to submit such applications or requests or to make 
withdrawals from the Loan Account, as the case may be, with respect to such amount or 
portion of the Loan. Upon the giving of such notice, such amount or portion of 
the Loan 
shall be cancelled."
 
SCHEDULE 5
Procedures for and Terms and Conditions
of Sub-loans
Terms and Conditions Applicable to Sub-loans
1.
No expenditures for goods or works required for an Investment Project shall be 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan unless:
(a)
the Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall have been approved by the 
Bank and such expenditures shall have been made not earlier than 180 days prior to the 
date on which the Bank shall have received the application and information required 
under paragraph 2 (a) of this Schedule in respect of such Sub-loan; or
(b)
the Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall have been a Free-limit 
Sub-loan for which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account and such 
expenditures shall have been made not earlier than 180 days prior to the date on which 
the Bank shall have received the request and information required under paragraph 2 
(b) of this Schedule in respect of such Free-limit Sub-loan. For the purposes of this 
Agreement, a Free-limit Sub-loan shall be a Sub-
loan for an Investment Project in an amount to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan which shall not exceed the sum of $5,000,000 equivalent.
Page  12
2.
(a)
When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a Free-limit Sub-loan) to the Bank 
for approval, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form 
satisfactory to the Bank, together with: (i) a description of the Investment 
Enterprise, including information on its management and financial condition, sources 
and uses of funds, sensitivity analysis and financial internal rates of return; (ii) 
an appraisal of the Investment Project, which shall include a description of the 
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the 
procurement procedures to be adopted, an analysis of the economic and social aspects, 
economic rates of return and employment effect of the Investment Project, an 
environmental impact assessment of the Investment Project and the collateral, if any, 
for the Sub-loan; (iii) the proposed terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including 
the schedule of amortization of the Sub-loan; and (iv) such other information as the 
Bank shall reasonably request;
(b)
each request by the Borrower for authorization to make withdrawals from 
the Loan Account in respect of a Free-limit Sub-loan shall contain: (i) a summary 
description of the Investment Enterprise and the Investment Project, including a 
description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan; and (ii) the terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including the schedule of 
amortization therefor; and
(c)
applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions of 
sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph shall be presented to the Bank: (i) 
together with an assessment by the Borrower that the Investment Enterprise and the 
Financial Intermediary (if applicable) meet the creditworthiness criteria set forth in 
the Statement of Policy; and (ii) on or before June 30, 1993.
3.
Sub-loans shall be made on terms whereby the Borrower or the Financial 
Intermediary, as the case may be, shall obtain, by written contract with the 
Investment Enterprise or by other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect 
the interests of the Bank and the Borrower, including, in the case of any Sub-loan the 
right to:
(a)
require the Investment Enterprise to carry out and operate the Investment 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, 
financial and managerial
standards and to maintain adequate records;
(b)
require that: (i) the goods and works to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this 
Agreement; and (ii) such goods and works shall be used exclusively in the carrying out 
of the Investment Project;
(c)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank if the 
Bank shall so request, such goods and the sites, works, plants and construction 
included in the Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records 
and documents;
(d)
require that: (i) the Investment Enterprise shall take out and maintain 
with responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as 
shall be consistent with sound business practice; and (ii) without any limitation upon 
the foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the 
place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a 
currency freely usable by the Investment Enterprise to replace or repair such goods;
(e)
obtain all such information as the Bank or the Borrower shall reasonably 
request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial 
condition of the Investment Enterprise and to the benefits to be derived from the 
Investment Project; and
(f)
suspend or terminate the right of the Investment Enterprise to the use of 
the proceeds of the Loan upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to perform its 
obligations under its contract with the Borrower or the Financial Intermediary, as the 
case may be.
SCHEDULE 6
Page  13
Procurement and Consultants Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $5,000,000 or more and contracts for works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$10,000,000 or more shall be grouped in bidding packages so as to permit international 
competitive bidding.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in Brazil may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto, provided, however, that:
1.
All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly indicate any 
preference which would be granted, the information required to establish the 
eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be followed in the 
evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.
After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the following two 
groups:
(1)
Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Brazil if the bidder shall 
have 
established to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that such 
goods contain 
components manufactured in Brazil equal to at least 50% of 
the value of the complete goods.
(2)
Group B: bids offering any other goods.
 
3.
In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group, all evaluated bids 
in each group shall first be compared among themselves, without taking into account 
customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and similar 
taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery of the goods pursuant to the 
bids. Such lowest evaluated
bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison, a 
bid from group A is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.
If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 above, the lowest evaluated 
bid is a bid from group B, all group B bids shall be further compared with the lowest 
evaluated bid from group A after adding: (i) to the evaluated bid price of goods to be 
imported in each group B bid an amount equal to the smaller of: (A) the amount of 
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay 
for the importation of the goods offered in such group B bid; or (B) 15% of the c.i.f. 
bid price of such goods; and (ii) to the ex-factory bid price of goods supplied 
domestically offered in each group B bid an amount equal to the smaller of: (A) the 
amount of customs duties and other import taxes which would be levied on the goods 
offered in such group B if they originated from the same foreign country as the bid 
included in group B which enjoys the lowest customs duties and other import taxes, or 
(B) 15% of the ex-factory bid price of such goods. If, as a result of this comparison, 
the bid from group A is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award; if not, the 
lowest evaluated bid from group B, as determined under paragraph 3 above, shall be 
selected for the award.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
Page  14
1.
Works estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $10,000,000 may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with established commercial practices acceptable 
to the Bank.
2.
Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $5,000,000 but more than the 
equivalent of $3,000,000 may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
comparison of price quotations solicited from at least three suppliers, of which at 
least two shall be foreign suppliers, eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance 
with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
3.
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $3,000,000 or less may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with established commercial practices acceptable 
to the Bank.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply to all contracts. Where payments for such contracts are to be 
made out of the Special Accounts, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the 
two conformed copies of the contract together with the other information required to 
be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3shall be furnished to the Bank as 
part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 7 to this 
Agreement.
(b)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (a) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan 
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Part E:
Other
 
For purposes of this Schedule and the Guidelines, the term "customs duties and 
other import taxes" includes the FSRMM.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part B of the Project, the 
Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and 
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the 
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the 
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 7
Special Accounts: CESA and FESA
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for Investment Projects and for 
Part B of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated 
from time to time to the Eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, provided, however, that notwithstanding the provisions 
of paragraph 2 (b) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, payments for expenditures to be 
financed out of the proceeds of Free-limit Sub-loans may be made out of the Special 
Account before the Bank shall have authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account in 
respect thereof. Such expenditures, however, shall qualify as Eligible Expenditures 
only if the Bank shall subsequently authorize such withdrawals; and
Page  15
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
$40,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into CESA and FESA 
($35,000,000 equivalent into CESA and $5,000,000 equivalent into FESA) pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of CESA and FESA, as the 
case may be, shall be made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures in accordance with 
the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and of this Schedule. The Central 
Bank, or the Account Bank, as the case may be, shall authorize withdrawals from CESA 
or FESA, as the case may be, on the basis of evidence that the Bank shall have 
reasonably determined. For each such withdrawal so authorized, the Central Bank, or 
the Account Bank, as the case may be, shall debit or cause to be debited, CESA or 
FESA, as appropriate, with the dollar equivalent of the amount of the Eligible 
Expenditures in question in Cruzeiros, in the case of CESA, or the actual dollar 
amount, or the dollar equivalent of the Eligible Expenditures in currencies other than 
dollars or Cruzeiros, in the case of FESA.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that CESA and FESA have 
been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals 
to replenish CESA or FESA shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into CESA or FESA, 
as the case may be, such
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of CESA or FESA, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank 
requests for deposits into CESA or FESA at such 
intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower,  withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into CESA or FESA, as 
the case may be, such 
amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall 
have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
CESA or FESA, as the case may be, for Eligible Expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective Eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of CESA or FESA, as the case may be, 
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively 
for Eligible Expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into CESA or FESA:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the Eligible 
Categories less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
Page  16
the Loan allocated to the Eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in CESA or FESA, as the case may be, as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of 
either CESA or FESA: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional 
evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into CESA or FESA as the case may be 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into CESA or FESA shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in either CESA or FESA will not be required to cover further payments for Eligible 
Expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in CESA or FESA.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
