Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: P7466 TA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
C)N A
PROPOSED ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 119.1 MILLION
(US$ 150 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FORA
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM PROJECT
August 22, 2001
Human Development 1
Country Department 4
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank
authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective July 30, 2001)
Currency Unit = Tanzanian Shillings (TSH)
I TSH = US$0.001124
US$1 = TSH 890
FISCAL YEAR
2002 - 2004.
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BoT          Bank of Tanzania
CIDA         Canadian International Development Agency
DANIDA       Danish International Development Association
DFID         Department for International Development (UK)
ESDP         Education Sector Development Program
EU           European Union
GER          Gross Enrollment Ratio
GNP          Gross National Product
HIPC         Heavily Indebted Poor Country
HRDP         Human Resources Development Project
IBRD         International Bank of Reconstruction and Development
IDA          International Development Association
IEC          Information, Education and Communication
JICA         Japanese International Cooperative Agency
LGRP         Local Government Reform Program
MCDWAC    Ministry of Community Development, Women Affairs and Children
MDAs         Ministries, Departments and Agencies
MLYD         Ministry of Labor and Youth Development
MoEC         Ministry of Education and Culture
MoF          Ministry of Finance
MoSTHE       Ministry of Science, Technology and Higher Education
MTEF         Medium-Term Expenditure Franework
NBS          National Bureau of Statistics
NECTA        National Examination Council of Tanzania
NGO          Non-Governmental Organiiation
NORAD        Norwegian Agency for International Development
PEDP         Primary Education Development Program
PER          Public Expenditure Review
PMO          Prime Minister's Office
PO-RALG      President's Office- Regional Administration and Local Government
PRSP         Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PSRP         Public Service Reform Program
Sida         Swedish International Development Agency
TASAF        Tanzania Social Action Fund
TIE          Tanzania Institute of Education
UNICEF       United Nations Children's Fund
UPE          Universal Primary Education
URT          United Republic of Tanzania
Vice President:    Callisto Madavo
Country Director:    James W. Adams
Sector Manager:    Dzingai Mutumbuka
Task Team Leader:    Donald Hamilton



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (PEDP) PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Credit and Program  Summary ...................................................                    .............      i
I. Introduction .................................................................                                     I
II. Macroeconomic Context ................................................................                            I
III. Primary Education Development Program  (PEDP) .............. .                      .......................      3
A. Sector Issues ................................................................                                     3
B. Government Strategy and PEDP ................................................................                      7
(1) Primary School Grants ................................................................                        8
(2) Institutional Capacity Building ....... ..............................10......................... 10
(3) Improving Design of Educational Initerventions ............................................ i 11
C. Program  Feasibility ................................................................   11
D. Poverty Reduction and Social Impact ............................................................   12
IV. Proposed IDA  Credit ................................................................                           12
A. Rationale and Coverage ................................................................                          12
B. Risks ................................................................                                           13
C. Credit and Disbursement Arrangements ............................. I ..........................    14
D. Agreed Actions of Tranche Release ..............................................................                 14
V. IDA  Operations  ................................................................                                18
VI. Collaboration with IMF and Other Donors ........................ .......................   19
VII. Recommendation  .              ...............................................................   20
Annexes
Annex A:    Tanzania Social Indicators
Annex B:  Tanzania Key Economic Indicators
Annzex C:    Status of Bank Group Operations in Tanzania
Annex D:    Credit Data Sheet
Annex E:    Letter of Primary Education Sub-Sector Policy
Annex F:    Government of the United Republic of Tanzania: Institutional &  lmplementation
Arrangements
Annex G:    Key Performance Indicators
Annex H:    Economic and Financial Analyses
Annex 1:        Tanzania at a Glance
This operation is prepared by a team led by Donald Hamilton. (AFTH I), with team members of Rest Lasway (AFTI II ).
Dandan Chen (AFTH 1). Angel Mattimore (AFTH3), Preeti Ahuja (AFCTZ). Andrei Markov (ECSHD), Eva Ngegba
(AFTH 11) Pascale Dubois (LEGOP). Pascal Tegwa, Mercy Sabai (AFTQK), Aya Aoki (HDNED). Steve Gaginis
([,OAG2), Rogati Kayani. and Marius Koen (AFTQK). Quality assurance team consists of Richard Cambridge. Brian
Falconier (AFTQK). Eduardo Velez (LCC IC). and Adriaan Verspoor (AFTHD.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






i
THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           The United Republic of Tanzania
Amount:             SDR 119.1 million
(US$ 150 million equivalent)
Terms:              Standard IDA credit terms with a maturity of 40 years
Credit Objectives
And Description:
The proposed credit is to support the Government of Tanzania to reform
its primary education system through the Primary Education
Development Program (PEDP). The objectives of the PEDP are: to
improve education quality, expand school access, and increase school
retention at the primary level. The objectives would be achieved through
measures to increase resource availability, improve resource allocation
and utilization; to improve educational inputs; and to strengthen
institutional arrangements for effective primary education delivery. The
PEDP would include (a) introduction of capitation and development
grants for primary schools; (b) further development of educational
inputs; and (c) institutional capacity building at central, district, and
school levels for efficient operation of primary education system.
Risks:              The overall program risk rating is not high given government's long-term
commitment to the sector and institutional development, particularly
with the Prime Minister's Office's oversight of the program. Major risks
include: (a) weak coordination between Ministry of Education and
Culture (MoEC) and Regional Administration and Local Governments
(PO-RALG); (b) primary school enrollment may exceed program
estimates and system capacity in the first year; (c) insufficient capacity to
manage primary education delivery at the district level. In addition,
although Tanzania is establishing a sound system of formal rules for
financial management, issues of non compliance, limited execution,
inadequate monitoring, insufficient capacity and weak enforcement
constitute major risks in financial accountability and management.
Benefits:           The major benefit of the operation is to produce more and better
qualified primary school graduates to establish a solid foundation for
building a much strengthened labor force to support the overall
development efforts of Tanzania. In addition, decentralized education
management will lead to more effective service delivery with greater
involvement of schools and communities.
Estimated
Disbursement:       Three tranches of SDR 39.7 million (US$ 50 million equivalent) each
will be disbursed after the agreed actions of tranche release are
successfully completed.






I
REPORT AND RECOMMENDALTION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEV'ELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
TO THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
1. INT]RODUCTION
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed
adjustment credit to the United Republic of Tanzania in the amount of 119.1 million Special
Drawing Rights (SDR), or US$ 150 million equivalent, in support of the Government's reform
program for primary education. The credit would be on standard IDA terms with 40 years
maturity and a 1 0-year grace period.
2.    The objective of the IDA adjustment operation is to provide support to the Government
of Tanzania in reforming the delivery of primary education through the Primary Education
Development Program (PEDP) as the first phase in the development of its Educat on Sector
Development Program (ESDP). The PEDP project aims at improving quality, increasing school
retention, and expanding school access at the primary level. The objectives are to be achieved
through measures to improve resource availability, allocation and utilization; to strengthen
educational inputs; and to improve institutional capacity for effective delivery of primary
education. The IDA operation would support major policy measures including: (a) introduction
of primary school capitation and development grants, (b) provision of funds for further
development of educational inputs, and (c) institutional capacity building at central, district, and
school levels for efficient operation of the primary education system. Based on the projections of
the resources needed for achieving the government's policy goals for the development of primary
education, available budgetary allocation without the external support would be over 40 percent
lower than the estimated costs during fiscal years 2001/02 through 2003/04. To effectively tackle
the sector issues, immediate additional funding is therefore necessary to support investments in
the Government's PEDP.
3.    The structure of the report is as follows.  Part II of this document presents the
macroeconomic context in Tanzania. Part I].I describes government's overall program and major
components of PEDP. Part IV provides details of IDA's operation. Part V discusses IDA's
portfolio implementation, particularly with regard to lessons learned from IDA operations in the
country context. Part VI discusses the collaboration between Tanzania and the International
Monetary Fund and other external donors. The report concludes with a recommendation for
credit approval from the Executive Directors.
II. MACROECONOMIC CONTEXT
4.     Over the past four years, the Government of Tanzania intensified macroeconomic policy
reforms with the aim of creating a more stable macroeconomic environment. Tanzania has
successfully completed implementing actions agreed to under the three-year IMF's Poverty
Reduction and Growth Facility (former ESAF) and IDA's Programmatic Structural Adjustment
Credit (PSAC). The macroeconomic reforms were pursued with the understanding that such
stability was necessary to achieve sustained growth, which is required to reduce the pervasive
poverty in the country. As a result, Tanzania has progressed significantly in reestablishing
macroeconomic stability. Inflation has fallen from levels in excess of 30 percent in 1995 to single



2
digit at 5.1 percent at the end of June 2001; the exchange rate remained reasonably stable for the
18 months prior to the recent 11.3 percent depreciation. Official external reserves increased from
about 1.6 months of imports of goods and non-factor services in 1995 to 5.1 months of goods and
non-factor services in 2001. The overall fiscal balance, including grants, has had a surplus of
between 0.2 percent and 1.6 percent of GDP from 1998 to 2000. The deficit to GDP outturn
(excluding grants) was 2.6 to 5.8 percent between 1998 to 2000. In the medium term, however,
this improvement will need to be grounded in a strong fiscal system to ensure sustained macro-
stability.
5.    In parallel with the macroeconomic reforms, the GOT also carried out structural reforms
focusing on realigning the incentive structure toward increased exports, using scarce foreign
exchange more efficiently, liberalizing markets for goods and services, and reducing the
involvement of the public sector in commercial activities. A large part of the economic distortions
have been dealt with effectively. Although still fragile and shallow, markets are relatively free,
the parastatal sector and the civil service are considerably smaller, and a significant improvement
in fiscal discipline has taken place, particularly in enforcing cash budgets and introducing a
computerized budgeting and accounting system - the Integrated Financial Management System
(IFMs).
6.     Notwithstanding the above progress, growth remains low by the standards of strong
African performers and is fragile because of high dependence on foreign aid. The growth rate
from 1998 to 2000 has averaged around 4.6 percent, or approximately 1.7 percent growth in per
capita terms. With 51 percent of the population living below the international poverty line of $1 a
day, the Government has embarked on an aggressive poverty reduction strategy, which
emphasizes both higher growth and more effective public service delivery. Tanzania's PRSP
was endorsed by the Boards of the IDA and IMF on November 30, 2000 (document number
IDA/SecM2000-618). The strategic prioritization areas are reflected in the budget for FY01, and
in the budget for FY02 presented to Parliament in June 2001. The poverty reduction strategy
emphasizes priority sectors of primary education, primary health care, agricultural research and
extension, rural roads, the judiciary, and HIV/AIDS. A progress report on the first year of
implementation of the PRSP is to be submitted to the Boards of the IDA and the IMF by
September 2001 prior to being considered as one element required for reaching the HIPC
completion point.
7.     Tanzania's economy today is largely market oriented and has in place many elements
required for private sector-led growth. However, it does not have an adequately qualified and
trained work force essential for rapid economic growth, and effective diversification of the
production and export bases.  The combination of intermittent economic growth, fiscal
constraints, and inadequate sector policies and programs constrained the performance of the
education sector in the late 1980s and early 1990s. The gross enrollment rate in primary schools
has been stagnant at around 77 percent since 1995. In addition, only about 60 percent of the
relevant school age children complete primary school while the secondary school gross
enrollment rate is still extremely low at 8 percent.
8.     Overall, the education system in Tanzania performs far below what is required to meet its
development needs. Poor education quality, low access and retention in primary schools are
primarily due to insufficient school inputs, resulting in inefficiencies in the system. These issues
are further linked to the insufficient public funding of the sector, thus high and unaffordable costs
imposed on households. At the secondary level, limited public provision, together with increased
demand results in expanded private provision and rising costs. Increasing public financing of the
education sector is therefore essential for improving sector performance in the areas of enhancing
education quality and expanding enrollment coverage.



3
111. PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (PEDP)
9.     PEDP is a major component of the Government's Education Sector Development
Program (ESDP) which also includes, secondary, tertiary and higher education, and non-formal
education. Because of the sizable nature of the task to develop an investment program for all sub-
sectors concurrently, the decision was made to first address issues in the primary education sub-
sector. The first phase of ESDP will focus on policy measures and investments designed to
provide sufficient public funding to primary education in order to alleviate the cost burden on
households, provide inputs necessary to ensure minimal standards of instruction quality, enhance
internal efficiency, as well as increase access to primary education, particularly in areas and
among demographic groups that are socially and economically disadvantaged.
A. Sector Issues
10.   Extensive sector analyses have been done since mid-90s. Government has also recently
finalized the Education Sector Country Status Report (CSR), which drew from the analytical
work which had been done previously, and deepened the analysis of costs and financing issues.
Assessment of the impact of socio-cultural factors, household costs of primary education, as well
as the possible impact of the removal of UPE fees and other levies on school quality and
enrollment was also based partly on studies prepared by agencies and NGOs such as UNICEF,
Maarifa ni Ufunguo, and the Aga Khan Foundation. The CSR and these studies formed the basis
of extensive discussions of sector issues and development strategies with donors and .NGOs. In
addition, the Public Expenditure Review and Medium-Term Expenditure Framework processes
have provided insights into public finance issues in the sector. The major sector issues identified
in these analyses and addressed in PEDP are summarized in the following section.
Quality
II.   Examination scores. In the absence of standardized performance assessment, the results
of the Primary School Leaving Examination is used as an proxy for academic performance.
Based on the PSLE, the quality of primary education is low. The average score during 1997-99
was just above the minimum passing score of 40 percent. Regional and gender disparities are
large. In 1999, the average PSLE score was 60 in Arusha and 55 in Dar es Salaam. In contrast, it
was 30 in Shinyanga and 32 in Tabora. The overall average score of pupils in urban schools was
53, compared to 39 for those in rural schools. With regard to gender differences, the 1999 PSLE
average score was 36 for girls and 42 for boys.
12.   School Inputs. The average teacher-pupil ratio in primary schools was 1:39.8 in 1999,
which is lower than the government benchmark of 1:45. However, there are variations across
regions: teacher-pupil ratio varies from 1:32 in Kilimanjaro to 1:56 in Shinyanga. At the same
time, primary school teacher qualifications are low: 54 percent of the primary teachers have
minimal training beyond their own primary schooling while only 46 percent have the required
grade A qualification. Urban authorities benefit from a larger percentage of the more qualified
grade-A teachers (47 percent) than rural areas (37 percent).
13.   Learning materials and educational inputs are in short supply. Textbook shortage exists
in almost all subjects. In some districts, available textbooks in the two basic subjects of Kiswahili
and Math provide only 60 - 65 percent coverage (based on the target book:student ratio of 1:3),
while other subjects can be as low as 12 percent. Library facilities are practically non-existent,
and the curriculum content is deemed to be inappropriate and rigid.
Internal efficiency
14.   At the primary level, while an estimated 83 percent of the age cohort currently enters
grade 1, only 70 percent of the entrants reach the end of the primary cycle (Grade 7). This
implies that on average only 58 percent of each age cohort obtains a complete primary education.



4
The dropout rate is highest in grade 4 which is to a large extent related to poor performance in
grade 4 exams, which is used to screen students for upper grades. On average, it is estimated that
it takes 9.6 years to complete the 7-year cycle of primary education.
15.    Late school entry. Studies on Tanzania show that over 81 percent of school entrants start
school later than age 7. Most importantly, late school entry is highly correlated with higher
likelihood of dropping out. Over-crowded classrooms limit entrants to grade 1, creating a
backlog which often forces some children to start school later as older children are given
preference. Long distances between households and schools in some areas also affects school
entry age. Children need to be big enough in stature to cover the long distances and there are
safety concerns associated with girls and for children in areas with wild game commuting long
distances.
School access
16.   Current overall entry rate to grade I is reasonably high at 83 percent and gender
disparities do not appear to be significant. However, regional disparities in enrollment are
prevalent. In some regions, the entry rate falls to below 70 percent.
17.    Scarcity of schools and classroom facilities are major obstacles to achieving UPE,
especially with a growing school-age population. Classrooms are estimated to be 41 percent
below requirements and staff houses at 78 percent. Toilets, desks, chairs and other school inputs
are also in short supply. On average, there are two teachers and 76 pupils per classroom. The
impact of these shortages is aggravated by very limited use of double-shifting and multi-grade
teaching.
18.   The direct monetary cost of schooling imposed on parents curtails household demand for
schooling: school fees and levies, expenditure on textbooks, uniforms, as well as development
levies all add to the financial burden of households with school-age children. Supply-side
constraints have also seriously suppressed household demand for education as many schools are
inconveniently located to allow easy access. These factors add to the already high opportunity
costs of schooling.
HIV/AIDS and school health issues
19.   A particularly important and growing threat to the education system is the HIV/AIDS
pandemic. HIV/AIDS affects both education coverage and quality. It dampens the demand for
education as affected households have fewer resources to spend on education either because of
reduced income due to illness of income earners or diversion of scarce resources for health care.
Children in these households are often pulled from school to care for ill parents or have to work
to make up for lost household income. At the same time, the epidemic affects the supply of
educational services at all levels through increased mortality, morbidity and absenteeism among
teachers and education personnel. Currently, there are a number of health programs under
implementation to reduce HIV transmission for both children and teachers. However, the
momentum of the epidemic will continue to cause decreased supply and demand if actions are not
taken to mitigate its effects (including actions that can be taken in the education sector).
Therefore, systematic forecasting and planning is needed for future sector and human resource
development.
20.    There are also other health and nutrition problems that constrain the learning of school
age children. Poor physical condition and malnutrition are important underlying factors for low
school enrollment, absenteeism, poor classroom performance and early school dropout Some
recent school health pilot programs have proved to be quite effective. However, a national school
health and nutrition program has not yet been developed. A coordinated program and action plan
for implementation will be developed during the program period for implementation.



5
Sector resource and private costs
21.    Public finance: Tanzania's education sector is under-funded. Currently, public spending
on education constitutes only 2.3 percent of GDP. This level of expenditure is low even when
compared to other African HIPCs' current average of 4.0 percent. The low public expenditure on
education reflects the weak fiscal capacity of the government with tax revenues averaging only I I
percent of GDP during 1997-1999. Therefore, even with around one-fifth of government
spending being devoted to education, the total public expenditure on education is only a small
proportion of Tanzania's total GDP.Consistent with the Tanzanian government's policies and
given its limited resources, budgetary priority is accorded to primary education. In 1999, 62
percent of the education recurrent spending was devoted to primary education to support
government's goal of UPE.
22.    Resource allocation: Within primary education, the resource allocation pattern is largely
inequitable and inefficient. As teacher salaries represent a bulk of the resources allocated to
primary schools, the deployment and utilization of teachers generally underlies the pattern of
resource allocation.  Rural-urban and regional variations in pupil-teacher ratios indicate
discrepancies in the deployment of teachers according to school enrollment size, suggesting that
there are more teachers in urban than in rural schools. Another factor related to public resource
allocation across primary schools is the profile of teachers with different levels of education,
training and experience and thus different pay scales. For example, grade A teachers constitute
about half of the total teaching staff in urban schools on average, compared to around 40 percent
in rural schools. Therefore, for primary schools of the same enrollment size, teacher salary cost
per student is higher in urban schools (estimated at 20,000 Tsh per year) than in rural schools
(estimated at 16,400 Tsh per year).
23.    Resource utilization: Since 1995, personal emoluments have averaged 96 percent of total
government recurrent expenditure at the primary level, leaving only 4 percent of the residual to be
devoted to various recurrent outlays on teaching and learning materials, examinations and related
expenses. This implies that most schools and students have limited basic teaching and learning
materials and facilities.
24.    The extra resources from savings due to efficiency gains are limited given the current
national primary teacher-pupil ratio of 1:40 and the low proportion of grade A teachers. In
addition, there is no strong evidence that teachers are overly compensated for their qualifications
or skills in the context of the Tanzanian labor market, particularly with regard to the pay structure
of the civil servants.  Therefore, additional resources are essential for primary education
development.
25.    Private costs. In the mid-1990s, the GoT instituted cost-sharing in primary education,
mainly through UPE fees and other school levies. The policy objective was to enhance private
and community participation and sustainability of financing education given the government's
fiscal constraints. As a result, many households shoulder a significant share of their children's
educational expenses which they can ill afford. During the 1998/99 school year, households with
children in primary or secondary schools paid over half of the total cost per student. The
opportunity cost of schooling, thus forgone child labor and income, takes another toll on
household's resources.
Institutional arrangements and management
26.    Historically, the MoEC was responsible for policy formulation as well as the delivery of
education. However, the centrally controlled system proved to be unsustainable and started to
crumble by the mid-80s, when the central government was no longer able to plan and monitor



6
effective delivery of education service. In view of this, responsibility for education delivery and
operations has been decentralized to districts under PO-RALG. Currently, PO-RALG is being
restructured to carry out decentralized functions including education delivery. Limited human
and financial resources have been the major constraints at the district level. Efforts at the school
and community levels to address issues of coverage, quality and efficiency of primary education
have largely been ineffective, due to the inadequate training and insufficient resources for school
committees and school operations and development. In addition, in spite of the change, MoEC's
current organization structure remains oriented to programs and education delivery. To address
this, the ministries' roles and mandates have been redefined from direct services delivery towards
strategic, policy and regulatory functions under the ongoing Public Service Reform Program.
Staffing at the MoEC is yet to reflect the re-orientation to policy and regulatory functions. There
is a dearth of professionals with skills and experience in policy analysis and formulation,
planning and monitoring and evaluation. Furthermore, the current staff in the ministry needs to
undertake a difficult reorientation from a hands-on service delivery and directing culture to a
strategic and guiding role.
27.    Availability of funds: One of the major factors of resource deficiency is how funds flow
downstream to the school level. Currently, subventions are made to meet personal emoluments
and other charges from the Ministry of Finance (MoF) to councils to fund recurrent expenditure
requirements of primary education. In addition, the disbursements via MoEC were mainly for
centrally procured goods and services such as administration of examinations rather than on
educational inputs. At the same time, the system suffers from intermittent disbursement of the
development funds from the central govemment to the districts. This constitutes one of the major
obstacles to strategic planning of school development.
28.    Fund flow from the district to the school level is another serious issue. Currently, few
districts fund education activities from their own sources. Moreover, the district councils retain
close to 60 percent of UPE fees contributed by parents, in spite of a 1997 directive from the
MoEC requiring that these fees be retained at the school level. A number of ad hoc initiatives
with donor support are currently underway to help increase the fund flow to the community or
school level. However, to establish a more sustainable system, clear criteria for regular and
adequate releases of funds directly to the school level have to be established, along with systems
and capacity building at the district and school levels for effective fund utilization.
29.    Decentralization: As noted above, the government has reformed the system for primary
education provision. This effort is correctly understood as part of the nation-wide process of a
comprehensive reform of local government, and its relationships with other agencies at the central
and regional tiers of government. However, decentralization is a complex and slow process
demanding considerable technical and financial resources at both the central and local
government levels. Resources were neither ample nor readily available at the launch of the
reforms. In addition, many perceived risks by stakeholders plus resistance to the changes at the
technical levels have resulted in significant delays of the actual implementation. These issues are
now being addressed by the Government.
30.    Donor Support: The donor community has made considerable efforts to support the
decentralization process and to ensure that resources are devolved to the school and community
levels. A significant portion of donor contributions is transferred directly to districts. However,
as a substantive part of the aid inflows do not pass through the Government budget, government's
capacity to carry out policy formulation, planning (including resource allocation) and
implementation of its development programs is reduced. Further, given the complexities and
delays involved in decentralization, donor-supported efforts are not yet fully harmonized with the
government's broader decentralization policy and programs. Some projects are too donor-driven,
costly and unsustainable and appear to favor districts with better-established capacities.



7
Additionally, each donor has unique funding processes and modalities, making donor
coordination difficult for MoF, MoEC and PO-RALG. Therefore, the establishment of clear
procedures for managing the delivery of education at the decentralized level with respect to funds
allocation, utilization and auditing would facilitate better use of donor resources and bring these
within the regular government administrative structure.
B. Government Strategy and PEDP
Government Strategy
31.    Social sector development is regarded as one of the most important elements within the
overall poverty reduction and development framework. In 1995, MoEC prepared an Education
and Training Policy that emphasized liberalizing the education sector in step with the rest of the
economy and increasing the accountability of service providers to clients. The Education Sector
Country Status Report, Education Sector PER and MTEF have identified the critical constraints
on the provision and further development of primary education as well as the broader education
sector issues. Furthermore, with the overall objective of producing more and better qualified
graduates to support the development efforts of Tanzania with much strengthened labor force, the
Government's sector policies are being refined and finalized based on extensive consultations
with technical working groups comprising all stakeholders.
32.    As stated in the Government's Letter of Primary Education Sector Development Policy,
PEDP is the priority of the Govemment's sector-wide development program, focusing primarily
on policy measures and investments designed to provide sufficient public funding to primary
education, to alleviate the household cost burden, to ensure adequate school inputs, to enhance
education quality and internal efficiency, and to increase access to primary education.
33.    Large increases in fund flows, together with the abolition of school fees and other levies,
would result in a sharp enrollment increase in school year 2002. In order to manage this
enrollment surge, the Government has developed a number of options for rapid progress towards
UPE based on managed growth strategies that will avoid widespread deterioration in learning
conditions and will be financially sustainable. Currently, government has considered a phased
approach to the enrollment expansion. The 3-year target between 2002 and 2005 will be to enroll
all 7-10 year olds, thereby eliminating the backlog of 8-10 year old out of school children while
establishing the capacity to admit all seven year olds in grade I from 2005 onwards. This target
would be reached by admitting about 1.5 milllion children per year in 2002-2005, almost doubling
the current number of new admissions. By 2004, the gross enrollment ratio would reach 117
percent.
34.    Government plans to take well-coordinated actions covering the areas of new admission
policy; flow of school capitation grants; provision of school development grants and related
classroom construction; teacher employment and allocation; and institutional capacity building at
each level. The sector would face a huge challenge in this regard, as the national projection
shows that over 9,000 teachers need to be hired, and about 14,000 classrooms need to be built
before school year 2002.
35.   In addition, strengthening the technical design of educational inputs such as curriculum,
examinations and assessment, pre-service and in-service teacher training, school health and
nutrition programs, particularly in the context of the threat of HIV/AIDS epidemic, is to start
immediately.



8
Primary Education Development Program
(1) Primary school grants
A. Capitation grants
36.    To address the issues of scarcity of resources and limited school inputs, the program will
introduce capitation grants to allow funds flow to school level through the council bank account
no. 5 to finance school recurrent costs. The capitation grant is estimated at US$10 per pupil,
including US$4 for textbooks, and US$6 to support other teaching and learning materials, school
operation and administration, and cluster-based teacher professional development.
37.    The capitation grant will finance school plans for school operations prepared and
implemented by school committees under the supervision of wards and districts. However,
school plans will follow broad specifications of inputs prepared within the policy framework
adopted at the central level. The plans will also have to be prepared within the administrative
structure of the Local Government Reforms which require school committees to prepare the plans
in a participatory manner and have them approved by the legally constituted body, the Village
Council.
38.    At the initial stage, US$4 out of the capitation grant will be distributed to the district level
in line with GoT's current phased textbook decentralization program until full decentralization of
procurement of textbooks is realized at the school level. Eventually all schools will receive $10
per student when they start to manage textbook purchase themselves. In order to adequately
prepare all districts for developing school plans, managing grants and to test the system, the rest
of the US$6 of capitation grant will be implemented in two phases. In the first phase starting
January 2002, a capitation grant of $3 will be provided to all schools for maintaining minimal
operational costs. The additional $3 will be added to those schools/communities which have
completed and submitted annual plans for their budgets, respecting guidelines that have been
agreed upon at the district and central levels. It is anticipated that around 30 councils will receive
the full amount of $6 capitation grant by school year 2002. In the second phase starting in
January 2003, all schools are expected to have developed school level plans and will receive $6 in
capitation grants. To help ensure community interest and supervision of the spending of the
grants, voluntary community contributions will be commingled with the capitation grants into one
bank account.
B. Development grants
39.   In addition to lack of school materials and inputs, there is currently a severe shortage of
physical facilities. Classroom deficit exists in every district using MoEC's standard of 45 pupils
per classroom. However, the degree of classroom deficit varies. An efficient allocation of about
14,000 new classrooms would aim at equalizing pupil-classroom ratio across districts.
40.    The development grant will support the construction, rehabilitation, furnishing and
equipping of classrooms, including sanitary facilities, and construction of teachers' houses.
Construction methods will be built on ongoing low-cost school community building programs
supported by the PO-RALG and donor agencies such as DfID, Ireland Aid and the Netherlands.
Efforts will also be made to coordinate with districts covered by TASAF to continuously promote
community participatory approach in school construction. School places would especially be
expanded in rural areas and poor or remote communities. To promote community ownership and
participation, voluntary community contributions either in cash or kind will be encouraged.
41.    Construction feasibility is a major concern in some districts, due to the large number of
additional classrooms needed. For example, in Kahama district, over 1,000 classrooms are
needed before 2002 school year starts. Detailed construction plans at the district level are to be
laid out immediately to identify the construction sites and mobilize both financial and human
resources.



9
42.    Teacher employment and allocation:  The overall rapid increase of enrollment requires
additional teachers with adequate qualifications. The new hiring need is even more pressing
given the rigidity of teacher deployment across districts. It is projected that an average of about
10,000 new teachers are needed each year between 2002 and 2004, assuming around 10 percent
of the teachers teach double-shift. According to the most recent teacher audit report, there are an
estimated 20,000 to 25,000 unemployed teachers on the job market. Therefore, overall teacher
supply does not constitute a serious constraint for the next three years. However, a difficult issue
is the uneven teacher distribution across districts, reflected by a wide variation in pupil-teacher
ratios across districts. Using 45:1 PTR criteria, it is estimated that about one-third of the districts
currently have surplus teachers. An efficient allocation of teachers with standard pupil-teacher
ratio is necessary for efficient resource allocation, as well as to ensure adequate education
delivery. However, redeployment of teachers may be difficult because of social and political
constraints. Therefore, government's current strategy to deal with surplus teachers would focus
on utilizing the existing teaching force by promoting school enrollment so as to utilize as much
existing teaching resources as possible in teacher-surplus districts, and assigning new teachers to
districts with highest PTRs. However, the enrollment expansion has its upper bound. Therefore,
although school-age population growth will eventually eliminate surplus of teachers within 5 to
10 year period, wastage of resources in the short-run is unavoidable if re-deploying teachers is
practically difficult.
43.    Current teacher allocation plans relate to the uneven needs of new hiring of teachers
across districts. For example, according to district-level projection, in 2002, about 900 of the new
teachers should be needed in Kahama district. Nationwide, more than 4,000 new teachers will be
needed in 5 districts of Mbulu, Musoma rural, Bariadi, Kwimba, and Kahama. These districts are
to a large extent economically or socially disadvantaged areas. Therefore, incentive schemes,
such as relocation packages including provision of teacher housing, are to be designed in line
with teacher allocation targets for these and similar areas.
44.    Furthermore, the deployment of teachers within districts is also a key aspect of efficient
teaching resource allocation. Detailed district plans will be put in place to ensure equitable
distributions and adequate provision of teacher resource across wards and schools.
45.    Teacher trainin:  Teachers are the main instrument for bringing about quality
improvement in the learning experience and learning progress of children in primary schools. In
this regard, Government plans to provide support for in-service professional development of
teachers on a continuous basis through cluster-based training within individual schools.
Supported by the capitation grants, the focus of this program is to strengthen the capacity of
primary school teachers including head-teachers to take greater responsibility for improving
classroom teaching and learning. The training program would cover classroom management,
multi-grade and double-shift teaching, work plan preparation, pedagogical and teaching skill
development, etc. In addition, school heads would acquire improved capacity for professional
leadership, organization and management, planning and mobilization of resources, and
collaboration with communities. These cluster-based training will be facilitated by a professional
support network through Teacher Resource Centers.
46.   In addition to cluster-based teacher professional development, other in-service programs
for upgrading the levels of qualifications of teachers will be enhanced based on a revised
structure of existing initiatives which are already being supported by some donors.
47.   In parallel, priority also needs to be given to quality improvement in pre-service teacher
education in order to ensure production of high quality teachers. Quality improvement strategies
will include re-structuring pre-service training and consolidation of the teacher training college
system for effective utilization of resources. This would require improvement in the areas of



10
recruitment of quality staff and students; staff professional development; financial and resource
base; organization and management structure; and curriculum development; and the linkage of
the pre-service and in-service teacher training and development system.
(2) Institutional capacity building
48.   To ensure that primary school grants and teacher resources are managed effectively,
management at each level will be fully involved. During the initial six months of the PEDP, all
parties from the central level down to the school and community level will undergo a
sensitization program which will focus on how the PEDP will be implemented. They will also
receive intensive training and equipment to ensure that everyone is prepared to implement the
program at the beginning of the school year in January 2002. Regional offices will provide
technical support to district and ward education officers who will be responsible for the overall
oversight of the use of both the capitation and development grants in the PEDP program. District
and ward education officers will monitor progress and supervise school operations and provide
technical support to school committees and supervision of substantive issues addressed in school
plans. To help districts take on these additional responsibilities, each district will, in addition to
undergoing sensitization programs and receiving equipment and training, receive the equivalent
of ten percent of the capitation grant to facilitate the supervision and implementation of the
Program.
49.   School and Community Level:  In order to prepare school committees for various
managerial responsibilities in education delivery, the district implementation support team,
together with the ward education officers, will train the village/Mtaa council, school committee,
head-teacher and other teachers in: (i) how to make a school plan and budget; (ii) how to shop for
and procure goods and services; (iii) how to evaluate bids; and (iv) how to keep records of cash
inflows and expenditures. Head teachers will be trained in pedagogical support and school
management, including accounting, supervision of teachers, data collection and use, and school-
community relations. Community leaders will also be trained to better understand the role of the
community in the provision of education, as well as in the management of resources for school
improvement.
50.   District Level: The district implementation support team and ward education officers
will be resourced to provide technical and logistical support to school committees and guide
school management teams on education policies and standards. In the context of the Public
Sector Reform  Program, capacity building at this level would emphasize strengthening
management capacity to monitor and evaluate provision of primary education by establishing
mechanisms for supporting wards and communities which would be responsible for the day-to-
day-running of schools. This would include collection and analysis of data on implementation
progress, achievement of district and national education development goals, as well as the extent
to which communities' needs are met. The current functions at this level of the administration of
national examination and assessment and school inspection will also be strengthened.
51.   Central Level: Following the design of the Public Sector Reform Program, PEDP also
provides technical assistance to strengthen the capacity of MoEC and related institutions in
technical design, implementation and monitoring and evaluation of primary education programs
as well as in policy and planning, consistent with the changed roles and responsibilities of MoEC.
Changes in staff size and profile will be handled in the context of PSRP. Technical assistance
will also be given to strengthen the roles of PO-RALG in providing technical support to the
District Councils in planning, budgeting and program implementation of district plans.
52.   Information System for Monitoring and Evaluation: The Government proposes to
strengthen the information systems and processes used for monitoring and evaluation. This is
critical given GoT's focus on further development of primary education and as HIPC resources



11
and increasingly donor funds begin to be disbursed through the regular government budget.
Substantial computer capacity to support an EMIS system is being established in the MoEC.
Similar capacity would also be established to link the PO-RALG and districts into the system.
Further focus would be on the establishment of the capacity at the PO-RALG for data recording
and compiling, and MoEC for data analyses for the purpose of effective system monitoring and
evaluation.
(3) Improving Design of Educational Interventions
A. Educational inputs
53.   PEDP includes measures to further strengthen basic education, introducing reforms as
necessary in the areas of curriculum and textbook design; examinations and assessment design
and administration; pre-service teacher training; in-service teacher training and teacher
upgrading, professional development and support at the school level and general school
administration and management. Funds will be provided to identify existing deficiencies and
provide technical advice in these areas. Policies and timebound action plans would be developed
to implement more efficient arrangements to increase the availability and effective utilization of
these inputs in schools.
B. School health and HIV/AIDS program
54.   A school health and nutrition prograrn is to be introduced to improve the health status of
pupils. In addition, an effective strategy for HIV/AIDS prevention and impact mitigation is to be
developed, specifically focusing on increasing knowledge and life skills to protect primary school
children, teachers and educational personnel from AIDS as well as to develop central and school
level policies to prevent and mitigate the negative impact HIV/AIDS will have on the education
sector (teacher absences, teacher deployment, sexual harassment, etc).
C. Program Feasibility
55.    PEDP is ambitious yet technically sound. The technical design of various components of
the program was done through government's thematic technical working groups on school access,
education quality, financing and resources, and institutional arrangements. These technical
designs are built on on-going programs which are being further revised and modified and will be
used as a basis for preparing school plans. To ensure program feasibility and effectiveness,
government has commissioned technical assistance for consultation in the areas of: school
construction and rehabilitation; further expansion and development of the Interim Textbook
Program; strengthening the content of in-service teacher professional development. In addition,
to ensure the successful implementation of PEDP, the Government has established adequate
institutional arrangements including a series of revised regulations and procedures in financial
management and procurement to ensure efficient funds flow to the school/community level and
effective fund utilization particularly at school/community level.  See Annex F for the
Government's detailed PEDP implementation and institutional arrangement.
56.   PEDP is also financially feasible. An adequate amount of sectoral budget allocation has
already been included in the newly published government budget for fiscal year 2002. The
budgetary increases particularly reflect the priorities given to the improvement of primary
education delivery under local government. The budget envelop projection figures for FY2003
and FY2004 are taken from Tanzania Ministry of Finance's cross-sector MTEF. The projections
from FY2005 and onwards follow the assumptions of the key parameters as follows:
* 5-6 percent GDP growth;
*  marginal tax rate 13 percent in 2005, gradually increased to 15 percent;
*  around 55 billion Tshs (in nominal terms) of HIPC funds in-flow annually;
* 25 percent of government recurrent expenditure goes to education sector;



12
62 percent of education spending goes to primary education.
57.   Total PEDP cost is estimated at 977 million US dollars for fiscal year 2002 and 2004.
The projections indicate that external resource requirement would be reduced to zero in 2012 as
domestic revenue grows mainly due to economic growth. However, 427 million US dollars of
external resources would be needed between FY2005 and 2012. Currently, donors such as DfMD,
EU, Netherlands, SIDA, JICA, Ireland Aid, CIDA, have contributed a substantial resource pool to
PEDP for FY 2002. With the Government commitment to the sector development and donor's
continuous support, adequate public resources to the sector, particularly to primary education
would ensure a sustainable path for further development.
D. Poverty Reduction and Social Impact
58.   PEDP will benefit all households with school age children by improving school inputs
and education quality. The abolition of school fees will especially benefit poor families that
could not previously afford primary education. The expansion of primary education would also
improve school access in remote areas where most of the economically and socially
disadvantaged populations are lozated. With better access and quality of basic education, the
poorest population would have an opportunity to strengthen their capacity of earning a decent
income.
59.   Besides benefiting the target populations, better educated graduates would provide the
overall development efforts of Tanzania with much strengthened labor force. Poverty reduction
will be achieved at a potentially faster rate. Improved quality of life, beyond those resulting
directly from higher income, will reduce mortality rates and improve nutrition and health
standards. In addition, large amount of fund flows into communities for school construction and
school materials will bring increased demand for local goods and labor thus potentially increased
individual income.
60.   An improved public policy and financial management system would increase the
effectiveness in the use of public sector and donor resources by better identifying priorities of
investments, and improving targeting of resources to high priority areas with minimum leakage.
Decentralization of education management will lead to more appropriate solutions for
communities and more effective delivery of education services. Schools and communities will
have greater input in decision making, giving them a greater stake and interest in the success of
education service delivery.
IV. THE PROPOSED PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT ADJUSTMENT
CREDIT
A. Credit rationale and coverage
61.   The education sector has been given priority in the context of government's
comprehensive poverty reduction strategy. Supporting Tanzania's primary education is one of
the most important strategic components specified in IDA's latest Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS, discussed by the Board on June 15, 2000; document number IDA/R2000-90[IFC/R2000-
96]) in Tanzania, targeted at fostering socially and economically sustainable development by
reducing poverty and inequality through investment in human capital. With projected deficits
resulting from the comprehensive scope and goals of PEDP, the IDA operation would provide
funding to support the major components of the sector development program
62.   IDA has a fairly rich body of up-to-date cross-sectoral and sector-specific analytic work
undertaken for Tanzania, including the Country Assistance Strategy, the Country Economic
Memorandum and the Tanzania Social Sector Review, produced in close consultation with a



13
broad cross-section of Tanzanian stakeholders. Combined with the Tanzania-specific operational
experience culled from a series of education projects supported by IDA and other donors, this
knowledge base is expected to help further the achievement of Tanzania's goals in the primary
education sub-sector.
63.   IDA's work in supporting the decentralization and devolution program in Tanzania in the
context of the Local Government Reform and the Public Service Reform Programs would also
provide critical inputs for the development of appropriate institutional systems and capacities for
improved delivery of primary education. IDA-Government collaboration on a range of issues,
should create a strong foundation on which to build and implement the PEDP.
64.   Finally, IDA has been instrumental in the establishment of a solid and candid dialogue
between the Government and the donors active in the education sector in Tanzania. Continued
close work with these donors should produce a well-coordinated and robust support package for
primary education.
B. Risks
65.   The overall risk rating is not high given government's long-term commitment to the
sector development, particularly with the Prime Minister's Office's oversight of the program.
However, major risks include: (a) weak coordination between MoEC and PO-RALG, including
regional and district administration in the delivery of primary education; (b) primary school
enrollment may exceed program estimates and/or system capacity in the first year, and there may
not be enough classrooms or teachers to handle the surge in enrollment; (c) insufficient capacity
to manage primary education delivery at the district level.
66.   Although a relatively high CPIA rating has been proposed for Tanzania this year, the
weakness in Tanzania's financial accountability and arrangements also calls for effective risk
mitigation and management measures.
67.   Recently Tanzania has put in place a sound financial management system with the
introduction of an Integrated Financial Management System, and the enactment of the new Public
Finance Act No. 6 of 2001 and the Public Procurement Act No. 3 of 2001. However, a lot of
work remains to be done particularly in the area of capacity building and strengthening of the
institutional monitoring and reporting framework. Specifically, weaknesses include (1) central
and local government accounting and financial reporting; shortage of qualified and experienced
accounting and internal auditing personnel due to unattractive civil service salaries; lack of
effective sanctions for non compliance; lack of Government IT policy and weak records
management, and (2) public sector auditing: inadequate resourcing both financial and human.
The recently finalized Country Financial Accountability Assessment has identified the areas of
relatively high risks.
68.   The risks are reduced substantially given PO-RALG's full engagement and commitment
to the program. Collaboration between MoEC and PO-RALG is strengthened as the program
evolves.  Regional Secretariats are further strengthened to support district level program
implementation and effective education delivery. In addition, the enrollment influx in school
year 2002 is expected to be more gradual than some neighboring countries' experiences, as
enrollment increase has already started in many places with the information on PEDP and related
policies passed through media.
69.   Mitigation measures for risks in financial management and accountability include
consistent utilization of the EPICOR Platinum system, public expenditure tracking, and a
financial management manual for use at the school and community levels.



14
C. Credit and Disbursement Arrangements
70.   The proposed IDA credit would be US$150 million. The borrower would be the United
Republic of Tanzania. The credit would be disbursed in three tranches of US$50 million each for
FY2002, FY2003 and FY2004. These tranches would be essential to fill Government's
budgetary gap, particularly in the balance of payments, thus maintaining sound implementation of
PEDP within a solid financial and macroeconomic framework. The first tranche would be
released upon Board approval and effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement. The
other two tranches would be subject to satisfactory implementation of the reform program; and
the completion of applicable actions for tranche release. The final draft policy matrix specifying
the content of tranche release actions and performance targets was developed and agreed with the
URT government during appraisal.
71.   Disbursement arrangements will follow the simplified procedures approved by the Board
on February 1, 1996. The Govemment of URT will open an account in the Bank of Tanzania.
Upon IDA notification of tranche release, proceeds of the IDA Credit will be deposited by IDA in
this account at the request of the URT government. Although a routine audit of the account will
not be required, IDA reserves the right to require it.
D. Agreed actions for tranche release
72.   The Government is committed to the implementation of PEDP and has taken the
following actions to facilitate PEDP progress.
General education:
* Completed and discussed the Education Sector Country Status Report prepared in 2000-01;
* Approved the Primary Education Development Program (PEDP) as the first phase of the
Education Sector Development Program, consistent with the 1995 Education and Training
Policy.
Expanding Enrollment:
* Approved a policy for the introduction of double-shift in two-thirds of all primary school
classrooms to intensify classroom utilization;
*  Lifted the freeze on teacher hiring;
*  Abolished fees for pre-service teacher training.
Improving Quality of Teaching and Learning Processes:
*  Introduced public funding for regular school level professional development of all teachers as
part of the capitation grant;
* Approved a policy to provide incentives for teachers who have to teach double-shifts.
Building Capacitv within the education system and other public and private sectors with a stake
in education provision:
* Approved a policy authorizing School Committees to manage capitation and development
grants;
* Established a Capacity Building Fund equivalent to US$500 per School for the Training of
School Committees.
Strengthening the institutional arrangements that support the planning and deliverv of education
services:
*  Prepared a strategic plan for re-orienting the Ministry of Education and Culture (MoEC) to
provide policy guidance and technical support, to establish minimum educational standards,
and to monitor and evaluate education standards and delivery;
*  Prepared a strategic plan for improving the function of PO-RALG in education service
delivery;



15
*  Allocated Tanzanian Shillings 160 billions in the budget to meet the FY02 recurrent costs of
the PEDP
73.    The following table contains other proposed tranche release conditions.



16
Policy Matrix and Tranche Release Conditions
Area of Reform   Effectiveness Tranche Release    Second Tranche Release         Third Tranche Release
General                                          Achieved progress on PEDP       Achieved progress on PEDP
Education                                        annual performance indicators as   annual performance indicators as
outlined in the Letter of Primary    defined in the Letter of Primary
Education Sector Development    Education Sector Development
Policy                          Policy.
Completed school development    Allocated at least 20 percent of the
plans for 60% of schools and full  primary education budget to non-
capitation grants transferred to  salary expenditures.
eligible schools.
Expanding       Abolished UPE fees and other     Introduced double-shift in 50% of  Introduced double-shift in 80% of
Enrollment       school levies. (Completed)      all primary school classrooms.  schools with pupil-classroom ratio
greater than 60:1.
Issued guidelines for implementing
government's policy for admission
to primary schools to ensure all 7 -
10 year old children absorbed in
primary schools by 2004.
Improving       Prepared Terms of Reference for   Prepared an incentive package for  Started paying incentives for
Quality of      revising the designs of in-service   the inter- and intra-district  teacher deployment
Teaching and    and pre-service teacher training  deployment of teachers, especially
Learning        programs, primary school         to increase teacher availability in
Processes       curriculum, and examinations to   rural areas.
facilitate enhanced student learning
and classroom interaction.      Revised the designs of in-service   Started implementing revised in-
and pre-service teacher training  service and pre-service teacher
programs, primary school        training programs, primary school
curriculum, and examinations to    curriculum, and examinations to
facilitate enhanced student learning facilitate enhanced student learning
and classroom interaction.      and classroom interaction
Building        Issued instructions for School   Issued a strategy for           Completed School Development
Capacity within  Committees to establish and operate implementation of the National    Plans in schools; opened and
the education    bank accounts into which        Policy for non-formal and adult    operated school bank accounts.
system and other Capitation and Development Grant education.
public and      funds would be disbursed.                                        Trained staff with direct
private sectors                                                                  responsibility for PEDP
with a stake in   Established mechanisms for the                                 management in planning,
education       delivery of primary education                                    implementation, monitoring and
provision       through regional secretariats, local                             evaluation, as well as policy
government authorities, wards, and                              analysis and formulation.
schools. (Completed)
Strengthening    Developed a national IEC strategy, Issued specific guidelines and  Established an improved
the institutional  including the provision of PEDP    procedures for decentralized  Educational Management
arrangements   information and guidelines to all   school/community level        Information System (EMIS)
that support the  staff at the regional and district    procurement of goods and services  according to an agreed plan
planning and    levels, teachers and School      for school operations and



17
delivery of     Committees with direct          development, including textbooks,  Implemented a decentralized
education       responsibility for PEDP         other learning materials, and   textbook procurement system in all
services.       implementation. (Completed)     construction and furnishing of  Local Government Authorities that
classrooms and schools.        permits schools to procure
Designated an official in PMO for                             textbooks
PEDP coordination, and designated
Program Coordinators in the                                    Strengthened the school inspection
Ministry of Education and Culture                              system under which each school is
and in PO-RALG, to facilitate                                 inspected at a minimum once every
PEDP implementation.                                           two years
Financing the    Introduced a decentralized primary  Allocated adequate budget to cover Allocated adequate budget to cover
PEDP            school funding and financial    (i) Capitation Grant and School    (i) Capitation Grant and School
management mechanism, under    Development Grant to school     Development Grant to school
which funds for primary education  committees; (ii) administrative  committees; (ii) administrative
are allocated and released from the  costs related to Capitation Grant   costs related to Capitation Grant
Ministry of Finance to the primary  and School Development Grant to  and School Development Grant to
schools accounts through the   Local Govemment Authorities; (iii) Local Government Authorities; (iii)
education accounts of local    costs related to the provision of    costs related to the provision of
authorities. (Completed)       primary school teachers on the basis primary school teachers on the basis
of 1:45 teacher/pupil ratio.   of 1:45 teacher/pupil ratio.
Issued detailed criteria for
Development Grant allocation
between respective councils and all
schools in each councils.
Distributed the financial
management manual describing
mechanisms and procedures for the
accurate accounting, reporting and
auditing of PEDP funds to all
schools and councils
74.     The following actions have been completed:
* Abolition of IUPE fees and other school levies through the 2001 Appropriations Act;
* Establishment of mechanisms, satisfactory to IDA, for the delivery of primary education
through regional secretariats, local govemment authorities, wards, and schools;
Development of a national IEC strategy, satisfactory to IDA, including the provision of
PEDP information and guidelines to all staff at the regional and district levels, teachers
and School Committees with direct responsibility for PEDP implementation;
* Introduction of a decentralized primary school funding and financial management
mechanism, satisfactory to IDA, under which funds for primary education are allocated
and released from the Ministry of Finance to the primary schools accounts through the
education accounts of local authorities
75.     The first tranche will be released upon the fulfillment of the following remaining
conditions of effectiveness:



18
The Borrower furnishes to the Association evidence that it has:
*  issued guidelines, satisfactory to the Association, for implementing its policy to admit all
7 -10 year old children in primary schools by 2004;
*  prepared terms of reference, satisfactory to the Association, for revising the design of in-
service and pre-service teacher training programs, primary school curriculum, and
examinations to facilitate enhanced student learning and classroom interaction;
*  issued instructions, satisfactory to the Association, for School Committees to establish
and operate bank accounts into which Capitation and Investment Grants will be
disbursed; and
*  designated an official in PMO  for PEDP coordination, and designated program
coordinators, all satisfactory to the Association, in the Ministry of Education and Culture
and in PO-RALG, to facilitate PEDP implementation.
V. IDA OPERATIONS
76.   IDA has had nine education projects in Tanzania starting with the First Education Project
in 1964. Following the Seventh Education Project approved in 1980, most recent projects in the
sector include Education Planning and Rehabilitation Project (1990), and still on-going Human
Resources Development Pilot Project I. Most of these operations are rated satisfactory with
regard to their development objectives including improving education quality and efficiency,
increasing school access, as well as promoting school retention.  Most importantly, these
operations provide valuable experience, and constitute a good basis for designing various
elements of the sector-wide PEDP.
77.   Tanzania has a long record of implementing adjustment operations. The recent Country
Assistance Evaluation (OED) has identified strength and weakness of IDA's adjustment
operations in Tanzania. This operation has reflected IDA's emphasis on addressing the issue of
stagnant social indicators in Tanzania. In particular, it has significant operational implications in
addressing one of the outstanding issues identified in the above report regarding the lack of
balance between the attainment of fiscal discipline and protection of operations and maintenance
spending. The introduction of school capitation grant would increase the proportion of non-salary
spending to 20 percent of total primary education budget from the current level of only 4 percent.
78.   Further lessons learned and reflected in the program design also include:
*  It is critical that close and consistent inter-ministerial dialogue be established, with
collective support from all key donors in the sector towards ensuring the emergence of a
common playing field. The preparation and discussion of various sector reports, as well
as the preparation of the PEDP were carried out under the guidance of the Inter-
ministerial Steering Committee for Education and Training, and in close collaboration
with donors, NGOs, and other stakeholders. The Government's PEDP document will be
used by all donors as a basis for negotiating external funding for the program.
*  It is important to strengthen the government institutional arrangements through program
implementation. Implementation of PEDP will be carried out by existing units of the
PMO, MOEC and PO-RALG. Implementation arrangements will be adapted to be
consistent with the evolution of the PSRP and LGRP.



19
* Fostering and respecting government ownership of its sectoral reforms is paramount for
ensuring the sustainability of development program. Although there was close
collaboration between GOT, donors and NGO's in the preparation of the PEDP, the final
documentation was prepared by GOT officials and discussed and approved by the
Steering Committee before it was issued to donors as a common basis for negotiating
funding.
*  Support for local capacity strengthening and policy reform is necessary to ensure that the
full potential of the program is realized in every community where it is introduced.
Manuals and handbooks for schools and communities have been prepared to guide
implementation. In addition, GOT has also allocated funds in its budget for an extensive
IEC program and for capacity building at all levels.
*  Adequate financial management capacity at all levels within the sector is important to
ensure program success. GOT has been gradually introducing an improved financial
management system, the IFMS, which now covers central government agencies and some
local authorities. The PEDP financial management systems and manuals have been
developed on this foundation, and additions and improvements have been introduced to
deal with districts and schools not yet covered by the IFMS. Staff training at all levels
will be financed under the capacity building program.
*  Accountability and efficiency of resource utilization can be enhanced when fund flows
downstream to the community level to be managed for school operations and
improvement. The PEDP financial management arrangements provide for funds to be
transferred from the MoF to school accounts through district councils. The funds are
further to be managed by village/school committees.
VI. COLLABORATION WITH IMF AND OTHER DONORS
79.   In the context of the Enhanced HIPC program, IDA and IMF have been working together
closely on education sector strategies to incorporate in PEDP a series of policy measures aimed at
reaching sector performance targets for HIPC completion point.
80.   In addition, bilateral donors have been very active in supporting the development of
PEDP. IDA and all the bilateral donors have worked with the Government to integrate into the
PEDP many of the on going donor-supported individual projects. These projects include support
of (a) DflD in classroom construction, and provision of textbooks (b) Netherlands in District-
Based School Program; (c) Sida in Textbooks Project and Teacher Training; (d) Ireland Aid in
Whole School Development Program; (e) UNICEF in programs covering training of school
committees, supporting teachers centers, strengthening of council and ward support systems; and
promoting adult education and early childhood development. PEDP project tranche release
conditions would be partly based on the results of the IDA/Donor joint review of PEDP
implementation by the Government.



20
VII. RECOMMENDATION
81.    I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Articles of Agreement of
IDA and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
By: Sven Sandstrom
Washington, D.C.
August 22, 2001



Annex A: Tanzania Social Indicators
Latest single year              Same region/income group
Sub-
Saharan          Low-
1970-75      1980-85      1993-99             Africa       income
POPULATION
Total population, mid-year (millions)               15.9         21.8         32.9              642.8       2,417.1
Growth rate (% annual average for period)                       3.2          2.7                2.6           1.9
Urban population (% of population)                 10.1          17.6         31.7              33.8           31.4
Total fertility rate (births per woman)              6.8          6.5          5.4                5.3           3.7
POVERTY
(e ofpopulaion.)
National headcount index                              ..           ..
Urban headcount index                               ..           ..            .     
Rural headcount index                              ..            ..
INCOME
GNI per capita (US$)                                  ..           ..          260               490           420
Consumer price index (1995=100)                       1             8          171                131           138
Food price index (1995=100)                           ..          10           162
INCOME/CONSUMPTION DISTRIBUTION
Gini index                                                                    38.2
Lowest quintile (% of income or consumption)                                   6.8
Highest quintile (% of income or consumption)                      ..         45.5
SOCIAL INDICATORS
Public expenditure
Health (% of GDP)                                   ..           ..          1.3                1.7           1.2
Education (% of GNI)                               ..            ..           ..                4.1           3.3
Social security and welfare (% of GDP)             ..            ..
Net primary school enrollment rate
(D/ of age group)
Total                                               ..          56            48
Male                                             ..           55            48
Female                                           ..           56           49
Access to an improved water source
('Io ofpopulation)
Total                                               ..           ..           54                55             76
Urban                                            ..            ..           80                82            88
Rural                                            ..            ..          42                 41            70
Immunization rate
(%'o under 12 months)
Measles                                            ..           66            78                57             64
DPT                                                 ..          67            82                59             70
Child malnutrition (% under 5 years)                  ..           ..           31
Life expectancy at birth
(years)
Total                                              48           51            45                47             59
Male                                             46           49            44                46            58
Female                                           50           53            46                48            60
Mortality
Infant (per 1,000 live binhs)                     118          108            95                92            77



2
Under 5 (per 1,000 live births)                  218           176           152               161           116
Adult (15-59)
Male (per 1,000 population)                     513          451          542                499           288
Female (per 1,000 population)                  419           370          500                453           258
Maternal (per 100,000 live births)                                          530
Births attended by skilled health staff (%)                       58            35
Note: 0 or 0.0 means zero or less than half the unit shown. Net enrollment ratios exceeding 100 indicate discrepancies
between the estimates of school-age population and reported enrollment data. Latest year for access to improved water
source data is 2000.
2001 World Development Indicators CD-ROM, World Bank



I
Annex B: Tanzania Key Economic Indicators
ESi~ 8tt~       Projeclc4
National accounts (as % of GDP)
Grossdomesticproduct                    100      I]00     100      100      100     100      100     100      100
Agriculture                            48        47      45       45       44       44      43      43       42
Industry                                14       14       15      15       16       17      17       18      18
Services                                38       39      40       40       40       40      40      40       40
Total Consumption                        96        95     101       99      109      98       98      94       94
Gross domestic fixed investment          16        15      13       13       14       13      13      20       21
Government investment                    3        3        3       3        3        2       2        2       2
Private investment                      13       12       10      10       11       10      11       18      19
Exports (GNFS)b                          18        17,     13       14       16       14      15      16       15
Imports (GNFS)                           31        27      27      26        28      26       26      27      28
Gross domestic savings                    4         5       -I       1       -9       2        2       6        6
Gross national savingsc                   2         41     -1        1       -9       2        2       7        7
Memorandum items
Gross domestic product                 6496      7684    8591    8760      8130    9749   10266   10849   12988
(US$ million at current prices)
GNP per capita (US$, Atlas method)      190       210     240      260      280     280      290     300      310
Real annual growth rates (%/., calculated from 1992 prices)
Gross domestic product at market       4.6       3.5     3.7     3.6       5.1     5.4      5.7     6.0      5.9
prices
Gross Domestic Income                  4.1       4.2     3.3     4.1       2.7     9.0      8.8     3.8
Real annual per capita growth rates (%, calculated from 1992 prices)
Grossdomesticproductatmarket           1.7       0.8     1.1     2.4       1.6     4.1      3.6     3.8  -100.0
prices
Total consumption                     -1.2      -6.5    10.8     2.7      -3.1     5.6      7.7    -0.7  -100.0
Private consumption                    1.7    -15.2    10.8      4.0      -4.1    17.7      8.4    -1.2  -100.0
Balance of Payments (US$ millions)
Exports(GNFS)b                        1142      1274    1099    1195      1266    1406    1576    1732    1986
Merchandise FOB                      696       794     577     543       600     696      799     884    1029
Imports (GNFS)b                       1986     2040    2314    2244      2248    2504    2688    2904    3614
Merchandise FOB                     1370      1388    1519    1573      1592    1772    1889    2046    2487
Resource balance                      -844      -767   -1216   -1049      -982   -1098   -1112   -1172   -1628
Current account balance               -942      -842   -1242   -1081      -992   -1088   -1090   -1143   -1610
Net private foreign direct investment  134       150     172      183      193      193     200     208      219
Change in reservesd                    -81      -208     -34    -143      -273      -83    -109    -150      -61
Memorandum items
Resourcebalance(%ofGDP)                -13.0    -10.0   -14.1   -12.0    -12.1   -11.3   -10.8   -10.8   -12.5
Real annual growth rates ( YR92 prices)
Merchandise exports (FOB)              11.8     -1.5   -21.8    -8.1      10.9    15.9    14.9    10.6   16.4..
Primary                               13.9     13.7    -0.2   -18.2    -21.7        ..      ..
Manufactures                         41.8      12.5    -9.4   -67.9      -9.5       ..      ..
Merchandise imports (CIF)              -9.2      1.3      9.4     7.4     -2.4    11.3      6.6    8.3..  21.6..
(Continued)



2
Public finance (as % of GDP at market prices)e
Currentrevenues                          11.9    12.2      10.8    10.6    11,9    11.2    11.2    11.4        11.7
Current expenditures                     12.6    11.2       9.9    10.1    12.8    12.5    13.4    12.9        12.0
Current account surplus (+) or deficit ()  -0.7   0.9       0.9     0.5    -0.9    -1.4    -2.2    -1.5        -0.3
Capital expenditure                       3.2     2.3       3.5     3.8      5.5     3.9      3.8     3.7       3.7
Foreign financing                         0.9     2.8       3.6     4.1      6.6     5.9      6.5     5.1       3.8
Monetary indicators
M2/GDP                                  21.7    19.7       18.0    18.7    21.5    19.0    18.8    18.6        18.3
Growth of M2 (%)                         26.4    13.3      10.8    18.5    14.8       9.2     8.8      8.8      8.3
Private sector credit growth/          -205.3  6528.6    244.8   155.4   -57.4   146.1        4.3  -735.6  34000.0
total credit growth (%)
Price indices( YR92 =100)
Merchandiseexportpriceindex             113.0   116.0    118.0   115.0   111.7   111.5   1144    117.3    119.7
Merchandise import price index           56.0    46.0    103.7    96.4   102.4   102.2   102.0   101.9    102.7
Merchandiseterrnsoftradeindex           38.0   122.4    113.8   119.3   109.1   109.0   112.2   115.2    116.6
Realexchangerate(US$/LCU)f              118.3   125.6    135.5   135.5   120.6   121.8   121.8   121.8          0.0
Real interest rates
Consumerpriceindex (%change)             28.0    21.0      12.8     7.9      5.9      5.0     4.2     3.9
GDP deflator (% change)                  19.3    20.6      17.1    10.3    -5.1    15.5       4.2     3.7
a. GDP at factor cost
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
c. Includes net unrequited transfers excluding official capital grants.
d. Includes use of IMF resources.
e. Consolidated central government.
f. "LCU" denotes "local currency units." An increase in US$/LCU denotes appreciation.
Sources: The World Bank (2001).



I
Annex C: Status of Bank Group Operations in Tanzania
STATEMENT OF IDA's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
In Millions US Dollars
Difference
Original Amount in US$ Millions
between expected
and actual
disbursementsa
Project ID   FY   Purpose                   IBF D    IDA    SF    GEF  Cancel Undisb   Orig          Frm
Rev'd
P002804      1998  AGRIC RESEARCH                   21.80                   0.00   13.20    0.60    0.00
P002801      1994  ASMP                             24.50                   2.90    1.00   -3.00   -5.50
P057187     2000  FIDP 11                           27.50                   0.00   22.30    7.20    0.00
P002789      1998  HUMAN RESOURCE DEV               20.90                   0.00    6.80   -2.00    0.00
P058627     2000  HEALTH SECTOR DEV                 22.00                   0.00   18.50   -1.10    0.00
P046872      1997  LAKE VICTORIA ENV                 0.00                   0.00    1.50   -2.50    0.00
P046837      1997  LAKE VICTORIA ENV                10.10                   0.00    2.40   -1.40    0.00
P002812      1995  MINERAL SECTORDEV                12.50                   0.00    1.70   -2.30    -1.70
P002753      1997  NAT EXT PROJ PH. 11              31.10                   0.00   10.40    1.50    0.00
P002756      1993  POWER VI                        200.00                   0.00   12.70  -47.50    0.00
P049838     2000  PRIVATIZATION                     45.90                   0.00   37.70    7.40    0.00
P002822     2000  PSACI                            190.00                   0.00  154.90  -29.30    0.00
P060833     2000  PUBLIC SERVREFPROG                41.20                   0.00   32.70   -5.50    0.00
P002757     1991  RAILWAYS RESTRUCTUR               76.00                  11.30   10.00   -0.70   -15.90
P038570      1997  RIVER BASIC MGM SMAL             26.30                   0.00   12.50    1.30    0.00
P002770      1994  ROADS It                        170.20                   0.00  114.40   77.50   -14.00
P050441     2000  RURAL & MICRO FIN SVC              2.00                   0.00    1.70    0.60    0.00
P069982     2001  REGIONAL TRADE FAC. PRO]           0.00                   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
P065372     2001  SOCIAL ACTION FUND PR             60.00                   0.00   56.20   -1.30    0.00
P047761      1999  TAXADMINISTRATION                40.00                   0.00   29.70   10.50    0.00
P002780      1993  TELECOM If                        0.00                   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
P002786     1991  TZ PETROL REHAB                   44.00                   0.00    3.00   -9.40   -9.40
P002758      1996  URBAN SECTORREHAB                105.00                  0.00   31.00  -13.50    0.00
Total:        1171.00   _             14.10  574.20  -12.70   -46.50



2
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
In Millions US Dollars
_________________                 Committed                     Disbursed
IFC                          IFC
FY Approval        Company                  Loan  Equity Quasi Partic   Loan  Equity  Quasi  Partic
1996/99            AEF A&K Tanzania         0.26      0     0      0    .26       0      0      0
1997               AEF Aquva Ginner         0.68      0     0      0    .68       0      0      0
1998               AEF Blue Bay              1.5      0     0      0    1.5       0      0      0
1996               AEF Contiflora           .35       0     0      0    .35       0      0      0
1998               AEF Drop Zanzibar        .32       0     0      0    .32       0      0      0
1997               AEF Hort. Farms           .44      0     0      0    .44       0      0      0
1998               AEF Maji Masafi            1       0     0      0       1      0      0      0
1996               AEF Milcafe              .18       0     0      0    .18       0      0      0
1994               AEF Moshi Lthr             0     .19     0      0      0    .19       0      0
1999               AEF Musoma Fish           1.5      0     0      0    1.5       0      0      0
1994               AEF Nomad Safari         0.02      0     0      0    .02       0      0       0
1997/99            AEF Pallsons              .38      0     0      0    .38       0      0      0
1994               AEF Raffia Bags           .29      0     0      0    .29       0      0       0
1995               AEF Tanbreed              .7       0     0      0      .7      0      0       0
1994/96            AEF Tanganyika           .06       0     0      0    .06       0      0       0
1996               AEF Zainab Grain         .76       0     0      0    .76       0      0       0
2000               AEF Zan Safari             .7      0      0     0      .7      0      0       0
1997               DATEL                    2.08    .51     0      0   1.18    .48       0       0
1994               Eurafrican Bank            0     .73     0      0      0    .73       0      0
1996               1IP                     1.18     .6     0      0   1.18      .6      0       0
2000               IOH                       2.5      0      0     0    2.5       0      0       0
2000               NBC                         0     10      0     0       0      0      0       0
1993               TPS (Tanzania)             7     .87  1.04      0      7    .87   1.04        0
1991/97            TPS Zanzibar               0     .03     0      0      0    .03       0       0
1994               Tanzania Brewery           0       6     0      0      0       6      0       0
1998               Tanzania Jubilee           0     .29     0      0      0    .29       0       0
1994               ULC Leasing              1.13    .95     0      0   1.13    .76       0       0
Total Portfolio:        23.03   20.17   1.04    0  22.13   9.95    1.04      0
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval              Company                             Loan     Equity      Quasi      Partic
1998                     TTCL                                   0      20000          0          0
1999                    AEF Arusha                           1500         0           0         0
2001                     AEF Boundary Hill                    200          0          0          0
2000                     AEF Drop 11                          200          0          0          0
1999                    AEF Moun Village                     900          0           0         0
1998                    AEF Neptune Flwr                   402.76         0           0         0
2000                    NBC                                30000           0          0          0
Total Pending Commitment:       33202.76     20000           0          0



I
Annex D: Tanzania Primary Education Development Program
Credit Data Sheet
Timetable of key credit processing events
Appraisal:                       July 16-30, 2001
Negotiation:                     August 16-17, 2001
Board Presentation:              September 20, 2001
Effective Date:                  October 22, 2001
Closing Date:                    October 31, 2004



Annex E: Letter of Primary Education Sub-Sector Policy



23/08 01 THU 16:20 FAX 000 255 22 2113039  WORLD BANK-TZ                          I100'O
THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
P. O. 13ux 911 1,
Tclegram: "Trcasury", Dar Es Salaani                      DAR E5 SALAAM
Telephone: 111174(6, Fax 110326, Telex: 41329
(All Official communications should be
addressed to the Permanent Secretary to
the Treasury and not individuals).
Tn reply please quote:
R.ef NO. TYC/B/40/110                         21"' August, 2001
R f N ...... I  ..............
Mr. Callisto Madavo
Vice President,
World Bank, Africa Region
1818 H. Street, N. W
Washington, D.C
USA.
Dear Mr. Madavo,
RE: TANZANIA'S PRIMARY EDUCATION SUB-SECTOR
POLICIES, STRATEGIES AND DEVELOPMENT
PROGRAMME
I am writing on behalf of the Government of the United Republic of
Tanzania to request for a credit of US $ 150.0 million from  the
International Development Association (IDA) in support of the Primary
Education Development Programnme (PEDP). The proposed credit will
increase, among other things; resource availability to primary education,
efficiency in resource utilization, improve quality in teaching and
learning, improve school access and strengthen sector management at all
levels.
2.   The Education Sector is one of the most important areas in the
Tanzania's overall poverty reduction and development framework. The
Government attaches high priority to strengthening human resource
capacity as a means of reducing poverty and promoting economic growth
through raising the basic level of education of the population. This letter
highlights the main sector constraints and the government strategies to
I



address them, consistent with the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
(PRSP) objectives.
Background and Sector Issues
3.   A robust education sector is essential for producing a better-
qualified and skilled Tanzanian work force for accelerated economic
growth and poverty reduction. In this regard, education is key to raising
productivity and improving living standards. Currently, the education
system in Tanzania performs far below what is required to meet its
development needs.  Poor education quality in primary schools is
reflected in insufficient school inputs and related low access and
retention, resulting into inefficiencies in the system. These issues are
further linked to the insufficient public funding of the sector, and thus
high costs imposed on households. At the secondary level, access is
limited. Limited capacity of G6vernment and private provision to expand
secondary education to match with accelerated expansion of primary
education results into very low gross and net enrolments. Teacher
education, which plays a vital role in promoting access and quality
education, suffers from low tutor competence, inadequate funding and
facilitation. In addition, vocational education and training can no longer
produce the skill mix to meet the labour market needs. All these existing
sector issues are closely related to each other. Therefore, sector-wide
development strategies have been given priority in the context of
govemment's poverty reduction strategy. The focus of the first phase of
sector development is to strengthen and improve performance of the
primary education sector, closely followed by the development of
secondary and tertiary education.
National Strategies for Policy Reform
4.   In 1995, the Government of the United Republic of Tanzania
through the Ministry of Education and Culture (MOEC) issued an
Education and Training Policy that emphasized liberalizing the
education sector in line with the rest of the economy and increasing
the accountability of service providers to clients. The Secondary
Education Strategy is also underway with the objectives of improving
quality and raising enrollment rates at the secondary level. Adult and
Youth Basic Education (A YBE) programmes are also being promoted
by the government and supported by various development partners.
Immediate priority will be on issuing a strategy for the implementation
of the national policy on non-formal and adult education. As regards
higher education, Higher Education Master Plan (HEMP) is under
preparation focusing on the rationalization of underutilized and
inefficient tertiary education institutions.



Loo
5.   Most recently, in the context of the Poverty Reduction Strategy
Paper (PRSP), the government of Tanzania has undertaken to develop
a national strategy for primary education, together with detailed
council plans under the ongoing school mapping exercise which has
already covered 53 percent of the total 113 local government. A
number of specific targets for improving primary education
achievement have been clearly enunciated in the PRSP document,
along with broad actionable areas. The government has also been
working with the donor community and other stakeholders in
preparing analytical reports to reach an in-depth understanding of the
critical constraints to the performance and further development of
primary education as well as the broader education sector. To this
end, a comprehensive Education Sector Country Status Report was
prepared and discussed with a wide cross- section of stakeholders
early 2001. It provides understanding of the critical constraints to the
performnance of the sector and makes recommendation for the
development of primary education as well as the other sub-sectors.
6. The Primary Education Development Programme is derived from the
Education Sector Country Status Report and on various analytical
studies on the sector. In line with the government's basic education
3trategy in the context of PRSP, the objective of PEDP is to improve
quality, expand school access and equity, and increase school
retention at the primay level.
Implemcatation of the Strategy
7.   Recognizing that school fees and other levies imposed on
households had constituted an obstacle to the further development of
primary education, the governent has decided to abolish Universal
Primary Education (UPE) fees in accordance with the PRSP. In order
to substitute and add resources to the sector, major measures of the
sector strategy include the introduction of primary school grants to
meet recurrent costs in support of: (i) quality improvement of
education at school level; (h) enhancing retention and completion of
primary education cycle for all children; (iii) making primary
education equitable by expanding access to all children; and (iv)
enhancing capacity building at the school, community, local and
central government levels. Enrollment is estimated to increase by 1.2
million between 2001 and 2002 as a result of population growth and
increased demand following the removal of fees. The targets for
primary education development between 2002-05 include: establishing
enrollment capacity for all 7-10 year olds in Grade I by 2005; reduced



dropout rate between grade 4 and 5 from 13%/o to 10% between 2002-
04; increased non-salary expenditures in primary school budget from
4% to 20% by 2002-03.
8.   A national Information, Education and Communication Programme
will be implemented to cnsure that all local government staff,
including teachers and headteachers, community members and actors
at all levels understand their role in relation to the policies and
strategies.
9.   In order to improve the quality of classroom teaching and leaming,
in-service professional development programns for all teachers will be
developed and implemented based on quality and cost-effective
criteria. Also given the anticipated enrollment expansion, a pre-
service program will be designed and implemented 'to cater for
increased teacher demand. The pre-service and in-service programs
will maximize utilization of the existing teacher training colleges and
'tutors.
Institutional Reforms
10. The plans and programs enumerated above recognize the needs for
an adequately funded school system that benefits from greater
involvement of parents, communities and local government
management. Major institutional reforms are sought to address the
main concerns in the education sector. The Public Service Reforn
Programme (PSRP) and Local Government Reform Programme
(LGRP) are focused on a shift in roles and mandates for delivery of
basic social services between the central government ministries,
departments and agencies and local government authorities. The role
of ministries is to be confined to the core functions of policy making,
regulation and monitoring and evaluation of service delivery, which is
administered at various levels of local government and the private
sector. The following four major institutional reforms are being
undertaken: - (i) reformed institutional structure and functions are to
be put in place by 2004 through actions specified in the attached work
programme; (ii) Ministry of Education and Culture will continue to be
re-oriented to provide policy and planning guidance and to monitor
education delivery consistent with the Public Sector Reform
Programme; (iii) President's Office, Regional Administration and
Local Government will deliver primary education through regional
secretariats, local government authorities, wards, villages and schools;
and (iv) Mechanisms for community participation and school level
accountability will be established and/or strengthened.



Actions
11.  The section below highlights some of the main actions, which
Government will implement in the immnediate-tenn. The Govemrnent
will continue and broaden the on-going reforms and provide the
framework for a sector-wide program in primay education. The main
elements involve: - the fonnulation of an admission strategy to absorb
all 7 -10 year old children in school between 2002 and 2004;
introduction of a capitation grant for recurrent expenditure at school
level and adoption of a principle of fund flow to schools through Local
Govenment Authorities by school year 2002; allocation of a
development grant to school committees for classroom construction
and adoption of a principle of community-based classroom
construction strategy by 2002; providing teacher housing, particularly
to encourage teaching force deployment into rural starting from 2002;
establishing double-shift up to an average of 50% of primary school
classrooms in order to intensify classroom utilization to help deal with
the enrollment surge between 2002-2004; continue with double-shift
teaching in 80% of all schools with a classroom/pupil ratio of 1/60 by
FY04; gradual provision of incentives to teachers involved in double-
shifting by 2003; designing an in-service teacher training program for
all teachers in the country including development of instructional
materials by end of FY200l/ 2002; developing a comprehensive pre-
service teacher training program to ensure adequate teacher supply by
end of FY 2001/2002; and reviewing, and introducing reforms if
necessary, to the school curiculum, Grade 7 national examinations,
and assessment of learning achievements by end of FY 2001/2002;
12.  The effort is part of the nation-wide process of a comprehensive
reform of local governments, and its relationship with other agencies
at central and regional tiers of the government. However, the overall
implementation of the decentralization policy will require time as it
entails a progressive restructuring of the institutional framework
which specifies organizational arrangements regarding the teacher and
other public resource management agencies, such as the Ministry of
Education and Culture, the Teacher Service Commission, the Local
Government Service Commission, President's Office, Regional
Administration and Local Government, and the Regional Secretariats.
13.  Currently, the  Government is working actively  with  the
development partners and all stakeholders to move the PEDP forward.
Many bilateral donors are committed to the continuous support to the
development of Tanzania's primary education. We believe that with



(oo
the commitment of the govemment and the support of the
development partners including the proposed IDA Primary Education
Development Crcdit, Tanzania will be able to mobilize the resources
to successfully address the education sector issues. In this context, the
government is committed to allocate resources for the PEDP to cover
(a) capitation grants and school development grants to school
committees, (b) administrative costs related to capitation and school
development grants to Local Government Authorities, as well as, (c)
costs related to the provision of teachcrs to primary schools on the
basis of 1/45 teacher/pupil ratio. We are confident that the primary
education strategies and related actions outlined above and those
included in the Work Programme annexed hereto will be achieved
with continuous support of the intemational community,
Thank you for your continued support and cooperation.
Yours Sincerely,
PERMANE   ECRETARY



TANZANIA
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME
WORKPLAN
Objective      Action Prior to     Work plan         Work plan          Workplan         Outcomes by
Effectiveness        Year 1            Year 2            Year 3           July 2004
July 01-July 02    July 02-July 03    July 03-July 04
Increase access at  l. Design of IEC   1. Continue IEC    1. Continue   l. Issue progress  E3nrollment
the primary         program about     program           recruitment        report on      capacity for all 7
education level     PEDP                                process of         meeting        year olds in Grade
implementation  2. Continue        teachers needed    development    I by the 2005
aimed at public    recruitment      (1 1,000) for the    indicators in      Schlool Year.
at large and      process of        2003 School       School Year    Wide
initiate special  teachers needed    Year             2003.           understanding of
programs for      (9, 1 00) for the                                   respective roles of
parents,          2002 School    2. Construct       2. Issue M&E      parents, schools,
community,        Year              14,000            report for the   communities, local
council and                         classrooms        School Year    and central
ward officials   3. Construct       before the 2003   2003 for        government levels
and educational    14,000           School Year       schools, whichi  and donor
personnel at all    classrooms                        received        cotmmunity in
levels.           before January  3. Report           developmnent   PEDP
2002.            classroom          grants.        implementation.
construction   3. Plan for
4. Pre are          processforthe     recruitmnent of
7



fr4~
N
0
0
construction      School Year          10,000 teachers
plan for          2002.                for School
following                             Year 2004.
School Year    4. Plan for
2002.             classroom                                                   g
construction for
5. Prepare and       schools 2004.
adopt
streamlined     5. Issue M&E
class i           report for
curriculum        SY2002 for
(e.g. 3 Y, hrs a  schools, which
day focused on    received
core subjects)    development
to be used in     grants.
schools double-
shifting.       6. Plan for
allocation of
6. Double-shift up    development
to 2/3            grant to schools.
classrooms
where needed   7. Plan for
to cater to for   recruitment of
enrollrnent        11,000 teachers
_____ ____sur_ _e___   .      for SY2003.
8
6
a
ap



7. Disburse       8. Report
development      implementation
grant to ensure    of streamlined
construction     curriculum in
begins before    Grade I for                                              '
School Year      those schools
begins in        double-shifting.
January 2002.
IW
8. Disburse
capitation grant
to schools.                                                               3
Improve quality at  l. Provide draft   I. Prepare revised  1. Implementation  1. Introduction of  Reduced dropout
primary school      terms of           designs and       of revised        full capitation   rate between        t
level               reference for      action plan for  components; i)    grant to all    grades 4 and 5
further          implementation    school level       schools in FY   from 13% to 10%
development of    of the            professional      2002/2003.      between 2002 and
(i) school level    following       development of                    2004.
professional      components: i)   teachers; ii)    2. Report on
development of    school level      pre-service and    implementation  Decreased pupil:
teachers; (ii)    professional      in-service        progress on     textbook ratio.
pre-service and   development of   teacher            revised
in-service        teachers, ii)     upgrading; iii)    components on  More qualified
teacher           pre-service and    curriculum and    school level    teaching force
9
0e



upgrading (iii)    in-service       textbook           professional    leading to
curriculum and    teacher            developmnent;     development,  improved
textbook          upgrading, iii)   and iv)            pre-service and  classroom
development;      curriculum and     examinations      in-service     learning.
and (iv)          textbook          and               teacher
examinations      development,      assessment.        training,       Increased
and               and iv)                              curriculum and  relevance of
assessment.       examinations   2. Introduction of    textbook        curriculum and
and               full capitation   development   exaininations.
assessment.       grant ($10) to    and
all schools in    examnination    Increased
2. Introduction of    School Year      and             awareness of
full capitation   Y2003.            assessment.   IH V/AIDS, itodes
grant (S 1 0) to                                    of transmission,
schools        3. Inmplementation 3. Fully          methiods of
participating in    of national     decentralizatio  prevention and
full program      school health     n of textbook   inculcation of life
and partial       program and       provision to    skills.
capitation grant    HV/AIDS         school level
($7) to           prevention and                   linproved health
remaining         mitigation     4. Prepare M&E   status of scliool
schools in        programii.        report on use of age children
January 2002.                       capitation      leading to
grants by      improved learLing.
_____ _____ ___    _ _____ ___ __   ___  4.   Further  schools  and   on
10



3. Prepare          decentralize     enrolment and
strategy and    textbook           quality
action plan for    provision to   indicators in
implementation    school level.   SY2003.
for i) national  5. Issue with
schiool health   M&E report on
program; and     use of
ii) HIV/AIDS     capitation
prevention and   grants by
mitigation       schools and on
program and      enrolment and
budget.          quality
4. Prepare         indicators
implementation    SY2002.
plan to
decentralize
textbook
provision and
procurement to
school level.
5. Prepare
implementation
plan for
national
application of                      _    .  .
it



$10 capitation
grant for all
schools for
School Year
2003.                                                _
Strengthen       1. Completed     l. Capacity       1. Furnish IDA    1. Prepare       Capacity at all
institutional      Program   .       building          with progress    progress report  levels in RALG
capacity and       Implementation    program for      report on         on             and MOEC to
managemnent of     Manual.           regional and     impleinentation   implementation  cariy out assigned
education system                     district level    of program       of development functions. MOEC
for effective    2. Appointment of   staff to guide    implementation    and capitation   will be able to
delivery of        program           and monitor       manual and on    grant for      pioovide policy and
primary education.    coordinators   school            institutional    SY2003 for all  planning guideline
within PMO,      planning.         framework.       schools.       and monitor
MOEC and                                                           education delivery
RALG and      2. Capacity                                          consistent with
program          building                                          PSRP, ii) PO-
implementation    program for                                      RALG will be able
support teams    viilage,                                          to delivery
at district      community and                                     primary education
levels.          school level to                                   through regional
prepare and                                      administration
implement                                        offices, district
3. Every school to   school plans                                     wards and schools.
have opened a    and                                               Mechanisms for
12
I-



bank account in    management                                     community
order to receive    school grants                                 participation and
grant (by Nov.    (immediate                                      school level
2001).           focus on                                         accountability will
schools which                                    be established
4. Prepare plan     will receive                                     and/or
for national     full capitation                                  strengthiened.
introduction of    grant)
school based
planning by
School Year
2002.
Improve resource  1. Provide IDA    1. Inclusion of    l. Inclusion of    I Inclusion of    An education
availability       with program     PEDP in           PEDP in          PEDP in        system that is
allocation and     implementation    MTEF.            MTEF.            MTEF.          adequately funded
utilization.       manual and                                                         from national
prograrn      2. Increase non-   2. Maintain non-  2. Maintain non-  budget but that
operational      salary           salary           salary         functions on the
manual.          expenditures     expenditure      expenditure    basis of school
from 4% to      level of 20% in   level of 20% in  level planning and
20% in primaty   primary school .  primary school district level
school budget.    budget.         budget.        management.
3. Provide       3. Maintain      3. Maintain       Financial and
__j__    adequate funds    adequate funds    adequate funds i operating manual
13      d;
0



in recurrent       in. recurrent      in recurrent     for nation
budget for         budget for         budget for       application.
central and        central and        central and
district           district           district
administration     administration     administration
to cover           to cover           of school
administration     administration     examination,
of school          of school          school
examiniation,      examination,       inspections and
school             school             costs for more
inspections and    inspections and    effective scliool
costs for more     costs for more     operations in
effective          effective          FY03/04.
support of         suppott of
primary school     primary school  4. Prepare and
operations in      operations in      publish detailed
FY01/02.           FY02/03.           budget report.
4. Prepare and
publish detailed
budget report.   _       _
14



Annex F: Tanzania Primary Education Development Program
Institutional and Implementation Arrangement
GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
PRESIDENT'S OFFICE, REGIONAL ADMINISTRATION AND LOCAL GOVERNMENT
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION AND CULTURE
MINISTRY OF SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY AND HIGHER EDUCATION
EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
PROGRAMME (ESDP)
Primary Education Development Plan (PEDP)
STRENGTHENING INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
August 3, 2001






2
Table of Contents
1.0  AN INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK TO SUPPORT A SECTOR WIDE
APPROACH .....1 
2.0  OVERALL FRAMEWORK BASED ON DECENTRALIZATION POLICY
AND LOCAL GOVERNMENT REFORM...........................................2
2.1        President's Office Regional Administration and Local Government
(PO-RALG) ...................................................                      2-3
2.2        The Regional Secretariats (RS) .............................................    3
2.3        Local Government Authorities ..............................................    3-4
2.4        The District Council and Urban Authorities ............          ...................   4
2.5        The Village Council/Mtaa Committee .................           .....................    4-5
2.6        The Mtaa Level .....................            ..............................    5
2.7        School Committees ...............................          ....................    5-6
2.8        Communities ...................................................                     6-7
2.9        Pupil Councils and School Barazas                                                   7
3.0      MINISTRY  OF EDUCATION AND CULTURE (MOEC) ......... ..............  7-8
4.0   FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS ..................                                            8
4.1        Overview  ....................................................    8-9
4.2        Administration of Grants to Schools ..................... ...................   9-10
4.3        Transfer of Funds to Schools .................................................      10
4.4        Transparency and Accountability at School level .........            ................    10-11
4.5        Disbursement of Funds ...................................................           11-12
4.6        FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT ASPECTS ............                        ...................    12
4.6.1      Financial Accounting ....................................................    12-13
4.6.2      The Accounting Procedure Manual ........................ ..................   13
4.6.3      The basis of Accounting ...................................................    13
4.6.4      Internal Auditing ......................          .............................    13
4.6.5      External Auditing function .................................................        13-14
4.6.6      The accounting procedure manual ...........................................    14
4.6.7      Reports ...................................................                         14
4.6.8      Procurement ...................................................                     14
4.6.9      Staffing matters ...................          ................................   14
5.0      EXTENSIVE CAPACITY  BUILDING  MEASURES ............ ..................   15-16
6.0      THE PLANNING PROCESS ..........................................................    16
7.0      MONITORING  AND EVALUATION ARRANGEMENTS ........ .............   16-17
8.0  INCENTIVES FOR TEACHERS AND OFFICERS WORKING WITH                                                   17
THE PROGRAM.
9.0      IMPLEMENTATION  SCHEDULE  ...................................................   17-18
Appendix 1: Implementing Agenciles, Functions, Outputs, and Implications
Appendix 2: A Summary of the Procedures for Disbursement and Accounting
Appendix 3: Developing A School Plan
Appendix 4: Proposed Financial Mechanism  for PEDP
Appendix 5: Institutional Framework for ESDP/PEDP implementation
Appendix 6: Involvement of pupils in school Governance



3
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
BEDC:        Basic Education Development Committee
BFC:         Basket Fund Committee
CBOs:        Community Based Organizations
CG:          Capitation Grant
CSO:         Civil Service Organizations
DED:         District Executive Director
DEO          District Education Officer
EPF:         Education Program Fund
ESDP:        Education Sector Development Program
EMIS:        Education Management Information system
IAE:         Institute of Adult Education
IEC:         Information, Education Communication
IFMS:        Integrated Financial Management System
IG:          Investment Grant
LGA:         Local Government Authority
LGRP:        Local Government Reform Program
LGAMTs       Local Government Authority Managements Teams
M&E:         Monitoring and Evaluation
MANTEP:    Management Training of Education Personnel
MoF:         Ministry of Finance
MoEC:        Ministry of Education and Culture
MCDWC:    Ministry of Community Development Women Affairs and Children
MSTHE:       Ministry of science, Technology and Higher Education.
MLYD:        Ministry of Labor and Youth Development.
NECTA:       National Examination Council of Tanzania
NFE:         Non-Formal Education
NGO:         Non-Governmental Organization
NPA:         National Plans of Action
PEDP         Primary Education Development Plan.
PER:         Public Expenditure Review
PO-RALG      President Office - Regional Administration and Local Government.
PO-PP        President's Office Planning and Privatisation
PRSP:        Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PSRP:        public Service Reform Program
PTR:         Pupil Teacher Ratio
PMO:         Prime Minister's Office
PIU:         Project Implementation Units
POA          Plans of Action
RAS:         Regional Administrative Secretary
RS:          Regional Secretariat
TIE:         Tanzania Institute of Education
TLS.         Tanzania Library Services
TTC:         Teacher Training Colleges
UPE          Universal Primary Education
USD          United States Dollar.
VEO:         Village Executive Officer
WEO:         Ward Executive Officer
WEC:         Ward Education Coordinator



4
STRENGTHENING INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
1.0 AN INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK TO SUPPORT A SECTOR-WIDE
APPROACH
The organizational arrangements put in place at the centre to steer and coordinate the
development of the ESDP will be institutionalized and strengthened to support the
implementation of the programme. In particular, the ESDP Coordination Committee will
spearhead and coordinate implementation of the first phase of the programme, and the design of
the subsequent phases and components. The roles of the Committee have been specified to be,
to: (a) oversee the implementation, development and execution of decisions of national
education policies; (b) monitor the ESDP; (c) provide higher level inter-ministerial coordination;
and (d) guarantee ESDP consistency with biroad Government policies. The Permanent Secretary,
Prime Minister's Office (PMO), chairs the Committee. Other members of the Committee are the
Permanent Secretaries of the ministries of E,ducation and Culture (MOEC); Science, Technology
and Higher Education (MSTHE); President's Office Regional Administration and Local
Government (PORALG); Labour and Youth Development (MLYD); Community Development,
Women Affairs and Children (MCDWAC); the President's Office Planning and Privatization
(PO-PP); and Finance (MOF).
Nevertheless, a more encompassing institutional framework is needed to support a sector-wide
approach in three important organizational aspects. First, the organizational responsibilities,
mandates, roles and functions for implementation and accountability will be mainstreamed in the
existing structures at all levels, i.e. in central government, at the district council level, and at the
school and community level. There will be no enclave Project Implementation Units (PIUs).
Second, implementation will be decentralized, in line with the Government's on-going drive for
decentralized delivery of basic social services, under the Local Government Reform Programme
(LGRP). Third, without compromising efficiency, effectiveness and accountability of the use of
resources, implementation will be predominantly community-based, on the basis of applying the
principle of subsidiarity within a decentralized framework. On this basis, an overall institutional
framework for the ESDP development and implementation has been defined as shown in the
organogram in the appendix.5
A Basic Education Development Committee (BEDC), which will be co-chaired by the
Permanent Secretaries of MoEC and PO-RALG, and will include a representative of the
Permanent Secretary of MoF; the ESDP Coordinators at MoEC and PO-RALG; and the
representatives of all ESDP donors, NGOs other stakeholders that are active in education, will
oversee and coordinate the mobilization, disbursement, use and accountability of programme
funds. This institutional mechanism will be reinforced by an annual joint stakeholders
(Government-donors-NGOs) review of the ESDP implementation review.
2.0 OVERALL FRAMEWORK BASED ON DECENTRALISATION POLICY AND
LOCAL GOVERNMENT REFORM
Decentralisation policy, which underpins the on-going Local Government Reform (LGR), has
moved the roles and functions of primary education Development program delivery from MOEC
to the Local Government Authorities. Furthermore, the mandate and roles to oversee on the
delivery of primary education by the Local Authorities has shifted to PO-RALG. MOEC roles
and functions in primary education are now confined to policymaking, setting standards and
quality assurance, in collaboration with PO-RALG. In this context, there is need to review
structures and staffing in the primary education department of the MOEC. Refer to appendices 5
and I for details.



5
2.1 President's Office, Regional Administration and Local Government (PO-RALG)
The role and mandate to oversee and coordinate the Local Government Authorities lies with the
PO-RALG. PO-RALG will technically lead and coordinate the implementation of grants-based
components that have to do with primary education development. The office will also undertake
implementation of own capacity building and that in the Regional Secretariats (RSs), the Local
Government Authority and Schools. Specific roles and functions to be performed by PO-RALG
include:
* To guide and oversee the delivery of primary education by Local Government
Authorities (LGAs).
*  To provide strategic leadership and technical support to Council Education offices.
*  To ensure that councils prepare consolidated three-year education development plans
that conform to government development goals and to MOEC education policy and
quality assurance standards.
*  To consolidate Council plans and budgets into National Plans of Action, (NPA) which
will provide the basis for the approval and transfer of PEDP funds from the Education
Programme Fund.
*  To collaborate with the MOEC in order to monitor, review and evaluate PEDP outputs
and outcomes.
*  To participate as a joint stakeholder in the annual ESDP process of reviewing primary
and non-formal education.
*  To support and build the capacity of the district education offices.
*  To communicate education information to all system levels and interested stakeholders.
e  To collaborate with other agencies in education sector planning and in specifying
national service delivery standards for primary education;
*  To technically support LGAs in planning and implementing primary education
programmes in accordance with the national service delivery standards and the ESDP
strategies;
*  To technically support the LGAs in mobilizing resources, and ensuring integrity,
transparency and accountability in the use of resources; and
*  To collaborate with the MOEC, monitor and evaluate quantitative outputs and
outcomes for cost-efficiency in education service delivery against the set service
delivery standards and provide feedback to Local Authorities and the National planning
agencies.
2.2 The Regional Secretariats (RS)
PO-RALG has a big task to oversee and coordinate the implementation of this sector program as
large as the ESDP. In this respect, the office's capacity is strengthened by the support of the 20
Regional Secretariats (RSs), which organizationally and administratively fall under PO-RALG.
The RSs establishment has comparatively highly qualified and experienced specialists (including
education officers, engineers and finance specialists) who will be fully utilized. Therefore, RSs
will support the PO-RALG in overseeing and coordinating the work of the Local Authorities in
the ESDP implementation, provide the national guidance, technical support and oversight roles
and responsibilities for the ESDP implementation. This arrangement will be consistent with the
policy and legislative framework that redefined the role of the RS to one of providing technical
support and advisory services to the Local Government Authorities. In this context, PO-RALG



6
will delegate specific mandates and functions to the RS. In this framework, therefore, RSs will
provide considerable support to the Local Government Authorities and at the same time assist the
PO-RALG to monitor and evaluate program implementation by the Local Government
Authorities (LGAs). The program will enhance capacity building and train the staff in PO-RALG
and the RS to play these roles effectively. This includes IEC to the community.
There will also be national level oversight and coordination roles and functions in support ESDP
implementation for which the PO-RALG needs to rapidly organize and develop capacity. In
particular, and as a priority, PO-RALG will identify a Coordinator with skills and experience in
program management and coordination who will take charge for the day-to-day monitoring,
supervising and coordinating the ESDP implementation, including liaising with the Local
Authorities (mainly through RSs), other central government agencies, NGOs and donors.
2.3.   Local Government Authorities
The heaviest load for ESDP implementation will fall on the Local Government Authorities (a
total of 113 across the country), each of which will be individually responsible for the
implementation in the areas falling under their jurisdiction. Local Government Authorities
Directors will, in any case, manage the implementation of ESDP in their respective Local
Government Authorities within a framework that enables and empowers communities around the
schools to meaningfully and effectively participate in the implementation of decisions.
Democratic and meaningful participation by communities and school committees in the
implementation of the ESDP interventions at the school level will vastly enhance the
opportunities and capacity for efficient, effective, transparent and accountable utilization of the
program  funds. Furthermore, this community/school-based implementation strategy will
overcome the pitfalls in centralized or district-based procurement and implementation for the
thousands of project sites at each school. Therefore, the roles and functions of the Local
Government Authorities in the ESDP implementation will be confined to guiding, supporting and
coordinating the implementation work by communities and school committees.
2.4    The District Council and Urban Authorities
The Local Government Authorities Management Teams (LGAMTs) led by Local Government
Authorities Directors, and including the Local Government Authorities Education Officer,
already have the role and responsibility to oversee the implementation of all development
programs at the Local Government Authorities level, and they will play the same role with
respect to ESDP. However, under this program, LGAMTs will need to shift from direct
execution of activities to providing technical and organizational assistance to school committees
and village councils who will implement their school plans. The LGMTs will be responsible for
ensuring a participatory, inclusive and gender-responsive implementation of the ESDP in the
Local Government Authorities, and to this end will meaningfully and regularly involve
representatives of relevant NGOs and other CSOs (especially women and disadvantaged
groups). Therefore, LGAMTs will be trained in participatory planning and management of
projects. Additionally, the LGAMTs will play a critical role in monitoring and evaluating ESDP
implementation in their respective areas, and providing central organs with feedback on
achievements and obstacles. The LGAMTs will meet at least once a month to review progress
of ESDP implementation, and the Director will regularly present the minutes of its deliberations
to the Council's Committee responsible for Social Services.
The starting point for the Directors will be planning the development of primary schools under
their jurisdiction in a participatory, inclusive and gender-responsive approach. On this basis,



7
also, they will prepare requisitions for funds to be transferred to schools). Furthermore, the
Councils will directly and through ward development committees and the village councils, guide
and ensure proper use and accountability of funds by the school committees. Accordingly, the
Local Government Authorities will be strengthened to exercise oversight, and also provide
effective technical support to school and village committees to, among others, undertake
procurement and other implementation tasks, and to account for the use of funds and report
properly and in a timely manner.
2.5    The Village Council/Mtaa Committee
The Village Government is the Government in the Village and the Mtaa Committee for urban
areas. With respect to governance, there is a Village assembly comprising of the residents of the
Village and has a Village Council, which forms the Government at this level. Executives in the
Village include a Village Executive Officer and in some cases especially with education
extension officers delivering services. The majority of these are primary school teachers. Village
Government is led by an elected Chairperson to oversee the welfare of the people. The village
government has various committees dealing with specific areas such as social services, economic
affairs, security and can form sub committees among others a school committee. At present,
Tanzania has 10,863 registered villages. In rural areas a sub - village or Kitongoji is the lowest
level of the Village Government.
The basic role of the Village Council in PEDP will include:
-  Mobilization of community contributions to the program in cash and in kind.
-  Preparation of participatory three year and annual education plans.
-  Promotion of community ownership of PEDP.
-  Providing support to School Committee.
-  Mobilization of parents and guardians to take their children to school.
-  Exercising general oversight of the school Committees to ensure they operate in a
transparent and accountable manner.
*  Mobilization of community based organizations, (CBOs) and NGO, to be able to
participate in the program.
  To enhance public availability of education information, including about PEDP.
*  To ensure the School Committee is responsive to and accountable to the people.
The support of the community is important for the Village council to perform these community-
based roles.



8
2.6    Mtaa/ Kitongoji Level
Mtaa and Kitongoji are the lowest administrative parts of an urban ward and a village government
respectively.
These areas are headed by elected leaders, estimated to be 70,000 in the entire country. Since this
is the closest level to the target group of PEDP a MTAA and KITONGOJI have the following
roles;
(i)    To maintain a register of residents in the area.
(ii)    To keep records of births and cleaths in the area, in so doing facilitate admission of
grade I children.
(iii)   To sensitize parents to take their children to school.
(iv)   To ensure every child goes to school and to combat truancy.
(v)    To mobilize members of the Mtaa to Participate in PEDP activities.
(vi)   To implement other tasks as may be instructed by the council.
2.7    School Committees
School committees have a pivotal role in inmplementing ESDP. Funds will flow directly to the
school account, through No Acc.5 of the Local Government Authorities. The committee will
therefore be accountable to the Director for the proper use of those funds. While the village
council will articulate the overall policy directions, it is the school committee that will determine
priorities and work out a detailed implementation schedule and supervise actual execution.
Every school is required by law to have a School Committee - both to exercise community
oversight over the school and to provide community support to the staff of the school. As with
village councils, school committees vary a great deal in their form and operations. In general at
present they do not function effectively, ancd are not viewed by the community as an institution
that can be an engine for change. School Committee problems include:
(i)        The composition is not very inclusive, especially of pupils, the poor and other
marginalised groups;
(ii)       Meetings are often not held on a timely basis or at all;
(iii)      Deliberations are not recorded and/or not made available to the public;
(iv)       The powers and responsibilities of the school committee are not well known
and are often thwarted by authorities.
As a result the ESDP will undertake a major school committee capacity-building program. The
composition of some school committees and election procedures will be reviewed to ensure
greater inclusiveness and accountability. In particular, the ward education coordinator, the ward
councilor, democratically elected representatives of pupil's councils (see Appendix 6) and other
critical education sector stakeholders present in the area - such as private education providers and
NGOs dealing with education will be members of the school committee. School committee
members will be trained in their roles and responsibilities. Particular attention will be given to
democratizing the functioning of the committee, including making it more responsive towards
community interests and sharing information widely. An ESDP implementation handbook for
School Committees and Head Teachers will guide on roles and responsibilities, organization, and
modalities at these levels.
Specifically, the role and functions of the school committee in ESDP implementation are six-fold:
* facilitate planning, budgeting and implementation of ESDP projects;
* mobilize voluntary community contributions to ESDP projects - which may be in the
form of money, labor, or another acceptable to the community;



9
* provide accessible information to the community on implementation process, indicating
progress achieved, problems encountered, funds used, etc.;
* contract out for construction of classrooms and procurement of construction materials,
learning and teaching materials;
* manage the funds received for the project implementation while ensuring maximum
transparency and accountability; and
* prepare and submit regular project progress reports to the LAMT through the DEO.
2.8    Communities
At the school/community level, transparency and accountability on the ESDP and other school
development activities will be enhanced through wide dissemination of information, to schools,
to village councils, ward development committees, and local NGOs and CBOs. This will be a
responsibility of VEO, WEOs and Council Directors, who will also ensure that information and
concerns raised at the community level are effectively communicated upwards to relevant
bodies. Modalities for this two-way information and communication element will be specified
in the ESDP Implementation Handbook for Local Government Authorities.
Other information and knowledge on the ESDP plans including transfer of funds to schools and
district councils will be disseminated through the national mass media (radio, television and
newspapers) and through special publications of the ESDP, including the programme newsletter,
which is already published and distributed on a quarterly basis.
2.9   Pupils' Council and School Baraza
Participation and inclusiveness in school management, and particularly in ESDP implementation
will be broadened through the meaningful involvement of children in Pupil Councils and school
"barazas". The Pupil Council will also elect two representatives to the School Committee. Pupil
participation will be done in a manner that reflects basic principles of democratic representation
and gender equality. The modalities for the involvement of pupils in school governance are
outlined further in appendix 6.
3.0    MINISTRY OF EDUCATION AND CULTURE (MOEC)
Following decentralization of delivery of primary education, the residual roles and functions of
the MOEC for the sub sector are confined to participatory planning, policy making, regulation,
and monitoring and evaluation of outcomes and impact for quality assurance. The ministry
remains directly responsible for all aspects of secondary education. In this framework, MOEC
will be responsible for the implementation of all the centralized components and sub-components
of  the  ESDP,  including  secondary  education,  curriculum   development,  teacher
development/management and strengthening institutions and systems at the centre.
* To set policies that ensure quality education for all in Tanzania.
* To prepare, in a collaborative manner, detailed plans for PEDP implementation
* To monitor, review and evaluate progress, outcomes and the impact of the PEDP for quality
assurance, and to regularly make such reports to the BEDC.
* To produce regular financial reports to be submitted to the BEDC.
* To collaborate with the PO-RALG Education Team on issues of planning, monitoring and
evaluation.
* To participate as a joint stakeholder in the annual ESDP process of reviewing the education
sector, including the primary and non-formal education programmes.



10
* To support and build the technical capacity of Local Government Authority education offices.
*  To collate and communicate education information, including HIV/AIDS-related data, to all
system levels, supporting educational institutions, and interested stakeholder
MOEC's responsibilities and tasks in the implementation of the ESDP Initiation Phase will be
limited to components dealing with policy development, quality assurance and capacity building
in such other central agencies as NECTA, T'IE, TSC, IAE etc. and Teacher Training Colleges
(TTCs). Nevertheless, in this transition phase (because some Local Government Authorities
have not been prepared to effectively take over the decentralized services), MOEC will need to
support PO-RALG in steering the decentralized implementation of the ESDP primary education
components. Consultations and collaboration between the two organizations should not be
limited to formal contacts in such fora as the BEDC and the ESDP Steering Committee.
In both the PO-RALG and the MOEC, the P'ermanent Secretary will be overall responsible for
strategic leadership and management of the programme component(s) to be coordinated by the
respective ministry. Further, to ensure due attention to programme implementation issues, the
Permanent secretary will in each case designate a senior officer, who under her/his direction
will, on a day-to-day basis, carry out the roles and functions of the ESDP coordinator in the
ministry/department. The coordinator will work closely with the heads of departments and key
agencies in the sector and, at the discretion of the Permanent Secretary, involve donors and
NGOs' representatives as well.
4.0    FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
4.1    Overview
The Government has already set up a credible procurement, financial management and
accounting. Efforts to improve financial management and accountability have been realized
through the integrated Financial Management System (IFMS). This system is supported by the
EPICOR/Platinum computer software which has the capability to link financial performance with
strategies, objectives and activities. The IFIMS is now operational in all MDAs in Dar es Salaam,
19 sub-treasuries in the region and 28 LGAs. In Dar es Salaam all MDAs are on line with the
MOF. The PEDP financial arrangements will therefore take advantage of the improved financial
management system within the context of Public Service Reform Programme (PSRP) and the
Local Government Reforms.
Government representatives in the BEDC and donors active in education may constitute a sub-
committee of the BEDC, to be known as the ESDP Basket Fund Sub-Committee, for the purpose
of formally agreeing and signing-off for the transfer of funds from the Education Basket Fund.
The MOF will be responsible for opening an account - US Dollar Holding Account - with the
Bank of Tanzania where the basket funds vvill be deposited. The govemment and the donors
will then transfer agreed funds to the accouint. Upon getting approval of the Basket Fund Sub-
Committee of BEDC, MOEC and PORALG will request for disbursement of funds from the US
Dollar Holding Account. The MOEC and P'ORALG will be responsible for accounting of the
funds through submission of audited financiial statements and production of other performance
reports as will be required.
The PO-RALG will be responsible for ensuring that development plans covering three years for
the primary schools are completed for each council and conform to government development
goals. PORALG will work with the Councils to accomplish this task. On the basis of the
development plans, PORALG and MOEC will ensure Plans of Action (POA) for the first year



I1
and subsequent periods are prepared. On the basis of the POA, donors will annually declare
their agreed level of funding to the basket fund through the Treasury.
The Councils under the coordination of PORALG are responsible for implementing programmes
and overseeing financial matters for primary education. Resources allocated for primary
education will be managed and supervised by the Councils.
4.2    Administration of Grants to schools.
To facilitate a community/school-based implementation of the ESDP, funds will generally be
transferred directly to schools through the Local Government Authorities education sector bank
accounts. The grants will be split into capitation grants and investment grants, to cover operating
costs for quality improvement as well as construction costs at the school level. All the costs are
provided for in the Plan Document.
The capitation grant will cover recurrent costs (books, teaching aids, basic equipment, simple
repairs, capacity building, local training, teaching material development, etc) at primary school
level. School committee will determine the precise use of capitation funds in an inclusive,
democratic and transparent manner within general guidelines/parameters set by the BEDC. All
students in public primary schools will be eligible for the grant. The grant is determined on per
enrolled child per year basis, and the total grant amount per school will depend on the number of
students enrolled in a school. Initially, for the 2002 school year, determination of enrollment will
be based on projections calculated under the ESDP expanded enrollment program, enhanced by
other more accurate information that may be available. The capitation grant will be equivalent to
US $10 (approximately Tshs 9,000) for all schools nationwide. However, because a fully
decentralized textbook procurement process is not yet in place, a large portion of the capitation
grant ($ 4) will in the first year be disbursed to the Local Government Authorities to procure
textbooks and other learning materials on behalf of the schools. Of the remaining $6, $3 will be
provided to all schools initially and an additional $3 will be provided upon submission of school
plans. The BEDC will annually review and, if appropriate, revise the capitation grant amount and
the modalities for calculating enrollment.
The capitation grant is meant for use at the school level and will be transferred to the school
accounts through the LGA Account Number Five. Explicit procedures and supervisory measures
will be established to ensure smooth flow of capitation funds and avoid potential delays, and
other bottlenecks at the central and district levels. This includes 'ring fencing' and earmarking
capitation funds for specific schools such that Local Government Authorities would not have
discretion to divert use of the funding for other purposes, even for a temporary period. The
amount of funds transferred will be fully transparent and be made publicly available (e.g. through
use of public notice boards) at all - Council, ward and school - levels. In addition procedures for
accounting for funds and triggering payments will be simplified to ensure timely flows without
compromising basic accountability.
The investment grant for primary schools will cover costs for construction of new classrooms
and water and sanitation facilities, and major rehabilitation of existing buildings. This grant will
be based on the development plans and the attendant investment budget approved for each school
by the Local Government Authority in accordance with nationally set policies, criteria and
guidelines. Initially, however, in the absence of updated plans, grants may be awarded based on
national data regarding infrastructure shortfalls. In 2001 the grant will focus on the construction
of approximatelyl4,000 classrooms and water/sanitation units to be completed in time for the
2002 enrollment expansion. The grant amount will be determined on the basis of need, and will
prioritize schools that are disadvantaged. The precise modalities for the use of the investment



12
grant are provided in detail in separate manuals, but in all cases procedures employed will be
simplified as much as possible. The BEDC will annually review and, if appropriate, revise the
modalities for the calculation and provision of the investment grant.
4.3    Transfer of funds to Schools
The School Committees will be responsible ifor opening bank accounts for depositing the money.
The signatories will be appointed in a joint meeting of the Village Council and the school
committee. One of the signatories should be the Head teacher. The minutes of these meetings will
facilitate the opening of bank accounts. The committee will send particulars of the account to the
Council Director who will consolidate the information for transmission to the local Banks and
PO-RALG. PO-RALG will forward this information to MOF.
Based on the existing financial management. procedures, the MOF upon receipt of all approvals
from PO- RALG, MOEC and BEDC and the Basket Fund committee will transfer funds directly
to education bank accounts of the respective Councils. The MoF having done so will send advise
to MOEC and PO-RALG to inform them of the transfer. The Council Directors will then write
cheques to the Local Banks of the respective school and inform the Schools accordingly for them
to start spending.
4.4 Transparency and accountability at school Level
A village Council and the School committee will meet for purposes of planning and budgeting of
the PEDP activities. The Ward Executive Officer, the Village Executive Officer and the Ward
Education Coordinator will help the Village Council in this process.
The roles and responsibilities of the Village council and the school Committee with regard to
financial management as elaborated in the Financial Management Manual
Will be:
*  To ensure safe custody of property acquired using project funds.
* To ensure that proper record of activities is kept well.
* To facilitate the work of auditors at school level.
* To ensure that funds are used efficiently and effectively.
* To prepare whole school plans and budgets and periodic reports.
* To report to the Council Director through the Ward Education Coordinator.
* To withdraw funds from the bank and keep it in safe custody before use including the
provisions of safes and strong rooms.
4.5    Disbursement of Funds
The program will use existing govemment systems to make timely disbursements. For primary
education, disbursements will be made via Account No.5 to school bank account. The Council-
support funds will be disbursed to Account No.5. Disbursements will be released upon satisfying
several conditions as described below
Disbursement will be made upon receipt by Accountant General (MoF) of an authorization from
the BEDC with the following:
(i)    The names of Local Government Authorities that are to receive the funds
(ii)   The amount of funds that is to be paid to each LGA.
(iii)   Details of the bank account (Account No.5) to which the funds will be transferred
(i.e. bank name, bank location, type of account, and account number)



13
(iv)   A copy of minutes of the BEDC duly signed by the members of the committee
(v)    A covering letter from the Accounting Office of PO-RALG requesting for the
release of funds in respect of basic education disbursement.
Upon such conditions being fulfilled, the Accountant General (MoF) will issue 'accounting
warrant' for each LGA/Ministry which will allow the transfer of funds from the Bank of Tanzania
Consolidated Fund Account to the LGA/Ministry's bank account.
Details on procedures for disbursement and accounting appear in the Financial Management and
Accounting manual for PEDP and as illustrated in the Appendix.2.
The approval of funds by the BEDC will depend on the presentation by LGAs (with support from
the regional secretariats) to BEDC of consolidated and summarized quarterly school plans and
reports; and lists of special items such as textbooks that require separate disbursement. The
consolidated documents will be compiled from detailed school plans and reports, including
information of funds spent/needed for each activity.
Disbursements to primary schools for the first and second quarters will be released on the basis of
approved annual plans. Funds for the subsequent quarters will be triggered by a report on the
quarter beginning six months earlier (e.g. funds for quarter 3 will be released upon receiving the
report for quarter 1). This is to avoid delays in releasing funds that could be caused by delays in
submitting reports and having them approved due to remoteness of some of the schools,
otherwise presentation of end of quarter reports will be the basis of releases. Also allowance is
given for the time taken to approve and consolidate the reports at various levels of administration
before they are presented to the BEDC. A one-quarter lag in reporting will smoothen the flow of
funds to the projects .for this special cases.
4.6   Financial Management
The Accounting Officers of the Ministries/Local Government Authorities and the Schools
directly covered by the programme will ensure that there are well-defined and transparent
financial management and reporting procedures in place. They will produce quarterly and annual
financial reports that will be submitted to the Education Sector Development Program Steering
Committee via the Basket Fund Committee. Copies will also be sent to all Donors contributing to
the Fund.
The implementation of the accounting system as laid down in the accounting procedure manual
for the schools, the Local Government Authorities and the ministries participating in the
programme will be prerequisite for the disbursement of funds to such units as described in the
section on disbursement procedures. The system developed is considered adequate to meet
Government and Donor requirements and simple enough to be used and maintained by the
various units with minimum assistance. The system ensures that the records for the use of funds
are maintained in accordance with sound accounting practices and is capable of generating
accurate and timely information that can easily be verified.
4.6.1 Financial Accounting



14
School committees and the Local Government Authorities will be trained in financial
management aspects to ensure that they appreciate the need for maintaining accurate accounting
records.
Accounts for all units participating in the programme will be maintained in accordance with
generally accepted accounting standards.
The MOEC and the PO-RALG, through their Programme Implementation Teams (PIST) will
maintain accounts for the components implemented by them. The accounts will include annual
financial statements. These will be submitted to auditors for auditing.
The MOEC and PO-RALG will maintain other records including those relating to physical
activities that will facilitate the preparation of performance reports.
School Committees will ensure that proper records of their activities are maintained and that
required reports for submission to the councils are produced in time and are available for audit at
any time.
The Local Government Authorities will ensure proper books of account for activities taking
place in the schools are maintained and accounts are produced in time. The accounts prepared
will be supported with all necessary records including original documents relating to
expenditure incurred.
Record files for the schools will be kept by the School Committee for purposes of external
auditing. The Accounting System will operate on EPICOR/Platinum software in the Ministries
involved and those Councils that have installed the system. All accounting units will use the
accounting and responsibility codes issued under the platinum system. Other features of the
system that will be adhered to include observing spending limit according to the Exchequer
Issue.
4.6.2 The Accounting Procedure Manual
The accounting procedure manual details the operation of the accounting system using IFMS.
The manual covers an outline of the system; chart of accounts; accounting for funds received;
operation of joint donor fund holding account; payment system; preparation of annual budget;
management information reports; and, examples of the various forms and reports
4.6.3 The Basis of Accounting
The government uses the cash basis of accounting and this will be applicable for the programme.
The programme may move to other forms of account like accrual (or modified accrual) basis of
accounting in case the government moves towards that direction in the future.



15
4.6.4 Internal Auditing Function
All ministries and regional secretariats have Internal Audit functions which are independent
units reporting directly to their respective Accounting Officers. Staff in these units is few as
they are intended to cover the limited functions of the units.  The ministries have an
establishment of about four staff who are semi qualified in most cases, but with long experience.
In lieu of the added workload by the programme, the two ministries (MoEC & PORALG) and
the regional secretariats (RS) will be strengthened by providing additional training. The RS staff
will audit the council and school project committee activities.
4.6.5 External Auditing Function
The annual financial statements of the project will be audited in accordance with International
Standards of Auditing as modified to reflect national auditing requirements. Arrangements will
be made for a joint financial audit mechanism of the National Audit Office and a private firm.
The modus operandi for the joint audit has to be established and cleared with the Auditor
General. The audited financial statements with the auditor's report thereon and the auditor's
management letter covering internal control and accounting procedures weaknesses discovered
as a result of the audit, will be sent to Donors within six months of the end of the period audited.
The Auditor General would be the signatory to the report. The Basket Fund Committee and the
ESDP Coordination Committee will also attach their comments on the various issues raised in
the auditors' report.
To enhance the skills of the audit staff in the National Audit Office, the private firm will be
required, as part of the contract, to provide on-the-job training for some employees, especially in
the audit of computerized accounting. This will allow the Auditor General's staff to assume a
greater role in the audit of council accounts as the programme continues to embrace more
schools in its coverage.
4.6.6 Recording of Fixed Assets
Moveable fixed assets acquired under the programme shall be recorded in fixed assets registrar
kept at the station where the asset is located. The School Committee will also maintain a
register to record items such as books, desks, and other teaching aids acquired under the
programme. Given that the platinum software does not provide for fixed assets management,
the recording shall be on spreadsheet or manually maintained registers. The accounting officers
entrusted with the assets shall be accountable for the fixed assets register.
4.6.7  Reports
The reporting formats for quarterly and annual reporting have been developed and included in
the accounting manual. These formats will be refined/modified as the system is implemented.
The formats for Project Management Reports (PMRs) will be adopted.
4.6.8 Procurement:
All procurement under the program will be conducted according to the Government laid down
procedures. In summary procurement of goods and services is catagorized as follows:
* Goods (includes textbooks, equipment)
* Services (Consultancy)
* Capacity building (training)
* Works (classroom, toilets, teachers houses construction)



16
These procedures are elaborated in the procurement procedure manual prepared for the (PEDP)
program.
4.6.9  Staffing Matters
An assessment of the MOEC/PO-RALG/Regional Secretariat/councils' accounts staff capacity
to manage effectively the financial system points to the need to complement what is available
with qualified and experienced staff with higher accounting qualifications, preferably
CPA/ACCA, and with computer skills. The Department of the Accountant General recognizes
that financial management accounting capacity in all ministries is generally weak. Furthermore,
staff training especially at council level willl be undertaken in areas of computer operations and
procedures related to the utilization and reporting of the programme funds.
5.0    EXTENSIVE CAPACITY BUILDING MEASURES
Smooth implementation of the program will entail considerable capacity building, especially at
the council and school levels. Capacity building will take several prongs, and funds for capacity
building are provided in PEDP.
First, there will be creating awareness and educating the various stakeholders, from the ministry
headquarters to school committees and the communities at school levels of the ESDP goals and
targets, and the roles and responsibilities allocated to each level. For this purpose, an interactive
information, education and communication (IEC) program for the ESDP will be undertaken
throughout the implementation of PEDP.
Second, there will be short-term training of program officers at the various levels to provide them
with the basic knowledge and skills needed for efficient, effective, transparent and accountable
exercise of their roles and functions. Thus, responsible officers in each ministry will under the
program be trained in, among others areas, project management with particular attention to
ensuring sound understanding of sound financial regulations and procedures. There will also be
specialist training for officers such as supplies officers (for procurement), accountants and
administration officers who will be allocated specific roles and functions as set out in detail in the
manuals and handbooks for procurement, accounting and other implementation tasks. Such
training would also be provided to the RS staff in each of the 20 regions. At the district level,
there will be training of trainers (TOT) by teams from the RSs for the purpose of training the
school committees in project implementation and accountability arrangements. The team from
the RS will train a district team. The district team will in turn work with NGOs to train the
members of all the school committees, school management teams and pupils' councils. In service
training will also be carried out for teachers.
Third, short and long training for the professional development of the officers responsible for the
management of the ESDP, geared to improving policy development, quality assurance,
monitoring and evaluation, planning and strategic management of the sector issues, and the ESDP
implementation. The needs for this training are being identified in the context of the on-going
strategic planning in the MOEC and PO-RALG under the Public Service Reform Programme
(PSRP).
Fourth, provision of equipment, tools and facilities needed by the implementing agencies (PO-
RALG, MOEC, RS, Councils) and schools to carrying out their roles and functions under the
program. While there will be preliminary assessment of these needs in the on-going institutional
assessment, it is considered more cost-effective, and consistent with the PSRP implementation
strategy that such needs will be provided on a demand-driven and flexible basis. For this purpose,



17
the project will establish a comparatively small fund from which the implementing agencies can
receive grants on application, backed by proposals that demonstrate need and a clear link to the
program performance indicators. The support to PO-RALG, MOEC, RS, Council and School
committee will be based on a plan for capacity building will be prepared at each level and
forwarded BEDC/Basket Fund Committee for approval and to MOF for disbursement of the
funds. All levels will be required to account for the funds before the next release is made. For
details refer to the Financial Management and Accounting Manual disbursement system.
6.0    THE PLANNING PROCESS.
Through participatory methodologies all school plans will be initiated and PRIORITISED by the
School committees. The plan will be scrutinized and approved by the Village council. Facilitators
on use of participatory methodologies will be mobilized to empower communities with the skill
and guide the preparation of the plan process. During the preparation of the plan it is encouraged
that all stakeholders of PEDP will be invited to participate and express their commitments to the
program. This planning process aims to sensitize the community on PEDP and create a
framework for good local governance. The output of the process should aim to create ownership
of the plan.
Once the plan has been approved by the village council it will be forwarded to the Council
Director through the Ward development Committee for financing of the plan. Refer to Appendix
3
7.0    MONITORING AND EVALUATION ARRANGEMENTS
The performance of the ESDP will be tracked through a set of key indicators, which will be
primarily updated and reviewed each year in the Annual Work Plan and Budget. The Education
Management Information System (EMIS) will be the main source of information for monitoring
and evaluating key program outputs and outcomes on annual basis. Indicators to be monitored
through the EMIS include enrollment rates, attendance rates, dropout rates, student-teacher
ratios, school entry and completion rates, and PSLE scores. All these indicators will be
disaggregated by gender and administrative area (region, district, ward, etc). Quarterly program
implementation reports that will flow bottom-up from the school level will provide regular
information on activities and outputs. IFMS will be the source of regular accounting and
financial reports on the ESDP. MOEC and PO-RALG officials, Local Government Authority
officers and even beneficiaries will be able to track the movement of resources and delivery of
ESDP activities through the daily control system of IFMS. The annual reports from EMIS,
IFMS and program implementation progress will be augmented with audit reports and
expenditure tracking studies, which will contribute to operational transparency. The main body
responsible for monitoring implementation progress, including use of funds, will be a revitalized
and empowered school committee. Part of the task will be shared with PO-RALG when its
management information system will be in place.
An ESDP monitoring and evaluation system has been prepared. The main inputs for review of
progress indicators will be the regular reports generated out of the ESDP M&E system and will
include monthly/quarterly/biannual reports by each district council, which will be circulated to
MOEC and PO-RALG. The reports will include regular financial and procurement reporting,
incorporating the tracking cf the flow and use of funds at council and school levels.
Consolidated program reports will also be prepared by the two ministries for review and
discussion by the BEDC, in the first instance, and subsequently by the ESDP Steering
Committee. At the end of each academic year, annual reports will be prepared both at councils'
and at national levels and submitted to the respective review committees. Once approved by the



18
ESDP Steering Committee, the national report will be available for distribution to all
stakeholders. The report will be prepared when the end of year accounts are available and have
been audited, and should be submitted to the Steering Committee no later than 9 months after
the end of the financial year.
A joint GOT-donors comprehensive mid-termn evaluation of the ESDP Initiation Phase will be
undertaken after 18 months of operation. The main purpose of the evaluation will be:
(i)  to determine whether satisfactory progress is being made towards meeting the original
project objectives;
(ii) to evaluate the initial impact of the programs on the beneficiaries;
(iii) to assess the extent to which district and community capacity is strengthened;
(iv) to determine whether the democratically-managed delivery of education services has
been enhanced;
(v)  to draw lessons from the experience, enabling the ESDP to adapt its approach for the
future.
8.0   INCENTIVES FOR TEACHERS AND OFFICERS WORKING FOR
THE PROGRAM.
Special incentives will be provided for teachers in the PEDP in two circumstances. Fir-t, teachers
in remote rural areas will be provided with incentives that may include housing and/or other
benefits to attract or retain them to teach in these areas. Second, teachers who are required to do
double-shift teaching to cater for the expanded enrollment under PEDP will also receive a special
double-shift extra duty allowance.
The question of support, equipment and incentives for government officers who undertake special
duties to implement PEDP was raised in the technical working group and will be considered at a
later stage of program development.
9.0 IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
The implementation of this plan commences with immediate effect (by July 2001). The plan has
two phases:
(a)  An interim short-term phase spanning July to December 2001. The primary objectives in
this phase are: (i) to create awareness at all levels about the targets and operational
implications of the massive increase in primary schools enrolment by January 2002; (ii) to
provide decision-makers at every level with the basic information, knowledge and skills
necessary to enable them to effectively discharge their respective roles, responsibilities and
functions in the programme implementation; (iii) to initiate the installation of basic systems
and capacity needed to facilitate proper management and accountability for the ESDP funds
at all levels. The IEC program will involve a multi-media approach. Political leaders at all
levels will be engaged in this exercise. The training programme will be conducted in a
participatory manner and emphasize responsiveness and two-way communication. The
installation of basic systems will involve use of guides, handbooks and manuals prepared at
the centre.
(b)  A medium term phase to last to the end of the Primary Education Development Plan
(PEDP). During this phase, support to capacity building will be provided by the programme
through a flexible demand-driven arrangement, whereby: (i) a capacity building fund will
be established as a component of the programme, (ii) MDAs, DEDs and NGOs will be



19
invited to apply from the fund for capacity building grants. The fund will be managed by
the MOEC/PO-RALG but grants from the fund will be on approval by the BEDC.
(c)  In the medium term perspective, the three ministries with direct responsibility for the
development and implementation of the ESDP, i.e. the PMO, the MOEC and the PO-
RALG will be strengthened to ensure that they have capacity for gender-responsive
participatory planning, policy formulation and coordination. These capacity building
measures will be within the strategic plans that the ministries are developing under the
Public Service Reform Programme (PSRP). Nonetheless, it is anticipated that these
measures will cover:
* Restructuring the MOEC from a programme'-delivery to policy-making, quality
assurance and regulation orientation;
* Strengthening the PO-RALG and RS for effective coordination of primary education
development, and the implementation of the ESDP;
* Staff development, especially in the core skills of participatory planning, policy
formulation and coordination;
(d)  Development of management systems. Priority systems development will cover:
* Participatory planning and budgeting;
* Financial management and accountability for programme fund;
* Education management and information system (EMIS); and
* Monitoring and evaluation (M&E).
* Maximising public transparency and information sharing



20
Appendix 1
Implementing Agencies Roles, Functions, Outputs, and Implications
Institution/     Composition                   Roles and Functions                   Outputs              Institutional/
Changes Needed &
Capacity
Interventions
1. ESDP          1. PS, PMO            1. To oversee the implementation,           1. Integrated     I. Strengthen the social
STEERING        (Chair)                  development anm execution of decisions      sector             sector coordination unit
COMMITTEE    2. PS, MOEC                 related to national education policies.     policies and      in PMO
3. PS, MSTHE          2. To monitor the IESDP.                      programs.       2. Memorandum of
4. PS, PO-RALG        3. To provide higher-level inter-ministerial  2. Coordinated     understanding between
5. PS MLYD               co-ordination.                              implementati      GOT, donors and
6 PS, MYDWA           4. To ensure ESDP consistency with broad      on of sector       NGOs
6. PS, MCDWAC            Government policies,                        programs
7. PS, MOF            5. To institute an annual joint stakeholder  3. Monitoring
8. PS, PO-PP            review process that operates in             and
9. PS, PO-CSD            conjunction with the Government's          evaluation
commitments to the PER and PRSP            reports
processes. The annual sector review will  4. Financial
reflect on and assess technical issues     resources for
related to the efficiency, effectiveness,  programs
and relevance of programmes in the         implementati
education sector, including primary and    on
non-formal education.
2. BASIC         1. PS, MOEC           1. To formulate primary and basic education    1. Approved     1. Agree criteria for
EDUCATION          (Co-Chair)            plans in line wilh government policy.      plans and           approving district work
DEVELOPE        2. PS, PO-RALG         2. To collaborate with funding agencies and  budgets             plans and budgets as the
MENT               (Co-Chair)             other stakeholders in the formulation and  2. Approved        basis for authorizing the
COMMITTEE    3. DPS, MOF                  financing of planned activities.          program             disbursement of funds.
(BEDC)          4. ESDP                3. To identify needs for technical and       implementation    2. MOEC ESDP
Coordinator,          financial resource support for PEDP       progress            coordinator to have
MOEC                  implementation.                           reports             capacity for supporting
(Secretary)        4. To co-ordinate and oversee the           3. A program         the committee
5. ESDP                 management of' an effective multi-media    audit reports     3. Prepare and monitor
Coordinator,          PEDP Information, Education and          4. Funds             action plan to
PO-RALG               Communication (IEC) programme.            disbursed           operationalize PEDP
6. NGO                5. To pool Government and donor resources
representatives      through the establishment of a ring-fenced
(3.4)                 pooled Education Programme Fund (EPF)
7. All ESDP              as part of the Treasury's Consolidated
Donors                Account in the Bank of Tanzania.
representatives    6. To endorse annual financial reports
(I for each)          regarding budgets and the use of plan
8. Director,            funds, and to take appropriate follow-up
Management            action.
Services, CSD      7. To annually review the key performance
indicators in order to assess PEDP
progress and te set targets for the new
year.
8. To institute and regularly review PEDP
mechanisms for planning, management,
monitoring andl evaluation, and funding.
9. To ensure the participation of stakeholders
in the annual ESDP review process, and to
oversee the priimary and non-formal
education components of the overall
education sector review.
10. To effectively collect and communicate
educational information between the
ministries, donors, NGOs and other
represented stakeholder groups.



21
3. PO-RALG      1. PS, PO-RALG       1. To guide and oversee the delivery of  1. Approved       1. PS, PO-RALG to
(Leader)            primary education by local authorities.  Council's        appoint ESDP
2. ESDP              2. To provide strategic leadership and    plans, work       Coordinator, possibly a
Coordinator         technical support to district education  plans, budgets    new position in the
(Secretary)         offices.                                and "Funds         "Ministry".
3. PO-RALG           3. To ensure that councils prepare        Requisitions".    2. Strengthen RAS/
Heads of            consolidated three-year education      2. Progress         Regional Education
Departments         development plans that conform to       reports           team to coordinate and
4. Regional            government development goals and to   3. M&E and          support ESDP at
Education           MOEC education policy and quality       audit reports      regional level
Team                assurance standards.                   4. Service
4. To consolidate district plans and budgets  delivery
into national Plans of Action, which will  standards
provide the basis for the approval and
transfer of PEDP funds from the Education
Programme Fund.
5. To collaborate with the MOEC in order to
monitor, review and evaluate PEDP
outputs and outcomes.
6. To participate as a joint stakeholder in the
annual ESDP process of reviewing
primary and non-formal education.
7. To support and build the capacity of the
council education offices.
8. To communicate education information to
all system levels and interested
stakeholders.
4. ESDP         N/A - A specific    1, Coordinate implementation and monitoring    I. An effective  1. Post holder to be
Coordinator,    officer to be so      of PEDP with the PO-RALG PS              coordination      appointed.
PO-RALG        designated.         2, Consolidate councils budgets and work  2. Quality and
plans for review by PS and submission to  consolidated
the BEDC.                                work plans,
3. Liaise with Councils (through the Regional  budgets and
Secretariats)                            "Funds
Requisitions".
5. MOEC         1. PS, MOEC         I. To set policies that ensure quality   1. Approved       I. MOEC to designate a
(Leader)             education for all in Tanzania.          councils plans,    senior official as ESDP
2. ESDP            2. To prepare, in a collaborative manner,   work plans,       Program Coordinator
Coordinator           detailed plans for PEDP implementation.  budgets and
(Secretary)       3. To monitor, review and evaluate progress,    "Funds
3. MOEC Heads         outcomes and the impact of the PEDP for  Requisitions".
of Departments      quality assurance, and to regularly make  2. Progress
4. Heads of           such reports to the BEDC.                reports
Education        4. To produce regular financial reports to be    3. M&E reports
Agencies           submitted to the BEDC.                  4. Service
5. To collaborate with the PO-RALG         delivery
Education Team on issues of planning,   standards
monitoring and evaluation.
6. To participate as ajoint stakeholder in the
annual ESDP process of reviewing the
education sector, including the primary and
non-fornal education programmes.
7. To support and build the technical
capacity of council education offices.
8. To collate and communicate education
information, including HPV/AIDS-related
data, to all system levels, supporting
educational institutions, and interested
stakeholders.
6.PROGRAM       N/A                 1. Coordinate implementation and monitoring    I.An effective  1. organize and strengthen
(ESDP)                                of PEDP with the MOEC PS                  coordination      ESDP coordination
Coordinator,                       2. Organize for consolidation of work plans,  2. Work plans,   role.
MOEC                                  budgets for review by PS and submission to    budgets &
the BEDC                                 Funds
Requisition
approved by
PS and BEDC



22
7. Regional                              1. To carry out periodic internal audits in the
Secretariat /                              LGCs and schools to ensure that
Education                                  performance targets and financial
Team                                       regulations are being met.
2. To effectively communicate educational
information to councils and other local
stakeholders.
3. To effectively communicate informnation
and concerns from councils and
communities to the zonal and national
level.
8.District                               1. To ensure that every school is inspected at
Inspectorate                                a minimum evcry two years.
2. To advise school committees on how they
can govern effectively and democratically.
3. To help build the capacity of district, ward
and school authorities to efficiently and
effectively deliver a good quality of
primary education.
9. The Council    I Directly elected   1. Allocating an appropriate proportion of     1. Political        1. The Council needs
Councilors            district resources to basic education;        direction with      sensitization on the
2.The Council        2. Political oversight of ESDP implementation   regards to           ESDP;
Director              in the district;                              ESDP              2. Strengthening of the
3. Providing a link between grass-root          implementation      Council to make its
institutions and central/national institutions;  in the district;  operations more
4. Mobilizing local resources in support of   2. District           efficient and effective.
ESD  implezm enlocaltresources in;  supportof consensus on
ESDP implementation;             ~~~~the priorities
5. Canvassing political support for ESDP and   for basic
raising public awareness of ESDP             education in
objectives.                                  the district;
6. Involving NGOs and other stakeholders in   3. Public support
implementation and monitoring                of the ESDP
7. To produce and submit regular financial     program.
reports to PO-RALG and MOEC
10. The          I.The District        I. Training teams of grassroots facilitators to  I. A coherent    1. Create capacity in
District           Executive              facilitate the formulation of ESDP school-   district-wide       participatory planning/
Management         Director              level plans;                                  implementation      management at council
Team             2. All Heads of       2. Involving civic organizations,               plan;               level
Department            entrepreneurs, NGOs, and other basic        2. Regular and      2. Create system for
education stake-holders in implementing      timely district      involvement of non-
ESDP;                                        reports on          Government organs in
3. Coordinating with Heads of Department        ESDP                program
with functions related to ESDP               implementation       implementation
implementation;                              .                 3. Create competence at
4. Overall administrative oversight of ESDP                         district level for
implementation in the district.                                  providing facilitation
5. Through the Regional Secretariat, providing                      services for grass-root
the Central/National organs with periodic
reports on the implementation of ESDP at
the council.level



23
I1. The         1. The Council        I . In line with principles of local govemment   1. Smooth    I. Enhance capacity for
Council           Education              reform, the local authorities will involve  schedule         monitoring and quality
Education         Officer;               the meaningful participation of all      implementation      assurance;
Office          2. Heads of              community stakeholders in planning,       of ESDP in the    2. Involve non-
Sections in the       monitoring and implementation processes.   council;           Govemmental bodies in
DEO's office;       2. To prepare, in a participatory and      2. Regular and       providing technical and
3. Others (e.g.         inclusive way, three-year and annual      timely progress    logistical support to
NGOs) to be co-        development plans for the council's      reports.            School Committees;
opted                 primary schools.                                            3. Sensitization of non-
3. To use the development plans as a basis                     education officers.
for preparing and monitoring requisitions
for Investment Grant transfers to schools.
4. To guide and enforce the proper use and
accounting of PEDP funds by the school
committees, directly, and through ward
development committees and village
councils.
5. To provide technical support to school and
village committees in the tasks of
procurement, fund utilisation, and proper
and timely reporting.
6. To regularly monitor, review and evaluate
the progress of PEDP activities, and to
report to Council Directors and MOEC.
7. To effectively communicate educational
information to wards, schools and other
local stakeholder groups, as well as to
regional and national levels.
12. The Ward    I. Ward Executive       I. Providing support to the SMTs and     I. Smooth          I. Strengthen teamwork
Development       Officer                 School Committees in the Ward;           implementation     among Ward officials;
Committee       2. Ward Education       2. Canvassing popular support for ESDP in  of ESDP in the    2. Sensitization of all
Coordinator            the Ward;                                Ward.               officials on ESDP.
3. Other Ward          3. General oversight of ESDP
officials and           implementation in the Ward.
extension            4. Involving civic organizations,
officers                entrepreneurs, NGOs, and other basic
4. Village               education stake-holders
chairpersons
5. Others (e.g.
NGOs) to be co-
opted
13. The Ward                          I . To ensure that all girls and boys of school
Education                                age in the ward are enrolled and attending
Coordinator                              school by 2004.
2. To share information with, and facilitate
the participation of all parents and the
wider community in realising the PEDP
objectives.
3. To help identify priorities for school
development plans and to assist in the
planning process.
4. To ensure that the implementation of
PEDP-funded activities operates in a
transparent and accountable manner, by
guiding and enforcing the proper use and
accounting of funds by school committees.
5. To co-ordinate the formulation of Whole
School Development Plans within the
ward.
6. To effectively communicate educational
information to schools and other local
stakeholders



24
14. The         1. The Village        1. Mobilizing local resources to support   I. Consensus at    1. Participatory
Village           Chairperson;           ESDP implementation;                      the village        facilitation of the
Council/Mtaa    2. Vitongoji/ Mtaa    2. Formulating villages priorities and        level on the      village planning process
Committee         Chairpersons           objectives for ESDP implementation;        priorities and    to ensure it is a
3. Village            3. Promoting community ownership of the      objectives for    genuinely community
Executive             ESDP;                                       ESDP;             exercise;
Officers            4. Providing support to the School         2. Smooth          2. A need to foster
Commiinee;                                 implementati     inclusion of all
on of the         community members -
5. General oversight of the School           ESDP in the       including the
Committee to ensure it operates in a       village.          marginalized;
transparent and accountable manner;                        3. A need to enhance
6. Mobilizing cornmunity-based                                 governance at the
organizations, NGOs, etc to participate in                   Village level;
implementing ESDP.                                        4. Formulating guidelines
on the role and
functions of grass-root
level institutions.
IS. The         1. The School         1. To sensitise anid involve all pupils, parents   1. Proper  1. Reviewing composition
School            Committee              and school staff in respect of the roles they  implementation  of school committee to
Committee         Chairperson;           can play in maximising the benefits of    schedules and      reflect roles
2. The Head             primary school.                            budgets;           /responsibilities and
Teacher;            2. To oversee the day-to-day affairs of the  2. Close           better grassroots
3. Elected               school.                                   supervision of     representation
Members of the      3. To work together with the Head Teacher   ESDP              2. _reating an
Committee,            and other teachers to prepare a Whole     implementation      environment for
including parents      School Development Plan.                 at the School       genuinely democratic
and 2 pupils        4. To approve Whole School Development      level;              election to the
4. Teachers'             Plans and budgets and submit them to the    3. Smooth        Committee;
representative        council.                                   relations        3. Ensuring that all
5. To facilitate planning, budgeting and    between the        stakeholders are
implementaticn of the PEDP-funded         school and the     represented, including
activities.                               village            pupils;
6. To open bank accounts and to efficiently  community.      4. Bringing in other
and effectively manage funds received for                    parties capable of
implementation, while guaranteeing                           aiding ESDP
maximum accountability and transparency                      implementation;
in the processes used, including making                    5. Creating systems and
incomes and expenditures publicly                            procedures for
available.                                                   transparent functioning;
7. To ensure safe custody of property                        6. Providing the
acquired using the PEDP funds.                               Committee with basic
8. To prepare and submit accurate and timely                   skills in school
progress and financial reports to the Ward                   management.
and council.
9. To effectively communicate educational
information to all parents, pupils,
community stakeholders, and to ward and
local authorities.
16. The school    1. The Head         I. Overall management of the School in line  I. Smooth        1. Basic skills in
management        Teacher;               with school committee decisions;          implementation     management;
team            2. All School         2. Overall management of ESDP                of ESDP at the    2. Sensitization on ESDP
Teachers.             implementation.                            school level.
17. The Pupil    I. Democratically    1. Represent views and interests of all pupils,   1. Effective  I. Guidelines for
Council &         elected pupil          including marginalized and those with     representation      establishment and
School Baraza     representatives        special needs, in school governance and    of pupil views     effective functioning of
from all classes      decision-making.                           and interests in   pupils councils
(with equal        2. Contribute to developing and monitoring   school              established and
gender                school plans amd use of funds.             govemance          disseminated
representation)    3. Represent pupil interests in the school    and decision-
committee                                 making
4. Communicate information between
school/village management and pupils



25
Appendix 2
A summary illustration of the procedures for disbursement and accounting
S/N    ACTIVITY                        SPC      COUNCIL   RS            PORALG        BFC     MoF
I .    Consolidated Annual school plans
and budget taken to BEDC for                                     V
approval
2     BEDC/BFC review the plans and
action plans and approves
spending for 1St and 2nd quarter                              _
3     PO-RALG advises MOF to issue
Exchequer Issues to all councils
in respect of schools for first
quarter budget release.
4     MOF issues Exchequer Issues and                                                          V
instruct BOT to transfer funs to
Council Bank Account No.5.
Itemizing PEDP funds.
5     Council Director Advises Bank to
credit School Bank accounts.    i
6     Council Director inform School
Committees on the release.
7     School utilizes funds as
earmarked to activities
8     School Committees prepare I st
quarter report at the end of the
Quarter
9     Before IS" quarter ends PO-
RALG advises MoF to issue
exchequer issues for the second
quarter.                                 ______
10    MoF exchequer issues release for
2nd quarter release and instructs
BoT to transfer funds to acct.
No.5.
11     Repeat Step 4, 5, 6 and 7.
12    School Committee prepares I't
and 2nd Quarter report and submit                     V
to the Council
13    The Council reviews the reports                                   V
consolidate them and approve.
14    Regional Secretariat reviews the   V      V            V          V            V        V
reports against allocation and
consolidate them if satisfied if
not goes to councils for
verification
15.   PORALG reviews the reports and                         V          V
approves
16    Repeat step I for 3rd and 4th
______    quarter  releases.       . .    .   .   .



26
Appendix 3
Developing a School Plan
Schools participating in the ESDP will prepare a development plan that covers three years. The
plan will identify programs and projects or activities that the school will undertake during the
period. The Plan will be prepared in a participatory manner in the framework of participatory
planning and budgeting as advocated in the LGRP. A Plan of Action and a tentative budget will
be prepared to accompany the development plan.
A school will prepare a participatory development plan after it has been covered by the school
mapping exercise being undertaken under the guidance of the MoEC. In addition to the school
mapping, the Councils are preparing micro-plans for the district. These micro plans cover in
general education problems in the district, their causes and strategies for overcoming them. As
such, the micro-plans provide some good guidance to the schools in identifying problems and
laying down strategies to deal with them. In addition to the latter, the schools will be provided
with guidelines to lead them through the exercise. The guidelines will be issued by the P0-
RALG in collaboration with the MoEC.
The process of generating the development plan starts at the school. The school management,
with good representation from the staff members and pupils, and working closely with the School
Committee, will prepare a draft plan. All teachers and pupils will discuss the draft plan at
appropriate forum. The draft plan will eventually be approved at a meeting of the school
Assembly that brings together the stakeholders of the school, particularly the parents.
In preparing the plan, the school may seek guidance from the Council or the Ward Education
Coordinator. Such guidance is important in ensuring that the school plan generally conforms to
council programs and plans.
The draft plan, after endorsement at school level, will be forwarded to the Village Council for
review and endorsement. Active participation of the Village Council in the affairs of the school
is critical because this is the community that is supposed to support the school in terms of
providing resources, overseeing management and articulating peoples interests. The Village
Council's mandate in helping the school is emphasized in the decentralization process.
The Village Council, on behalf of the community, will agree on the type of community
contribution that it will give to the plan. Apart from according it some form of ownership, the
Village Council will have to confirm in writing to the Council that it will contribution that is a
condition for the school to access the ESDP Fund.
From the Village Council, the draft Plan will be forwarded to the Council. Through the Ward
level At Council level, the Plans will be reviewed and approved. At this stage the Council will:
* Check whether the goals, strategies and activities to accomplish them are logical and
realistic;
* Check whether the Plan tallies with the overall Council education plan;
* Assess whether it has the capacity to supervise what has been proposed on the investment
side;
* Check whether the Action Plan prepared reasonably translates the Plan strategies into a
workable program;
* Assess whether the tentative budget prepared realistically translates the plan into a
realizable program; and



27
* Assess whether the Plan reflects reasonably the flow of resources from the ESDP Fund.
If satisfied with the above conditions, the Council will approve it and consolidate with other
plans to make a district fundable plan. If not satisfied, the Plan will be taken back to the
School Committee for further reworking. The participatory process will be used to recast the
Plan.
he Council has responsibility to prepare a summary of the plans and forward the same to the
Regional Secretariat. At this stage the summaries will be consolidated at Regional level and
then forwarded to the PO-RALG. The ministerial Support Team under the program
Coordinator will prepare a summary that will be tabled before the BEDC Basket Fund
Committee. Content of the Development Plan includes:
(i)    Identification of existing opportunities for Primary Education service delivery
(ii)   Identifying obstacles which hinder an effective education service delivery
(iii)   Identify major causes of the obstacles. Emphasis must also be placed on social cum
behavioral problems that affect attendance of classes by pupils Quite possible some
cultural problems could be a cause to the dropouts. These problems should be addressed
in the plan.
(iv)   Define program specific objectives with verifiable indicators (e.g. enrollment ratios, pass
rates, completion rates, dropout rates etc.) that will be achieved over the next there years.
(v)    For each objective identify outputs to be achieved e.g. Contributions of parents reach a
certain level; teachers are attracted to school environment; pupils are attracted to school
environment etc.)
(vi)   Identify activities to accomplish the outputs, the inputs required, and verifiable indicators
(vii)  Identify resources required and prepare budget
*  Type of resource
* The source of the resource (community, NGOs, Council, ministry, donor etc.)
*  The costs in TSH.
(viii)  Indication of the monitoring tools.
The Focus of the school Plan of Action (PoA)
A plan of Action will also be prepared which focuses on the activities to be undertaken during the
year. The timeframe can focus on the quarters of the year. The matrix below summarizes the
requirements for the PoA.
Aim/objectives   Expected  Activities    Requirements   Time        Actors        Assumptions
Outputs                (resources)      Frame      (persons      made
____________    _______________         responsible)
Need for a Plan Preparation Time-Table



28
All schools will be provided with a timetable that they will have to adhere to during the planning
period. The Plan preparation period will be about six months. This period includes:
(i)          Issuing of guidelines and directives by the MoEC and PO-RALG.
(ii)         Distribution of guidelines by the Councils to the schools
(iii)        Actual preparation of the Plans by the schools.
(iv)         The time required for the various approving institutions to act upon the
draft plans. At least a period of two weeks must be provided for each
level.
(v)          Time allowance for recasting the Plans in case some amendments are
directed by the approving authorities.
The time required for resources to be transferred from the Bank of Tanzania to the council Bank
Account and eventually to the school Bank Account..



29
Appendix 4
Proposed Financial Mechanism for PEDP
President's Office: Regional
Administration and Local       < .        . .....Ministry of Finance
Government
Ministry of Education and Culture
A+
Regional
Secretariat              - 
Secetaiat.  Council Bank Account No.5
v   Local Government
Authorities
Ward Development Committee         .
A
Village Govt./Mtaa
A
School Committee
I_________________________      _ *  lPrimary   School
Bank Book
School Management Team
Keys:
Disbursement          t
Information flow4       -
Reporting



30
Appendix 5
Overall Institutional Framework for ESDP/PEDP Implementation
ESDP STEERING
COMMITTEE
_- i
BASIC EDUCATION
DEVELOPlvlENT COMMITTEE
(BEDC)
PO-RALG        .        -- - -...MOEC
REGIONAL            .. .. |               ZONAL
SECRETARIAT                      . --   INSPECTORATE
LOCAL                             DISTRICT
GOVERNMENT         .............
AUTHORITY                           INSPECTORATE
WARD DEVELOPMENT
COMMITTEE
Key:
VILLAGE COUNCIL/
MTAA COMMITTEE                              Consultative/
Advisory
T-                              -  -----Technical
SCHOOL COMMITTEE                        -*  Administrative
SCHOOL
BARAZA/PUPIL           SCHOOL MANAGEMENT
COUNCIL



31
Appendix 6
Outline of Arrnagements for Pupil Participation in School Governance
Two pupils from each stream (I boy, 1 girl) will be democratically elected by their peers to be
members of the Pupil Council. (This may begin from Std 3 if Std I and 2 pupils are considered
too young.) In addition, 2-4 extra 'special seats' may be allocated for children with disabilities or
other special needs.
The role of pupil representatives will be to a) represent the interests of their classmates in the
Pupil Council and b) to share information from the Pupil Council with their classmates. This
requires the pupil representatives to be responsive to their constituency - informally on a
continual basis and through formal class meetings held for this purpose once a month.
The meeting of all the pupil representatives will constitute the Pupil Council. The council will
have its own democratically elected leadership, which will include a chairperson, vice-
chairperson, secretary and two representatives to the school committee. Other leadership
positions may also be created as needed/desired by the Pupil Council.
The Pupil Council will normally meet once per month and more often if necessary.
The pupil representatives on the school committee will receive their mandate from and report to
the Pupil Council.
All pupil representatives/leaders will serve for a term of one year and be eligible for re-election.
A senior teacher/counselor will attend Pupil Council meetings as an observer. The role of this
person will be to a) facilitate capacity development of Pupil Councils and b) serve as a conduit of
information between pupils and teachers/school administration (Pupil Council leaders will also
communicate themselves with the school administration).  This teacher/counselor will be
carefully chosen, preferably by the pupils themselves, to ensure he or she is able to play a
facilitative role and avoid dominating or manipulating Pupil Council meetings.
Additionally, a summary of a) Pupil Council, b) teacher/staff and c) school committee meetings
will be presented and key issues discussed at a monthly school baraza (meeting). This baraza
should not be dominated by the Head-teacher/teachers, or simply an avenue for them to make
announcements, but rather an opportunity to share information from and dialogue on key issues
among the entire school community. Parents who are members of the school committee will be
invited to participate in the baraza. The baraza should be jointly organized and run by the Head-
teacher and Pupil Council Chairperson.
The entire process should be characterized by principles of respect, inclusiveness, transparency,
honesty and other values consistent with child friendly and rights-respecting schools.
Clearly, the democratic system described above represents a major departure from current
practice at school level. Clear guidelines and procedures will need to be developed, and a
strategy devised to promote the idea/concept at all levels. Change will take time, and require
significant capacity development, including documenting lessons learned, sharing good practice,
etc. A careful plan of how to do this will need to be developed, and will be part of the program to
school committee capacity building program.



I
Annex G: Key Performance Indicators
*  Admission capacity established by January, 2004 to start enrolling all 7 years olds in
Grade 1;
*  Drop-out rate between grade 4 and grade 5 reduced from 13 percent to 10 percent by
school year 2003;
*  Adequate budgetary allocations made and disbursed for capitation grants equivalent to
US$ 10 per student for all primary school students by fiscal year 2002/03;
*  The agreed strategic plans for reforming MoEC to provide policy and planning guidance,
technical support, and to establish and monitor educational standards, and for PO-RALG
to deliver primary education through regional and council offices, and communities
implemented consistent with Public Service and Local Government Reforms by 2004;
*  PO-RALG issues instructions to regional secretariat offices, councils and wards on their
roles in primary education delivery by September, 2002;
*  Agreed institutional mechanisms and procedures to facilitate school/community
participation in the management of primary schools introduced by June 2002.
*  Eighty percent of primary schools manage capitation and development grants using
school/community bank accounts.



I
Annex H: Economic and Financial Analyses
Summary:
The existing constraints in Tanzania primary education call for a comprehensive development
approach with sector-wide planning and financing. Within this context, the Education Sector
Development Program (ESDP) was analyzed in terms of rationale for public financing; cost-
effectiveness; and financial sustainability. The results indicate that the investments under ESDP
are cost-effective and financially sustainable.
(i) Rationale for public intervention
Macroeconomic context:  Tanzania had experienced significant economic growth since
independence, followed by improvement in access to education, health and other social services
under centrally directed, medium-term and long-term development plans. However, these gains
could not be sustained because of the inefficiencies of the state-dominated economy,
macroeconomic imbalances and various domestic and external shocks, which led to a sharp
economic decline. Falling real public expenditures on social programs led to significant declines
in service delivery.
The private sector has started to develop since mid-80s when a comprehensive structural
adjustment program was first introduced to dismantle state-control system. Tanzania's economy
underwent a major transition from state controlled to free market during this period. The
economy today is largely market oriented and has in place many elements required for private
sector-led growth. However, Tanzania does not have an adequately qualified and trained work
force necessary for achieving higher economic growth, for contributing to effective
diversification of the production and export-bases and for ensuring the sustainability of these
developments for poverty reduction.
Education sector status: The combination of intermnittent economic growth, fiscal constraints
and inadequate sectoral policies constrained the performance of the education sector in the late
1980s and 1990s. By the end of 1990s, the gross enrollment rate is around 77 percent. In
addition, only about 60 percent of the relevant school age children complete primary school.
Also, the overall secondary school gross enrollment rate is still extremely low at only 8 percent.
A robust education sector is essential to producing a better qualified and skilled Tanzanian work
force for accelerated economic growth and poverty reduction. As human capital is key to raising
productivity and enhancing the capacity of the poor to earn a decent income, as well as improving
their welfare and social mobility, education constitutes an essential part of achieving equitable
and sustainable economic growth.
The current low human capital stock in Tanzania has been a major constraint to development,
particularly in the context of economic reform with a more diversified economy in vision. The
current education sector can no longer generate enough qualified graduates to meet the needs.
The prevalent scarcities of school inputs and inadequate school supply have resulted in low
education quality and access. Current poor sector performance is directly linked to insufficient
public funding of the sector, and thus heavy cost burden on households in the form of UPE fees
and other large amount of irregular school levies. Therefore, increasing public financing of
education sector is essential to the improvement of sector performance with regard to education
quality and coverage.
(ii) Sector development projections
The introduction of capitation grant under ESDP would significantly reduce household cost of
schooling, thus increase demand for primary education. In particular, given the existing backlog



2
of out-of-school school-age children, an enrollment surge is well expected during the first three
years of ESDP.
Based on school age population projection and current school enrollment age structure, it is
estimated that by the beginning of 2002, there are around 1.8 million 8-10 year-olds, plus more
than 200 thousand 11-13 year-olds out of school. The first 3 years of ESDP would aim at
absorbing all 8-10 year-olds through new admission into the system. Table I presents the
distribution of in and out-of-school children age 8-13 in 2002. By year 2005, new admission
would only consist of 7 year-olds. Table 2 shows the target admission profile between 2002 and
2004. We further assume that 96 percent of 7 year old children eventually have access to schools.
The overall grade I enrollment is derived by adding new admission and previous year's grade I
repeaters.
Table 1: Number of in and out-of-school children at 8-13 by 1999
and 2002
1999                         2002
(Base year)__      l
Age   Population In School  Out-of-  Population In school  Out-of-
school                        school
7      909,000   147,106   761,894   973,275
8      881,730   316,541   565,189   943,980   160,895   783,085
9      855,278   445,211   410,067   915,660   346,212   569,448
10     829,620   538,200   291,420   888,191   486,943   401,248
11-13   1 ,951,528  1,651,788  299,740  2,042,330  1,807,999  234,331
Total   5,427,156 3,098,846 2,328,310 5,763,436 2,802,049 1,988,112
Table 2: Target new admission age profile
2002-2004
Age       1999        2002        2003        2004
(Base year)
71       140,083     00,000      546,219    1,018,455
8        189,376     379,304     500,000     449,339
9        166,554     419,448     403,781     173,175
10       121,982    401,248      150,000       0
10+      97,442    _   0           0           0
Total    715,437    1,500,000    1,600,000   1,640,969
1. 1999 figure includes 4,078 enrollees below age 7.
Table 3 to table 5 present the projections of enrollments, and teacher and classroom needs
between 2002-2012. The grade-specific enrollment projection is based on the new admission
figures and the current grade-specific repetition and drop-out rates as reported in Tanzania
Education Sector Country Status Report. We further assume that the drop-out rate between grade
4 and grade 5 decreases from current 13 percent to ESDP's target of 10 percent between year
2002 and 2004; and further to 3 percent from year 2005 and onwards.



3
Table 3: Enrollment Projection
1999    2002    2003    2004    2005    2006    2007    2008    2009            2010    2011    2012
(base yr)
All 7 year olds   909,000  973,175  995,558 1,018,455 1,041,880 1,065,843 1,090,358 1,115,436 1,141,091 1,167,336 1,194,185 1,221,651
4%of7yrold    36,360   38,927   39,822   40,738   41,675   42,634   43,614   44,617   45,644   46,693   47,767   48,866
Target New      715,437 1,500,000 1,600,000 1,640,969 1,041,880 1,065,843 1,090,358 1,115,436 1,141,091 1,167,336 1,194,185 1,221,651
admission
Grade 1         737,564                            1,049,656 1,054,699 1,078,385 1,103,170 1,128,542 1,154,499 1,181,053 1,208,217
Grade2         659,852  801,683               l     l        032,298 1,018,078 1,039,669 1,063,503 1,087,961 1,112,984 1,138,582
Grade3         646,132  735,271  781,859    l,033,985  997,414 1,015,935 1,039,029 1,062,912 1,087,358
Grade 4        684,634  679,098  721,719  767,425                            1,047,993 986,384  999,998 1,022,219 1,045,671
Grade 5         534,047  567,761  604,953  643,008    7,4                             1,040,355 959,814  967,747  988,502
Grade 6        454,425  554,063  566,604  602,699  640,632  732,535                            1,057,725 963,065  966,578
Grade 7        473,162  581,142  555,471  566,025  600,792  638,560  727,648                            1,078,876 969,087
Enrollment    4,189,816 5,405,070 6,247,624 7,125,416 7,421,234 7,710,240 8,003,641 8,246,550 8,094,103 7,763,496 7,388,854 7,403,994
7-13 population 5,427,156 5,810,309 5,943,946 6,080,657 6,220,512 6,363,583 6,509,946 6,659,675 6,812,847 6,969,543 7,129,842 7,293,828
GER              0.77     0.93     1.05     1.17     1.19     1.21     1.23     1.24     1.19     1.11     1.04     1.02
The large number of admission inflow between 2002 is 2004 is highlighted in table 3. The
impact of these three large enrollment cohorts will last until 2010 when all of them exit the
system. The enrollment projection shows that the gross enrollment rate will be over 100 percent
in 2004, and peaks at 124 percent in 2008.
Rapid increase in enrollment would put much pressure on teacher needs. Total number of
teachers required is further determined by the size of basic teaching unit (see footnote in table 4),
or streams, and teacher double-shifting ratio. The projection for teacher needs assumes 45 pupils
per stream, which is the standard class size as specified by MoEC's primary education minimum
standards. Since there has been teacher hiring freeze since 1999, total number of teachers by the
end of school year 2001 is estimated at 100,665 using 1999 teacher number of 103,966 with an
annual attrition rate of 1.6%. It is projected that by the end of 2001, over 9,000 new teachers
need to be hired. It has been estimated that there are over 20,000 unemployed teachers on the
labor market currently. However, to put them into teaching position in school year 2002,
immediate recruiting and deploying action needs to be taken.
It should be noted that although double-shifting of teachers could be effective to deal with the
shortage of teaching force in the short run, in many cases it results in shorter learning hours, thus
negative impact on learning results. Therefore, double-shifting of teachers is more or less a
temporary measure when new hiring reaches the capacity ceiling.



4
Table 4: Teacher requirement projection
(Pupil/teaching unit:45)
1999     2002     2003     2004      2005     2006     2007      2008     2009     2010      2011    2012
#ofteaching unit,    93,107   120,113  138,836  158,343  164,916  171,339  177,859  183,257  179,869  172,522  164,197  164,533
% of teaching unit              0.10     0.15     0.20      0.20     0.20     0.20      0.20     0.15     0.09      0.01     0.00
acquired by D/S2
% of actual teaching            0.11     0.18     0.25      0.25     0.25     0.25      0.24     0.18     0.09      0.01     0.00
unit D/S
PTR                   40.30    50.00    52.94    56.25    56.25    56.25    56.25    55.90    52.94    49.18    45.45    45.00
Teacher              103,966  108,101  118,011  126,674  131,933  137,071  142,287  147,522  152,889  157,858  162,555  164,533
requirement
Attrition=1.60%                1,611    1,730    1,888    2,027    2,111    2,193    2,277    2,360    2,446    2,526    2,601
New hiring                     9,047    11,639   10,552    7,286    7,249    7,409    7,511    7,727    7,415    7,223    4,579
1. Teaching unit is also referred to as "stream"; it is also equivalent to "class size" when one class has only single stream.
2. Double-shifting.
Total classroom required is determined by teaching unit size as well as double-shifting ratio of
classrooms.  Compared with double-shifting of teachers, double shifting of classrooms has less
negative impact on learning results.  However, key challenges would be the coordination  and
management of classroom utilization, when as high as two-thirds of classrooms are double-
shifting. Double-shifting of classrooms wouLld have to be put into school plans as the enrollment
surge between 2002 and 2004 would aggravate the already severe classroom shortage currently.
It is estimated that during the following 3 years, an approximate average of 14,000 classrooms
have to be built in order to cater the enrollment with a reasonable class size of 45 pupils. The
most challenging period would be between June 2001 and January 2002, as about 14,000 new
classrooms have to be ready when the new school year starts. In other words, on average, each of
the 11,000 currently operating schools need to add at least one classroom during the 6-month
period.
Table 5: Classroom requirement projection
1999     2002      2003     2004      2005      2006      2007     2008      2009      2010     2011      2012
#ofteachingspace        93,107   120,113  138,836  158,343   164,916  171,339  177,859  183,257  179,869  172,522  164,197  164,533
needed
% of teaching space                0.4      0.4       0.4       0.4       0.4      0.4       0.4      0.368     0.32     0.265     0.25
acquired by
Double/Shifting
% of classroom D/S                0.67      0.67      0.67     0.67      0.67      0.67      0.67     0.58      0.47      0.36     0.33
Classroom               57,367   72,068   83,302   95,006   98,950   102,803  106,715   109,954  113,677  117,315  120,685  123,400
requirement           (existing)
Existing classrooms              60,000   72,068   83,302    95,006   98,950   102,803   106,715  109,954  113,677  117,315  120,685
previous year
depreciation rate                 0.03      0.03      0.03     0.03      0.02      0.02      0.02     0.02      0.02      0.02     0.02
depreciation                      1,800    2,162    2,499      2,850     1,979    2,056    2,134    2,199    2,274    2,346    2,414
New construction                 12,068   11,234    11,704    3,944    3,853      3,912    3,239    3,723    3,638    3,370    2,715
Total construction                13,868   13,396    14,203    6,794     5,832    5,968     5,373    5,922      5,911    5,716    5,129
needed



5
(iii) Unit cost analysis
Unit (recurrent) cost analysis is undertaken to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of primary school
grant. Table 6 shows the projection of unit cost (in 1999 constant price) evolution over the period
of year 2002 to year 2012.
Table 6. Unit Cost Evolution
Key            1999       2002      2003      2004      2005      2006     2007      2008       2009      2010      2011      2012
Parameters (base year)
SCHOOL LEVEL
Teacher                  4.00%.    4.00Y%    4.00%     4.00%    4.00%      4.00%     4.00%.    4.00%     4.00%     4.00%     4.00%.
wage growth
Effective      40.30      50.00     52.94     56.25     56.25    56.25     56.25     55.90      52.94     49.18    45.45      45.00
%ofD/S        0.00%       0.11       0.18     0.25      0.25      0.25      0.25      0.24      0.18      0.09      0.01      0.00
teachers
S/T Wages               24615.55   21550.79  21697.52 21821.51  22694.37 23602.14 24546.23  25615.10  27454.29 29776.14 32435.59  33936.64
Schoo610p siio              04-
ko X
S/T Op. Exp.              907.92    6557.00   8300.00  8300.00   8300.00  8300.00  8300.00   8300.00   8300.00  8300.00  8300.00   8300.00
SIT SCHOOL                25523.47   28107.79  29997.52 30121.51  30994.37 31902.14 32846.23  33915.10  35754.29 38076.14 40735.59  42236.64
INSPECTION
Inspector                4.00%      4.00%    4.00%.   4.00%    4.00%    4.00%        4.00%     4.00%     4.00%    4.00%      4.00%
Teacherper      211        211       211       211       211      211       211       211        211       211      211        211
inspector
Growth of     0.00%     139.47%    0.00%      0.00%    0.00%.   0.00%      0.00/.    000%      0.00%     0.00%     0.00%     0.0000%
SIT               193.30     275.68    273.89    271.79   275.67   279.70    283.89    288.97    300.16    315.14   332.71    340.69
REGIONAL AND
DISTRICT
ADMINISTRA TION
% of S/T      2.59%      2.59%      2.59%     2.590%    2.59%    2.59%    2.59%      2.59%      2.59%    2.59%     2.59%      2.59%
school wage
%ofstd4        0.16       0.13       0.12     0.11      0.18      0.19      0.19      0.13      0.12      0.13      0.14      0.14
enroll.
%Yofstd7       0.11       0.11       0.09     0.08      0.08      0.08      0.09      0.14      0.17      0.19      0.15      0.13
Growth of                45.43%     0.00%/.   0.00%    0.00%    0.00%      0.00%     0.00%      0.00%    0.00%    0.00%       0.00%
OP. EXP.
S/T               2463.53    3377.36   3114.11   2922.34   3041.93  3062.97  3075.07   3105.23   3245.00  3409.60  3419.59   3416.68
NA TIONAL
ADMINISTRATION
% of S/T      0.44%      0.44%      0.44%    0.44%     0.44%     0.44%     0.44%     0.44%      0.44%    0A4%      0.44%      0.44%
school wiage
Growth of                0.00%      0.00%    0.00%    0.00%    0.00%      0.00%/,    0.00%     0.00%     0.00%    0.00%      0.00%
op. Exp.
SIT               604.51     479.46    428.23    387.77    379.98   373.47    367.74    364.79    377.63    398.78   424.05    430.08
UNIT COST                          28784.82   32240.29 33813.74 33703.41 34691.94 3561&28 36572.93   37674.09 39677.07 42199.66 44911.95   46424.09
1. School operation is financed through "Capitation Granf' starting school year 2002, which covers teaching and learning materials, administrative cost, school facility repairs, and
clister-based teacher professional development activities.
2. Includes school materials, student welfare, etc.



6
The unit cost is composed of school level costs; inspection costs; district and regional level costs;
and central ministry level costs. At each level, the costs are categorized into personal emolument
(PE) and operating costs (OC). Under ESDP, 6 US dollar capitation grant will be allocated to
finance school level operation (in 2002, 70 percent of the schools will get 3 dollars per pupil,
another 30 percent of schools receive 6 dollars per pupil. See program description for details). In
addition, there will be an increased amount of operating cost at district level, which is estimated
at about 1 0 percent of the amount of school capitation grant. Teacher salary is assumed to grow
at 4 percent annually, so is inspector's salary. We also assume the ratios of wage component of
the unit cost between school, district, and central ministry levels keep constant.
The major determinants of unit cost change are salary growth and the introduction of capitation
grant to finance school operation. As salary is assumed to grow at 4 percent annually, the unit
cost increases steadily after a jump at the beginning of 2002 when the capitation grant starts to
flow down to schools and keeps constant afterwards. Pupil-teacher ratio is another important
factor of the magnitude of the unit cost. C)ther parameters constant, decrease in pupil-teacher
ratio would raise the level of unit cost.
The overall evolution of unit cost represents the dynamics of primary education system moving
towards a more efficient process of education delivery with optimized level of school inputs
following the external shock due to the introduction of capitation grant. Although unit cost per
enrollee has increased between 2002 and 2012, the education system is more efficient as
indicated by potentially improved ratios between PE and OC inputs. For example, in 2012,
PE:OC ratio would be reduced to 75:25 from as high as the current 90:10, as more fund has
flowed into the long starved school operation for adequate education delivery. In addition to the
adjustment of input ratios, the efficiency gain is also reflected in the input-output ratio. If overall
public spending represents the level of inputs, the most important measure of outputs of education
system is the total number of graduates and, most essentially, the quality of these graduates.
Improved education quality and alleviated household costs both relate closely with improved
school retention and grade promotion rates, thus better internal efficiency and less wastage of the
system.
(iv) Financial analysis
Costs of primary education
The first 3-year period of ESDP is aimed at jump-starting the system with sufficient fund flow
into the long-time starved system. Once the capitation grant is introduced together with the
abolishment of UPE fees and other school levies, an enrollment increase is anticipated within a
short period of time, which in turn requires a large amount of funds to follow-up to increase
teaching force and school places. Table 7 presents the primary cost projection between fiscal
year 2001/02 and 2011/12.
Total amount of recurrent cost is the product of total enrollment and recurrent unit cost in each
year. School year figures are adjusted to fiscal years according to the disbursement nature of the
line items. The major component of investment cost is classroom construction. The average
construction cost of each classroom is estimated at 5,000 US dollars, including necessary sanitary
facilities. In addition, the total cost also includes development cost at each level for ESDP related
staff training and other capacity building activities



7
Table 7: Cost Summary
Cost                           2001/02  2002/03  2003/04  2004/05  2005/06  2006/07  2007/08  2008/09  2009/10  2010/11  2011/12
Recurrent:
Primary: PE  Teacher salary    108,172   126,021   145,523   161,954  175,199  189,219  203,848  216,727  226,692  235,414  245,464
District salary   2,798    3,260    3,764    4,189    4,532    4,894    5,273    5,606    5,863    6,089    6,349
Ministry salary    476       554      640       712      771      832       897      953      997      1,035    1,080
OC           school operation    8,748    24,305   33,299   36,221   37,677   39,128   40,463   40,688   39,485   37,729   36,834
textbooks         17,945   20,742   23,656   24,638   25,598   26,572   27,379   26,872   25,775   24,531   24,581
exams             3,102    3,110    3,233      4,405    4,856    5,233     5,645    6,145    6,393     5,281    4,999
district operation    12,140    12,840    13,568    13,814   14,054   14,297    14,499   14,372   14,098    13,787   13,799
central operation    2,079    2,079    2,079    2,079    2,079    2,079    2,079    2,079    2,079     2,079    2,079
others             528
Insvectorate
PE                               516      582       655       719      778      841      907      978      1,052    1,128    1,197
OC                               945      1,092    1,246     1,298    1,348    1,399     1,442    1,415    1,357    1,292    1,295
Total recurrent                157,449  194,584  227,663  250.030  266892  284.494  302.430  315836  323793  328.366  337.677
classroom
Investment   Construction      57,551    55,594   58,942   28,197   24,205   24,767   22,298   24,577   24,532   23,721   21,285
Staff house
construction      12,086    11,675    12,378    5,921    5,083    5,201    4,683    5,161    5,152    4,981    4,470
Construction
supervision        350       350      350
Capacity building:
district level    5,273    3,750    3,809
Capacity building:
regional level     830       830      830
Capacity building:
central ministry
MoEC               830       830      830
PO-RALG            830       830      830
Strengthening
educational inputs   500     500      500
Sub-sector
program
development        830       830      830
Total
investment                     78.249  _74,8   78A69   34.118   29_287   29969   26_981   29.739 29684   28.702   25.755
Grand total                    235,698  268,943  306,132  284,148  296,179  314,463  329,411  345,575  353,477  357,068  363,432
Public resources and financing gap
The amount of public financing for primary education is determined by government's budget
envelope, which includes domestic revenue and donor's budget-support funds, and the budget
allocation across sectors. As Tanzania is expected to reach the HIPC completion point by
September, 2001, HIPC funds would be another source of budget envelope.
The budget envelop projection figures between 2001/02 and 2003/04 are directly from ministry of
finance's cross-sector MTEF. The projections from 2004/05 and onwards follow the assumptions
of the key parameters as follows:
* 5-6 percent GDP growth;
* marginal tax rate 13 percent in 2005, gradually increased to 15 percent;
* around 55 billion Tshs (in nominal terms) of HIPC funds in-flow annually;
* 25 percent of government recurrent expenditure goes to education sector;
* 62 percent of education spending goes to primary education.
Resource projected to be available to primary education is summarized in table 8. Table 9,
together with figure I and figure 2, shows the financing gap evolution between 2002 and 2012.



8
Table 8: Resource Summary
Resources         2001/02  2002/03  2003/04  2004/05   2005/06   2006/07    2007/08    2008/09   2009/10   2010/11   2011/12
GDP (mill. Tsh)    8,011,395 8,492,079 9,001,604 9,541,700 10,114,202 10,721,054 11,364,317  12,046,176 12,768,947 13,535,083 14,347,188
Growth rate         0.06     0.06     0.06      0.06      0.06      0.06       0.06       0.06      0.06      0.06       0.06
Marginal tax rate                               0.13     0.]13      0.13       0.13       0.14      0.14      0.15       0.15
domestic revenue    906,671 1,069,732 1,134,914 1,240,421  1,314,846  1,393,737   1,477,361  1,686,465  1,787,653  2,030,263  2,152,078
HIPC                55,264   54,952   52,846   50,330      47,933    45,651     43,477    41,406    39,435    37,557    35,768
Poverty reduction   182,429  241,058  228,564  228,564    228,564   228,564    228,564   228,564   228,564   228,564   228,564
budget support
Budget envelop    1,144,364 1,365,743 1,416,325 1,416,325  1,591,344  1,667,952   1,749,402  1,956,435  2,055,651  2,296,384  2,416,411
Recurrentenvelop    1,092,239 1,307,495 1,368,318 1,380,917  1,551,560  1,626,253   1,705,667  1,907,524  2,004,260  2,238,974  2,356,001
Edu recurrent/total                            25.00%     2'5.00%    25.000/o    25.00%    25.00%    25.000/o   25.00%    25.00%
recurrent
primary/Edu.                                   62.00%     62.00%    62.00%      62.00%    62.000/o   62.00%    62.00%    62.00%
Recurrent.
Primary budget      128,865  150,761  177,929  214,042    240,492   252,069    264,378   295,666   310,660   347,041   365.180
allocation
The international community is committed to the development of Tanzania primary education.
On one hand, donor's sector support is to be further sought, on the other hand, government
commitment of allocating more public resources to the sector, particularly to primary education
would be a more sustainable path for further sector development.
Table 9: Financing Gap
2001/02  2002/03  2003/04  2004/05  2005/06  2006/07  2007/08  2008/09  2009/10  2010/11  2011/12
Total cost               235,698  268,943  306,132  284,148  296,179  314,463  329,411  345,575  353,477  357,068  363,432
recurrent cost          157,449  194,584  227,663  250,030  266,892  284,494  302,430  315,836  323,793  328,366  337,677
investment cost          78,249   74,358   78,469   34,118   29,287   29,969   26,981   29,739   29,684   28,702   25,755
Total Resource           128,868  150,761  177,929  214,042  240,492  252,069  264,378  295,666  310,660  347,041  365,180
Total recurrent budget   126,044  146,253  171,952  214,042  240,492  252,069  264,378  295,666  310,660  347,041  365,180
Total development budget    2,823    4,508    5,977
Total Financing gap      106,830  118,181  128,203   70,106   55,687   62,394   65,033   49,909   42,817   10,027   -1,748
recurrentfinancing gap   31,405   48,331   55,711   35,987   26,400   32,425   38,052   20,170   13,132  -18,675  -27,503
development financing gap   75,854   70,279   72,920   34,118   29,287   29,969   26,981   29,739   29,684   28,702   25,755
million USD: recurr. Gap   38       58       67       43        32       39       46       24        16      -22       -33
million USD: dev. Gap      91       84       87       41        35       36       33       36        36       35       31
million USD: total fin. Gap   129   142      154      84        67       75       78       60       52        12       -2



9
Figure 1: Total Financing Gap
400,000
350,000
300,000                                      .                                 -                              --  ---   ----
250,000.
200,000           .                              -- ..   ----
150,000
100,000
50,000
2001/02    2002/03    2002/03    2003/04    2004/05    2005/06    2006/07    2007/08    2008/09    2009/10    2010/11
- 4-Total cost       Total Resource
Fige 2: Recun'ent Financing Gap
400,000
350,000
300,000
250,000
200,000                                                       -
150,000
100,000
50,000
4 ~ ~ ~ ~        ~ ~       ~ ~~~~~~~ |  X-  ---_ _   -----r-    1                  
2001/02   2002/03    2002/03   2003/04   2004105   2005/06   2006/07   2007/08    2008/09    2009/10   2010/11
recuffent cost -             Total recunrnt budget



I
Annex I: Tanzania at a Glance
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                       Saharan       Low-
Tanzania    Africa  income         Development diamond'
1999
Population, mid-year(millions)                      32.9       642     2417                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Allay method IUNS)                   260       500       410
GNP (Alias method, liS billions)                     8.5       321       988
Average Nnnual growth, 1993-99
Population (Y)                                       2.7       2.6        1.9
Labor force (r/)                                     2.7       2.6       2.3     GNP                              Gross
Most recent estimate (latest yearavailable, 1993-99)                             capita            -      >   ePrimary
Poverty (% ofpopulation below narional poveny line)
Urban populaton (% f totalpopulation)                32        34        31
Life expectancy atbirti (years)                       47        50        60
Infant mortality (per 1,000live buths)                85        92        77
Child malnutrition (% stochildren under 5)            31        32        43               Access to safe water
Access to improved water source (Y of population)     49        43        64
illiteracy (% of populalion age 15+)                  25        39        39
Gross primaryenrollment (Y%of.school-agepopulatso     67        78        96           -Tan=ania
Male                                                67        85       102                 Low-income group
Female                                              66        71        86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979    1989       1998     1999
Economic ratios *
GDP (US Sb illions)                          ..      5.3       8.6       8.8
Gross domestic investmentAGDP                 ..    18.1       16.5     17.0
Exports of goods and serviceslGDP            ..    11.3        12.8     13.3                     Trade
Gross domestic savingsGDP                     ..    -3.5       2.3       2.2
Gross national savingslGDP                    ..      ..       2.0       2.2
Currentaccountbalance/ADP                      .     -4.2     -14.5    -14.8     1
Interestpayments/GDP                          .      0.9        1.2      0.4     Domestic  i                 Investment
Total debtfGDP                                      110.3      88.5     75.2      Savings
Total debt servicekxports                           32.5      20.9       11.8
Present value of debtlGDP                    -.        .       66.1        .
Present value of debtexports                 ..       ..    496.9         ..
Indebtedness
1979-89 1989-99    1998        1999  1999-03
(average annual groyw1h)
GDP                                  -      3.0      4.0       4.7       5.7                  7anzania
GNP per capita                       ..     0.5       2.1      2.5       3.4                 Low-incone group
Exports of goods and services        .878.9          9.8       4.7       5.7--.



2
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979    1989       1998      1999      Growth ofinvestmentand GDP (-%i)
(if GDP)                                                                            20
Agriculture                                    ..    50.7       44.8      44.8
Industry                                       .      149       15.4      15.4     K'
Manufacturing                                ..      8.5       7.4       7.4          o
Services                                       ..    34.4       39.8      39.8          1 ' 9          46       98  'J9
Private consumption                           ..    87.5        86.6      86.2    -20
Generalgovemmentconsumption                    ..    16.0        111      11.6                  GDI        oGDP
Imports of goods and services                 ..    32.9        26.9      28.0                                       - -
(ave,rage annual grosolh                1979-89 1989-99        1998      1999 aGrowth of exports and imports I-)
Agriculture                                    ..      3.4       1.9       4.7        T
Industry                                      ..      2.6       10.3       4.8
Manufacturing                                 ..     2.3       8.0       4.9
Services                                       ..     2.5        4.2       4.8
Private consumption                            ..      2.9       1.3       4.7
General govemment consumption                  ..    -7.4       -4.5       4.7
Gross domestic investment                      ..    -1.1       14.3       4.8    -4 0
Imports of goods and services                 ..    -2.1        -0.3       4.7                  Expons           kpons
Gross national product                         ..      3.5       4.8       5.0



3
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979     1989       1998      1999      Inflation(%)
Domestic prices
('YO change)
Consumer prices                                 ..    25.8         12.8       7.9     9      _
Implicit GDP deflator                           ..    45.9         16.7       9.1    2zo
Government finance
(%/, ofGDP, includes cursn'etgrnt.s)
Current revenue                                  ..      11.3      10.8      10.6             94   95  96    97  98    99
Current budgetbalance                                   -1.0        0.9       0.5
Overall surplus/deficit                                 -3.5      -2.6      -3.3           _GDP  deflator   o CPI
TRADE
1979    1989       1998      1999
(A$Sni il/ons)                                                                         Export and import levels (IUS$ mill.
Total exports (fob)                              ..     415        577       541      2,099
Coffee                                         ..      103         111       98
Cotton                                                  70         91        90      1,5
Manufactures                                   ..       89        68        84
Total imports (cif)                              .      1,211     1,519     1,631
Food                                           ..  81  84  89                                *uii_JJ
Fuel and energy                                ..      150        138       134
Capital goods                                  ..     443         551      629
Export price index (1995=100)                   ..       79         86        84             93  94   95   96  97  9s  99
Importprice index (1995=100)                     ..      89         83        84                  mExports        p knports
Terms oftrade (1995=1()0)                       ..       88        103        99     I
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1979    1989        1998      1999
mW$  ,illions)                                                                        Current account balance to GDP (%
Exports ofgoods and services                    ..        ..      1,099     1,163          _
Imports of goods and services                    ..       ..      2,314    2,457
Resource balance                                  .       ..    -1,216    -1,294
Net income                                       ..       ..       -57       -35
Netccurrenttransfers                             ..   ..    31   34                      I   j11*'II
Currentaccountbalance                            ..       ..    -1242    -1,295
Financing items (net)                            ..       ..      t276      1,424
Changes in netreserves                           ..       ..       -34       -129     -25
Memo:
Reserves including gold (CBS millions)           ..       ..       599       776
Conversion rate (DEC locaMlS$)                   .     119.4     664.7    744.8
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979    1989        1998      1999
((ISS tn illion.s)                                                                    Composition of 1999 debt (USS mill.
Total debtoutstanding and disbursed          4,269    5,854      7,605     6,584
IBRD                                         168      252         21        16
IDA                                          208     ,016      2,463     2,594                    G 155   A 16
F 144
Total debt service                             100       177       239        144
IBRD                                          16       42         14         6
IDA                                            2        12        33        44                                      B: 2,594
Compos ition of net res ource flows                                                   E 2__58
Official grants                              349      536        648
Official creditors                           B9        98        135       -39
Private creditors                             71       24        -15
Foreign direct investment                      0        6        172       183                                 C 279
Portfolioequity                                0        0          0         ..                        D 535
World Bank program                                                                    A- BRD                       E- Bdaterml
Commitments                                  143       73         43       159      B - IDA    D- Other         F - Private
Disbursements                                 72       115       102       199      C - MF    mukilateral       G - Short-
Principal repayments                           4       28         29        30                                   tert
Net flows                                     68       87         73       169
Interest payments                             15       26         18        21
Net transfers                                 54       61         55       148



