                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 32071

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                         (IDA-35700 TF-50588)

                                                  ON A

           CREDIT IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 119.1 MILLION (US$150 EQUIVALENT)
                                            AND A GRANT

                                IN THE AMOUNT OF US$50 MILLION

                                   TO THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF

                                               TANZANIA

                                                FOR THE

                        PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM




                                              June 23, 2005




Human Development 1
Country Department 4
Africa Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                      (Exchange Rate Effective July 30, 2001)

                             Currency Unit = Tanzania Shillings (TSh.)
                                    1 TSh = US$ 0.001124
                                       US$ = TSh 890

                                  FISCAL YEAR
                                   2002    2004

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BEDC      Basic Education Development Committee
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
COBET     Complementary Basic Education and Training
CSO       Civil Society Organizations
DFID      Department for International Development (UK)
DG        Development Grant
EFA       Education for All
ESDP      Education Sector Development Program
ETP       Education and Training Policy
GER       Gross Enrollment Ratio
GNP       Gross National Product
GoT       Government of Tanzania
ICR       Implementation Completion Report
IDA       International Development Association
LGAs      Local Government Authorities
LGRP      Local Government Reform Program
MDA       Ministry, Department, Agency
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
MLYD      Ministry of Labor and Youth Development
MoEC      Ministry of Education and Culture
MoF       Ministry of Finance
MoU       Memorundum of Understanding
MTEF      Medium-Term Expenditure Framework
NECTA     National Examination Council of Tanzania
NER       Net Enrollment Ratio
NGO       Non-Governmental Organization
NMB       National Micro-finance Bank
MKUKUTA   National Strategy for Growth and Reduction of Poverty
PEDP      Primary Education Development Program
PEFR      Public Expenditure and Financial Review
PER       Public Expenditure Review
PFP       Pooled Fund Partners
PMO       Prime Minister's Office
PO-RALG   President's Office- Regional Administration and Local Government
PRSC      Poverty Reduction Support Credit
PSLE      Primary School Leaving Examination

PSRP     Public Service Reform Program
PTR      Pupil Teacher Ratio
SEDP     Secondary Education Development Program
TIE      Tanzania Institute of Education
TRCs     Teacher Resources Centers
UPE      Universal Primary Education
URT      United Republic of Tanzania
WDC      Ward Development Committees



                          Vice President:  Gobind Nankani
                        Country Director   Judy M. O'Connor
                        Sector Manager     Dzingai B. Mutumbuka
        Task Team Leader/Task Manager:     Rest Barnabas Lasway

                                          TANZANIA
                          Primary Education Development Program


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                                     Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                           1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                          1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry                2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                   6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                   16
6. Sustainability                                                                       18
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                        19
8. Lessons Learned                                                                      22
9. Partner Comments                                                                     23
10. Additional Information                                                              25
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                    26
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                    28
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                    29
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                    30
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                    32
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                       33
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                   34
Annex 8. Policy Matrix and Tranche Release Conditions.                                  36
Annex 9. Letter of Primary Education Sub-Sector Policy from the Minister of Finance     38
Annex 10. Borrower Implementation Completion Report                                     42
Annex 11. Cofinancier Commments                                                         51
Annex MAP of Tanzania IBRD 33494                                                        55

Project ID: P071012                                                  Project Name: Primary Education Development
                                                                     Program
Team Leader: Rest Barnabas Lasway                                    TL Unit: AFTH1
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 23, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Primary Education Development Program                    L/C/TF Number: IDA-35700; TF-50588
   Country/Department: TANZANIA                                                            Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Primary education (97%); Adult literacy/non-formal education (3%)
                  Theme: Education for all (P); Decentralization (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 02/28/2001                                     Effective: 01/02/2002                01/02/2002
     Appraisal: 07/16/2001                                         MTR:
      Approval: 10/09/2001                                      Closing: 10/31/2004                 10/31/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF TANZANIA/PRIME MINISTER'S OFFICE
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind Nankani                                 Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:               Judy M. O'Connor                               James W. Adams
Sector Manager:                 Dzingai B. Mutumbuka                           Dzingai B. Mutumbuka
Team Leader at ICR:             Rest Barnabas Lasway                           Donald B. Hamilton
ICR Primary Author:             Hongyu Yang


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          HS


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  HS
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:


Background

At the time of preparation of the Primary Education Development Program (PEDP), the overall
performance of the education system in Tanzania was far below what would be required to meet its human
resources development needs. The country was critically faced with issues related to poor education
quality, low access and retention in primary education. The issues were primarily due to insufficient
education and school inputs, resulting in inefficiencies in the system. These issues were further linked to
the insufficient public funding of the sector, thus imposing high unaffordable costs on households. In 1995,
the Ministry of Education and Culture (MoEC) prepared an Education and Training Policy (ETP) that
emphasized liberalization of the education sector in step with the rest of the economy, and increasing the
accountability of services provided to clients.

At the time the ETP was prepared, various donors, including the International Development Association
(IDA), were supporting the Government through different individual projects with small geographical and
program coverage. Support provided to the sector by IDA was through the Human Resources
Development Project (HRDP), designed as a pilot project to cover 5 districts for the Community Education
Fund, and 8 districts for the Girls Secondary Education Scholarship components respectively.

Around the mid 90s, the Government embarked on a process towards developing a sector program to cover
all the education and training subsectors in collaboration with donors. External consultants financed by
various donors were used to facilitate the process by conducting different studies. This was time
consuming, and by 1999, a sector wide program was still not in place. In 2000, the Government, through
its own initiative, produced the Education Sector Development Program (ESDP) framework. The
framework provides a structure and guidance through which sector dialogue between the Government,
Development Partners, and the Civil Society Organizations (CSOs) could be enhanced. This would,
therefore, help to bring to an end confined projects and ad hoc sector dialogue between the Government and
individual external Agencies. The framework provided further guidance towards developing sector
programs to include primary, secondary, vocational, tertiary, and non-formal education.

The ESDP has different Development Committees for each subsector as follows: (i) The Basic Education
Development Committee (BEDC), responsible for secondary and primary education under the leadership of
the Permanent Secretary(s) of the Ministry of Education and Culture (MoEC), and the Presidents Office
Regional Administration and Local Government (PORALG); (ii) the Vocational and Folk Education
Development Committee (VFEDC), under the leadership of the Permanent Secretary(s) of the Ministry of
Community Development Gender and Children (MCDGC), and the Ministry of Labor and Youth
Development (MLYD); and (iii) the Tertiary and Higher Education Development Committee (THEDC),
under the leadership of the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Science Technology and Higher
Education (MSTHE). The Prime Minister's Office (PMO) is responsible for coordinating overall ESDP by
bringing and linking the BEDC, VFEDC and THEDC policies and interventions through the
Inter-ministerial Advisory Committee (supposed to bring together Directors of Policy Planning and Donor
representatives) and the Inter-ministerial Steering Committee (members of the committee are the Permanent
Secretaries).

Because of the sizable nature of the required investment in the overall ESDP, as well as the national and
global priority to embark and implement strategies to achieve Education for All (EFA), the Government



                                                     - 2 -

decided to address first, the issues in the primary education subsector. This led to the formulation of the
PEDP, which is a Government program to reform delivery of primary education covering the entire
country. The design of the program was finalized in July 2001. The process involved broader
consultations of stakeholders across Government ministries, Donor Partners, the Bank and the CSOs.
Besides the ESDP context, the PEDP design was within the Poverty Reduction Strategy (PRS), Vision
2025, Local Government Reform Program (LGRP), Public Service Reform Program (PSRP), Public
Expenditure Review (PER) and the Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF). The Government's
PEDP was approved by the Parliament in July 2001. Implementation of the program started shortly
thereafter in 2001, financed by Government's own funds.

In line with the PRS, in July 2001, the Government abolished school fees and other levies for primary
education. It was expected during the PEDP design that the abolition of fees would lead to an enrollment
surge. The design therefore, had included options through which an enrolment surge could be managed.
One of the adopted options was to use a phasing approach to the enrollment expansion to enroll 7-10 year
olds between 2002 and 2006. This would help eliminate the backlog of 8-10 year olds, while establishing
the capacity to admit all 7-year olds in Grade 1 from 2006 onwards. As expected, primary enrollment
increased sharply in 2001 and 2002. Although age 7 is the enrollment age in primary education in Tanzania
as stipulated in the Education Act of 1978, studies had indicated that majority of the children started school
at a later age before the PEDP implementation started. This was the reason for the 8-10 year old backlog
in addition to inadequate resources for a Universal Primary Education (UPE).

3.1 Original Objective

The objective of IDA financing of the PEDP was to support the Government of Tanzania to reform the
delivery of primary education. Specifically, the objectives of the PEDP were to expand school access;
improve education quality; and increase school retention at the primary level. These objectives would be
achieved through improved resource allocation and utilization; improved educational inputs; and
strengthened institutional arrangements for effective primary education delivery. The PEDP included the
following: (a) introduction of Capitation and Development Grants for direct disbursement to primary
schools; (b) further development of educational inputs to improve quality; and (c) institutional capacity
building at central, district, and school levels for efficient operation of the primary education system.

In order to support the Government of Tanzania in achieving its primary education objectives, IDA
financed the PEDP through Structural Adjustment Credit Lending (IDA Credit No. 3570 TA) operation.
The lending instrument was considered appropriate given the broader reforms that would be implemented
with a national coverage involving different institutions and multi-stakeholders. The instrument would also
help to further strengthen the Government's own system at the center and the LGA levels, through various
interventions such as on financial management, procurement, and overall management and implementation
of the program. Therefore, an IDA Credit in the amount of 119 million Special Drawing Rights (SDR), or
US$ 150 million equivalent, was approved by the Board on October 9, 2001 and became effective on
January 2, 2002. The Credit was structured in three-tranche disbursements of SDR39.7 million each. The
Netherlands also requested IDA to act as Administrator of a Grant in the amount of US$50 million in
support of the PEDP. Consequently, IDA entered into a Grant Agreement with the United Republic of
Tanzania (URT) dated October 4, 2002. Disbursements of the Grant were also structured in three tranches
of US$10 million in the first tranche and US$20 million in the two subsequent tranches to match the IDA
tranche releases. The funds were disbursed after the Government met the Policy Matrix and Tranche
Release Conditions described in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA). The Conditions/Agreed
Actions helped to re-enforce the Governments' reforms and strengthening of the various systems. The
operation closed as scheduled on October 31, 2004.


                                                        - 3 -

In addition to the IDA Credit of SDR 119 million and the Netherlands Grant of US$50 million, further
support was provided by other Donor Partners using pooled fund mechanisms, totaling US$154 million
during the Government fiscal years 2001/2002 and 2004/2005. The Pooled Fund Partners (PFP) include
the Netherlands, Canada, Sweden, Finland, the European Union, Belgium, France, Norway and Ireland.
While IDA and Netherlands Grant tranches were disbursed almost annually, the agreement of the PFP was
to disburse their financial support quarterly.

The PEDP, being a Government program, continues to be implemented even after the closing of the IDA
Credit and the Grant. The PFP are still supporting the program. Continued support to primary education
by IDA is planned through the next Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC III), which is expected to be
approved in July 2005. In addition, there is ongoing dialogue through the ESDP involving Donor Partners,
the Government and the World Bank towards harmonizing support to the overall sector within the ESDP
using a SWAp approach and budget support modalities.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives were not revised during implementation.

3.3 Original Components:
The PEDP had four major components:

Component I ­ Expansion of Primary Education Enrollment. This component aimed to: (i) enroll 7-10
year olds in Grade I, (ii) introduce school Development Grants to respond to the severe shortage of physical
facilities; the Grant would be disbursed from account number five of the councils to specific school bank
accounts to support construction, rehabilitation, furnishing and equipping of classrooms, teachers' houses
and sanitary facilities, where required; (iii) recruit about 20,000 Grade A teachers, (iv) increase
double-shifting of classrooms as needed to cater for the enrollment surge; and (v) enroll out of school
children and youth into Complementary Basic Education and Training (COBET) as well as strengthen
adult and non-formal education.

Component II ­ Improvement of Primary Education Quality. It aimed to: (i) introduce Capitation
Grants equivalent to US$10 per pupil and allow direct disbursement of the Grants to school level bank
accounts through account number five at the council level. This amount included US$4 for textbooks and
other teaching and learning materials. The remaining US$6 would support school operation and
administration, and school-based teacher professional development seminars within and across a cluster of
schools. The training would cover among other things, classroom management, multi-grade and
double-shift teaching, work plan preparation, pedagogical and teaching skill development. The component
would also include (a) in-service training of teachers to upgrade them from Grade C/B (teachers with
primary level education) to Grade A (teachers with secondary education level); (b) pre-service teacher
training to ensure production of enough quality teachers; (c) revision of curriculum, examinations and
assessment design; and (ii) decentralization of textbook procurement from the center to the school level.

Component III ­ Capacity Building for Effective Delivery of Primary Education. This component
aimed at: (i) building capacity for implementation of the PEDP reforms to ensure that the Development
and Capitation Grants were managed effectively; (ii) disseminating information about PEDP to
communities, school committees, other stakeholders and the public in general; and (iii) training of key
officers and various players for the implementation and management of PEDP. Through the component,
community participation and school accountability would also be enhanced.




                                                       - 4 -

Component IV ­ Institutional Reform / Arrangements. This component aimed to strengthen the
institutional arrangements that support the planning and delivery of education. Under the arrangements (i)
the MoEC would continue to be re-oriented to provide policy guidance and technical support, establish
minimum education standards, monitor and evaluate the education standards and delivery; (ii) PO-RALG
would deliver primary education through Regional Secretariats, Local Government Authorities (LGAs);
and (iii) mechanisms for community participation and school level accountability would be established
and/or strengthened such as through the school committees.

3.4 Revised Components:
No revisions were made to the components.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
ICR Rating: Highly Satisfactory

The World Bank responded to the Government's request for IDA support to reform primary education
delivery. The objective of PEDP was relevant as it was within the Government's overall PRS,
macro-economic development framework, and the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). It was fully in line
with Government's high priority to strengthen human resource capacity as a means of reducing poverty and
promoting economic growth through raising the basic education level of the population. It was consistent
with the Government's ETP and other reforms. It addressed the main sector constraints such as insufficient
school inputs, low access and retention, as well as inefficiencies in the system. Importantly, Tanzania was
one of the identified Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC), the PEDP therefore, became one of the key
actions, which helped to qualify Tanzania for its debt relief.

The technical design of the PEDP was ambitious, yet feasible as it benefited from the different kinds of
ongoing reforms, and conducive policies which were already initiated by the Government. The design was
also based on the Country Education Status Report resulting from analytical work led by the World Bank
in collaboration with the Government, Development Partners and other stakeholders. The analytical work
was financed by the proceeds of the HRDP Credit which financed local consultants and dissemination
workshops. The design was also prepared through Government's thematic technical working groups guided
by the BEDC and the overall ESDP focusing on school access, education quality, financing and resources,
and institutional arrangements. To ensure program feasibility and effectiveness, Government
commissioned technical assistance with support from some of the donors for consultation in the areas of:
school construction and rehabilitation; teacher training, curriculum and textbooks, and strengthening the
content of in-service teacher professional development. In addition, to ensure successful implementation of
the PEDP, the Government strengthened its institutional arrangements, including a series of revised
regulations and procedures in financial management and procurement to ensure efficient flow of funds to
the schools and effective utilization and accountability. Lessons learned from different projects financed by
various donors and NGOs, as well as the HRDP were integrated in the design process.

The use of a Structural Adjustment Credit Lending was appropriate for the PEDP. The design took into
account ongoing reforms to strengthen fiscal policies through PER and MTEF, decentralization and public
sector reforms. This included Government's well-established sector policy framework, implementation
arrangements, and reflected the lessons learned from the previous experience on IDA adjustment operations
in Tanzania. IDA's support focused on policy reforms, institutional improvement, actions and policies
which Government had already taken and/or would take in the future.




                                                     - 5 -

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
ICR Rating: Satisfactory

The achievement of the program's objectives is rated Satisfactory based on the following outcomes:

    (i) Greater access to education as measured by increased enrollment in primary education.

    (ii) Improved primary education quality, measured by increments in the passing scores in the National
    Primary School Leaving Examination (PSLE); availability of textbooks and other learning materials;
    more qualified teaching force; and reduced dropout rates.

    (iii) Strengthened institutional capacity and management, measured by the enhanced capacity in: (a)
    MoEC by providing policy and guidelines, and monitoring education delivery; and (b) PO-RALG by
    delivering primary education through regional administration offices, councils, wards, and schools; and
    strengthened community participation and school level management and accountability.

    (iv) Improved resource availability and utilization, measured by increased non-salary expenditures in
    primary school budget.

Expansion of enrollment in primary education

The expansion of primary education has been successful in accordance with the Government's goal of
achieving UPE. Gross Enrollment Ratio (GER) increased from 78 percent in 2000 to 106 percent in 2004.
Net Enrollment Ratio (NER) increased from 59 percent in 2000 to 91 percent in 2004 (Table 1). In
relation to gender parity, an almost equal number of girls and boys were enrolled in Grade 1. About 49
percent girls and 51 percent boys were enrolled in primary schools in 2004. In some communities older
children between the age of 11-13, who could not get a place in Grade 1, were enrolled in the COBET
program, specifically designed for those who missed formal primary education. However, implementation
of the COBET program was delayed until in 2004. In this regard, most of the children considered as
"older" joined the normal formal schooling by 2004 as shown in MoEC's data. The success in enrollment
expansion was attributed to concerted efforts by the Government, IDA, Donors, CSOs, and other
stakeholders. The success was also attributed to an increased level of community participation in the PEDP
implementation.

Table 1. Tanzania­ Primary Education Enrollment Ratios, 2000-2004
                                        2000          2001          2002           2003          2004
Growth Enrollment Ratio (%)              78            84            99            102            106
Net Enrolment Ratio (%)                  59            66            81             89             91
Source: "Basic Statistics in Education", 1995-2004 Ministry of Education and Culture, Tanzania.

Improvement of primary education quality

Tanzania does not yet have a standardized performance system in place for assessing learning
achievements. Instead, Tanzania uses the PSLE results as indicator to measure the improvement in quality.
The PSLE is conducted by the National Examinations Council of Tanzania (NECTA) on an annual basis
and taken at the end of Grade 7. It covers three subjects: language, general knowledge, and mathematics.
The PSLE was designed to determine whether the students at that grade level had acquired the necessary



                                                     - 6 -

knowledge and skills outlined in the prescribed curriculum. The results of PSLE also have served as
criteria for enrollment selection to secondary education.

The ICR mission, therefore, used the existing nationwide PSLE results as one of the proxy indicators to
measure quality. MoEC information shows that PLSE pass rates improved from 22 percent in 2000 to 48
percent in 2004 nationally. In this regard, it seems that the increased enrollment expansion in primary
education did not necessarily mean compromising quality. This could have been attributed to the adopted
phasing approach of the enrollment policy, which allowed the Government to manage the expansion more
gradually.

Although the PSLE pass rates have improved, the percentage is still very low as it implies that the 52
percent of the students who did not pass the PSLE, have not acquired enough skills from the primary
education curriculum. The situation could be more challenging since the PSLE may not be a useful tool to
measure performance. Given this situation, the key challenge for the Government would be to focus more
on improving the quality of primary education, including adopting better systems for assessing student
learning achievement.

Table 2. Results of Primary School Leaving Examination, 2002-2004
                         2000              2001               2002            2003            2004
Candidates              389,746          444,903            492,472          492,472            n.a.
Passes                   85,576          110,633            133,674          196,273            n.a.
% Passes                  22                25                 27              40               48
 Source: "Basic Statistics in Education", 1995-2004, Ministry of Education and Culture, Tanzania.

The availability of textbooks has improved. On average, before launching the PEDP, eight students shared
one book on each subject. In 2003, the book/pupil ratio improved to 1:4. The Government target is to
reach a ratio of 1:1 by 2006. This would require extended external financing to continue to support text
book provision and strengthening the procurement and book management systems.

Teacher's mastery of the curriculum and teaching skills was improved through the pre-service and
in-services teacher training interventions. The proportion of Grade A teachers increased from 46 percent in
1999 to 58 percent in 2004. However, more qualified teachers are still needed. In addition, teacher
demand has increased, given the recent expansion of secondary education through the Secondary Education
Development Program (SEDP) which became effective in October 2004. Anecdotal reports indicate that
some diploma and Grade A teachers teaching in primary schools have been transferred to teach in
secondary schools. This re-emphasizes the need to continue with pre-service training as well as providing
professional development of teachers through a well established system of in-service training focusing on
(i) continuous short training sessions, and (ii) upgrading teachers from Grade C/B to A level. The
"Tanzania Country Education Sector Status Report" states that there is a positive relationship between the
proportions of Grade A teachers and PSLE performance. As the proportion of Grade A teachers in a
district increases, performance on PSLE also improves. Currently, about 42 percent of primary school
teachers are still in Grades B and C, having obtained minimal training after completing primary school.
There has however, been an improvement in upgrading the grade B/C teachers to Grade A during the
PEDP implementation. Before PEDP implementation, the Grade B/C teachers were 50 percent. Further
work in the upgrading of teachers is still needed. Furthermore, given the high demand for teacher supply for
both primary and secondary education, the Government recently established a Task Force representing the
MoEC, MSTHE and faculties of education to come up with a more comprehensive strategy for training and
developing primary and secondary education teachers. The Task Force is coordinated by the Teacher



                                                      - 7 -

Education Department of the MOEC.

Dropout rates between Grades 4 and 5 declined from 6.8 percent in 2000 to 5 percent in 2004. This
indicates that most of the Grade 4 students passed the National Standard IV Examinations between 2000
and 2004. The results of the examinations are used as selection criteria to promote students from Grade 4
to Grade 5. Students who do not pass the Grade 4 examinations are supposed to repeat the grade. Some of
them choose to dropout rather than repeating.

Strengthened institutional capacity and management

Implementation of the PEDP has been through the already established Government system. This has
helped to strengthen the institutional arrangements to ensure successful implementation of the program at
the center, council and school levels. The system performed as planned through capacity building
activities, increased resource allocations at the different levels and well defined roles. Most people involved
in the implementation of PEDP at these levels were sensitized about the PEDP. Multimedia channels were
used to inform the general public about the program. Evidence from reports and various stakeholders
suggests that, efficiency and effectiveness has been improved in the delivery of primary education.
Coordination between councils and schools has also improved with increased school support from the
councils. The LGAs ensured that schools have books and learning materials, new classrooms and furniture
where necessary, and functioning school bank accounts. Management of funds at the school level has also
improved.

Furthermore, PEDP has provided experiences and lessons on how to strengthen dialogue and coordination
between the Government, Donor Partners and CSOs towards further development of the entire education
sector including all the sub-sectors.

Improved resource availability and utilization

Improvement was made in resource availability and utilization. Allocation of primary education budget to
non-salary expenditure was 4 percent in 2000. By 2004 the proportion increased to 27 percent. This
allowed schools to have more non-salary funds to procure teaching and learning materials, carry-out
teacher seminars and community sensitization. These interventions led to improved student learning.
Allocation of non-salary funds to councils and schools increased mainly through the Capitation and
Development Grants, thus creating a more positive education and learning environment than was the case
before the start of PEDP. This has also enhanced the capacity of councils and communities to manage
resources for other forms of development within the decentralization process of the local government.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component I ­ Expansion of Primary Education Enrollment.
ICR Rating: Highly Satisfactory

This component successfully established admission capacity to accommodate the dramatic increase in
demand for primary education following the abolition of primary school fees and other levies in 2001. The
GER increased from 78 percent in 2000 to 106 percent in 2004, and the NER from 59 percent in 2000 to
91 percent in 2004. The proportion of girls and boys enrolled in Grade 1 are balanced (49 percent girls, 51
percent boys). The number of seven-year olds enrolled in Grade 1 in 2004 increased almost 5 times
compared to year 2000 (Table 3). The proportion of seven-year olds enrolled in Grade 1 in 2000 was only
18 percent; the share rose to 91 percent in 2002 (well above the projections), and 86 percent, and 84
percent in 2003 and 2004, respectively. The Government's target is to enroll all seven-year-old children in



                                                       - 8 -

schools by 2006. The success in expansion of enrollment was largely attributed to community participation
and high government commitment in allocating resources, implementing, and managing the program.

Table 3. 7-Year Olds Enrollment in Grade I, 2000-2004
                                         2000           2001           2002          2003            2004
 Population of 7-year olds             1,011,000     1,037,000       1,066,000     1,092,000       1,106,000

 # of 7-year olds enrolled in
 Grade I in Govt. Schools               181,783       316,852         968,796       941,678         926,305
 % of 7-year-olds enrolled in
 Grade I                                  18             31             91             86             84
Sources: Population Projection: EdStats, World Bank
Enrollment: "Basic Statistics in Education, 1995-2004" page 14, Ministry of Education and Culture,
Tanzania

The following are specific outputs under this component:

Construction. Under the PEDP, a Development Grant was designed to support the construction,
rehabilitation, furnishing and equipping of classrooms, teachers' houses, and sanitary facilities. The funds
were disbursed from the Treasury to respective school bank accounts through Education Account No. 5 of
district councils. The construction methods were based on experiences of low-cost school community
building programs with community participation and innovations, which were supported by the PO-RALG
and donor agencies before the PEDP was designed. Construction guidelines were provided by the MoEC
through the councils.

The impact of construction using the Development Grants were significant in almost every village and
community in Tanzania. However, more construction is still required in some communities. Besides the
PEDP, limited support is also being provided through other sources such as through NGOs like Care
International, Plan International, Save the Children Fund, and Oxfam. Coordination of the support is
handled at council and district levels.

Classrooms: A total of 29,922 new classrooms were built during 2002-2004. About 19,558 were still
under construction at the time of the ICR preparation. The target for the three years was to construct
41,467 more classrooms. Communities in Tanzania were participating in constructing classrooms even
before the PEDP started. However, the communities became more motivated by the provision of additional
resources through the Development Grants. This helped communities to construct and rehabilitate more
classrooms within a short period.

In addition, another World Bank Project, Tanzania Social Action Fund I (TASAF- I) constructed 2,586
classrooms, 335 teacher houses, 468 teacher offices, and 651 toilets between 2001 and 2004 in 40 districts
which implemented TASAF- I. Support through TASAF-I, depended on felt needs expressed by
communities in the process of identifying their community based projects for TASAF -I support. The needs
were coordinated at the council level to ensure synergy with the PEDP interventions in communities. The
MoEC provided guidelines and school construction standards through the councils.

Teachers' houses: Construction of teachers' houses was behind schedule. Lack of housing for teachers is
likely to affect the redeployment of teachers to rural areas. Due to limited resources, the rate at which
teachers' houses are being constructed is inadequate to meet the housing needs for both new and the already



                                                     - 9 -

servicing teachers, particularly in the rural areas.

Recruitment of teachers. During 2002-2004, a total of 32,325 teachers were recruited to respond to the
high surge of enrollment. This figure surpassed the target set by the Government of recruiting 31,265
teachers. It is expected that the Government will reach its goal of the 45.1 pupil teacher ratio in the next
few years provided that pre-service training continues as planned to satisfy teacher supply and demands
both for primary and secondary education, as well as taking into consideration the level of teacher attrition
that could be resulting from the HIV/AIDS pandemic.

Double shift. This was another approach used to manage the enrollment surge. It functioned with a
morning and an afternoon session and was particularly necessary for Grades 1 and 2. It was intended that
a maximum of 25 percent of teachers would teach on double shift during the PEDP period. In 2004, a total
of 2,877 (21 percent) schools were implementing double shifts; and 15,012 (13 percent) teachers were
involved in double shift teaching. In terms of number of teachers involved in double shift, it was lower than
indicated in the PEDP design. An incentive package for double shift teachers was recommended in the
PEDP design with the view of motivating more teachers to take double shift duties. This does not seem to
have been implemented adequately as indicated in one of the CSOs reports (Hakielimu 2004).
Furthermore, in some urban areas, communities did not like the double shift system because of poor
security for pupils returning home in the evenings. Absence of feeding arrangements in schools also made
pupils unable to concentrate because of hunger. Furthermore, the effectiveness of teachers diminished in the
afternoon sessions. Therefore, this situation, could have lowered class instruction time in schools
implementing double shift.

Although double shift was not fully implemented as planned, it did contribute to better utilization of
teachers in areas with a shortage of classrooms. In the meantime, the demand for double shift is expected
to decrease given the increased number of classrooms and the hiring of new teachers. In addition,
enrollment started to taper off in 2003 with more children having been enrolled in 2001 and 2002 beyond
the projections in the design.

Expanded Non-formal education for out of school children and youth. In 2001, it was estimated that
about 234,000 aged 11-13 and 382,000 aged 14-18 Tanzanian children had dropped out of school or had
never been enrolled. Given the low capacity of the formal education system and the resource constraints
that would likely prevail in the education system for the foreseeable future, it was likely that a significant
number of girls and boys from the specified age group would remain outside the formal system. To address
the backlog of the unschooled young people, PEDP included non-formal education and COBET as a
short-to-medium term strategy.

About 11,560 children aged 11-13 enrolled in COBET cohort one in 2002 and 80,000 in 2004. Enrolment
was planned to grow to 163,700 in 2004. The aim was that at least some of these children could
subsequently be mainstreamed into primary school at Grade 5 or above. No clear evidence during the ICR
mission determined if mainstreaming to higher grades took place.

COBET cohort two was designed for youth aged 14-18 (estimated illiterates, 382,800). It was operated at
a very small scale in 2003. Overall, progress in the areas of non-formal education has been limited.

Component II ­ Improvement of Primary Education Quality.
ICR Rating: Satisfactory

This component was rated Satisfactory based on implementation of its projected actions and output as


                                                    - 10 -

follows: (i) increased provision of textbooks, teaching, and other learning materials which resulted into
improved textbook/pupil ratio from 1:8 before the program launch to 1:4 in 2004; (ii) provision of
pre-service and in-service teacher training; (iii) increased school inspection, and provision of support to
teachers, especially to pre-service teacher training students while extending their training in the field having
attended one year of residential teacher training; and (iv) implementation of the "Design for the
Improvement of Quality of Primary Education" strategy which was approved by BEDC in April 2003 to
review and enhance the relevance of the current curriculum, improve the efficiency of pre-service and
in-service teacher training, and revision of examinations. Implementation of the strategy started in 2004
and will be spread over five year period. This is in accordance with the PEDP design, particularly the
policy matrix and the tranche release Agreed Actions which indicate that the quality strategy would start to
be implemented in the third year of the PEDP implementation. At the time of the ICR preparation, there
were no reports made available to assess the impact of the implementation of the quality strategy.
However, the joint Government Donor PEDP Review in 2004 revealed that quality enhancement remains to
be a crucial challenge in PEDP implementation.

Analysis by sub-component:

Provision of textbooks and other learning materials: The Government through PEDP successfully
introduced a Capitation Grant to schools to allow funds to flow to the school level for other charges. The
Capitation Grant was about $10 per pupil out of which US$4 was for textbooks, and US$6 was to support
teaching guides and supplementary teaching materials, purchase of chalk, exercise books, pens and pencils,
administrative materials, and examination costs at the school level. Prior to 2004, the procurement of
textbooks was carried out by district councils, therefore, the schools received a Capitation Grant that
excluded the US$4 for textbooks. Other Capitation Grant items continued to be managed by the school
committees.

During the school year 2001/2002, a total of 1,347,643 textbooks were purchased. The textbook/pupil
ratio improved from an average of 1:8 to 1:3 for Grade 1 to 4. However, the ratio for Grade 5 to 7
continued to be high at an average of 1:6, owing to shortage of funds and expanded enrollment. During
2002/2003, a total of 2,818,531 textbooks were procured by the district councils and distributed to schools.
The textbook-pupil ratio remained 1:3 for Grades 1 to 4 and the textbook/pupil ratio in Grades 5 to 7, on
average, improved from 1:6 to 1:4.

To reduce the current shortage of textbooks in schools and eventually reach the target of book/pupil ratio
1:1, more funds are needed to procure textbooks and other teaching and learning materials. Since
school-based procurement only started in 2004, continued capacity building would be needed to further
empower the school committees in implementing the school based textbook procurement system more
comprehensively.

In-service teacher training: The program supports school based in-service professional development of
teachers with support from Teacher Resources Centers (TRC) and Ward Centers. The training program
focused on strengthening the capacity of primary school teachers to take greater responsibility in improving
classroom teaching and learning. It addressed classroom management, multi-grade and double-shift
teaching, work plan preparation, pedagogical and teaching skills. During 2002-2004, all teachers
participated in workshops and seminars on various themes including teaching subjects, administration and
management, orientation on the new curriculum, and HIV/AIDS. Some of the teachers have also been
participating in a training program aimed at upgrading their qualifications from Grade B/C to Grade A.
The up-grading program for the teachers started in 2003, using modular course materials for teachers'
self-directed studies at their schools. However, concerns expressed during the 2004 joint Review indicated


                                                      - 11 -

that school based professional development of teachers, has not been systematic enough and not necessarily
based on assessment of school/cluster immediate needs. It is anticipated that these issues will continue to be
addressed as the "Design for the Improvement of Quality of Primary Education" continues to be
implemented.

Pre-service teacher training: Based on the PEDP demands, Government gave priority to pre-service
teacher education to ensure production of quality teachers. It also addressed recruitment gaps due to
significant increases in enrollment which raised teacher demand. Between 2002 and 2004, a total of 32,456
students graduated from Teachers' Colleges, which surpassed the target of 29,000 during the three years
period.

Over the last three years, the pre-service teacher training program has been changed from a two year
residential training to a two-tier system during which, students spend one year at college and another year
in school to practice teaching. The teacher trainees were under supervision by head-teachers and
occasionally by the school inspectors. Most of the trainees seemed to be satisfied with the two tier system.
However, administrative, financial arrangements and more professional support to the trainee teachers in
their field placement were not as adequate as expected. Teacher trainees are supposed to be professionally
supported on a continuous basis, and mentored by educational professionals during their practical in the
field. However, such support and guidance has been limited and sometimes ad hoc.

Furthermore, the effectiveness of the two-tier system has not been ascertained. Both the "Quality
Designs" and the PEDP reviews of 2003 and 2004 advised that an assessment of the effectiveness of the
two tier system be carried out. To date, the assessment has not yet been undertaken. The recent revised
curriculum by the MoEC and the Tanzania Institute of Education (TIE) is designed for a two-year-college
based training. It seems, therefore, that the two-tier system is for temporary and transitory measures and
not as a permanent delivery system for teacher training in the country. An in-depth assessment of the
two-tier system would help to inform the Government which appropriate policies to adopt for pre-service
training.

Inspectorate system: Inspection and provision of support to all primary school teachers are considered
central in enhancing teaching and quality assurance. Before the PEDP, each pupil was supposed to
contribute Tshs 200/= (almost quarter of a US dollar) per year for inspection. The contribution was frozen
in July 2001 together with the abolition of school fees. Financing of inspection is now covered through
Government annual allocations. In 2002 a total of 7,043 primary education units were inspected. This
figure exceeded the target of 6,402 set by the Government. Data for 2003 and 2004 were not available at
the time of ICR preparation.

Component III ­ Capacity Building for Effective Delivery of Primary Education.
ICR Rating: Highly Satisfactory

This component was successful in enhancing capacities at the community, school, and district council
levels where the majority of the key players for PEDP implementation are located. In order to inform the
public and to ensure the success of PEDP implementation, an Information, Education and Communication
campaign was carried out. Booklets, posters, flyers, newsletters, and guidelines on PEDP were distributed
to the councils, communities, and schools. Manuals for construction, procurement and financial
management were produced and disseminated to council and school levels. Frequent communication
between the councils, regional secretariats and ministerial headquarters were maintained to provide clear
and correct interpretation of the Circulars and Guidelines. Information on disbursements of funds from the
center to the councils were published in widely circulated newspapers. The same was done at school levels


                                                     - 12 -

through notice boards once the schools received funds from the councils.

Under this component, all school committees were trained in participatory planning, financial management,
procurement procedures, good governance, HIV/AIDS, gender, and environment. Most district councils
appointed HIV/AIDS co-coordinators and in each school at least one teacher was responsible for health
education, including HIV/AIDS. Despite these achievements, coordination at the BEDC level towards
formulating and implementing a comprehensive HIV/AIDS strategy in the education sector is lacking.
Most of the activities are isolated making it difficult to realize the impact and to coordinate aid for
HIV/AIDS interventions from different agencies such as from the global programs, bilateral donors and the
Tanzania Multi HIV/AIDS Program (T-MAP).

The ICR mission visited schools and met with most of the school committee members. The members felt
that the training they received empowered and made them more confident in performing their school
committee roles as their skills and knowledge in participatory planning and managing school funds, has
been enhanced. This made the committees more responsible and accountable for school development in
their communities. Community participation augmented financing and increased the pace of classrooms
construction and ownership. As a result, village governments have taken responsibility for management
and security of schools.

Capacity in financial management has been enhanced. In most cases, the new funding modalities and the
disbursements of funds took place as designed in PEDP institutional arrangements. However, some funds
were transferred from the central level by MOEC and PORALG to the councils instead of directly from
MoF to the councils, thus increasing transaction costs and chances of irregularities. Furthermore, there has
been shortfall in expected disbursement amounts. In some cases, councils had a tendency to withhold funds
intended for schools.

Development and Capitation Grants were among the principle mechanisms of funding PEDP at school
levels. The non-salary funds were reaching the schools and contributing towards improving the quality of
education through provision of more classrooms, furniture, sanitary facilities, textbooks, as well as
teaching and learning materials. To ensure transparency of funds allocation and disbursement, most of the
councils published information on PEDP funds allocated and disbursed to schools. In each school, the head
teacher had information about funds received and spent displayed on the office walls and notice boards.

Monitoring and evaluation (M&E) of PEDP implementation was budgeted under this component. The
funds were allocated to regions, councils and wards to support each level in fulfilling both supervisory and
monitoring roles and to provide support to schools. Periodic visits to schools provided technical guidance
and political support to stakeholders implementing PEDP, at the school and community levels. The
PO-RALG in collaboration with the MoEC has been preparing Annual Performance Reports for PEDP
since 2002. Two joint reviews, by a review team consisting of international and local consultants, and
several staff from MoEC and PO-RALG, were carried out in 2003 and 2004, respectively. However, the
M&E system at all levels need to be further strengthened at the center, LGAs and school levels, through a
better established and functioning Education Management Information System (EMIS).

Component IV ­ Institutional Reform/Arrangements.
ICR Rating: Satisfactory

This component was successful in ensuring that the Government's institutional arrangements at the center,
LGAs, and community levels were fully utilized and strengthened for delivery of quality primary education.
In this regard, the ESDP structure, the LGAs set up, has been instrumental to the PEDP success. The


                                                     - 13 -

LGAs and the institutionalized regulations in place for some years, helped to empower communities
towards development. This existing environment which was complemented by the ongoing reforms played
an important role throughout the PEDP implementation.

The PEDP successfully utilized and strengthened the Government institutional arrangements that were
already in existence to ensure successful implementation. Council and school level institutions performed
as planned and the capacity building activities were effective. People involved in the implementation of
PEDP at all levels received training. Evidence suggested that, efficiency and effectiveness were improved
in the delivery of primary education. Coordination between councils and schools has also improved.
Because of the decentralized system, it has been possible for the Government to monitor and ensure that
schools have books, new classrooms, and functioning school bank accounts. The management of funds at
the school level has, in general, been functioning reasonably well.

The PEDP has been utilizing and strengthening the existing institutions as follows:

The ESDP framework and structure provided coordination mechanisms through the BEDC, VFEDC and
the THEDC representing each sub-sector (primary, secondary, vocational and tertiary respectively) under
the coordination and leadership of the PMO. This structure was used for coordination and joint policy
dialogue between the Government, the Bank, Donors and CSOs in carrying out the Country Status
analytical work for the PEDP, designing and implementation of the program.

Within the context of the decentralization policy, the roles and functions of primary education delivery
became further institutionalized within the LGAs with the oversight of the PO-RALG. MoEC continued
with policy making, setting standards and quality assurance, in collaboration with PO-RALG. The LGAs
roles were to guide, support, and coordinate the implementation work by communities and school
committees.

PEDP was implemented through the normal structure in the MoEC, PO-RALG and LGAs. However,
coordinating officers were appointed in MOEC and PO-RALG to facilitate coordination of day to day
PEDP activities and logistics of the BEDC with heads of departments, and linking with donors and CSOs.
The PO-RALG coordinating office has mainly been linking and supporting with the regions and district
councils, as well as provision of physical inputs into schools, notably construction and financial
allocations. Appointment of the coordinators was one of the Agreed Actions for the PEDP Effectiveness.
However, there have been concerns among different stakeholders on the establishment and use of the
coordinator in MoEC. This has been perceived as weakening than strengthening the Department of Primary
Education in playing its major role in the PEDP. In this regard, joint review reports of 2003 and 2004
emphasized the need to mainstream PEDP activities within appropriate departments in MOEC.

Overall it should be noted that the ESDP structure, together with the LGAs set up, including the school
committees, has helped provide locus standi for PEDP implementation.

With the LGA decentralized system, school committees were responsible for preparing action plans and
data collection relating to a number of pupils in each class and for the whole school to receive allocations
of Capitation Grants which were per capita based. Ward Development Committees (WDC) were
responsible for verification of the prepared plans and the data collected by the school committees. The
WDC took the responsibility of supporting the school committees and village government to translate
correctly, and implement policies from the national level as well as to advise them on matters regarding
PEDP implementation. The village governments also monitored daily activities at the community level and
provided feedback to the oversight institutions as part of their ordinary established roles within the LGAs


                                                     - 14 -

and LGRP. This institutional arrangement has been most efficient and effective in the reforming councils
where school mapping and micro-planning were piloted and implemented. School mapping and
micro-planning were operating as a project financed by the Japanese International Corporation Agency..

Within this overall satisfactory situation, some shortcomings were noted. The division of roles between
MoEC and PO-RALG was sometimes not clear enough, resulting in conflicting interests.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
ICR Rating: Substantial

The implementation development impact of PEDP is rated Substantial. The Program strengthened the
capacity to deliver primary education services at district councils, schools and communities.

The decentralized roles in the delivery of primary education were further strengthened by the PEDP design
and implementation with more defined roles between MoEC, LGAs and the PO-RALG. The LGAs have
been providing guidance, support, and coordinating implementation of work of communities and school
committees. MoEC continued with policy making, setting of standards and quality assurance. PO-RALG
has been overseeing implementation. Overall, the PEDP has helped to strengthen collaboration between
MoEC and PO-RALG and further institutionalized the roles of LGAs in primary education.

Through the PEDP, all relevant leaders at the district level were sensitized and took responsibility for
implementation. The district councils showed great enthusiasm, commitment and endeavor in implementing
the PEDP. They worked closely with schools and school committees to ensure that funds were spent
properly; coordinated annual development plans from the primary schools; and communicated education
information to communities and to zonal and national levels. Flow of funds to school level would not have
been successful without the decentralized structure and government determination. The National
Micro-finance Bank (NMB), which has branches in every district, has been very useful in accelerating
establishment of school accounts. If the NMB structure and system was not available down to the district
level, the flow of funds to school levels would not have happened. Immediately after PEDP was finalized
in July 2001, PO-RALG consulted the NMB to inform them that all primary schools would open bank
accounts with the bank firm (being almost the only banking system with branches at district level). This
was to ensure schools and communities got full support in opening and operating their bank accounts.

At the community levels, all 12,686 school committees were trained in the areas of participatory planning,
governance, financing management, and procurement. The enhanced skills and knowledge gained through
the training had a positive impact. Evidence of the achievements are the opening and managing of school
bank accounts, preparing school action plans, implementation of textbook procurement, and utilizing the
funds efficiently. With the strengthened capacity, school committees took more responsibility in classroom
construction, procurement of textbook, and other teaching and learning materials. This has strengthened a
culture of ownership and increased responsibility by the school committees in monitoring daily school
activities. Communities developed more interest in ensuring that children have a friendly learning
environment. More evidence shows they were able to manage the surge in enrollment within their specific
communities and ensured that classrooms, books, and desks were in place on time for students. However,



                                                    - 15 -

in some communities problems still exist in data accuracy and record keeping, inadequate skills in financial
management, and procurement of textbooks and materials.

There is no doubt that institutional development has significantly improved. The PEDP experience showed
that the decentralization of primary education delivery to LGAs worked. This requires systematic and
continued capacity building of council staff, teachers and members of school committees at the various
levels. Most of these achievements in PEDP decentralization were also made possible because of the
LGRP and related national level reforms.

Some other capacity building actions are in progress. For instance, the Government issued guidelines for
the procurement of textbooks and other education books and materials at school level. Training of school
committees on the new procurement of textbooks and other school materials started in 2004. The training
covered: (i) book selection, procurement procedures as per procurement Act No. 3 of 2001, (ii) book
management and storage, and (iii) promoting readership among teachers and pupils. The school-based
textbook procurement policy is currently under implementation nationally.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
No major negative outside factors affected implementation and outcome for PEDP.

Tanzania's macroeconomic performance continued to improve over the past few years. The annual real
GDP growth rate reached 5.6 percent in 2001, 7.2 percent in 2002, and 7.1 percent in 2003. A notable
outcome of the macroeconomic stability and moderate growth achieved over recent years allowed the
Government to steadily increase budget allocations to poverty priority sectors including education.
Moreover, Development Partners' support to poverty reduction programs has been significant. The
improved macroeconomic performance, together with political stability in the country, including the
ongoing reforms has supported the education policies and strategies set by the Government.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The achievements realized so far clearly reflect the strong and continuing commitment of the Government
in primary education. There is sustained commitment among political leadership, communities, local
leaders and civil servants to the PEDP and entire UPE. The commitment extends beyond the MoEC,
PO-RALG, and the PMO by involving other ministries with direct linkage to the education sector as
indicated in the ESDP framework. The MoF has demonstrated readiness in allocating budget resources
necessary to support the PEDP and included them as a key element in the Government's poverty reduction
program.

Despite these achievements, there have been some implementation issues, which the Government could
have handled better:

l Delays in disbursing funds to schools. In general, there was an improvement in funds allocated to
    councils during the first three years of PEDP implementation. However, the process of remitting
    PEDP funds encountered a number of problems that need to be resolved to further improve the flow.
    Firstly, remittance of funds from the MoF to councils was found to be slow and irregular. Secondly,
    some funds have been transferred from the central level by MoEC and PO-RALG to the councils
    instead of directly from MoF to the councils, thus increasing transaction costs and chances of
    irregularities. Thirdly, there has been shortfall in expected disbursement amounts. Fourthly, some
    councils tend to withhold funds intended for schools.



                                                     - 16 -

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:



l Given the inconsistency of the timing of donor funds, the flow of funds to schools and other levels has
    been somehow irregular. In particular, funds from the PFP failed to conform to the Government's
    practice of disbursing funds on a quarterly basis to the councils. The funds affected were those
    budgeted for under the MoEC and PO-RALG, which are comprised of the Development Partner's
    contributions. These factors are under both MoEC and PO-RALG control and could be improved with
    greater donor cooperation.

l Delays in delivery of textbooks experienced at the beginning of the PEDP implementation resulted in a
    sudden increase in demand for teaching and learning materials. This overwhelmed the local suppliers,
    causing delays in delivery of some materials, e.g. exercise books and textbooks. This could have been
    anticipated earlier and actions could have been taken to mitigate the delays.

l Government's system was used to audit the PEDP through the Controller and Auditor General (CAG).
    In addition, a separate financial audit was conducted to fulfill fiduciary requirements of the PFP. The
    audit reports were satisfactorily certified. In addition, a Public Expenditure Tracking study (PETs)
    was carried out in 2003/2004. The PETs report indicates that, inconsistencies in financial
    management and inaccuracies in data and record-keeping existed in some councils and schools. The
    Government's Prevention of Corruption Bureau (PCB) in playing its mandatory role of strengthening
    accountability and governance in the public sector, further investigated the irregularities reported by
    the PETs. Report of the recent joint Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability Review PEFR
    (2004/2005) mission in Tanzania led by the World Bank, indicates that inconsistencies and
    irregularities have been confirmed by the PCB. These included "cost ineffective purchases of school
    materials under instructions from District Education Officers and District Treasurers"; some school
    committees were paid allowances out of funds allocated for school supplies; and in some places there
    was a lack of transparency in displaying receipts for expenditures. According to the PEFR report,
    accountability measures are being enforced by the Government against those concerned.

5.4 Costs and financing:

The PEDP was designed to disburse against the implementation of policy measures and achievement of
output indicators shown in the "Policy Matrix and Tranche Release Conditions". It is not designed to
disburse to specific expenditure categories. It is not possible, therefore, to allocate the Credit/Grant
proceeds to any specific expenditure categories of the operation. The IDA Credit (SDR119 million, or
US$150 equivalent) and the co-financing of the Netherlands Grant (US$50 million) were structured into
three tranches. The funds were disbursed after the Government met the Tranche Release Conditions. The
operation closed as scheduled on October 31, 2004.

The budgetary support provided under the PEDP helped the Government to increase its expenditure on
primary education. As a percentage of GDP, education spending rose from 3.3 percent in 2000/01 to 5.1
percent in 2003/04. Much of the overall education sector spending has gone to primary education with
higher increases in 2002/03 and 2003/04 financial years. The budget in these two years was almost 74 and
71 percent respectively as indicated in Table 4.




                                                     - 17 -

Table 4. Distribution of Recurrent Budget Expenditure by Sub-Sector 2000/01 - 2003/04 (% Share)

                                                   2000/01         2001/02         2002/03         2003/04
                                                   (Actual)        (Actual)        (Budget)       (Budget)
 Primary Education                                     65.4            61.3           73.9             71.4
Secondary Education                                      6.0            8.2            5.8              6.6
Teacher Education                                        1.4            2.0            1.3              1.6
 Higher and Technical Education                        21.9            22.8           15.2             16.7
Administration and Others                                5.3            5.7            3.8              3.7
Total Budget                                           100.0         100.0           100.0           100.0
Budget in Tshs (million)                            189,200        282,100         400,100         464,400
Sources: Tanzania Education Sector Expenditure Review 2004, May 2004

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
ICR Rating: Highly Likely

It is very likely that the achievements reached during PEDP implementation will be maintained for the
following reasons:

On the Institutional Aspect:

l The joint implementation review mechanism with government, Donors and CSOs will provide a
     platform for continued policy dialogue.

l The ESDP continues to be the potential platform through which policy dialogue on primary and overall
     education will be enhanced.

l The capacity of delivery of primary education at the local level, especially at the community and school
     levels has been enhanced. The communities have strong ownership of schools by taking more
     responsibility in school activities. The PEDP has made a significant difference to the lives of children,
     parents and teachers across Tanzania. The high spirit, good momentum, and institutional capacity
     built under the PEDP are highly likely to stay after the operation ends.

l The achievements are further being strengthened and sustained through the ongoing commitment by the
     Government in enhancing policy implementation of decentralization to the Local Government and the
     public sector reforms through the LGRP and the PSRP.


On the Financial Aspect:

l The Government has made a commitment to improve primary education. Its strategy and policy for
     primary education are long-term and are linked to the national goal of improving economic
     development and reducing poverty as indicated in the MKUKUTA. As a percentage of GDP,
     education spending rose from 3.3 percent in 2000/01 to 5.1 percent in 2003/04. Much of the overall
     education sector spending has gone to primary education (71 percent in 2003/2004). In addition, the
     Government has been using the PER and the MTEF as a tool to monitor the intra-sectoral allocation to
     increase efficiency in resources allocation and utilization, and to ensure adequate funding for primary
     education.

l The Tanzania PRSC III IDA Credit will continue to provide budget support for the development of



                                                      - 18 -

    primary education.

l Donor assistance is about 12 percent of the GDP and donor financing claims almost 51 percent of the
    Government budget. Most of foreign funds are the main source of the development budget. The
    dominance of foreign sources in financing development expenditures for the education sector has
    persisted for many years, and this trend is likely to continue for many more. On the Government side,
    the challenging question is whether the Government will be in a position to sustain the recurrent
    expenditure pattern of the ongoing implementation of the PEDP, SEDP and the existing demands in the
    Vocational, Technical and Tertiary sub-sectors within the broader ESDP. The challenge is even higher
    now than before given the increased priority of other sectors, as defined in the MKUKUTA. This
    implies that more competition for resources is likely than it was at the time the PEDP was designed.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

By moving from project lending to a budgetary support for SWAps, the PEDP has already proved a
successful transition. The PEDP has no implementation component beyond the prior agreements, and
therefore all actions taken under the PEDP are part of the Government's regular program in the education
sector. The PEDP is the means through which donors provide support to the Government's policy and
reforms in delivery of primary education services.

As the first sub-sector implementing a SWAp modality, the PEDP, has helped to establish ground towards
future development of an overall education sector SWAp that would include all the sub-sectors. Current
donor and government discussions are focusing on the need for an overall sector SWAps.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

ICR Rating: Highly Satisfactory

The Bank's performance during preparation was Highly Satisfactory. The Bank operation was based on
the Government's PEDP. There was extensive and broad participation of various stakeholders at different
levels (Government, Donors, CSOs, teachers, school committee, etc) during formulation of the
Government's program ­ PEDP. Analytical work for the PEDP was financed by the Government, the
Bank, and other Development Partners. Financial and economic analysis as well as procurement
assessments were also undertaken. In particular, the proceeds of the HRDP ­ Cr. 2991 financed among
other things, the country status analysis for the PEDP and related preparations.

Furthermore, during preparation and appraisal of the Bank operation, the Bank team engaged in a fruitful
and continuous dialogue with the Government, Development Partners, and CSOs involved in education,
faith organizations and other stakeholders. The aim of the dialogue was to build consensus and agree on
key aspects of the operation. This included among other things, arrangement for financial flow and
management, monitoring and evaluation, procurement, capacity building, synergy with donor partner
funding mechanisms, and technical assistance modalities. The Credit was fully consistent with the PRS
and the Bank's CAS in Tanzania, which aimed to foster socially and economically sustainable development
by reducing poverty and inequality through investment in human capital. The operation was designed in
close collaboration with the Government counterparts, allowing the Government to take the lead in the
preparation of technical papers and the overall process. The choice of lending instrument was appropriate
and effective in responding to the situation; it helped to provide resources as planned on an annual basis,


                                                     - 19 -

while allowing Government the flexibility to use funds on all priority areas, including recurrent costs.
Other development partners also agree that budget support could be a better way to strengthen Government
capacity to plan and manage such policy reforms and to enable the sector to be more focused on its
priorities.

7.2 Supervision:

ICR Rating: Satisfactory

Bank performance during supervision was Satisfactory. The World Bank team at the Country Office
regularly monitored implementation progress and provided technical support to the Government in the
implementation process. Adequate dialogue with Government, Development Partners, and CSOs was
maintained. Donor coordination has been strengthened significantly with the Government taking leadership
through the BEDC. For example, all Development Partners met to jointly review the actions of their
respective funds and IDA tranche release Agreed Actions. The Netherlands also provided US$50 million
through the Bank to co-finance the program over three years. There was a consensus to disburse funds into
the Government's Exchequer account whether the funds were from budget support or pooled funds.

The Bank team has been participating in joint PEDP annual reviews, and other forums such as the Public
Expenditure Reviews (PER), PRS, SEDP formulation and implementation process and post-primary
education and training analysis. This helped to provide guidance for the PEDP implementation within the
broader context of other reforms and the ESDP.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Based on the factors described above, the overall Bank performance is rated Satisfactory.


Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

ICR Rating: Highly Satisfactory

Government's performance during preparation was Highly Satisfactory. The Government demonstrated a
strong commitment to reduce poverty through investing in education. At preparation, the Government
teams developed a national strategy for primary education (based on the Country Education Sector Status
Report), together with detailed council plans under the ongoing school mapping exercise. The Government
worked closely with the donor community and other stakeholders in preparing analytical reports to reach an
in-depth understanding of the critical constraints to the performance and further development of primary
education policies and strategy. As a result, a comprehensive Education Sector Country Status Report was
produced and discussed with a wide cross-section of stakeholders. It provided understanding of the critical
constraints to the primary education sector as well as to other sub-sectors. The PEDP was derived from
the Education Sector Country Status analysis and on other various analytical studies on the sector. CSOs
engaged in education at the community levels such as the "Maarifa ni Ufunguo", also produced analytical
studies that highlighted poverty and the inability of households to contribute to education. This helped and
convinced the Government to make policy decisions to abolish school fees and other levies.

Government's ownership of the PEDP agenda was very strong and the preparation process was done in a
good collaborative manner within the ESDP context. Its leadership and coordination at the inter-ministerial



                                                     - 20 -

level in designing the necessary policies was very important in developing the PEDP.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

ICR Rating: Satisfactory

Government's performance during implementation is rated Satisfactory. The high commitment
demonstrated during the preparation phase was maintained by all leaders at the MoF, MoEC, PO-RALG,
the PMO, and all levels of Government officials involved in the PEDP implementation. The Program
benefited from consistent Government political and financial commitment and support through the entire
operation cycle. However, delays in disbursements of funds to schools slowed classroom construction and
procurement of textbooks in some councils, especially at the beginning of implementation.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

ICR Rating: Highly Satisfactory

The implementation agency's performance is rated Highly Satisfactory. Several ministries were involved
in the implementation. The PO-RALG delivers primary education through Regional Secretariats and the
LGAs. PO-RALG deals primarily with relations between the regions and district councils, the provision of
physical inputs into schools and capacity building, notably construction, financial allocations, and training
for school committees. The MoEC provides policy and planning guidance and monitors education delivery,
including education quality, setting standards, curriculum design, teacher training, national examinations
and other functions to ensure the high quality of primary education. The MoF disburses funds to the
councils and then the councils remit the funds to schools.

These ministries and the district councils showed strong commitment and enthusiasm for PEDP
implementation throughout the process. All conditions for tranche release were met (see Annex 1, Table
C). Major outcome and output indicators were achieved or are making good progress towards the target,
as the PEDP continues to be implemented. Two Joint Annual Reviews were conducted in 2003 and 2004,
respectively. In spite of some challenges at the beginning, such as shortage of qualified staff in some
councils, the council staff exerted tremendous efforts in implementation and effectively supervised the
opening of school bank accounts for both Capitation and Development Grants. These accounts have been
used satisfactorily for disbursing both types of funds. In addition, the councils are responsible for
collecting data from schools and preparing quarterly and annual reports to PO-RALG. Based on the
reports from the councils and data from MoEC, PO-RALG prepared the PEDP Annual Performance
Report for 2001/02, and 2002/03. The Annual Report for 2003/04 is near completion. The report was not
available at the time of ICR preparation.

Implementation of decentralization in the delivery of primary education has sometimes led to role conflicts
between MoEC, PO-RALG and LGAs as some of the roles which were formerly performed at the center
are now being implemented by the LGAs. Orientation to new roles within the context of decentralization is
still ongoing with positive improvement at the center and local levels. Such roles include allocation and
disbursement of funds to schools and giving schools the autonomy to manage the funds; instructions to
head teachers which are now being provided by Councils and not directly from MoEC. PO-RALG
perceives that it has a significant mission of implementing the PEDP and the delivery of primary education.
The main goal of PO-RALG is in the aspect of reforming the local government. The reforms have
significant implications in primary education delivery. Regarding education, PO-RALG officials see their
functions as co-coordinating across different sectors and implementation. In this regard, there is need to



                                                     - 21 -

enhance collaboration and communication between the PO-RALG and MOEC towards joint efforts in
delivering primary education.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Based on the factors described above, the overall Borrower's performance is rated Highly Satisfactory

8. Lessons Learned

The PEDP provided the basis for adopting SWAps with a high degree of extending the experience and
lessons to other levels of the sector. Therefore, it provides good experiences, which could be adopted by
the Bank operations supporting similar strategies and reforms. This is particularly relevant as the Bank is
moving towards undertaking more SWAps and budgetary support operations. In addition, the phased-out
approach used in the PEDP design, to respond to enrollment surge that would result from abolition of
school fees, seems to be more manageable than the "Big Bang" approach. Some of these lessons are
probably of interest beyond Tanzania. The main lessons are summarized below.

l Budget support in a SWAp for a sub-education sector can be effective in enabling the Government
    to develop and take charge of the consultative process for ongoing policy making, system reform,
    planning, and budgeting in the education sector. It can also help to ensure that external assistance is
    channeled to priorities within a coherent strategy for the sector and within the MTEF to ensure Aid
    effectiveness. A sub-sector SWAp also provides lessons for a broader sector approach that would
    include all the sub sectors.

l Too many varied requirements for pooled fund disbursements can cause delay. It is important to
    note that although the PEDP is a SWAp, financing procedures have not been fully harmonized. Pooled
    fund (resources from nine PFP - donors) disbursements have experienced frequent and excessive
    delays, mainly due to lack of clarity of the structure and contents of the quarterly plans, and delay in
    submitting progress reports required by donors as stipulated in the PFP Memorandum of
    Understanding (MoU). Some Donors still demand separate reports. In addition, the IDA tranche
    release requirements and reports were also different from those of other donors. This has overstretched
    the capacity of the MoEC, PO-RALG and the MoF. Discussions on modality for future financing of
    the PEDP are ongoing among donors towards an immediate revision of the MoU. On a long term
    basis, the aim is to (i) adopt a program budget support approach to reduce the transaction costs, (ii)
    align PEDP financing and monitoring with the MKUKUTA, and (iii) increase overall harmonization
    among all stakeholders in line with the Rome/Paris declaration. The situation is likely to improve given
    the ongoing Government/Donor dialogue towards a Joint Assistance Strategy (JAS).

l Tranche releases should be aligned to Government's fiscal year and appropriate timing in
    disbursements, otherwise, it causes inconvenience in Government's allocation of funds and delays in
    implementation of plans, particularly at the school level. IDA Credit for the Tanzania PEDP was
    released in three tranches within each fiscal year. However, the tranches were not aligned to
    Government disbursement schedule to the ministries, councils and to schools. This caused delays in
    disbursing Capitation and Development Grants, and implementation of planned activities. For example,
    the first tranche was released as scheduled right after the Effectiveness. However, this was four months
    before the end of the Government's fiscal year (2001/2002). In addition, the second tranche was
    released almost at the last month of the fiscal year 2002/2003.

l Phased-out approach in expanding primary enrollment can mitigate risks in over loading capacity
    and declining quality. In July 2001, the Government abolished schools fees and other levies for
    primary education. To manage the enrollment surge and to avoid widespread deterioration in learning



                                                      - 22 -

    conditions, the Government used a phased-out approach to the enrollment expansion, which would
    between 2002 and 2006, make it possible to enroll all 7-10-year olds, thereby eliminating the backlog
    of 8-10 year olds while establishing the capacity to admit all seven-year olds in Grade 1 from 2006
    onwards. Older children, who could not get a place in Grade 1 have been enrolled in the COBET,
    which caters for children who have missed ordinary primary education. Because of the phased-out
    approach, the Government was able to financially, and administratively, manage the PEDP
    implementation. This included ensuring availability of classrooms, desks and textbooks for students,
    and recruitment of sufficient teachers through a more gradual process. Although the pupil/teacher ratio
    increased from 41:1 before the PEDP in 2000 to the current 59:1, it is still manageable. The ratio is
    likely to be reduced because the enrollment peak has passed and more graduate teachers are expected
    from teacher colleges. The phased-out approach together with increased resources and inputs have also
    helped to protect and maintain quality. During the PEDP implementation, the PSLE pass rate
    increased from 25 percent in 2002 to 48 percent in 2004. Although the PSLE is not designed for
    assessing student learning achievements, it still provides a proxy indicator for measuring the quality of
    primary education. Another proxy indicator for quality is the textbook/pupil ratio which has shown
    great improvement. The ratio was reduced from 1:8 before the launch of PEDP to 1:4 in 2004.

l Decentralization of delivery of primary education services to the local authority and school
    committees is the way to go. The PEDP was designed and implemented within Government existing
    structures. In the context of decentralization policy, the LGAs became responsible for delivery of
    primary education with PO-RALG overseeing implementation. MoEC continued with policy making,
    setting of standards and quality assurance, in collaboration with PO-RALG. LGAs's roles are to guide,
    support and coordinate the implementation work by communities and school committees. The
    Tanzania experience has shown that school committees can manage a school well if supported
    adequately with policies and legal instruments. Under the PEDP, school bank accounts for both
    Development and Capitation Grants were successfully opened and are operational. Training for school
    committees has enhanced their skills and knowledge in participatory planning and managing school
    funds. The committees have also been empowered to perform their roles better and have built their
    confidence to enhance accountability at school level. Community participation augmented financing
    and increased the pace of classrooms construction. The community's involvement in construction and
    maintenance also created a high sense of ownership. As a result, village governments have taken
    responsibility for the management and security of schools

l Closer and stronger linkages among various education academic institutions are needed.
    Although there is some linkage of the PEDP implementation with the educational institutions such as
    the TIE, and NECTA, and other related institutions; the linkage has not been strong enough to help
    undertake studies, create knowledge and innovations for dissemination to help to enrich policy
    decisions and education development on a continuous basis. Future operations need to take this into
    consideration.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Borrower's comments on the IDA ICR are indicated below:




                                                     - 23 -

                                  THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
                                 MINISTRY OF EDUCATION AND CULTURE
Cable: ELIMU DAR ES SALAAM.                                           P. 0. Box 9121,
Tel.: 110146,2110150/2and 21 11679.                                   DAR ES SALAAM.
Telex: 242741 Elimu Tz.                                            21/06/2005
Reply please quote
Ref. No. CBC.258/488/01/86




Judy O'Connor
Country Director
World Bank Country Office
50 Mirambo Street
Dar es Salaam
Tanzania
                  RE: Project Completion Report for the Primary Education Development
                             Program (PEDP) Cr.35700 and TF -50588

On behalf of the Government I hereby take this opportunity to inform you that, we have
gone through the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) of the World Bank (Report
No. 32071). We find the report comprehensive enough to make a fair assessment of
PEDP implementation. The report further provides constructive lessons to the
Government, Donor Partners, the World Bank and others.

The Government is in agreement with the thrust and content of the report.
Looking forward for your continued cooperation,

Yours Sincerely

Dr. Naomi B. Katunzi
PERMANENT SECRETARY

Copy to: Permanent Secretary,
Prime Minister's Office,
P. 0. Box 3021,
DAR ES SALAAM.

Permanent Secretary,
Ministry of Finance,
P. 0. Box 91 11,
DAR ES SALAAM.

Permanent Secretary,
President's Office Regional Administration and
Local Government,
P. 0 . Box 1923,
DODOMA




                                                     - 24 -

In addition to the above letter, the Borrower submitted an implementation completion report which is
included in Annex 10 as originally sent from the Government without editing. Overall assessment of the
Borrower is consistent with the ICR description and ratings. The program objectives, Quality at Entry, and
all the Components have been rated Satisfactory. The Borrower has also included very comprehensively,
achievements, issues and challenges experienced during implementation. A list of lessons learned is
presented in the report emphasizing positive experiences and challenges in relation to: stakeholders
involvement; capacity building; coordination and communication; sustainability and the need for further
financial support. The report also points out the need to expand secondary education to accommodate
children completing primary education. According to the report, the secondary education expansion demand
would be felt more in 2008 at the time the first cycle of children enrolled three years ago when PEDP
started, would be completing seven years of primary education. The details of the report are found in the
Borrower's report presented in Annex 10.

(b) Cofinanciers:
Comments from the Royal Netherlands Embassy (RNE)
The cofinacier submitted their comments indicated in Annex 11. These have also been included as sent by
the RNE without any changes. The RNE points out positive achievements; but also explains in detail,
issues and challenges in education quality enhancement, expansion of enrollment, monitoring, and capacity
building. Issues have also been presented related to planning and budgeting processes, and inadequate
coherence with ongoing reforms particularly with ongoing changes in the Local Government. As a way
forward, The RNE suggests recommendations of the PEDP Review carried out in 2004, and those of the
PETs be addressed by the Government.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable

10. Additional Information


None




                                                    - 25 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


 A. Outcome / Impact Indicators
     Outcome / Impact                                                            Actual/Latest Estimate at the end of the
         Indicator                     Baseline              Target                    IDA operation in Oct. 2004


1. Admission capacity          In 2000, only 181,783 Enroll all 7-year olds in Significant progress made towards achieving
established to start enrolling seven year olds were  Grade I by 2006           the target.
all 7 year olds in grade I     admitted to grade 1                             926,305 seven-year olds enrolled in grade I
                               (18% of 7-year old                              (84% of 7-year old population) in year 2004.
                               population)

2.Expanding primary            In 2000 GER was 78% All school-age children Achieved.
education access               and NER was 59%       are enrolled in school    In 2004, the GER reached 106%,
                                                                               and NER 91%

3. Drop-out rate between       The drop-out rate for Drop-out rate reduced Achieved.
grade 4 and grade 5 reduced 2001/2002 was 6%         from 6% in 2001/ 2002 Drop-put rate reduced to 5% in 2004
                                                     to 5% 2003/2004

4. Allocate at least 20% of The proportion in 2000 At least 20%                Achieved and exceeded.
the primary education          was 4%                                          In 2004 the percentage of non-salary
budget to non-salary                                                           expenditure increased to 27%. This allowed
expenditures                                                                   schools to have more funds to procure more
                                                                               teaching materials, towards improving student
                                                                               learning.

5. Decreased textbook /         On average, in 2000  Ratio decreased           Significant progress made.
pupil ratio in each subject    the ratio was 1:7                               By 2004 the ratio decreased to, on average,
                                                                               1:4.

6. Improving primary           In 2000 the PSLE pass Showing Progress each Quality improved compared to several years
education quality measured rate was 22%              year                      ago.
by Primary School Leaving                                                      In 2004 the PSLE pass rate improved to 48%.
Examination (PSLE)

7. Introducing a               This mechanism did    The mechanism             Achieved.
decentralized primary          not exist before the  introduced and            All schools have opened and fully operated
school funding and financial PEDP.                   functional.               Capitation and Development Grant Bank
management mechanism,                                                          Accounts. Management capacity at school
under which funds for                                                          and community levels have been enhanced.
primary education are
allocated and released from
the Ministry of Finance to
the primary school accounts
through the education
accounts of local
authorities.




                                                       - 26 -

B. Output Indicators

                                                      End of Operation
     Output Indicator               Baseline                 Target                       Actual Output

1. Adequate budgetary         No capitation grants  US$10 for each         Achieved.
allocations made and         were paid to primary   primary school student Approximately 10$ for each primary school
disbursed for capitation     school before PEDP     was paid.              student was disbursed to schools in 2003/04
grants equivalent to US$10 implementation.
per student for all primary
school students.

2. PO-RALG issues             No clear instructions All respective LGA     Achieved.
instructions to regional      had been sent on PEDP levels would have      All LGAs were given instructions on how to
secretariat offices, councils roles in 2001.        received the said      manage the PEDP.
and wards on their roles in                         instruction.           Local authorities continue to manage PEDP
PEDP by September 2002.                                                    at council and community levels and the
                                                                           procedures remain in place.

3. Strengthen the capacity    School committees did Issued guidelines and  Achieved.
of school committees in the not receive orientation about PEDP to school   The guidelines on PEDP procedures were
management of PEDP.           on PEDP               committees and         introduced by March, 2002 including
                                                    community by June 30, sensitization seminars to build capacity.
                                                    2002.

4. Constructed about                                Constructed about      Achieved.
28,000 classrooms.                                  28,000 classrooms by
                                                    2004

5. Recruited about 20,000                           Recruited about        Achieved.
teachers                                            20,000 teachers by
                                                    2004




                                                     - 27 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Table 1. Program Financing and Funds Release through Tranches
Tranche No.     Tranche            Financier               Payee     SDR                 USD Equivalent
                release date                               Name
                 Jan 2002          IDA Credit              MOF         39,700,000        50,001,753.00
First Tranche    Nov 2002          WB/Dutch                MOF                           10,000,000
                                   co-financing
                 June 2003         IDA Credit              MOF         39,700,000        55,957,547
                 July 2003         WB/Dutch                MOF                           3.300,000
Second                             co-financing
Tranche          June 2003         WB/Dutch                MOF                           16,670,000
                                   co-financing
                 November          IDA Credit              MOF         39,700.000        59,397,155
Third            2004
Tranche          Nov. 2004         WB/Dutch Co             MOF                           20,000,000
                                   financing
Total                                                                  119,100,000      $212,026,458


               Table 4 Distribution of Recurrent Budget Expenditure by Sub-Sector
                                         2000/01 - 2003/04 (% Share)
                                                 2000/01           2001/02        2002/03          2003/04
                                                 (Actual)          (Actual)       (Budget)        (Budget)
Primary Education                                         65.4            61.3            73.9             71.4

Secondary Education                                        6.0             8.2              5.8             6.6

Teacher Education                                          1.4             2.0              1.3             1.6

Higher and Technical Education                            21.9            22.8            15.2             16.7

Administration and Others                                  5.3             5.7              3.8             3.7

Total Budget                                             100.0          100.0            100.0            100.0

Budget in Tshs (million)                             189,200          282,100         400,100          464,400

Sources: "Education Sector Public Expenditure Review 2004", ESRF, Tanzania, May 2004


PEDP was designed to disburse against the implementation of policy measures and achievement of output
indicators presented in the "Policy Matrix and Tranche Release Conditions" in the Program document
(Annex 1, Table C). It is not designed to disburse to specific expenditure categories. It is not possible,
therefore, to allocate the credit/grant proceeds to the individual components of the operation. The IDA
Credit (SDR119 million, or US$150 equivalent) and the co-financing of the Netherlands Grant (US$50
million) were structured into three tranches. The funds were disbursed after the Government met the Policy
Matrix and Tranche Release Conditions. The operation closed as scheduled on October 31, 2004.




                                                      - 28 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits


Not Applicable




                                      - 29 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              10/31/2000                     TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             EDUCATION SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); FINANCIAL MGMT.

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              03/30/2001                7    TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             OPERATIONS ADVISER
                                             (1); EDUCATION
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             ECONOMIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             FINANCIAL MGMT.
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (1)
              07/17/2001                7    TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             OPERATIONS ADVISER (1);
                                             EDUCATION SPECIALIST (1);
                                             ECONOMIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); FINANCIAL MGMT.
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (1)


 Supervision
              10/29/2001                4    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                             EDUCATION SPECIALIST
                                             (1); ECONOMIST (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (1)
              05/15/2003                2    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                             EDUCATION SPECIALIST (1)
              11/11/2003                2    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                             EDUCATION SPECIALIST (1)
              05/10/2004                2    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                             EDUCATION SPECIALIST (1)

 ICR
              03/02/2005                1     EDUCATION SPECIALIST            S               S
                                              (1)




                                              - 30 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                        Actual/Latest Estimate
                                         No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                     n.a.                       95.621
  Appraisal/Negotiation                          n.a.                      313.970
  Supervision                                    n.a.                      320.076
  ICR                                              8                        13.000
  Total                                          n.a.                      742.667


This table is based on the information curently available on SAP. The figures for identification/preparation
and appraisal / negotiation are an esitimate. The information system prodvides an actual total cost by fiscal
year.




                                                    - 31 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 32 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 33 -

  Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


"Annual Performance Report for the Period of July 2002 ­ June 2003" for Primary Education Development
Program", Tanzania, President's Office Regional Administration and Local Government, and the Ministry of
Education and Culture (PO-RALG), July 2004

Annual Performance Report for the Period of July 2001 ­ June 2002" for Primary Education Development
Program", Tanzania, President's Office Regional Administration and Local Government, and the Ministry of
Education and Culture (PO-RALG), May 2003.

Basic Education Statistics (MOEC 1996-2004)

"Corporate Strategic Plan 2000-2005", Tanzania Institute of Education, November, 2003

"Designs for the Improvement of Quality of Primary Education", Tanzania, Ministry of Education and
Culture, April 2003.

"Education Sector Public Expenditure Review 2004", Prepared by Economic and Social Research
Foundation, Tanzania, May 2004.

"Education Sector Country Status Report for Tanzania", Prepared by the Committee, MoEC, February, 2001

"Evaluation of EU Support to Primary Education Development Plan", June 2004.

"Grant Agreement", for Tanzania Primary Education Development Program between Tanzania and IDA,
October 4, 2003.

Independent Monitoring Report (IMG): Economic and Social Research Foundation - Report of the
Independent Monitoring Group (2005)

"Joint Review of the Primary Education Development Plan", the Review Team, Ministry of Education and
Culture, December 2003.

"Joint Review of the Primary Education Development Plan", Tanzania, the Review Team, Ministry of
Education and Culture, October, 2004.

Letters of Release of the First, Second and Third IDA Tranches.

"Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of Tanzania and Pooled Fund Partners",
December 15, 2001.

Performance Reports from Arusha, Kilimanjaro, and Dar es Salaam Regions, including reports from the
schools the ICR missions visited.

"Primary Education Development Plan", Tanzania, Basic Education Development Committee (BEDC), July
2001

"Report and Recommendation of the President of the IDA to the Executive Directors for Tanzania Primary


                                                     - 34 -

Education Development Program", Report No. P7466 TA, World Bank, August 22, 2001.

Tanzania: Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability Review Mission for 2004/05 - Aide memoire May
12, 2005

"The Education and Training Sector Development Program", Tanzania, Ministry of Education and Culture,
August, 2001.

The Public Expenditure Tracking Study (PETs), 2004

"The SACMEQ II Project: A Study of the Conditions of Schooling and the Quality of Education in Southern
and Eastern Africa, Draft Report: Tanzania", UNESCO, September 2003.

"Three Yeas of PEDP Implementation: Key Findings from Government Reviews", HakiElimu, Dar es
Salaam, March 2005.

"Three Yeas of the PEDP Implementation, What are the Reviews and Monitoring Reports telling us?
HakiElimu, Dar es Salaam, March 2005.

Various Aide-Memoires, Back-to-office Reports for PEDP during preparation and supervision, World Bank,
    1999-2004.

Various Project Status Reports (PSR), World Bank, 2002-2004.




                                                   - 35 -

Additional Annex 8. Policy Matrix and Tranche Release Conditions


Area of Reform   Effectiveness Tranche Release       Second Tranche Release               Third Tranche Release


General                                              Achieved progress on PEDP            Achieved progress on PEDP
Education                                            annual performance indicators as     annual performance indicators as
                                                     outlined in the Letter of Primary    defined in the Letter of Primary
                                                     Education Sector Development         Education Sector Development
                                                     Policy                               Policy.


                                                     Completed school development         Allocated at least 20 percent of the
                                                     plans for 60% of schools and full    primary education budget to non-
                                                     capitation grants transferred to     salary expenditures.
                                                     eligible schools.


Expanding        Abolished UPE fees and other        Introduced double-shift in 50% of    Introduced double-shift in 80% of
Enrollment       school levies. (Completed)          all primary school classrooms.       schools with pupil-classroom ratio
                                                                                          greater than 60:1.
                 Issued guidelines for implementing
                 government's policy for admission
                 to primary schools to ensure all 7 -
                 10 year old children absorbed in
                 primary schools by 2004.


Improving        Prepared Terms of Reference for     Prepared an incentive package for    Started paying incentives for
Quality of       revising the designs of in-service  the inter- and intra-district        teacher deployment
Teaching and     and pre-service teacher training    deployment of teachers, especially
Learning         programs, primary school            to increase teacher availability in
Processes        curriculum, and examinations to     rural areas.
                 facilitate enhanced student learning
                 and classroom interaction.          Revised the designs of in-service    Started implementing revised in-
                                                     and pre-service teacher training     service and pre-service teacher
                                                     programs, primary school             training programs, primary school
                                                     curriculum, and examinations to      curriculum, and examinations to
                                                     facilitate enhanced student learning facilitate enhanced student learning
                                                     and classroom interaction.           and classroom interaction


Building         Issued instructions for School      Issued a strategy for                Completed School Development
Capacity within Committees to establish and          implementation of the National       Plans in schools; opened and
the education    operate bank accounts into which    Policy for non-formal and adult      operated school bank accounts.
system and other Capitation and Development Grant education.
public and       funds would be disbursed.                                                Trained staff with direct
private sectors                                                                           responsibility for PEDP
with a stake in  Established mechanisms for the                                           management in planning,
education        delivery of primary education                                            implementation, monitoring and
provision        through regional secretariats, local                                     evaluation, as well as policy
                 government authorities, wards, and                                       analysis and formulation.
                 schools. (Completed)




                                                         - 36 -

Area of Reform    Effectiveness Tranche Release       Second Tranche Release              Third Tranche Release


Strengthening     Developed a national IEC strategy, Issued specific guidelines and       Established an improved
the institutional including the provision of PEDP     procedures for decentralized        Educational Management
arrangements      information and guidelines to all   school/community level              Information System (EMIS)
that support the staff at the regional and district   procurement of goods and services according to an agreed plan
planning and      levels, teachers and School         for school operations and
delivery of       Committees with direct              development, including textbooks, Implemented a decentralized
education         responsibility for PEDP             other learning materials, and       textbook procurement system in all
services.         implementation. (Completed)         construction and furnishing of      Local Government Authorities that
                                                      classrooms and schools.             permits schools to procure
                  Designated an official in PMO for                                       textbooks
                  PEDP coordination, and designated
                  Program Coordinators in the                                             Strengthened the school inspection
                  Ministry of Education and Culture                                       system under which each school is
                  and in PO-RALG, to facilitate                                           inspected at a minimum once every
                  PEDP implementation.                                                    two years


Financing the     Introduced a decentralized primary Allocated adequate budget to cover Allocated adequate budget to cover
PEDP              school funding and financial        (i) Capitation Grant and School     (i) Capitation Grant and School
                  management mechanism, under         Development Grant to school         Development Grant to school
                  which funds for primary education committees; (ii) administrative       committees; (ii) administrative
                  are allocated and released from the costs related to Capitation Grant   costs related to Capitation Grant
                  Ministry of Finance to the primary and School Development Grant to      and School Development Grant to
                  schools accounts through the        Local Government Authorities; (iii) Local Government Authorities; (iii)
                  education accounts of local         costs related to the provision of   costs related to the provision of
                  authorities. (Completed)            primary school teachers on the      primary school teachers on the
                                                      basis of 1:60 teacher/pupil ratio.  basis of 1:60 teacher/pupil ratio.


                                                      Issued detailed criteria for
                                                      Development Grant allocation
                                                      between respective councils and all
                                                      schools in each councils.


                                                      Distributed the financial
                                                      management manual describing
                                                      mechanisms and procedures for the
                                                      accurate accounting, reporting and
                                                      auditing of PEDP funds to all
                                                      schools and councils




                                                          - 37 -

Additional Annex 9. Letter of Primary Education Sub-Sector Policy



THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
MINISTRY OF FINANCE

Telegram: "Treasury", Dar Es Salaam                                              P.O. Box 9111,




Telephone: 111174/6, Fax 110326, Telex: 41329DAR ES SALAAM
(All official communications should be addressed
to the Permanent Secretary to the Treasure
and not individuals).
In replay please quote:

Ref. No. TYC/B/40/110
                                                                17th August, 2001


Mr. Callisto Madavo
Vice President,
World Bank, Africa Region
1818 H. Street, N.W
Washington, D.C
USA.

Dear Mr. Madavo,


RE: TANZANIA'S PRIMARY EDUCATION SUB-SECTOR POLICIES, STRATEGIES AND
DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME

    I am writing on behalf of the Government of the United Republic of Tanzania to request for a credit of
US $ 150.0 million from the International Development Association (IDA) in support of the Primary
Education Development Programme (PEDP). The proposed credit will increase, among other things;
resource availability to primary education, efficiency in resource utilization, improve quality in teaching
and learning, improve school access and strengthen sector management at all levels.

2.       The Education Sector is one of the most important areas in the Tanzania's overall poverty
reduction and development framework. The Government attaches high priority to strengthening human
resource capacity as a means of reducing poverty and promoting economic growth through raising the basic



                                                    - 38 -

level of education of the population. This letter highlights the main sector constraints and the government
strategies to address them, consistent with the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) objectives.

Background and Sector Issues
3.        A robust education sector is essential for producing a better-qualified and skilled Tanzanian work
force for accelerated economic growth and poverty reduction. In this regard, education is key to raising
productivity and improving living standards. Currently, the education system in Tanzania performs far
below what is required to meet its development needs. Poor education quality in primary schools is
reflected in insufficient school inputs and related low access and retention, resulting into inefficiencies in
the system. These issues are further linked to the insufficient public funding of the sector, and thus high
costs imposed on households. At the secondary level, access is limited. Limited capacity of Government
and private provision to expand secondary education to match with accelerated expansion of primary
education results into very low gross and net enrolments. Teacher education, which plays a vital role in
promoting access and quality education, suffers from low tutor competence, inadequate funding and
facilitation. In addition, vocational education and training can no longer produce the skill mix to meet the
labour market needs. All these existing sector issues are closely related to each other. Therefore,
sector-wide development strategies have been given priority in the context of government's poverty
reduction strategy. The focus of the first phase of sector development is to strengthen and improve
performance of the primary education sector, closely followed by the development of secondary and tertiary
education.


National Strategies for Policy Reform
4.        In 1995, the Government of the United Republic of Tanzania through the Ministry of Education
and Culture (MOEC) issued an Education and Training Policy that emphasized liberalizing the education
sector in line with the rest of the economy and increasing the accountability of service providers to clients.
The Secondary Education Strategy is also underway with the objectives of improving quality and raising
enrollment rates at the secondary level. Adult and Youth Basic Education (AYBE) programmes are also
being promoted by the government and supported by various development partners. Immediate priority will
be on issuing a strategy for the implementation of the national policy on non-formal and adult education.
As regards higher education, Higher Education Master Plan (HEMP) is under preparation focusing on the
rationalization of underutilized and inefficient tertiary education institutions.

5.        Most recently, in the context of the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP), the government of
Tanzania has undertaken to develop a national strategy for primary education, together with detailed
council plans under the ongoing school mapping exercise which has already covered 53 percent of the total
113 local government. A number of specific targets for improving primary education achievement have
been clearly enunciated in the PRSP document, along with broad actionable areas. The government has
also been working with the donor community and other stakeholders in preparing analytical reports to reach
an in-depth understanding of the critical constraints to the performance and further development of primary
education as well as the broader education sector. To this end, a comprehensive Education Sector Country
Status Report was prepared and discussed with a wide cross- section of stakeholders early 2001. It
provides understanding of the critical constraints to the performance of the sector and makes
recommendation for the development of primary education as well as the other sub-sectors.

6.        The Primary Education Development Programme is derived from the Education Sector Country
Status Report and on various analytical studies on the sector. In line with the government's basic education
strategy in the context of PRSP, the objective of PEDP is to improve quality, expand school access and
equity, and increase school retention at the primary level.



                                                      - 39 -

Implementation of the Strategy
7.        Recognizing that school fees and other levies imposed on households had constituted an obstacle
to the further development of primary education, the government has decided to abolish Universal Primary
Education (UPE) fees in accordance with the PRSP. In order to substitute and add resources to the sector,
major measures of the sector strategy include the introduction of primary school grants to meet recurrent
costs in support of: (i) quality improvement of education at school level; (ii) enhancing retention and
completion of primary education cycle for all children; (iii) making primary education equitable by
expanding access to all children; and (iv) enhancing capacity building at the school, community, local and
central government levels. Enrollment is estimated to increase by 1.2 million between 2001 and 2002 as a
result of population growth and increased demand following the removal of fees. The targets for primary
education development between 2002-05 include: establishing enrollment capacity for all 7-10 year olds in
Grade 1 by 2005; reduced dropout rate between grade 4 and 5 from 13% to 10% between 2002-04;
increased non-salary expenditures in primary school budget from 4% to 20% by 2002-03.

8.        A national Information, Education and Communication Programme will be implemented to ensure
that all local government staff, including teachers and headteachers, community members and actors at all
levels understand their role in relation to the policies and strategies.

9.        In order to improve the quality of classroom teaching and learning, in-service professional
development programs for all teachers will be developed and implemented based on quality and
cost-effective criteria. Also given the anticipated enrollment expansion, a pre-service program will be
designed and implemented to cater for increased teacher demand. The pre-service and in-service programs
will maximize utilization of the existing teacher training colleges and tutors.

Institutional Reforms
10.       The plans and programs enumerated above recognize the needs for an adequately funded school
system that benefits from greater involvement of parents, communities and local government management.
Major institutional reforms are sought to address the main concerns in the education sector. The Public
Service Reform Programme (PSRP) and Local Government Reform Programme (LGRP) are focused on a
shift in roles and mandates for delivery of basic social services between the central government ministries,
departments and agencies and local government authorities. The role of ministries is to be confined to the
core functions of policy making, regulation and monitoring and evaluation of service delivery, which is
administered at various levels of local government and the private sector. The following four major
institutional reforms are being undertaken: - (i) reformed institutional structure and functions are to be put
in place by 2004 through actions specified in the attached work programme; (ii) Ministry of Education and
Culture will continue to be re-oriented to provide policy and planning guidance and to monitor education
delivery consistent with the Public Sector Reform Programme; (iii) President's Office, Regional
Administration and Local Government will deliver primary education through regional secretariats, local
government authorities, wards, villages and schools; and (iv) Mechanisms for community participation and
school level accountability will be established and/or strengthened.




                                                      - 40 -

Actions
11.       The section below highlights some of the main actions, which Government will implement in the
immediate-term. The Government will continue and broaden the on-going reforms and provide the
framework for a sector-wide program in primary education. The main elements involve: - the formulation
of an admission strategy to absorb all 7 ­10 year old children in school between 2002 and 2004;
introduction of a capitation grant for recurrent expenditure at school level and adoption of a principle of
fund flow to schools through Local Government Authorities by school year 2002; allocation of a
development grant to school committees for classroom construction and adoption of a principle of
community-based classroom construction strategy by 2002; providing teacher housing, particularly to
encourage teaching force deployment into rural starting from 2002; establishing double-shift up to an
average of 50% of primary school classrooms in order to intensify classroom utilization to help deal with
the enrollment surge between 2002-2004; continue with double-shift teaching in 80% of all schools with a
classroom/pupil ratio of 1/60 by FY04; gradual provision of incentives to teachers involved in
double-shifting by 2003; designing an in-service teacher training program for all teachers in the country
including development of instructional materials by end of FY2001/ 2002; developing a comprehensive
pre-service teacher training program to ensure adequate teacher supply by end of FY 2001/2002; and
reviewing, and introducing reforms if necessary, to the school curriculum, Grade 7 national examinations,
and assessment of learning achievements by end of FY 2001/2002;

12.       The effort is part of the nation-wide process of a comprehensive reform of local governments, and
its relationship with other agencies at central and regional tiers of the government. However, the overall
implementation of the decentralization policy will require time as it entails a progressive restructuring of
the institutional framework which specifies organizational arrangements regarding the teacher and other
public resource management agencies, such as the Ministry of Education and Culture, the Teacher Service
Commission, the Local Government Service Commission, President's Office, Regional Administration and
Local Government, and the Regional Secretariats.

13.       Currently, the Government is working actively with the development partners and all stakeholders
to move the PEDP forward. Many bilateral donors are committed to the continuous support to the
development of Tanzania's primary education. We believe that with the commitment of the government
and the support of the development partners including the proposed IDA Primary Education Development
Credit, Tanzania will be able to mobilize the resources to successfully address the education sector issues.
In this context, the government is committed to allocate resources for the PEDP to cover (a) capitation
grants and school development grants to school committees, (b) administrative costs related to capitation
and school development grants to Local Government Authorities, as well as, (c) costs related to the
provision of teachers to primary schools on the basis of 1/60 teacher/pupil ratio. We are confident that the
primary education strategies and related actions outlined above and those included in the Work Programme
annexed hereto will be achieved with continuous support of the international community.

     Thank you for your continued support and cooperation.




                                                     - 41 -

Additional Annex 10. Borrower's Implementation Completion Report

                                                           THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
                                                           MINISTRY OF EDUCATION AND CULTURE
Cabb:EI_IMU DAR ES SALAAM                                  P.O. Box 9 121
                                                           DAR ES SALAAM
                                                           11th May, 2005
Telephone: 2123686 ,2134134
Fax: 21 13271
Ref. No. CBC. 258/488/01/78




Ms. Judy O'Connor
Country Director,
World Bank,
DAR ES SALAAM.

PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME IMPLEMENTATION
       COMPLETION REPORT (ICR): BORROWER'S CON'TRIBUTION

The World Bank financing of PEDP was completed on 31'' October, 2004 with
the release of the 3d Tranche of IDA Credit and the Netherlands' Trust Fund.
According to the WB operationat procedures, an ICR is required once the Credit
is closed. The ICR assesses the achievements made and draws lessons for
future WB and Government operations.

The Government has prepared the Implementation Completion Report focusing
on Borrower's contribution. The content and the thrust of the report represents a
description of the PEDP implementation whereby the following components are
covered programme objectives and components, quality at entry,
implementation experience, borrower's and financier's performance, factors
affecting implementation and lessons learnt.

The government feels that this report is going to provide you with information
needed for finalization of the Implementation Completion Report.
Looking forward for your continued cooperation,

Dr. Naomi B. Katunzi

PERMANENT SECRETARY
Copy to: Permanent Secretary,
           Prime Ministers' Office,
           P.O. Box 3021,
           DAR ES SALAAM.

           Permanent Secretary,
           President's Office
           Regional Administration and Local Government,
           P. 0. Box 1923,
           DODOMA.

           Permanent Secretary,
           Ministry of Finance,
           P. 0. Box 9111,
           DAR ES SALAAM



                                                             - 42 -

                       GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANI
                        PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME

                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)
                                      BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION

INTRODUCTION
This Evaluation Report on the Primary Education Development Programme (PEDP) was prepared in
order to facilitate the Government of Tanzania's responsibility of preparing the programme
Implementation Completion Report (ICR). The report includes an assessment of programme objectives,
components and implementation experience. The report also highlights on key lessons learnt and
proposes way forward.

PROGRAMME OBJECTIVES
The PEDP was designed as the first step to translate the Education Sector Development Programme
(ESDP) into feasible actions aimed at improved efficiency and effectiveness of provision of primary
education within the basic education sub-sector.

The overall development objective of PEDP was to accelerate human resource development so as to
produce requisite manpower to support the desired national economic development. The programme was
aimed at ensuring that all children, including girls and those in difficult circumstances have access to free
and compulsory primary education of good quality.

More specifically, PEDP objectives were geared to expanding enrolment, improving quality of teaching
and learning, building capacity within education system and strengthening institutional arrangements and
devolving powers to councils, community and school levels. Devolution was used to make PEDP
meaningful to key stakeholders especially at the grassroots whereby more powers to manage primary
education including managing financial resources would be under the Local Government Authorities and
Schools.

PROGRAMME COMPONENTS
The PEDP is composed of four strategic components, namely;
(a)   Enrolment Expansion
      Under this component the focus was to: enroll eligible children both boys and girls in standard one;
      recruit new teachers and deploy existing teachers accordingly; construct new classrooms, teachers
      houses and sanitary facilities and enroll out of school children and youth in line with Adult and
      Non Formal Education Strategy.
(b) Quality Improvement
      Quality improvement focused on a number of variables including improving teachers' teaching
      styles and methods in the classroom, ensuring availability of good quality learning and teaching
      materials and ensuring necessary support for maintaining education standards. The aim was to
      improve the overall performance of both female and male pupils at primary schools.

(c)   Capacity Building
      The third policy strategy of focus was capacity building which entailed to strengthen the
      institutional capacity and competence of central, regional, council and community levels. This
      component was consistent with government policies of achieving greater efficiency, reforming the
      Civil Service and Local Government, decentralizing government functions and absorbing the


                                                   - 43 -

         principles of participation and empowerment into the Public Service. Sub-clusters covered include
         pre-service and in-service teacher training, governance and management, financial management and
         Educational Management Information System (EMIS).

  (d)    PEDP Institutional Arrangements
         The fourth strategic priority was to optimize the use of human, material and financial resources
         within existing institutions of the education system. This component entailed ensuring that the
         government's policy of decentralization was affected through PEDP. While the central ministries
         would continue to focus on policy development and monitoring more authority would be delegated
         to Local Government Authorities (LGAs) and schools to manage education provision and
         development.

         Under the component, administrative arrangements and roles and responsibilities of various actors
         were clearly defined. Guidelines were prepared to guide implementation of the programme in a
         smooth and efficient way including the Institutional Arrangement Manual.

  (e)    Financing
         The programme was going to be financed jointly between the Government, World Bank (WB)
         credit, World Bank/Dutch Co-financing grant and Pooled Fund Partners (PFP). Communities were
         expected to contribute direct cash or in-kind by direct provision of labour. The programme was
         expected to use a credit amounting to US $ 150 million from the International Development
         Association and a total of US $ 50 million being a grant from the Royal Netherlands. The
         respective credit agreement on the one hand was signed in October 18th, 2001. The grant
         agreement on the other hand was signed in October 4th 2002 and would be administered by the
         WB.

QUALITY AT ENTRY
The objective of the programme was relevant and consistent with the GoT long-term development vision of
total elimination of poverty by 2025 and thus accords high priority to the education sector. The specific
objectives of the programme were in line with the identified GoT's Primary Education Sub-sector needs as
specified in the Education and Training Sector Development Programme (ESDP) and the Tanzania's
Education and Training Policy (ETP).
The programme was designed to be managed following Government structures and procedures with greater
emphasis on decentralizing most of functions to lower organs of the Local Government Authorities (LGAs)
and School Committees. Generally the programme started with very little knowledge of the programme on
the part of the implementers. Despite the fact that programme implementation guidelines on key areas of
the programme had been prepared, no dissemination of the same had officially been done. The reasons
behind this were two-fold; firstly; time was too short to allow the training as funds were released in the
second half of the first year of implementation which means that the effectiveness date interfered with
critical programme activity of constructing new classrooms to accommodate enrolled children. Secondly,
there were no funds set aside for undertaking nation wide training of key implementers of PEDP.

As a result, implementation of most of the planned activities could not follow the PEDP guidelines at least
for the initial year. This implies therefore that the quality of activities fell short of standards laid down by
the Ministry of education and Culture (MoEC) especially in construction of classrooms and teachers
houses. Enrolment of children into Grade I did not consider much most eligible children (that is 7 year
olds). In some instances enrolment started with older children (10 ­ 13 year olds) which was contrary to
the overall strategy for achieving full enrolment by 2004 laid down by the government in programme
document. In addition, most of activities concentrated more on enrolment expansion related activities with


                                                      - 44 -

less emphasis on the expense of the other quality and capacity building related activities.

The relative allocation of funds among project component activities was considered to be appropriate given
the outputs expected out of each component. For instance, the capitation Grant ratios of 20% - facility
repairs, 40% - Textual materials, 20% chalk, pens, pencil and exercise books, 10% Administration and
10% School

Based Examinations was considered to be too prescriptive by school committees and LGAs. In addition,
the costing of construction units of Tshs: 3.1 Million and Tshs: 3.6 million per classroom and teacher's
house respectively was blamed for not being relevant to some sites where construction could be done.
Other equally important items relevant for supporting increased enrolment and quality improvement such as
Non-Formal Education, pre-Primary and School supervision in terms of inspection and provision of
support to teachers were not adequately costed for or were not financed at all during the project design.
Generally, however the overall quality at entry was therefore rated as SATISFACTORY.

IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE
Experience gained in the in the implementation of PEDP is provided under each of the programme
components:

ENROLMENT EXPANSION
Most of the activities under this component were started and completed satisfactorily. The total number of
classrooms constructed after the first three years were 40,000 which are above the target by 20%. This is
attributed to community contributions in form of supply of materials or direct cash. The number of
teachers houses constructed during PEDP period is 20,000 against the target of 12,000. Construction also
involved sanitary facilities, staffrooms, water reserve tanks and supply of desks and other furniture.

Despite the surpassing of construction targets as per PEDP design, there are still acute shortages of
teachers' houses, desks, classrooms of good quality and sanitary facilities.

Regarding enrolment, the aim was to increase overall gross and net enrolment of both girls and boys.
Generally, over all performance of enrolment was successful as depicted by these indicators: The total
enrolment at primary school increased from 4,382,415 (girls 2,164,333; boys 2,218,083) in 2000 to
7,083,063 (girls 3,456,822 and boys 3,626,241) in 2004. During the same period, the Gross Enrolment
Ratio and Net Enrolment Ratio improved from 77.6% and 58.8% during the same period to 106.3% and
90.5% respectively.

A total of 32,000 new teachers were recruited after successful completion of grade IIIA teacher training.
Grade IIIA is the minimum professional qualification for a Primary School teacher and it involves 2 - years
professional training after successful completion of lower secondary education. A number of existing
teachers were deployed to schools with acute shortage of teachers.

The programme was unable to start implementing the Adult and Non-Formal Education Strategy in the first
two years. It was until 2004 when implementation of the strategy started. The strategy was approved and
adopted by the BEDC in 2002/03. A number of out of school children and youth are now enrolled and
attend classes through complementary Basic Education (COBET) programme.

The enrolment expansion component has satisfactorily achieved its intended targets; school environment of
many schools has generally been improved, newly constructed classrooms and teachers houses including
rehabilitated buildings are so attractive that pupils, teachers and the community at large like their schools.


                                                      - 45 -

Maintenance practices are implemented at school level using part of capitation grant. These will gradually
be integrated in school committee plans to improve their school environment hence sustainability of
improved school physical facilities. Recruitment of new teachers has added value to expanded enrolment as
pupils have had teachers to teach them.

QUALITY IMPROVEMENT
Most of the interventions planned under this component were executed despite the delays in some areas.
The programme recognized the central role of the teacher in bringing about qualitative improvement in
learning whereby learners participate actively in the process. During the period of the programme at least
50% of all 50,000/= under qualified teachers (Grades B/C) were enrolled to participate in professional
up-grading programme to attain the minimum qualifications for primary school teachers. The rest of the
teachers and other education staff were trained in pedagogical skills that are participatory and child friendly
in nature. School inspectors supervised schools regularly and provided needed professional support to the
teachers.

Despite the effort to enhance human resources, the design for improvement of quality has not been fully
implemented.

The component also focused on ensuring availability of teaching and learning materials of good quality.
By design, each pupil was entitled a total USD$ 10 per year to be spent on quality improvement related
expenditures. The USD$10 were proportionally distributed to finance 5 specific areas as follows: (1)
facility repairs $ 2; Textbooks, teaching guides, supplementary reading materials $ 4; chalk, exercise
books, pen, pencils $ 2; Administration materials $ 1 and Examinations paper and printing $ 1. The
impact of all these inputs is vivid on a number of areas: The teaching and learning materials especially
chalk, have been adequately supplied to schools. Other materials such as pens, pencils and exercise books
have modestly been supplied as a result of a shortfall in realizing full capitation grant.

Textbooks have been supplied in schools since the start of the programme. The Book ­ Pupil ratio
nationally has improved from 1:20 or more before PEDP (2000) to 1:5 on average in 2004. It is expected
that the ratio will improve further as schools are receiving funds for purchase of textbooks and are involved
themselves in selection and procurement of the same.

Apart from textual materials schools have been supplied other non-textual materials including science kits,
globes and other teaching aids/materials. To make the supply of all these materials to schools to be
meaningful, training programmes are being prepared to enable teachers use textbooks and other non-textual
materials in teaching and learning. Most young graduates from teachers colleges use interactive teaching
and learning methodologies which make learning enjoyable. Pupils' achievements as portrayed by Primary
School Learning Examination (PSLE) results have been impressive. The pass rate at the PSLE has
increased from 22% in 2000 to 48.9% in 2004. Likewise transition to secondary schools from primary
schools has improved from 21.7% in 2000 to 30.1% in 2004.

As a result of undertaking such measures as abolishing of fees and mandatory contributions by pupils
coupled with improved school physical environment, attendance of pupils has improved. Dropout rates
have also decreased with the years especially in standard I ­ IV. However, dropout is noted in standard V
as a result of standard IV examinations whereby unsuccessful candidates are required to repeat the class.

CAPACITY BUILDING
Under the capacity building component a number of achievements have been realized. Pre-service teacher


                                                     - 46 -

training has been taking place and a total number pre-service teacher trainees rose from an annual average
of 1,500 to more than 10,000 per year from 2002 to 2004. The training of student teachers has focused
more on methodologies as those who are selected to join the course are only those who have successfully
passed at their Form IV examinations. So, these

student teachers are academically capable all they need at colleges is essentially more training on the
pedagogy. As remarked during the joint review of PEDP in 2003, these teachers were teaching in
participatory teaching approaches and they enjoyed their work.

A number of training programmes aimed at strengthening the capacities of key stakeholders to undertake
their management roles in primary education were prepared and conducted. At least 3,000 education
personnel and leaders at central, regional and council levels were trained in a number of areas related to
management and PEDP in particular.

Despite the delay to undertake these trainings, yet the training assisted to rectify implementation challenges
and problems experienced during the first year of the programme. Through such training, PEDP
implementation guidelines were also disseminated to participants.

School inspectors were guided on new approaches towards school supervision and provision of support to
teachers. The training laid the basis for school inspectors and other education officials to prepare weekend
seminars at Teacher Resource Centers (TRCs) and cluster centres to address weaknesses noted during
inspection and classroom supervision.

College tutors have been undergoing professional skills development so as to enable new teachers to
acquire appropriate skills and knowledge necessary for meaningful learning outcome at schools. A few
senior staff from both MoEC and PORALG attended professional and policy related courses both within
and outside the country. Such courses have availed those staff specific knowledge and skills needed to
make decisions on matters pertained to policy, monitoring and evaluation, planning and budgeting.

All school committees, head teachers and community level leaders were trained in governance and
management skills for whole school development planning, district education development planning,
monitoring, textbook selection and procurement at school level and reporting. LGAs and school
committees were also trained in financial management, procurement accountability and principles of good
governance.

Despite all these initiatives, the training was noted to lack linkages as a result of absence of capacity
building strategy for the Basic Education Sub-Sector. In view of the above the government undertook to
initiate the process of hiring a consultant who would develop the strategy in consultation with key
stakeholders. The process is being finalized and it is expected that in two years' time the capacity building
strategy will be in place.

Education Management Information System (EMIS) was another sub-component under capacity building
that was to be developed enough to provide education managers and planners with accurate and timely
information for effective operation and development of the education system. EMIS would take the
advantage of computers for creating, collecting organizing and maintaining education data needed for
monitoring, evaluation and planning. Yet, this sub-component has not been developed to an expected level
as it is at the initial stages of its development.

STRENGTHENING INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS


                                                      - 47 -

Under this component a number of actions were accomplished. Within the PEDP framework and the
decentralized policies of the GoT, the roles and responsibilities of various levels were outlined. More
powers to manage primary education have been devolved to schools whereas LGA's supervise
implementation at schools. Regions and the central Ministries have been providing overall policy and
professional guidance needed for successful delivery of the primary education across the country.

Management of the basic education sub-sector has been a joint effort following the ESDP structure. Since
the start of PEDP consultative forums drawing members from Community Based Organizations (CBOs),
Non ­ Governmental Organizations (NGOs), Faith Organizations, Non-Government Providers of basic
education, communities, Development partners and GoT have been strengthened. These met regularly to
deliberate on matters that needed joint decision and participated in process activities such as monitoring and
reviews. The Steering Committee in the Prime Minister's Office played a coordinating as well as higher
level decision making roles on matters pertained to education sector.

The GoT of Tanzania through the Ministry of Finance (MoF) timely released education funds on quarterly
basis to councils basing on the budget approved by the Parliament.

Generally financial flows to councils followed institutional arrangement manuals with exception of a few
cases during the first two years when both the Ministry of Education and Culture (MoEC) and President's
Office Regional Administration and Local Government (PORALG) were involved in transferring education
funds to LGAs.

School committees, village councils participated fully in implementation of planned activities at school
level. They mobilized communities around the schools to participate in construction activities as well as
enroll their children and ensure their attendance until they complete the 7 year cycle of primary education.
Most of the activities were done on self help basis and GoT financial support supplemented community
efforts. The overall rating for this component is SATISFACTORY.

BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
The GoT fulfilled most of its obligations as required and as agreed upon in the programme in a satisfactory
manner. The government prepared PEDP implementation guidelines, issued circulars and conducted both
monitoring and supervision of PEDP implementation at LGAs and schools.

The GoT appointed programme coordinators both at MoEC and PORALG to Coordinate activities
implemented by the two Ministries and LGAs and report the progress to the relevant Education Sector
Development Programme (ESDP) structures. MoEC fulfilled its responsibilities including training
pre-service and in-service teachers, improving primary school curriculum, examinations and assessment
and conducting school inspection and providing support to teachers. MoEC in collaboration with
PORALG organized and trained education personnel at regions and LGAs.

The two Ministries (MoEC & PORALG) prepared year and quarterly Action Plans on the basis of which
DPs released their committed funds to finance approved activities. However, these plans were always
approved after one or two quarters of the Financial Year had passed. Reasons for the late approval of
funds were caused by:-
(a)       Lack of consensus on a format to be used in the preparation of the plan especially during the first
         and second year of the plan.
(b)      Long dialogue between DPs and GoT which arose at the stage of preparing the plans
(c)      Delay in finalizing budgets for the LGAs to include GFS codes which were demanded by DPs.




                                                    - 48 -

The GoT organized and carried out two critical process activities of review and audit although the activities
took place late especially during the two initial years of the programme. Review report noted dramatic
achievements in almost all the schools. Audit report on the other hand noted a number of weaknesses
related to financial management and procurement procedures especially at the school level during the first
year of the programme. However there were significant improvement in the financial management and
procurement processes during the second year following the training undertaken of key personnel at the
LGAs and school committees.

The BEDC structures were operational during the life of the programme. The Technical Working Groups
(TWGs) were instrumental in developing technical and guideline documents at the beginning of the
programme. However, the TWGs continued to demand to be fully involved in day to day affairs of the
Ministries as though they were going to replace Ministry Departments. After clarification of TWG roles,
consensus was reached that the organs would be used when analyses of technical documents are required
before they are discussed at BEDC.

The most challenging experience was the requirements of the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU).
Some of the requirements could not be implemented in the style and timeframe provided for in the MoU,
which led some DPs to think that the GoT was not taking MoU seriously. Eventually, however all Pooled
Fund Partners (PFP) realized that the MoU was unreasonably demanding rather than facilitating the
implementation process. So, consensus was reached to revise the MoU jointly between PFP and GoT.

FINANCIER'S PERFORMANCE
The financier accomplished most of its responsibilities in a timely manner after submitting status of
fulfillment of the agreed actions for effectiveness, second and third tranches. The financier was also
flexible in its approach to project implementation as evidenced by the decision to cover all the districts
instead of 75% of the districts in the allocation of the Development and Capitation Grants.

The financier participated fully in the process activities such as stocktaking, monitoring, reviews, sector
Public Expenditure Reviews (PER), the Public Expenditure tracking Study (PETS) and the financial audit,
and actually provided valuable inputs for successful implementation of the planned activities. The
financier was very key in guiding other partners who were financially supporting the programme to abide
by programme design and government procedures.

FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOME

A number of factors affected implementation and outcome including the following:-


l Lack of training of key programme implementers at the beginning of the programme. This made
    implementers interpret programme design and implementation strategies in their own way and hence
    affected the quality of the outputs as they hardly abided by the designs and standards set by MoEC.

l Non-compliance to timely reporting requirement by implementers at LGAs and Schools which affected
    timely flow of financial resources from DPs.

l Delays in receiving funds from the financier thereby causing delays in undertaking planned activities.

l Lak of adequate communication facilities within the basic education system which affected the
    possibility of undertaking regular supervision and monitoring.

    Lack of better coordination and communication within MoEC and between MoEC and PORALG



                                                      - 49 -

  particularly at the initial years of the programme.

l Lack of better working environment for the teachers such as houses in the rural areas. This
  demotivated their morale to work in those areas.

l Use of building contractors instead of local artisans in some LGAs delayed completion of
  construction work and also caused the cost of construction to rise.

l Delay or non release of funds for approved activities by some DPs. This interfered with smooth
  implementation of the planned activities.


LESSONS LEARNT
Key lessons learnt during programme preparation and implementation.


l When all key stakeholders are involved in programme design and implementation they always tend to
  support the implementation.

l Implementers need to be thoroughly enlightened in progamme goals objectives and implementation
  strategies if intended goals, and objective are to be achieved.

l Coordination and communication between various departments and programme implementing
  ministries is essential for the success of the programme.

l Provision of training should be supported by putting in place systems and strategies to ensure
  incorporation of the new skill and change in behavior.

l Use of local artisans in civil works ensures strong accountability of the artisans. The work is likely to
  be completed in time and to the required standards/quality. Above all it reduces effects of poverty
  among community members when they are paid for the work done and promotes sense of ownership
  among community members.

l Programme design should include a contingency to accommodate cost over-runs as a result of under
  budgeting or oversight of certain components essential for programme success.

l Successful implementation of PEDP has started exerting pressure on the need to expand secondary
  education the soonest: In 2004 at least 48% of Primary School leavers qualified to continue with
  Secondary Education but spaces available could only accommodate 35%. This calls for the need to
  continue supporting the government initiated Secondary Education Development Plan (SEDP).

l Sustainability of PEDP is another issue of concern; positive developments of PEDP need to be
  sustained in a number of forms: financial, human capacities and material. It should be noted that
  children who were enrolled in 2002 and 2006 will complete the seven year cycle of primary education
  in 2008 and 2012 respectively which are critical year in assessing in the impact of PEDP. While the
  Government and Communities are committed to PEDP, the challenge is how to sustain DPs support to
  PEDP at the second phase and thereafter.

l The initial four years of PEDP (2002-2006) have experienced under funding on a number of areas in
  PEDP leading to less achievements than the planned targets. This calls for an extension of the
  programme which the GoT has initiated.




                                                    - 50 -

Additional Annex 11. Cofinacier's Comments - The Royal Netherlands Embassy

We have followed the objectives (see paragraph 5 of ICR) and come to the following result/outcome related

observations:

A. Results/Outcomes:

1) Improving quality of primary education:

From the start of PEDP till date, primary education has experienced gradually growing examination ratio
(for PSLE/standard VII) from 28.6% (2001) to 48.7% (2004). However, examination ratios are a proxy
and don't really reflect improved quality at primary education. As learning assessment systems are not in
place yet, it is at the moment impossible to conclude that PEDP has led to more quality. Many different
factors and processes could lead to quality, as curriculum development, quality of teachers, working and
learning environment, capacity building and in service training etc. The quality of these different
PEDP-strategies is a determining factor in the gradual process towards improved quality of teaching and
learning. Within a four years' period, however, it is somewhat difficult to measure links between
PEDP-activities and improved quality. We feel that more could have been done in the quality component of
the programme (see also recommendations reviews 2003 and 2004).

2) Increasing school retention

The different investments in classroom construction, capacity building, teacher recruitment, provision of
books etc. assume a positive relationship with retention rates. Unfortunately, the EMIS (Education
Management and Information System) is not yet able to produce precise data on dropouts, teachers'
presence and attention rates in order to get a clear idea about the progress made. Official reports (like the
National Monitoring Report on Implementation of PEDP 2003, April 2004) however refer to huge
shortages of teachers. The start of SEDP (since July 2004) has worsened the situation. Now diploma
teachers are gradually withdrawn from primary schools. PTR (Pupil-Teacher ratio) at primary schools
worsened from 1/46 (2001) to 1/60 (2004), also with high regional variety (1/44 Kilimanjaro to 1/87 in
Shinyanga). All these factors have a negative impact on school retention.


3) Expanding enrollment in primary education

NER (Net Enrolment Rate) improved considerably from 66% (2001) to 90.5% (2004). Gender equity
remained stable over the PEDP years as well. National data (see also 2 above) on the drop out, retention,
efficiency rates, out of school children, HIV-AIDS victims under teachers and students are not available or
are not precise or complete. The HIV-AIDS pandemic creates an extra pressure on adequate teacher
deployment. It also urges for the implementation of the HIV-AIDS strategy, which has been designed, but
lacks co-ordination and practical follow up. The department of NFE within MoEC estimates 2.5 million
children being out of school. The NFE/COBET-programme can't cope yet with these numbers and suffers
from serious delay in implementation, lack of teaching and learning materials, teachers or facilitators and
therefore high drop out rates. Results in terms of which children have been succeeding in rejoining the
primary schools and passing standard IV or VII-examinations are not provided by EMIS. These
developments threaten continuous high enrolment as well as retention rates at primary schools.

4) Building capacity for efficiency and accountability at all levels, in particular at the community, village
and school levels

Diverse capacity building has been implemented. However, most training lack clear targeting, needs
assessments, learning outcomes, follow up and impact measuring on the job and the organisation. A


                                                      - 51 -

capacity building strategy (one of the main recommendations of the PEDP reviews of 2003 and 2004)
could help here, in particular when the strategy is based on an organisational and individual learning
(needs) assessment for the MDA's involved in the education sector. Another concern is the coherence with
capacity building which is going on within other national reforms as PSRP (Public Sector Reform
Programme), LGRP (Local Government Reform Programme) and PFMRP (Public Finance Management
Reform Programme). Without the fulfillment of these basic conditions the impact of the actual,
uncoordinated and isolated capacity building efforts is doubtful.

5) Institutional arrangements developed or enhanced and financial sustainability

a) The capitation and development grants-system did contribute to getting funds at the districts and/or
schools' direct disposal. This has encouraged school and communities' involvement in classroom, teacher
houses construction, toilets and enthusiastic support to PEDP. In comparison with the first year of PEDP
(2001/2002), the second (2002/2003) showed a lower percentage of funds transfer leakage from national to
district and from district to school level (see PETS-Public Expenditure Tracking Survey). Since 2003/2004
PEDP has introduced a new decentralised book procurement system which must help schools to get quicker
access to the books they need. We feel the need of a follow up on the PETS, aiming at the causes for
leakage and also at utilisation of the funds at district and community level.

b) After delays the EMIS-development plan has been produced and approved by BEDC in April 2005. The
plan took suggestions from UNESCO (UIS-UNESCO Institute for Statistics) to harmonise the different
monitoring systems of PORALG and MoEC. But there is still a long way to go to have a more professional
EMIS in operation.

c) MOEC and PORALG don't participate fully yet and are not well collaborating in the national planning
and budgeting process of PER, MTEF and Budget Books which leads to the following consequences;

l Some planned PEDP activities are not reflected in the budget books, causing delay in and obstacles for
    full implementation of PEDP.

l There is no coherent sector wide planning and budgeting taking place in which all MDA's in the
    education sector and the directors of the different departments are involved. PEDP is seen and budgeted
    as a project. ESDP-development (for other subsectors) has got less attention.

d) Planning and (audit)reporting processes in PEDP are delayed and not result or outcome oriented. This
causes delay in funding for PEDP, because timely provision of these reports have been agreed upon within
the MoU of PFP's and GoT.

e) Coherence with local government reform is a concern. PEDP has not adapted itself yet to the changing
context of reforms in local government. Part of the funds transfer is expected to fit in conditional block
grants based on formula (as population of school aged children). And a new Local Government Act has
brought the responsibility for recruitment and deployment of teachers to LGA's.

f) Sustainability: Education is a priority sector in the MKUKUTA. Many DP's support and will continue to
support Tanzania through GBS/PRBS or sector budget support. A new partnership agreement is developed
which caters for support           to the whole education sector, encourages co-ordination by PMO and
MoF and closer alignment to PER, MTEF, PAF and JAS-processes. If the GoT is able to show progress
along the lines of (sector) PAF, DP's will be encouraged to continue support to Tanzania. If the planned
economic growth within MKUKUTA can also be met, the GoT is also gradually expected to close financial
gaps and become less dependent on aid.




                                                      - 52 -

B. Recommendations on way forward:

We fully support the main recommendations for follow up on the review of 2004, which is capturing most
of the issues discussed above. These recommendations (see attachment) were agreed upon by BEDC in
April 2005. We do also recommend a follow up of the PETS-recommendations.
RNE, 13th of May




                                                 - 53 -

PEDP Review 2004: Recommendations: Submission to BEDC Meeting April 21 2005
DRAFT 1
  Recommendation           Issues                      Actions taken to Date      Proposal to BEDC
1 To move towards budget   o Revisit the ESDP:         · Sector Issues paper      · Adopt the recommendation and
  support                  o Align the education       discussed with PMO         request PMO to develop an ESDP
                           sector to MKUKUTA           · EC Resolutions on        Action Plan, indicating the
                           policies and strategies     Support to the Education   necessary processes so as to be able
                           o New sector                Sector accepted by         to have a full sector strategic plan
                           partnership agreement       GoT/MoF                    ready by mid 2006.
                           o ToRs for Sector PAF .     · Draft of Partnership     · MoEC to study the PA and E/PAF
                                                       Agreement made             tors and send comments recommend
                                                       available                  them to PMO.
                                                       · S-BAS system being       · MoEC to request PMO to call a
                                                       used in MoEC               meeting of the ESDP Advisory
                                                       · ToRs for Sector PAF      Committee.
                                                       made available
2 Institutional and       o Examination of            o ToRs developed by IA
  Organisational Analysis institutional framework in Working Group to revisit
                          context of core government ToRs and submit to BEDC.
                          reforms                     o
                          o Training Needs
                          Assessment
                          o Capacity Building
                          Strategic Plan for the
                          sector
3 Enhancement of Quality  o Re-emphasis on EFA        o The ToRs developed by    o BEDC to request the Quality
  Education               goals                       the T.Ed Department to be Technical Working Group to revisit
                          o Development of Teacher sent to the Quality TWG for the Quality Strategy and present a
                          Education Strategic Plan    further study and then     revised strategy within six months.
                          o Focus on                  submitted to BEDC for
                          Teaching/Learning           approval.
                          Environment                 o The ToRs to be integrated
                          o Support to curriculum     with the Teacher Study
                          development                 being carried out with WB
                          o Mainstreaming of          assistance.
                          innovative projects and the o
                          role of NSA in promoting
                          quality
4 Redefine the Review     o Develop a sector PAF      o Concept paper on Annual o Plan needed urgently to define
  Process                 o Reconsider the EMIS       Sector Review developed.   processes to be carried out from now
                          Development Plan in the     o To be submitted to BEDC to October 05.
                          light of the PMS review     for approval and then
                          and the UIS report.         forwarded to PMO
                          o Review the content,       o EMIS Strategic Plan
                          process, timing and         finalised
                          indicators used for the
                          review.
5 Planning and Budget     o Coherence between         ?
  Workshop for FY 2005/06 ESDP strategies and         o Urgent need to revisit
                          budget allocations          Education PER.
                          o Understanding of the
                          budget challenge under
                          MKUKUTA and fiscal
                          decentralisation
                          o Intra-sectoral allocations
                          in view of proposed budget
                          support.




                                                      - 54 -

                                                                                                                                                                                            IBRD 33494


                                                                          TANZANIA

                                        SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                      MAIN ROADS

                                        PROVINCE CAPITALS                                                                              RAILROADS

                                        NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                               PROVINCE BOUNDARIES

                                        RIVERS                                                                                         INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES




                       30°E                        32°E                      34°E                         36°E                  This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                     To
                                                                                     To
0°                                                                                                                              endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                    Tororo                                                                                                            0°
                                                 To
                                                 To
                        UGANDAKampala
                           To
                           To
                         Kampala                              Lake
                                 Kagera                                                                         To
                                                                                                                To
                                                            Victoria                                        Nakuru                                 K E N Y A
                                                   Bukoba            Musoma          Mara                                   To
                                                                                                                            To
                                                                                                                          Nakuru
                                       Buoen
                   RWANDA KAGERA                                                M A R A
2°S                                                                                                                                                                                                  2°S
                                                                                                      Lake
                                                          Mwanza                                     Natron
  ToKama                                               M WA N Z A               Simiyu              A R U S H A        Kilimanjaro
                                                                                                                          (5895 m)
                   BURUNDI                                                                                     Arusha           Moshi
                                                                                                                                                                              To
                                                                                                                                                                              To
                                                                                        Lake                                                                            Malindi
                                  Kibondo
                                       Moyowosi           Yalova
                                            S H I N YA N G A                           Eyasi               Lake
                                                                        Shinyanga                          Manyara
                                                      Kahama                                                                    Pangani  KILIMANJARO
                                                                     Nzega      Steppe                                                                                                               4°S
                                                                                                         Babati                       Same
  CONGO                  K I G O M A                                                                                     Masai                                                               PEMBA
                                                                                                                                                                                             NORTH
                           Kasulu                                                                                        Steppe
                     Kigoma                                                       Singida
       OF.                                        Kaliua                                                  Kondoa
                                                                 Tabora Iwembere  SINGIDA                                                                                       Wete         PEMBA
                                                                                                                                                                     Tanga                   SOUTH

                                                    TA B O R A                                                                             TA N G A                             Mkoani       ZANZIBAR
          REP           Lake                Ugalla                                            Manyoni                                                                                        NORTH

                        Tanganyika                                                                       DODOMA                         Mts.                           Mkokotoni             ZANZIBAR
                                                                                                                                                                                             SOUTH &
                                                                                                                                                        Zanzibar         Koani               CENTRAL
                              Mpanda                                                                                                        Wamimi
                                                                                                    D O D O M A                             Wa                                               ZANZIBAR
             DEM.                                                                                                           Nguru
                                                                                                                              Morogoro                 Kibaha                                WEST
                                 R U K W A                                                                                                                              Dar Es Salaam
                                                       Rungwa                                                Great       MOROGORO                                           DAR ES SALAAM

                                                                                                                       Ruaha                            P WA N I
                                                           Lake                                          Iringa
8°S                           Sumbawanga                   Rukwa  M B E Y AangeR              I R I N G A                                             Utete                                          8°S

                                                    Mpui             Mbeya                                                                Rufiji                                INDIAN
                                                                                                                                                                           Kilwa
                                                                 Mbeya                                      Kilombero                               Matandu                Kivinje


                                                                 Tunduma
                                               To
                                               To
                                          Kasama                                  Kipengere                                                                                     OCEAN
                                                                                            Njombe
                                                                                                                                                        L I NuD I

10°S

                                                         To
                                                         To
                                                        Kasama                               Range                                                      Mbemkur                  Lindi              10°S
                                                                                                                                                                                          Mtwara

                   ZAMBIA
                                                                             To
                                                                             To                        Songea                                                 Masasi
                                                             TANZANIAKasungu
                                                                            Lake                      R U V U M A                                  MTWARA
                                                                                                                                        Tunduru
                                                                        Malawi                                                                          Ruvuma


                                                                                                                                                                     To
                                                                                                                                                                     To
                                                                                                                                                                   Chiúre
                                                                                                                                                                   Chiúre

                                                                                                                      To
                                                                                                                      To                                                                            12°S

                                                                                               To
                                                                                               To                    Marrupa   MOZAMBIQUE
                                                                                            Lichinga


                                                                                                                            0       50     100     150    200 Kilometers



                                                   32°E                      34°E                         36°E              0             50        100         150 Miles         40°E

                                                                                                                                                                                                 JULY 2005

