CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1447 RO
Loan Agreement
(Bucharest Glass Fiber Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BANCA DE INVESTITII
Dated June 15, 1977


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 15, 1977, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and BANCA DE INVESTITII (hereinafter called the Borrower).


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Romania" and "Guarantor" both mean The Socialist
Republic of Romania;
(b) "Foreign Trade Bank" means the Romanian Bank for Foreign
Trade, established by Law No. 16/1968 of Romania;
(c) "Charter" means the Charter of the Borrower as approved
by Decree No. 314 of 1971 of the Council of State of Romania, and
Decree No. 125 of 1970 concerning the organization and operations
of the Borrower, ratified by Law No. 22 of 1970 of Romania, as
amended by Decree No. 314 of 1971 of the Council of State of
Romania, as amended from time to time;


﻿- 3 -
(d) "CISCF" means the Industrial Central for Glass and Fine
Ceramics, established by Decision No. 367 of 1973 of the Council
of Ministers of Romania;
(e) "Design Institute" means the Design Institute for Light
Industry established by Decree No. 179 of 1951 of the Presidium of
the Grand National Assembly of Romania;
(f) "Enterprise" means the Glass Fiber Yarn and Fabric
Enterprise, under CISCF, established by Decree No. 352 of 1976 of
the Council of State of Romania; and
(g) "ROMSIT" means the Foreign Trade Enterprise for Light
Industry established by Decision No. 28 of 1970 of the Council of
Ministers of Romania.


﻿ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to eighteen million
three hundred thousand dollars ($18,300,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank,
for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made)
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement which
the Bank and the Borrower have agreed are to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan.
(b) The Foreign Trade Bank is designated as representative
of the Borrower for the purpose of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and Article V of the General Conditions.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, contracts for the purchase of goods and services
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be awarded in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4
to this Agreement.


﻿-5-
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1980 or such
other date as shall be agreed between the Bank and the Borrower.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shill pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and two-tenths per cent (8.20%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on February 1 and AugusL 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal, amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall cause the Project to be
carried out with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate engineering, financial, ecological,
environmental and administrative practices as follows:
(a) the Borrower shall supervise the execution of the
Project, including the procurement of the goods and services
required therefor;
(b) the Enterprise shall, where required in cooperation
with the Design Institute and other authorized design institutes
of Romania, provide the general engineering services required for
the Project;
(c) ROMSIT, and where required other procurement agencies of
Romania the activities of which shall be coordinated by ROMSIT,
shall, in accordance with the technical advice received from the
Enterprise and the Design Institute, procure the goods and services
required for the Project; and
(d) the Enterprise shall:
(i) make timely arrangements, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank, with
the design institutes referred to in the foregoing


﻿-7-
paragraph (b) for the supply of the general
engineering services required for the Project,
and with the appropriate industrial construction
trusts of Romania as required for the civil works
and erection included in the Project;
(ii) in accordance with the technical assistance
received from such design institutes procure
the goods and services required for the Project
other than those referred to in the foregoing
paragraph (c); and
(iii) have overall responsibility for the coordination
of the implementation of the Project and for the
coordination of the Project-related activities
of the other agencies of Romania.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause adequate provision
to be made for the insurance of the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of
importation into the territory of Romania, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.


﻿-8-
(b) Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise
agree, all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan shall be used exclusively for the Project.


﻿- 9 -
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants Concerning the Enterprise
Section 4.01. (a) The Bank and the Borrower agree that, in
order to realize the purposes of the Project, it shall be
necessary for the Enterprise:
(i) to operate the facilities established under
tha Project with due regard to ecological,
environmental and safety factors and, in
particular, prevent the emission of ecologically
harmful. levels of flourine and flouride from such
facilities;
(ii) to maintain records adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained
appropriate accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures of
the Enterprise;
(iii) to submit the accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) of the Enterprise
for each fiscal year to an independent audit
conducted, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by the Ministry
of Finance of Romania;


﻿- 10 -
(iv) at all times to manage its affairs, plan its
future expansion and carry on its operations,
all in accordance with appropriate engineering,
financial and administrative practices and under
experienced and competent management, assisted
by qualified staff in adequate numbers;
(v) to be granted all such rights and interests in
land and all such other rights and powers as
are necessary in the management or operation of
the assets managed or operated by the Enterprise;
(vi) at all times to operate and maintain the
installations, equipment and other property
managed or operated by the Enterprise, including
all structures constructed and machinery installed
under the Project, and, as and when required,
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof,
all in accordance with appropriate administrative
and engineering practices;
(vii) except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise
agree, not to transfer or otherwise dispose of
any of the assets managed or operated by the
Enterprise, except in the normal course of the
business of the Enterprise; and


﻿- 11 -
(viii) that in any year after 1980 the sum of the annual
benefits of the Enterprise and the annual provision
for depreciation of the Enterprise shall be at
least sufficient to cover the sum of (A) the
equivalent in Lei of the payments of the principal
of, and charges other than interest on, the Loan
which the Borrower is required to make to the Bank
that same year and (B) ten per cent of the average
principal amount of the Loan outstanding that same
year; for the purposes of this paragraph (viii),
the term "Lei" means Lei in currency of Romania,
and the term "annual benefits" means the difference
between gross revenues and operating and
administrative expenses (including adequate
provision for maintenance and depreciation)
accountable to any one fiscal year.
(b) The Borrower shall, to the extent that it is authorized
under the laws of Romania, ensure that the Enterprise will
conduct its operations in accordance with the requirements set
forth in this Section.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE V
Management and Operations of the Borrower;
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall manage and conduct its
operations and affairs in accordance with appropriate
administrative and financial standards and practices and in
accordance with the Charter.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations in respect of the Enterprise.
Section 5.03. (a) It is not the practice of the Borrower to
create liens as security for debt. Accordingly, the Borrower
represents that at the date of this Agreement no lien exists
on any of its assets as security for any debt.
(b) For the event that, notwithstanding the foregoing, a
lien shall be created on any of the Borrower 's assets as security
for any debt, the Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree: (i) if the Borrower shall create the
lien, such lien will equally and ratably secure the payment
of the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the
Loan, and in the creation of such lien express provision will
be made to that effect, at no cost to the Bank; and (ii) if the
lien shall be created by law, the Borrower shall grant, at no


﻿- 13 -
cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satisfactory to the Bank to
secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and other
charges on, the Loan.
Section 5.04. The Bank and the Borrower agree that in
carrying out the provisions of this Agreement the Borrower
shall take such measures as shall be necessary according to
the State Plan of Romania and the applicable laws in order
to achieve the purposes of the Project.


﻿-14-
ARTICLE VI
Cooperation and Information
Financial Data
Section 6.01. The Bank and the Borrower shall cooperate
fully to assure that the purposes of the Loan will be
accomplished. To that end:
(a) the Bank and the Borrower shall from time to time
at the request of either party exchange views through their
representatives with regard to the progress of the Project,
the benefits derived from the Project, the performance of their
respective obligations under the Loan Agreement, the compliance
by the Enterprise, CISCF and ROMSIT with the requirements set
forth in Section 4.01 of this Agreement and other matters relating
to the purposes of the Loan, the compliance by ROMSIT with the
requirements of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and the Borrower
shall enable the Bank's representatives to exchange views with
representatives of the Enterprise with regard to the Project, the
benefits derived from the Project, the resources and expenditures
of the Enterprise and the compliance by the Enterprise with the
requirements set forth in Section 4.01 of this Agreement and with
representatives of the Romanian glass fiber industry with regard
to the benefits of the Project to the Romanian economy and the
position of the Enterprise in such industry;


﻿- 15 -
(b) the Borrower shall obtain from the Enterprise and the
other agencies concerned of Romania, and furnish to the Bank,
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents and construction and procurement schedules for
the Project, and the material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank and the Borrower shall
agree;
(c) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to record the progress of the
Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods
and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the
goods manufactured from materials or components financed out
of such proceeds, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project;
and (ii) shall furnish to the Bank within forty-five calendar days
after the end of each calendar quarter a report of such scope and
in such detail as the Bank and the Borrower shall agree, on the
progress of the Project during such quarter;
(d) the Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives
to visit and examine the goods financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, the plants, installations, sites, works, buildings
and equipment of the Enterprise, the factories, installations,
sites and works in Romania where goods required for the Project
are manufactured insofar as the Project is concerned, the other


﻿- 16 -
facilities and construction sites included in the Project, the
records and documents of the Enterprise and the other records and
documents relating to the Project;
(e) the Borrower shall for each fiscal year of the
Enterprise: (i) obtain from the Enterprise and furnish to the Bank
not later than three months after the end of each such year, (A)
certified copies of the financial statements (balance sheets,
statements of income and expenses and related statements) of the
Enterprise for such year audited in accordance with the provisions
of Section 4.01 (a) (iii) of this Agreement, and (B) the report of
such audit by the auditors referred to in said Section 4.01 (a)
(iii) of such scope and in such detail as the Bank and the
Guarantor shall agree; and (ii) furnish to the Bank such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements of
the Enterprise and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time
to time reasonably request;
(f) the Borrower shall: (i) furnish to the Bank not
later than four months after the end of each of its fiscal
years, (A) certified copies of its financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements, as agreed between the Bank and the Borrower) for
such fiscal year submitted to an independent audit conducted,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently


﻿- 17 -
applied, by the Ministry of Finance of Romania, and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditor of such scope and in
such detail as the Bank and the Guarantor shall agree; and
(ii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
the before-mentioned financial statements of the Borrower
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request; and
(g) the Bank and the Borrower shall from time to time
furnish to each other such additional information as the other
party shall reasonably request with regard to the progress of
the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan, the
goods and services financed out of such proceeds, the operations,
resources and expenditures of the Enterprise, the benefits derived
from the Project and the general status of the Loan.
Section 6.02. The Bank and the Borrower shall promptly
inform each other of any condition which interferes with, or
threatens to interfere with, the progress of the Project, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, the maintenance of
the service thereof or the performance by either party of its
obligations under the Loan Agreement.


﻿- 18 -
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The date August 16, 1977, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 19 -
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Banca de Investitii
Str. Doamnei No. 4
Bucharest
Romania
Telex:
011238 BINVR
011239 BINVR
011188 BINVR


﻿- 20 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ M.P. Benjenk
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
BANCA DE INVESTITII
By Is/ Nicolae M. Nicolae
Authorized Representative


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to b,
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent) to be Financed
(1) Know-how, engineering,       16,800,000       100% of foreign
machinery, equipment,                        expenditures
erection supervision,
training and start-up
assistance for Section
I for the plant de-
scribed in Schedule 2
to be supplied under
the main equipment
and technology con-
tract and twisting
equipment and bush-
ings connected
therewith
(2) Other machinery and           1,500,000       100% of foreign
equipment for                                expenditures
Section I of such                            and 100% of
plant                                        local expendi-
tures, limited
to ex-factory
cost
TOTAL    18,300,000


﻿- 22 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for
goods or services supplied from the territory and in the currency
of any country other than Romania; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of Romania and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of Romania.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, Romania on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if any event occurs which shall affect the amount of any such
taxes included in the cost of any item to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
correspondingly adjust the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in
an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $1,400,000,
may be made in respect of Category 1 on account of payments made
for such expenditures before that date but after April 15, 1977.


﻿- 23 -
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan set
forth in the second column of the table in paragraph 1 above, if
the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Loan
then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to finance
all expenditures in that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the
Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required
to meet such estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are
then allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Bank are not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such
reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in
order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting
any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agree-
ment, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan
as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of
such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 24 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of:
Part A:   The erection of a glass fiber plant in the Militari
industrial area in Bucharest including Section I: a spinning
plant having the capacity to produce 6,000 tons per year of glass
fiber by the direct-melt process in the form of roving and yarn,
and Section II: a weaving and finishing plant having the capacity
to produce per year six million square meters of fabrics, ten
million linear meters of glass yarn tapes and 3.3 million linear
meters of braided glass yarn tubes. Section I will include two
furnaces each having the capacity of 3,000 tons per year of glass
fiber. Section I is expected to be complete by end-1979, and
Section II is expected to be complete by mid-1978. The Project
will be deemed to be complete when Sections I and II have each
achieved their design capacity production (0.03268* times the
respective amounts stated above) for a period of ten consecutive
days.
Part B:   A detailed training program acceptable to the Bank and
the Borrower for the staff who will manage, operate and maintain
the plant described in Part A of the Project.
*    Equivalent to 10 days of continuous operation ivided
by 306 operating days per year.


﻿- 25 -
The details of the program described in Part B of the Project
will be submitted to the Bank by DecemLer 31, 1977 or such later
date as the Bank and the Borrower may agree.


﻿- 26 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal*
Date Payment Due                            (expressed in dollars)
On each February 1 and August 1
beginning February 1, 1981
through   February 1, 1992                     765,000
On August 1, 1992                                   705,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 27 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion
of the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                        1.65%
More than three years but not
more than six years
before maturity                        3.30%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                        6.00%
More than eleven years but not
more than thirteen years
before maturity                        7.10%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                        8.20%


﻿- 28 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
(Section 2.03)
A.   General Procedures
1.   Except as provided in paragraph 2 of this Part A, goods and
services shall be procured in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
August 1975 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
2. (a) Contracts for goods which cannot be grouped together in
accordance with paragraph 3 of this Part A and which are estimated
to cost less than $100,000 equivalent shall, after solicitation of
bids from potential suppliers from at least three member countries
of the Bank and Switzerland on the basis of bid invitations
consistent with the provisions of the Guidelines, be awarded in
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 through 3.10 of
the Guidelines unless this would be impractical for technical
reasons, in which event the items involved shall be procured by
prudent shopping.


﻿- 29 -
(b) The contract for platinum/rhodium bushings may be
negotiated directly with a supplier acceptable to the supplier of
know-how and engineering for Section I of the plant described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
3.   Identical or similar items to be procured for the Project
shall be grouped together, wherever practicable, for the purpose
of bidding and procurement, and such grouping of items shall be
subject to agreement between the Bank and the Borrower.
4.   Bidders are required to prequalify in accordance with
criteria agreed between the Borrower and the Bank. The list of
prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their qualifi-
cations and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for
prequalification, shall be furnished by ROMSIT to the Bank for its
comments before the applicants are notified and ROMSIT shall make
such additions to or deletions from such list as the Bank shall
reasonably request.
B.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and*comparison of bids for the
supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the
ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods shall be excluded;


﻿- 30 -
and (iii) the cost of inland freight and other expenditures
incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of their use or
installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Romania will be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Romania if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Romania equal to at least 20% of the ex-
factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Romania.
(3) Group C: bids offering goods manufactured outside
Romania.


﻿- 31 -
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evalu-
ated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported goods
offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further com-
parison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties
and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to
pay for the importation of the goods offered in such group C bid;
or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs
duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group A bid in
such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for
the award; if not, the lowest evaluated bid from group C shall be
selected.


﻿- 32 -
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, ROMSIT shall furnish to the
Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the
specifications and other bidding documents, together with a list
of prequalified bidders to whom the invitations to bid will be
sent, and shall make such modifications in the said documents or
procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further modi-
fication to the bidding documents shall requir.. the Bank's con-
currence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) Promptly after the bids have been opened, ROMSIT shall
inform the Bank of the names of the bidders and the respective
amounts of the bids.
(c) After bids have be-n evaluated, ROMSIT shall, before a
final decision on the award is made, inform the Bank of the name
of the bidder to which the contract is intended to be awarded and
shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its review, a
detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids
received, together with the recommendations for award and such
other information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be incon-
sistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
ROMSIT and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿- 33 -
(d) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(e) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $100,000 and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, ROMSIT shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with a list of the parties invited to bid or to submit
quotations, the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations
for award or, if a single offer is solicited pursuant to paragraph
2 of Part A of this Schedule, the reasons why a single offer was
solicited and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and the Enterprise and state the
reasons for such determination.


