Updated Project Information Document (PID)
Report No: AB1O8
Project Name                BURKINA FASO-BF PRSC 3
Region                      Africa Regional Office
Sector                      Central governtent administrationi (40%); Health (20%), Primary education
(20%); General agricultLre, fishing and forestry sector (15%); General public
administrationi sector (5%)
Theme                       Macroeconomic management (P), Poverty strategy, analysis and monitoring (P),
Public expenditure, financial management and procurement (S), Other
accountability/anti-corruption (S)
Project                     P076908
Borrower(s)                 BURKINA FASO
Implementing Agency(ies)    MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND BUDGET AND OTHER MINISTRIES
Address Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso
Contact Person: M Francois Zoundi
S6cretaire Permanent du Secretanat Permanent pour le Suivi des Programmes et
Politiques Financiers (SP-PPF)
Tel.     Fax       Email:
Environment Category        B (Partial Assessment)
Date PID Prepared           June 2, 2003
Auth Appr/Negs Date         June 2, 2003
Bank Approval Date          July 17, 2003
1. Country and Sector Backgr ound
Burkina Faso is a poor landlocked country of about 12 million inhabitants with a very narrow natural
resource base. hi 2001, its gross domestic product (GDP) reached about $230 per capita and Burkina
Faso was ranked 159th out of 162 countries in the latest United Nations Development Program (UNDP)
Human Development Index Only about 17 percent of the population live in urban areas (mainly the
capital city Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso, the center of the cotton-growing area) and most
Burkinabe remain heavily dependenit on agricultural activities, many of which do not generate cash
incomes Macroeconomic performance and progress in reducing rampant poverty therefore remain
vulnerable to external shocks suclh as climatic conditionis and chaniges in world market prices for cotton,
Burkina Faso's main export good
Key social indicators are substantially below the sub-Saharan average. Illiteracy rates still reach
an estimated 75 percent, primamy school gross enrollment rates have stayed below 45 percent, and
repetition rates are high Likewise, infant mortality rates, child malnutrition rates, and matemal mortality
rates remain high and have changed little over the past decade. According to the 1998 household survey,
the latest available to date, 45 percent of the population were below the poverty line. These summary
figures combined with the economic vulnerability and high dependency on foreign assistance
demonstrate the challenge for Burkina Faso in making significant strides towards meeting the
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs).






2
PID
2. Objectives
PRSC-3 is the third in a series credits supporting the implementation of the poverty reduction strategy the
government of Burkina Faso outlined in its 2000 poverty reduction strategy paper (PRSP) The 2000-03
govemnment program focuses on four pillars: accelerating equitable growth, improving social service
delivery, increasing employment and incolmie generating activities for the poor, and promoting good
governance. Ultimately, reaching these objectives would translate into approaching the MDGs through
sustained econoiuc growth generating a broad-based increase in incomes; higher school enrollment rates
and higher literacy rates; lower chlild mortality and maternal mortality rates, and improved transparency
of governmuent activities
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvemenit
PRSC-3 would continue the Bank's support for mceting the objectives of the PRSP through the
implementation of key policy measures in the areas of public expenditure management, procurement,
decentralization, basic education, health, and rural development These areas are closely linked with the
four PRSP pillars. Most measures to be supported by PRSC-3 were identified in the PRSC-2 program
document and will be implemenited before moving to negotiation of PRSC-3.
4. Description
The series of PRSCs was designed on the basis of a significant amount of analytical work, includinig a
stLdy on competitiveness and economic growth, a country financial accountability assessment (CFAA), a
counltiy procurement assessmenit report (CPAR), and a number of public expenditure reviews (PERs),
notably in the area of health and education Bank supported actions focus on public sector reform and
governance and sectoral policies for the poor The first component, reflecting objectives of the first and
fourth PRSP pillar, includes strengthening of the budgetary process, internal controls, procurement,
budget deconcentration, and civil service reform. The second component, based on PRSP pillars 2 and 3,
incorporates measures to improve service delivery in education and health and strengthen
income-generating agricultural activities as well as the capacity of the ministries of agricultLre and
livestock. The supported measures are inputs for improving economic management and social service
delivery, which are considered to be essential to reach PRSP objectives. The proposed third PRSC
would support the implementation of the PRSP by financing the implementation of the 2003 budget
5. Financing
Source (Total ( US$m))
BORROWER/RECIPIENT ($0 00)
IDA ($0.00)
IDA GRANT FOR DEBT VULNERABLE ($50 00)
Total Project Cost: $50 00
6. Implementation
The credit amount would be disbursed in entirety into an account of the borrower after grant approval.
Grant approval will be conditional on policy measures having been fully implemented.
7. Sustainability
The sustainability of results of PRSC-3 will be subject to continued government commitment to poverty
reduction since policymakers need to ensure the steady application of changes in the policy environment
The sustainability of results could also be affected by external shocks interi-upting the implementation of
the poverty reduction strategy






3
PID
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Overall, the experience of implemiienting the PRSC series has been positive. The PRSCs have steadily
strengthenied the focus on the budget as the main instriment for PRSP implementation. In particular,
during PRSCI-2, the role of the MTEF and program budgets in formulating government policies has
grown substantially, the computerized expenditure management has been made more comprehensive and
first concrete steps for its stepwise extension to regional entities were taken, procurement regulations
were overhauled to align them with best international practice, existing extemal audit niles for the budget
were enforced, a plan for the imiprovemiienit of budget management was developed and its implementation
has begun, the introductioni of a performanice-based personnel management system and the creation of a
unified personnel database were pursued, improvemenits to modeling macro-micro linkages were made
and a new household survey was launched.
A number of sectoral policies were also implemented under the PRSCs, some of which are
summarized subsequently In the education sector, budget allocations for basic education increased
significantly and a special emphasis was placed on improving allocations for the 20 provinces with the
lowest enrollment rates In the health sector, prices for generic drugs were lowered and health center
budgets posted to increase transparency, incentives to retain health center staff were implemented in
some pilot districts; vaccinationi rates were raised through a vigorous campaign; the management capacity
of health centers was reinforced, and caslh advance accounts were created to provide a steady flow of
resources to the districts. In the rural sector, the cotton monopoly of SOFITEX was eliminated, and
studies were undertaken for crop diversification and institutLional reform.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues : The Bank provided support to the government to strengthen the capacity for
environmental assessment (EA). A workshop introducing the principles and methods of EA was
held in Ouagadougou with key governiment officials in November 2002. Ministries also named
focal points for the implementationi of EAs and instructions have been issued on the application
of EAs. Further capacity bullding under Bank operations is necessary to create a culture of
safeguarding the environment wheni executing public projects. An updated enrionmental
assessmenit was prepared under PRSC-3 analyzing key envrionmental safeguard issues was
prepared by the govenmment and has been disclosed in country and the World Bank's infoshop
10. List of factual technical documents:
Environmenital Assessment
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Jan Walliser
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone. (202) 473-2329
Fax: (202) 473-8136
12. For information on other project related documents contact
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW






4
PID
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone (202) 458-5454
Fax    (202) 522-1500
Web: http 11 www worldbank org/linfoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be necessarily
included in the final project.



