FILE COPY
Report No. 1S06-4EN
Appraisal of a Third Highway Project
People's Republic of Benin
October 25, 1977
Western Africa Projects Department
Highways Division
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit:      CFA Francs (CFAF)
US$1.00          =  CFAF 245
CFAF I million  =  US$4,081
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
System of Weights and Measures: Metric
Metric                                US Equivalents
I meter (m)       2                       3.28 feet (ft)
I square meter (! )                      10.76 square feet (sq. ft.)
I cubic meter (m )                       35.30 cubic feet (cu ft)
1 kilometer (km)       2                  0.62 mile (mi)
I square kilometer (km )                  0.39 square mile (sq. mi)
1 hectare (ha)                            2.47  acres
1 metric ton (t)                         2,205  pounds (lb)
Abbreviations and Acronyms
BADEA        Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa
CEBTP         Centre d'Experimentation du Batiment et des Travaux Publics
CIDA          Canadian International Development Agency
CNERTP        Centre National d'Essais et de Recherches des Travaux Publics
DLT           Directorate of Land Transport
DRB           Directorate of Roads and Bridges
DSP           Directorate of Studies and Planning
EDF           European Development Fund
FAC           Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
HMCS          Highway Maintenance Coordination Service
IDA           International Development Association
ME            Ministry of Equipment
MT            Ministry of Transport
NORAD         Norwegian Aid Agency
OCBN          Organization Commune Benin-Niger des Chemins de Fer et
des Transports
SNWS          Studies and New Works Service
STI           Services des Techniques Industrielles
UNDP          United Nations Development Programme
USAID         United States Agency for International Development
vpd           vehicles per day



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY ........................................... .   ... ..iV
1.    INTRODUCTION  ...........             ...............................              1
2.    THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ......              ...................... .                  2
A.    Economic Setting  .................................                          2
B.    The Transport System ........ . .  ............................ .            3
C.    Transport Administration and Coordination                    ........       6
D.    Transport Investment and Financing  ....                  ...........        6
3.    HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR ........................... . ........... . .  .                 7
A.    The Road Network  .................................                          7
B.    Vehicle Fleet and Road Traffic  ................            .. .             8
C.    Administration ......            ....................... .                  9
D.    Staffing and Training  ................. .......... .                        9
E.    The Road Transport Industry  ......................                        10
F.    Engineering and Procurement  ......................                        11
G.    The Road Construction Industry  ................               ...         11
H.    Maintenance  ......................................                        12
I.    Financing               ........................................           13
4.    THE PROJECT  ............... .   ..................... . .....                    15
A.    Description  ...... 99*......0.................... .9496998900.......      15
B.    Cost Estimates  ........... ..            . ..........................     19
C.    Execution and Procurement  ......... ...............                       20
D.    Financing and Disbursement  ....... ................                       21
E.    Project Monitoring  ... ..... .........                 ..... . . . . .    22
5.    ECONOMIC APPRAISAL  .................... q*_                     *es ....         23
A.    General  . ................*           .................... .              23
B.    Rehabilitation of the Godomey-Bohicon-Abomey Road.                         23
C.    Bituminous Road Resurfacing                  ......................        26
D.    Resurfacing  of Laterite Roads  ........... . .........                    27
E.    Distribution of Benefits                 .........................         28
6.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  ..................                         28
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
TABLES
1.   Fuel Consumption, 1970-1976
2.   Transport Investments by Subsector, 1970-1975 and Planned
Investments, 1976-1980
3.   Highway Network, 1976
4.   Motor Vehicle Fleet 1967, 1970 and 1975
5.   Expenditures for Roads, 1970-1975, and their Financing
6.   Government Revenues from Road Users, 1975
7.   Design Standards for Godomey-Bohicon-Abomey Road
8.   Bituminous Roads Needing Resurfacing, their Traffic in 1976
and Expected Traffic Growth, 1978-1986
9.   Laterite Roads Needing Resurfacing, their Traffic in 1976 and
Expected Traffic Growth, 1978-1986
10.   Spare Part Requirements for Equipment Rehabilitation and Stock
Increase
11.   Equipment for Resurfacing Brigades for Laterite Roads
12.   Cost Estimates, Net of Taxes, at July 1977 Prices (item by item)
13.   Cost Estimates, Net of Taxes, at July 1977 Prices (functional
classification)
14.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
15.   Economic Appraisal Godomey-Abomey
16.   Bituminous Roads Resurfacing, Cost and Benefit Streams, 1979-1986,
Rate of Return and Benefit/Cost Ratio Road by Road
17.   Resurfacing of Laterite Roads, Cost and Benefit Streams, 1979-1986,
Rate of Return and Benefit/Cost Ratio Road by Road
18.   Sensitivity Analysis, Resurfacing of Bituminous and Laterite Roads
19.   Estimate of 1976 Traffic on Godomey-Abomey by Category of Vehicle
and by Road Section
ANNEXES
I.   Training Program
II.   Tables on Economic Appraisal: Resurfacing of Bituminous Roads
III.   Tables on Economic Appraisal: Resurfacing of Laterite Roads
CHARTS
EXHIBIT I   -  Organization of DRB, 1976
EXHIBIT II - Traffic by Road Section on Godomey-Abomey, 1976
MAP



PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Summary
i.        With a per capita gross domestic product (GDP) of about US$130,
Benin is ranked as one of the poorest countries in the world. Agricul-
ture is the mainstay of Benin's population. Due largely to Benin's role
in handling substantial amounts of transit trade for Niger and Nigeria,
trade and transport are the most important economic activities. Together
with public administration and other services, they contribute more than half
of total GNP. Whereas agriculture employs about 70% of the labor force, the
rural sector's share of GNP is only about one-third. Aware of this imbalance,
the Government has begun to place greater emphasis on agriculture and rural
development.
ii.       The principal transport artery in the country is the Benin route,
which consists of the railway linking the port of Cotonou with Parakou (438
km) and a paved road (320 km) stretching from Parakou to Malanville on the
Niger border. Transport along this route is managed by the Organisation
Commune Benin-Niger des Chemins de Fer et des Transports (OCBN), a financially
autonomous agency established in 1959 by the governments of Benin and Niger.
OCBN is also responsible for running two other railway lines: the Western
Coastal Line (34 km) and the Eastern Coastal Line (107 km).  These two lines
carry mainly passenger traffic. Under Credit 215-DA, these two coastal lines
were scheduled to be closed to traffic within one year after completion of
rehabilitation of the highways paralleling the lines. The rehabilitation work
has been completed, but the Association has agreed to the lines' remaining
open since the rates cover marginal costs and no new investments are being
made in the Western line. Since a clinker plant is being built at Onigbolo,
the prospects for the future of the Eastern Line will improve. Therefore, the
Association and the Government have agreed to waive the provision of section
4.14 of Credit 215-DA.
iii.      Benin is acting to maintain or improve the competitive advantage
of the Benin route over alternative routes through Nigeria, Togo, Ghana
and the Ivory Coast. The highway from Cotonou to Parakou is being upgraded
under the Association's Second Highway Project and the handling of goods
has improved at transfer points (port of Cotonou and Parakou). An extension
of the port of Cotonou is envisaged in cooperation with the Association
and other foreign sources of financing.
iv.       Between 1970 and 1975 about CFAF 9.0 billion (US$37 million) was
invested in the transport sector. More than double that amount (CFAF 24.1
billion or US$98 million) is planned for investment during 1976-80. The
highway sector has absorbed and will continue to absorb a major portion
of transport investment. Highway investments averaged CFAF 1.3 billion
(US$5 million) in the 1970-1975 period and amounted to CFAF 2.3 billion
(US$9 million) in 1975. Expenditures for new roads are estimated to have



- ii -
been CFAF 5.5 billion (US$22 million) in 1976 alone, primarily due to con-
struction by Nigeria of the first coastal link with Lagos and to IDA and
USAID disbursements for Parakou-Malanville under the Second Highway Project.
Road maintenance expenditures declined from CFAF 474 million in 1972 to an
average of CFAF 403 million per year in the 1973-1975 period. In the 1970-76
period, 73% of Government expenditures for roads, including road maintenance,
and 89% of road investments were financed from foreign sources (IDA 27%,
Nigeria 26%, EDF 18%, USAID 16%, FAC 2%).
v.        The proposed project, as well as all previous highway projects in
the People's Republic of Benin (formerly the Republic of Dahomey), has
evolved from the Dahomey Land Transport Study of 1969 financed by UNDP with
the Bank Group acting as executing agency. The study was carried out jointly
by two Canadian consulting firms. It led to a highway maintenance and
engineering project in 1970 (Credit 215-DA, US$3.5 million) and later to a
major highway construction project including further technical assistance for
highway maintenance (Credit 415-DA, US$11.8 million, 1973, later increased to
US$20.8 million to cover cost overruns) with parallel financing from USAID
(US$12.0 million).
vi.       The only other lending operation by the Association involving the
transport sector in Benin was the 1972 Zou-Borgou cotton development scheme
(Credit 307-DA, US$6.1 million), including US$630,000 for improvement of about
620 km of agricultural feeder roads, only part of which were completed because
of cost overruns on other items. A Feeder Road Project, approved by the Board
on May 31, 1977, will maintain 1,270 km of feeder roads and set up the finan-
cial and institutional framework needed to assure permanent up-keep of those
and other feeder roads in the country. The Association is also processing a
port extension project in cooperation with other aid agencies.
vii.      The proposed Third Highway Project consists of:
(a)  rehabilitation of the Godomey-Bohicon-Abomey road
(107 km) including detailed engineering and super-
vision of construction;
(b)  resurfacing of about 195 km of bituminous roads;
(c)  resurfacing of about 273 km of laterite roads;
(d)  (i) strengthening of the ongoing routine maintenance
program through purchase of small amounts of addi-
tional equipment and some spare parts to increase
the stock at STI in Cotonou and to improve the
utilization rate of existing equipment, and (ii)
providing materials for construction of office space
for DSP;



- iii -
(e) technical assistance and fellowships to the Directorate
of Roads and Bridges in the Ministry of Equipment for
the preparation of the maintenance elements of the
proposed and future projects and for further strengthening
of road maintenance planning and staff training;
(f) technical assistance and fellowships to the Directorate
of Studies and Planning in the Ministry of Transport to
enable it to strengthen its organization and to widen
the scope of its activities; and
(g)  preinvestment study of the Ouidah-Allada road (40 km).
viii.     The Godomey-Bohicon road is a part of the main north-south artery
originally constructed between 11 and 16 years ago with FAC financing. It
carries from 500 to 1,200 vpd. The road is now badly deteriorated. The
resurfacing would contribute to eliminating a substantial maintenance backlog.
Bituminous and laterite roads selected for resurfacing have been in service
for six or more years and have had neither a new surface treatment nor a new
layer of laterite. Patching and repair of shoulders and drainage structures
of bituminous roads will be done by force account with the help of a new
patching unit. Two resurfacing brigades will be reactivated to carry out the
works on the approximately 273 km of laterite roads to be resurfaced. Rehabi-
litated and some new equipment will be used.
ix.       The total cost of the project (net of taxes and duties but includ-
ing contingencies) is estimated at about US$21.3 million equivalent, with
foreign costs of about US$17.0 million (80%). IDA and the Government are
financing items (b) through (g). The total cost of these items is US$11.0
million, of which IDA will provide US$10.0 million and the Government US$1.0
million. The Kuwait Fund, the OPEC Fund and the Government are financing item
(a). The total cost of this item is US$10.3 million, of which the Kuwait Fund
will provide US$7.0 million, the OPEC Fund US$1.6 million, and the Government
US$1.7 million.
x.        Contractors, selected on the basis of international competitive
bidding and in accordance with Bank Group guidelines, will resurface the
bituminous roads. Construction works for DSP office in Cotonou (under
US$50,000) and materials for the regraveling brigades will be awarded follow-
ing local advertising and competitive bidding in accordance with procurement
procedures of the Government satisfactory to the Association. Most equipment
and spare parts for brigades and workshops will be procured on the basis of
international competitive bidding. Items costing under US$10,000 may be
procured on the basis of quotations obtained locally; the total amount
of such purchases should not exceed US$200,000.
xi.       The economic rate of return of the rehabilitation of the Godomey-
Bohicon-Abomey road is about 35%. The economic return of the resurfacing



- iv -
of bituminous roads is 155% with a benefit/cost ratio of 7.3 at a 12% dis-
count rate. Resurfacing of laterite roads would yield a rate of return of
about 54% and a benefit/cost ratio of 2.1. The overall rate of return on
the project will be about 75%.
xii.      The proposed project is suitable for a Credit to the People's
Republic of Benin in the amount of US$10.0 million on standard IDA terms.



PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
APPRAISAL OF A THIR) HIGHWAY PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The proposed project, as well as all previous highway projects in
the People's Republic of Benin (formerly the Republic of Dahomey), has
evolved from the Dahomey Land Transport Study of 1969 financed by UNDP with
the Bank Group acting as executing agency. The study was carried out jointly
by two Canadian consulting firms, Lamarre Valois International Ltd. and N.D.
Lea and Associates. It led to a highway maintenance and engineering project
in 1970 (Credit 215-DA, US$3.5 million) and later to a major highway construc-
tion project including further technical assistance for highway maintenance
(Credit 415-DA, US$11.8 million, 1973, later increased to US$20.8 million to
cover cost overruns) with parallel financing from USAID (US$12.0 million).
The highway maintenance elements of these projects concentrated on maintenance
of laterite roads and building the institutions necessary to execute such
maintenance efficiently. The other element was engineering and construction
of the Parakou-Malanville road, linking the railhead of the Cotonou-Parakou
railway with Niger, and two small sections of the Godomey-Bohicon road. The
First Highway Project was successfully completed in December 1975. The
Project Completion Report was issued June 3, 1976.
1.02      Implementation of the construction work under the Second Highway
Project has been generally satisfactory although a supplementary credit of
US$9.0 million was required to meet cost overruns due to higher than expected
inflation. The institution building elements of the project have also been
generally successful. However, since 1974 budgetary problems have plagued the
maintenance element of the project. Equipment repairs have often not been
made because of lack of spare parts, and equipment in operating order has
often been under-utilized because of lack of fuel. Government outlays for
maintenance decreased, in spite of rapidly rising costs, because of growing
commitments for new construction. The Government has, at times, even had
trouble meeting the Directorate of Roads and Bridges (DRB) payroll.
1.03      The only other IDA operations in the transport sector were the 1972
Zou-Borgou cotton development scheme (Credit 307-DA, US$6.1 million), which
included US$630,000 for improvement of 620 km of agricultural feeder roads and
a feeder roads project approved by the Board on May 31, 1977. Under the
latter, the Government intends to maintain 1,270 km of feeder roads and to set
up the financial and institutional framework needed to assure permanent upkeep
of those and other feeder roads in the country. A port project to expand
the capacity of the port of Cotonou is being prepared in cooperation with
other co-financers (FAC, CIDA, BADEA, NORAD, African Development Bank, etc.).
1.04      The total cost of the proposed project is about US$21.3 million,
net of taxes, with a foreign exchange cost of about US$17.0 million. The
proposed Credit provides US$10.0 million or 47% of the total project cost.
The remainder is to be financed by the Kuwait Development Fund (KDF) and the
OPEC Special Fund (40%) and the Government (13%).



- 2 -
1.05      This report is based on preparatory work by consultants Lamarre
Valois International Ltd. and the Government, and on the findings of
appraisal and follow-up missions by Adhemar Byl (economist) and Steven
Majtenyi (engineer). The missions visited Benin in July and December 1976.
Pierre Sooh (engineer) assisted in the preparation of this report.
2. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.   Economic Setting
2.01       Benin is a long, narrow country (112,600 km ) on the West Coast of
Africa between Togo to the west and Nigeria to the east. On the north it is
bordered by Upper Volta and Niger, two landlocked countries. Benin's road and
rail network provides the major transit route to the sea for Niger.
2.02       The population, about 3.1 million, is growing at about 2.8% per
year.  Th  average population density is high by2African standards (about
25 per km ), especially in the south (120 per km ), where the road and rail
networks are correspondingly densest.
2.03       Benin, with a per capita GDP of about US$130, is classified by the
United Nations as one of the world's poorest countries. While about 70% of the
labor force is employed in agricultural activities, the rural sector's share
of GNP is only about one-third of the total. As a result, the income of the
rural population (US$60 per capita) is considerably below the national aver-
age. The urban population, with 20% of the labor force, accounted for about
60% of GNP in 1973 and traditionally has been the main beneficiary of public
spending. However, the Government, in an effort to balance the distribution
of its expenditures, has begun to place greater emphasis on agriculture and
rural development, including feeder roads.
2.04       Benin's economy depends predominantly on agriculture (cotton, cocoa,
palm oil, karite butter, groundnuts and coffee) and on exceptionally large
transport and trade sectors, because of the subtantial transit trade with
Niger and Nigeria, for which Benin acts as intermediary and as supplier of
warehousing services. Although some further growth in port, warehouse and
transport services for Nigeria is likely, the Government expects that the
major contributors to renewed economic growth will be increased agricultural
production and processing, further import substitution and new industries
exploiting domestic raw materials such as clinker.
2.05       The last development plan in Benin, which was called the "interim
plan," covered the period 1971-72. Since the "Revolutionary Military Govern-
ment" took office in 1972, a considerable amount of reorganization has taken
place. The Government is preparing a new development plan but so far no data
have been released. The last economic mission of the Bank Group published
its report (191a-DA) on August 20, 1973, and consequently there is a lack of
economic information on which to base reliable forecasts. An economic mission
was scheduled to visit Benin in mid-1977.



-3-
B.   The Transport System
2.06      The transport system of Benin is simple, but fairly well developed,
and centered around Cotonou, where the only seaport and the only international
airport are located. The backbone of the system is the Benin route, which
consists of a railway linking the deep-water port of Cotonou with Parakou,
438 km to the north, and a 320 km paved road, recently reconstructed to two-
lane standard, which links Parakou to Malanville on the Niger border. The
rest of Benin's transport network radiates from this main axis. The coastal
road linking Cotonou with Lome (Togo) and with Lagos (Nigeria) is the other
major paved road in the country. This coastal road runs parallel to the
railway lines from Cotonou to Segboroue (the Western Line, 34 km) and from
Cotonou via Porto Novo, the official capital and administrative center 1/,
to Pobe (the Eastern Line, 107 km, 30 km of which lie along the coast, the
remainder running toward the northeast).
(a) Highways
2.07      The highway network is briefly described below as part of the Benin
Route and in Chapter 3.
(b) The Benin Route and Other Railway Lines
2.08      OCBN (Organisation Commune Benin-Niger des Chemins de Fer et
des Transports) is a financially autonomous agency, established in 1959
jointly by the Governments of Niger and Benin to manage transport on the
Benin Route and on the other railway lines in the country. Its activities
consist of operating the Cotonou-Parakou Central Railway Line and the char-
tering of trucking services between Parakou and Niger. OCBN is not only a
railroad company, but also the major freight charterer in northern Benin,
with a monopoly for Niger transit traffic. 2/ It is thus the de facto
coordinator of transport. OCBN also operates the Cotonou-Segboroue and
Cotonou-Pobe railway lines, which carry mainly passengers and little freight
(para. 2.13). It is the largest employer in the country after the Government.
Total railway freight traffic is estimated at about 80 million ton-km.
2.09      According to section 4.14 of Credit 215-DA, the two coastal lines
were scheduled to be closed to all traffic within one year following the
1/   Cotonou, the major commercial center, is slowly becoming the de facto
capital. The presidential palace and many Government departments are
already located there.
2/   General cargo is presently apportioned out two-thirds to truckers from
Niger and one-third to truckers from Benin (the latter, until recently,
were almost all private). Fuel oil products are all carried by truckers
from Niger.



-4-
completion of rehabilitation of the highways paralleling these lines, except
for traffic necessary for the operation of the palm-oil processing plant at
Ahozon (4 km beyond the Pahcu branch off), and unless the Government and the
Asssociation agreed that a substantial increase in traffic on the Cotonou-Pobe
line dictated otherwise.
2.10      Rehabilitation of the highways has been completed, but at the end
of 1973 the Association agreed to postpone closure of the Western Coastal
Line until January 1, 1976 on condition that no capital expenditures be made
on that line and the rates be adjusted to eliminate deficits in its operation.
Although the Government, for social reasons, has continued limited service on
this line beyond January 1, 1976, it is not investing in it and the rates
cover marginal cost.
2.11      The Government intends to extend the Eastern Line to a planned
clinker plant in Onigbolo (20 km). The plant will be operated by a multina-
tional (Benin-Nigeria) company, the creation of which has been officially
announced. The extension of the railway line will permit the transport of
clinker to a cement plant in Cotonou and to the port for export. Since
the clinker plant is being built, OCBN has been allowed to continue operations
on the Eastern Line. OCBN is following a prudent investment policy, its
management has improved and the organization is at least covering the marginal
costs of its operations. To reflect this new situation the Government and the
Association have agreed to waive the provision of Section 4.14 of Credit
215-DA requiring the closure of the western and eastern railway lines.
2.12      According to a recent Regional Transportation Study in countries
belonging to the "Conseil de l'Entente" and in Ghana 1/, the present freight
rates on the Benin route are still competitive with an alternative route
through Togo. This competitive edge is expected to remain intact even after
the axis through Togo has been completely paved (expected in early 1980's)
and after taxes now levied at the Upper Volta border (3% transit tax and
0.5% fonds de garantie tax, both ad valorem) have been abolished.
2.13      To avoid competition with the railway, until recently the Benin
Government discouraged the construction of the Bohicon-Parakou road beyond
laterite standards and only allowed passenger cars and light trucks to use
the two railroad bridges which are sole means of crossing the Zou and Oueme
rivers. (Under special circumstances heavier vehicles were allowed to use
the bridges after payment of high levies to cover the cost of a protective
deck laid down every time they crossed). This kept non-rail traffic to a
minimum on the lower portion of the Benin route. Recently, however, the
Government decided to alter the railroad bridges to enable them to carry road
traffic without special precautions.  Also, at the Government's request, the
1/   F.R. Laberge and Associates, Consultants, Montreal, 2 volumes, final
report, June 1976.



European Development Fund (EDF) agreed to finance the paving of the first
section (Bohicon-Dassa Zoume) of the unpaved road link between Bohicon and
Parakou. The agreement with EDF also includes feasibility and final engineer-
ing studies of the Dassa Zoume-Parakou section; it is likely that that section
will be constructed under the Fifth EDF, i.e. in the early 1980s. This will
then complete a bituminous road parallel to the OCBN railroad over its entire
length. The terms of reference of the technical assistance to DSP will
include the study of the consequences of this new situation (para 4.13).
(c) The Seaport of Cotonou and Maritime Shipping
2.14      The deepwater port of Cotonou has an annual capacity of about
500,000 tons of general cargo and almost as much bulk cargo (petroleum,
vegetable oil and clinker). The port is managed by an autonomous port
authority; cargo handling is entrusted to another autonomous Government-owned
agency, the Office Beninois des Manutentions Portuaires (OBEMAP). Port
management needs improvement and tariffs need to be reviewed to allow the Port
Authority and OBEMAP to take part in the investment effort needed for the
port.
2.15      Since the construction of the port in 1965, traffic has increased at
an average rate of 8.3% per annum, from 369,000 tons in 1966 to more than
755,000 tons in 1975 (of which more than 85% was imports). Imports of fuel
and clinker alone account for more than half. of all port traffic. In the first
six months of 1976 traffic reached about 960,000 tons, or about the port's
estimated capacity. About 50% of this traffic is for Niger and Nigeria. The
Government anticipates being able to continue handling Nigerian transit
traffic, and discussions to this effect are being held in the framework of the
proposed First Port Project.
(d) Air Transport
2.16      The international airport of Cotonou is used by the major air
carriers operating in the region. Total passenger traffic has been between
70,000 and 80,000 per year since 1972. Freight traffic is less than 3,500
tons per year. Aviation fuel consumption decreased from 8,000 cubic
meters in 1970 to 4,000 cubic meters in 1975 (Table 1).
2.17      Benin has five small secondary airfields but, given the size of
the country, domestic air transport is not very important. A US$35 million
project to relocate the Cotonou airport and to modernize the airport at
Parakou, the most important of the secondary airfields, is envisaged by the
Government, but considering its high cost and the lack of financing it is not
likely to materialize in the near future.
2.18      Benin is a shareholder in Air Afrique and UTA and has a few small
military airplanes, some of which can be chartered by the public. There
are also four DC3 flights per week by Air Benin between Parakou and Cotonou
with possibility of charter to other destinations.



- 6 -
C.   Transport Administration and Coordination
2.19      While the Dahomey Land Transport Study of 1969 was being prepared
a new Ministry of Transport, Post and Telecommunications was given responsi-
bility for transport policy, regulation and planning. The Study advised the
Government to keep transport planning within the Directorate of Transport and
to entrust this task to one competent advisor at the highest level in the
Department. However, the Government created the Directorate of Land Transport
(DLT), which has, however, never functioned as a high-level body because of
lack of qualified personnel and adequate funds and because of limitations
imposed on it. Under the First Highway Project, the Association agreed to
finance the hiring of an expert for 22 months to help set up the DLT. The
expert was hired but terminated after about 16 months in September 1972
because the agency was unable to take advantage of the consultant's expertise.
This assistance was reintroduced in the Second Highway Project (Credit 415-DA)
but assigned to the then Ministry of Public Works and Transport's Directorate
of Roads and Bridges, because the same problems persisted in DLT and addi-
tional assistance was needed in DRB.
2.20      The Government has advised the Association that it would like to
give more attention to the Directorate of Studies and Planning (DSP) in the
newly re-organized (1976) Ministry of Transport rather than to DLT. The
Government has agreed that DSP's task will be to organize and centralize the
collection of transport data and analyze transport problems, investment plans,
and prospects of all elements of the transport system. The unit could be the
basis for coordinating the various transport modes, setting tariff policies,
centralizing data collection, reviewing planned investments, and developing
transit traffic. The project includes technical assistance for this purpose
(para 4.12).
D.   Transport Investment and Financing
2.21      Data on transport investment and financing are hard to obtain
because of the lack of a central, transport planning and data collection
unit. The available data are summarized in Table 2. They indicate that
between 1970 and 1975 about CFAF 9.0 billion (US$37 million) 1/ was invested
in the transport sector, excluding railway investments (mainly rolling stock)
because the data on this subsector were not reported.  For the period 1976-
1980 roughly two and a half times as much (CFAF 24.1 billion or US$98 million)
is planned, including CFAF 2.9 billion for railways but excluding probably
small amounts of airport investments. The highway sector has absorbed and
will continue to absorb a major portion of transport investments (para.
3.25).
1/   The bulk of the disbursements under the Association's Second Highway
Project (US$20.8 million in total) occurred in 1976 and 1977.



- 7 -
2.22      Investments in the port have come from the port authority, with
contributions from EDF and other loans. A port extension project has been
appraised by the Association acting on behalf of six potential co-financers.
From 1976 to 1980, port investments (CFAF 9.9 billion) may rival road invest-
ments (CFAF 11.2 billion) if the port project materializes.  Lirport invest-
ments have been and are expected to remain modest (para. 2.17).
3. HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
A.   The Road Network
3.01      Benin's 7,200 km road network (including 300 km of urban roads)
is about the same size as the network of neighboring Togo, a somewhat smaller
country. About one-tenth of the network (759 km) consists of paved roads and
one third (2,592 km) are all-weather laterite roads; the remainder (3,849 km)
consists of partly improved earth r2ads and tracks (Table 3). The network
density is about 64 km per 1,000 km or 2.3 km per 1,000 inhabitants. The
most trafficked roads connect Cotonou with Nigeria and Togo along the coast
and with Niger to the north. About half of the network is classified as
interstate roads (connecting with neighboring countries) and about half
national roads (serving principal towns within Benin).
3.02      Most interstate and national roads once were two traffic lanes
wide, but some eroded in the 1960's to mere paths with the wide structures
remaining in place at crossings. A six-year effort under two consecutive
maintenance projects has not been sufficient to restore all the roads, due
to heavy concentration on improvement of the main bituminous network and to
severe setbacks of the maintenance effort after the energy crisis. As a
result about one-third of the paved road network remains in unsatisfactory
condition, marked by potholes, pavement cracks, ravelled edges and erosion
of shoulders. Only about half of the laterite roads are well enough main-
tained to permit all-weather travel. On the remaining laterite roads, as
well as on the earth roads, reliable transport is possible only during the
dry season.
3.03      Since 1974 the Government has been carrying out a program of recon-
struction and pavement strengthening of the most deteriorated paved roads.
The Bank Group, EDF, the United States Agency for International Development
(USAID), FAC and the Government of Nigeria were the principal sponsors of this
road improvement program (para. 3.25). For the betterment of laterite roads,
the Government, with financing from the Association under the First and Second
Highway Projects (para. 3.22), established resurfacing brigades, but this
program remains to be completed and will be expanded to include bituminous
roads under the proposed project.
3.04      Feeder roads have also received increased attention.  As a first
step, two feeder road brigades were established under the Zou-Borgou Cotton
Project (Credit 307-DA) for the improvement of 620 km of cotton feeder roads,



-8-
of which 425 km were built. An ongoing Feeder Road Project provides for the
construction of the remaining cotton feeder roads and an additional set of
other argicultural feeder roads up to a total of 1,270 km and for maintenance
of these and the cotton feeder roads. The Government will maintain another
600 km with its own resources. It will focus on the creation of an efficient
and sufficiently endowed feeder road maintenance organization and on efforts
to employ labor intensive techniques where practicable.
B.   Vehicle Fleet and Road Traffic
3.05      Statistics on the evolution of the vehicle fleet between 1971 and
1976 are not available. However, after the name of the country was changed
from Dahomey to Benin at the end of 1975, all vehicles had to be issued new
license plates. About 12,000 vehicles were registered or 4 per 1,000 inhabi-
tants. Compared with 10,849 vehicles in 1970, this shows an average annual
compound growth rate of 2%. Judging from the fuel consumption data analyzed
below, the average growth rate may well hide a decline in 1973 and 1974 (Table
4). Based on 1970 figures, about 35% of the vehicle fleet should consist of
trucks.
3.06      Data on fuel consumption (Table 1) show that consumption by road
vehicles increased by about 14% per year between 1970 and 1972, then declined
in 1973 and 1974 and returned to 1972 consumption levels in 1975. Incomplete
1976 data indicate a substantial upswing over 1975.
3.07      The Directorate of Roads and Bridges (DRB) carried out limited
traffic counts intermittently over the last seven years during implementa-
tion of the highway maintenance program. These data show that traffic
volumes range from 5,800 vehicles per day (vpd) between Cotonou and Porto
Novo (about 500-1,000 vpd in the vicinity of other major cities) to between
50 and 150 vpd on the remainder of the interstate and national networks.
About 70% of the total domestic freight volume, estimated at 1.5 million
tons per year, is carried by road (150 million ton-km) of which about one-
third is transit traffic for Niger and Nigeria. Consultants have forecast
a growth rate of 7.5% for the 1977-1979 period on the main arteries, because
they expected an increase in the vehicle fleet and return to normal economic
conditions prevailing before 1973. A more conservative estimate is used in
this report. An annual traffic increase of about 4% to 5% is expected on the
principal roads and a somewhat slower increase on the rest of the network
(except on the coastal roads: Cotonou-Lagos 10% per annum and Cotonou-Lome
6%) over the next seven years because the agricultural sector may need a
somewhat longer recovery time than other sectors.
3.08      Vehicle safety regulations are adequate, and enforcement is reason-
ably good, although the lack of trained personnel is still a problem. Respon-
sibility for vehicle inspection was recently transferred from DLT to DRB.
Maximum legal vehicle axle loads have been increased from 11.5 tons to 13.0
tons. The Government is starting to enforce these regulations on the Cotonou-
Malanville axis, where two existing weighing stations were rehabilitated under



- 9 -
the ongoing highway project. The Government is planning to expand and
strengthen the enforcement of these regulations.
C.   Administration
3.09      The Ministry of Equipment (ME) through the Directorate of Roads
and Bridges (DRB) is responsible for the administration of the highway sub-
sector. The technical work is carried out by DRB's Studies and New Works
Service (SNWS), its Highway Maintenance Coordination Service (HMCS), and a
central workshop, Service des Techniques Industrielles (STI). At the regional
level DRB is represented by three district offices and ten subdivisions,
three or four in each district. Subdivisions are further subdivided into two
or three sectors. Specialized units for feeder road construction and main-
tenance and for regraveling of laterite roads are attached to two of the
districts (Exhibit I). An additional district office is now being planned in
Natitingou in the North. The present organization appears adequate.
3.10      The SNWS supervises new construction works through temporary offices
attached to the subdivisions for minor works and through the use of foreign
consultants for major ones. It is also responsible for reviewing all engineer-
ing studies and occasionally executes minor engineering design work and field
surveying (para 3.17). The HMCS plans and supervises the highway maintenance
program.
3.11      STI's operations are of two kinds:  (i) management and maintenance
of the highway maintenance equipment fleet, and (ii) vehicle repair for Gov-
ernmental agencies and industry. The volume of non-government work is
relatively small (10%) and separately accounted for. STI has an autonomous
accounting system. The Minister of Equipment reviews STI's budget and ac-
counts, and the Minister of Finance approves. These auditing and control
procedures appear adequate.
3.12      The Centre National d'Essais et de Recherches des Travaux Publics
(CNERTP), under the supervision of the Minister of Equipment, is in charge of
executing soil and materials testing for roads. The Minister of Equipment
also reviews CNERTP's budget and accounts. Otherwise CNERTP operates as a
state-owned firm performing laboratory and field tests for civil works for
the Government and private enterprises.
D.   Staffing and Training
3.13      DRB has 12 university-level local engineers in upper and mid-level
administrative positions. Four of them are assigned to district offices.
Other mid-level administrative positions are filled with 16 engineering tech-
nicians (trained at the Polytechnical College of Bamako, Mali). The office
support staff consists of about 82 persons, 50 of whom are assigned to field
offices. The labor force assigned to maintenance operations amounts to 400
skilled and 900 unskilled workers. The number of engineers in DRB is still
insufficient to meet normal operational requirements.  Therefore, DRB will
have to continue relying on foreign technical assistance to execute thle
proposed project. STI and CNERTP are adequately staffed and equipped.



- 10 -
3.14      The director of DRB and all division chiefs are university educated
engineers. The director of CNERTP was trained by the French Centre d'Expe-
rimentation du Batiment et des Travaux Publics (CEBTP). The director of STI
was trained in Belgium in mechanical engineering, and has acquired prac-
tical and managerial experience through on-the-job training by consultants
during the implementation of the Second Highway Project. FAC has supplied
training to DRB's STI in the past and such training will continue to be
provided under this project.  Field engineers and technicians also need more
training as many of them take their positions immediately after leaving
school. In order to assure the efficient functioning of field maintenance
operations, foremen, drivers, mechanics and equipment operators also need
additional training; however, a core is already developed that has proven
capabilities.
3.15      Some training of lower and middle level personnel for highway
maintenance operations has been provided by consultants under the technical
assistance program of the First and Second Highway Projects. Additional
on-the-job training will be provided by consultants under the proposed
project, and this task has received special emphasis in the consultants'
agreed terms of reference (para. 4.10). Part of the more formal training
needs will be satisfied by more frequent use of the regional training center,
Centre Regional de Formation en Entretien Routier (CERFER) in Lome, Togo, and
by three local training centers. About 20 specialized technicians are study-
ing or have recently completed training at CERFER. The Centre de Formation de
Genie Rurale (CFGR) and the Lycee Technique of Cotonou prepare about 20 road
technicians per year who usually enter the administration at the supervisory
level. The College Polytechnique Universitaire du Benin (CPUB) opened in
November 1976 in Cotonou with about 50 students in its three-year program of
"technicien superieur en Genie Civil." Several of them may apply to the civil
service when their program is completed. Government officials also expect to
be able to attract about 10 engineers and engineering technicians every year
as they return from their studies abroad.
E.   The Road Transport Industry
3.16      The road transport industry in Benin has consisted of about 350
small operators with less than four trucks on the average, organized since
1960 in the Syndicat des Transporteurs Routiers. Many truckers work most of
the year on contract to OCBN for transit traffic between Parakou and Niger.
To handle the growing transit traffic to Nigeria, plans are being finalized
for the creation of a national transport company, TRANSBENIN, with state
and private participation and credit from the Compagnie Francaise d'Assurance
du Commerce Exterieur (COFACE) for the purchase of 180 trucks. Recently the
Government also approved CFAF 360 million and 330 million respectively (about
US$3.0 million) for the creation of local and provincial transport companies
to handle national traffic. Some of the provincial companies (Maritime and
Borgou) are taking over equipment from larger private expatriate transporters



- 11 -
who have left the country. As in other cases of nationalization in Benin,
compensation has been assured. The creation of new companies, if not co-
ordinated and properly planned, may lead to over-capacity in the trucking
industry. The Government has agreed that DSP will study the supply and
demand situation in the road transport industry.
F.   Engineering and Procurement
3.17      Major design works and supervision of construction are performed
by foreign consultants under supervision of DRB's SNWS. There are no domes-
tic consultants yet, but the Government intends to create a General Studies
Service in the Ministry of Equipment, which could become the nucleus of a
small state consulting firm. Design standards, derived from French practice
and adapted to local conditions, are usually used on new roads. The pavement
width is generally 6 meters with a platform width of 9 meters for interstate
and 8 meters for national paved roads and 7 meters for all laterite roads.
Feeder roads are constructed with a 4 meter surface width and a 6 meter
platform.
3.18      Contracts for major highway projects are awarded on the basis
of competitive bidding. SNWS is in charge of calling and evaluating bids,
which is usually done with the assistance of consultants. A representa-
tive of the President of the Republic must by law participate in evaluation
of bids. Bid openings are public. Signature of contracts is the respon-
sibility of the Minister of Equipment and a countersignature of the Minister
of Finance is required if a foreign credit is to be used for financing.
G.   The Road Construction Industry
3.19      Turnover in the country's construction industry, including building
and civil works, is estimated at about CFAF 6.5 billion (US$27 million) in
1976. Road construction accounted for 90% of total turnover and building con-
struction accounted for the remaining 10%. Turnover was exceptionally high
in 1976. During the period 1971 the annual average was about CFAF 2 billion
(US$8 million). The large increase in the volume of works in 1976 was mainly
due to the contruction of a coastal road linking Cotonou with Lagos in
Nigeria and rehabilitation of the Parakou-Malanville road.
3.20      All major civil works have been executed by foreign contractors
(about 95% of annual turnover). Domestic contractors have only very limited
capacity and are engaged primarily in the housing sector. A Government
commission is studying their status with the intention of recommending for-
mation of an association of all domestic and possibly even the major foreign
contractors. There are three locally registered foreign firms, all French:
Grands Travaux de l'Est (GTE), les Entreprises du Benin of the group Societe
Francaise d'Entreprise de Dragages et de Travaux Publics, and Colas.
3.21      The Government is concerned about the slow development and foreign
domination of the civil works industry. Therefore in June 1976 it established



- 12 -
a state-owned construction company, Societe Nationale de Construction et des
Travaux Publics (SONACOTRAP), which in its first year of operation had a
turnover of CFAF 83 million (US$340,000), the major part of it in building
construction. SONACOTRAP cannot at the moment execute large civil works
contracts; the company needs adequate equipment and experienced personnel,
including skilled workmen, foremen, field engineers and business managers.
The Government is preparing to make a major purchase of highway construction
equipment for the company and is investigating participation by a French firm.
SONACOTRAP will, alone or in joint venture, participate in competitive bidd-
ing for the resurfacing of some sections of the 195 km of bituminous roads
financed under the proposed project and will be granted IDA's 7.5% margin of
preference to eligible domestic contractors bidding for civil works.
H.   Maintenance
3.22      Routine and periodic maintenance of the highway network is carried
out mainly by DRB's subdivisions and sectors; about 2,000 km of feeder roads
and tracks and some 300 km of urban roads are the responsibility of the
Ministry of the Interior and local authorities. The latter have recently
started a campaign for voluntary efforts in the cities and in the country.
DRB's execution has improved considerably, qualitatively and quantitatively,
since implementation of the four-year maintenance program under the First
Highway Project, followed up by a two-year extended technical assistance
program under the Second Highway Project. Under the first project, which
started in 1971, DRB was organized and a central maintenance division was
created. Regular routine maintenance interventions were made over more than
80% of the network allocated to DRB as of 1973. Maintenance programming and
budgeting techniques were introduced, and Government personnel received
training in equipment maintenance. In addition the STI workshop facility in
Cotonou was enlarged and properly equipped, existing highway maintenance
equipment was repaired and new equipment purchased. Under the Second Highway
Project, improvements made under the preceding program have been carried
further, with emphasis on the planning of routine and periodic maintenance of
laterite roads and proper servicing of the highway maintenance equipment.
However, in addition to expanding the program to bituminous roads, technical
(para. 4.07) as well as financial improvements (paras 3.26 and 3.27) in the
ongoing operations are necessary.
3.23      The First and Second Highway projects concentrated in building up
DRB capacity in maintenance of laterite and earth roads (90% of the network),
and the rehabilitation of major roads of the network. Periodic maintenance of
bituminous roads was let to contractors, and routine maintenance was limited
to filling of potholes. This project will expand DRB maintenance capacity to
bituminous roads. For the periodic maintenance of laterite roads four re-
surfacing brigades were established under the First Project. Due to insuf-
ficient funds and equipment breakdowns, management problems and lack of
trained personnel, the initial four brigades were consolidated in two in 1975
under the Second Project. Further cutbacks in funds reduced the number of



- 13 -
operating brigades to one in 1976. This brigade completed the Pobe-Ketou road
and has moved to the Djougou-Assarade road. However, this brigade is still
inadequately equipped in spite of a special budget allocation of CFAF 32
million (US$131,000) in 1976 for equipment rehabilitation (para. 4.07). A
total of 680 km of laterite roads were resurfaced by the brigades and some
repairs on bridges and structures were performed.
I.   Financing
3.24      Expenditures for roads in Benin tripled between 1970, whyp they
were CFAF 0.9 billion (US$3.7 million), and 1975, when they amounted to about
CFAF 2.7 billion (US$11 million). They are estimated to have more than
doubled again to CFAF 5.9 billion (US$24 million) in 1976, primarily due to
construction by Nigeria of the first coastal link with Lagos (Seme-Gbadagri,
CFAF 2.3 billion) and IDA and USAID disbursements for Parakou-Malanville
under the Second Highway Project. Road maintenance expenditures alone, on
the other hand, appear to have declined from a maximum of CFAF 474 million
in 1972 to an average of CFAF 403 million per year in 1973-1975, a period,
when road maintenance costs rose considerably due to worldwide inflation
(Table 5).
3.25      In the 1970-76 period, 73% of Government expenditures for roads,
including road maintenance, and 89% of road investments were financed from
foreign sources (IDA 27%, Nigeria 26%, EDF 18%, USAID 16%, FAC 2%). Recur-
rent maintenance expenditures for equipment have been financed from regular
budget allocations and from the Road Fund, which was reactived in 1970 to
supplement the regular budget and supplied with funds from an earmarked tax
of CFAF 4 per liter on sales of diesel oil and gasoline. Road Fund revenues
were all used for road maintenance. They accounted for about 62% of all
maintenance expenditures financed by the Government over the period.
3.26      In accordance with the conditions of the Association's First High-
way Project, the Government undertook to provide increased amounts of main-
tenance funds in the period 1970-73. During appraisal of the Second Highway
Project a road maintenance financing plan for the period 1973-1976 based on
requirements assessed by consultants assisting DRB was discussed, and a
gradual increase over the 1972 amounts was agreed upon. However, as shown
in the table below, circumstances since the end of 1973 have been such that
actual budget allocations are still considerably below what is necessary for
adequate maintenance, and local funds are increasingly used for road invest-
ments. This trend may well continue through 1979 because of Government
commitments of about CFAF 600 million (US$2.5 million) per year for a new
bridge in Cotonou and smaller amounts for other bridge and highway projects.



- 14 -
1970   1971   1972   1973   1974   1975
---------(in millions of CFAF) --------
(at current prices)
Expenditures for Roads
Financed from Local Sources            343    588    660    561    674    713
Road Maintenance Expenditures       288    401    474    402    401    404
Investment Expenditures              55    187    186    159    273    309
3.27      The expenditures for road maintenance by DRB reached a maximum of
CFAF 474 million in 1972 or almost CFAF 100,000 (US$400) per km of major road.
The Government would be justified in spending CFAF 1.3 billion on routine and
periodic maintenance of its road network (US$2,000 per km of paved roads,
US$1,000 per km of laterite road, and US$300 per km of earth road), of which
CFAF 400 million of foreign financing would be provided from ongoing mainten-
ance projects. This target, however, can most probably not be reached before
1980 because of Government commitments to other investment projects and
Benin's poor economic condition. The Government has therefore agreed with the
Association on an annual budget allocation for highway maintenance increasing
from CFAF 750 million in 1978 to CFAF 900 million in 1980 as indicated in the
table below. This will provide sufficient funds for routine and periodic
maintenance.
1976   1977   1978   1979   1980
- ----(in millions of CFAF) ----
(at constant 1976 prices)
Road Maintenance Expenditures                 427    600    750    830    900
Network Maintained by DRB                   417    580    718    788    850
Network Maintained by Ministry
of Interior and Local Authorities          10     20      32     42     50
3.28      This target could be attained either by a significant increase
in budgetary contributions to maintenance or by an increase in fuel taxes
or road user taxes which would then be earmarked for the Road Fund. Revenues
from road user taxes, until 1973, more than covered all expenditures for
roads including investment expenditures financed from abroad. This was no
longer the case in 1974 and 1975. In 1975 revenues from road users amounted
to 82% of expenditures (Tables 5 and 6). In 1976 coverage must have decreased
further to about 50%. The options available when only fuel taxes are con-
sidered range from the current CFAF 4 per liter, which would still require
ordinary budget contributions to maintenance of between approximately CFAF 400
million in 1977 and CFAF 650 million in 1980, to CFAF 13 per liter, which
might eliminate contributions by the general budget altogether, assuming a 4%
per year increase in traffic (para. 3.07) and an identical collec-tion ratio
(62.5%). This may, however, be impossible because it might bring fuel prices
out of line with those in neighbouring countries. Other road user charges
such as taxes on vehicle purchase may therefore have to be considered. The
Government has agreed to consider these options and any other means available
to implement the above financing schedule.



- 15 -
4. THE PROJECT
A.   Description
4.01      The proposed project consists of:
(a) rehabilitation of the Godomey-Bohicon-Abomey road
(107 km), including detailed engineering and super-
vision of construction;
(b)  execution of a program to eliminate backlog main-
tenance by resurfacing about 195 km of heavily
trafficked bituminous roads;
(c)  execution of a program to eliminate the backlog
of periodic maintenance of laterite roads by
resurfacing about 273 km of interstate and
national roads;
(d)  (i) strengthening of the ongoing routine maintenance
program through purchase of small amounts of addi-
tional equipment and some spare parts to increase
the stock at STI in Cotonou and to improve the
utilization rate of existing equipment; and (ii)
providing materials for construction of office space
for DSP;
(e)  technical assistance and fellowships to the Direc-
torate of Roads and Bridges in the Ministry of
Equipment for the preparation of the maintenance
elements of the proposed and future projects and for
further strengthening of DRB's road maintenance
planning and staff training;
(f)  technical assistance and fellowships to the Direc-
torate of Studies and Planning in the Ministry of
Transport for improvement the Ministry's organization
and widening of the scope of its activities; and
(g) preinvestment study of the Ouidah-Allada road
(40 km).
(a) Rehabilitation of the Godomey-Bohicon-Abomey Road
4.02      This road forms up to Bohicon part of the country's main north-
south artery connecting the capital Cotonou with the central and northern
regions of the country. Abomey, 5 km to the west of Bohicon, is a historic
city and one of the country's major population centers. The existing road
is a two-lane paved road that was built to marginal standards 11 to 16 years
ago.  It now carries traffic volumes ranging from 500 to 1,200 vpd and is



- 16 -
badly deteriorated. As a result of the marginal standards and lack of
adequate maintenance, cracks are showing in the uneven road surface and
poor drainage of the roadbed has led to rutting on the sides of the pavement
and reduction of the pavement width. A section of 6 km between Godomey
and Abomey Calavi and a section of 11 km between Sehoue and Zakpo have
already been reconstructed and repaved under the Second Highway Project.
4.03      The proposed project item includes the construction of a new base
course on about 57 km of the road, improvement of the drainage structures, a
double surface treatment, regraveling of shoulders for the whole 107 km and
detailed engineering of the road (21 man-months) and supervision of construc-
tion (56 man-months). DRB will be assisted by consultants in supervising the
rehabilitation works. Design standards can be found in Table 7.
(b) Elimination of Maintenance Backlog on Bituminous Roads
4.04      As the country does not have bituminous road maintenance capability,
the paved road system has deteriorated at a rapid rate. Several paved roads
have had to be reconstructed, and the remainder of the network needs to be
taken care of urgently, or it, too, will have to be reconstructed. The pro-
posed project provides for the elimination of a maintenance backlog on 195
km of paved roads during 1978, 1979 and 1980. The work consists of clearing
and rehabilitating the shoulders, ditches and drainage structures, patching
the road surface, and placing 135 km of single and 60 km of double surface
treatment. In 1980 or later, another 100 km of resurfacing will have to be
executed. Then there will be a period of rest before the approximately 450 km
being reconstructed under the Second and this Highway Project will need a
new surface dressing. The selected roads (Table 8) have been in service for
six or more years and have never had a new surface dressing.
4.05      Labor intensive methods will be used for clearing the vegetation and
rehabilitating shoulders, ditches and drainage structures. These and a small
amount of equipment will be provided by DRB from the stock of the subdivisions.
A new unit will patch the roads. The equipment of this unit will also be
provided by DRB from the existing equipment fleet and will consist of a
specially adapted 7-ton truck for materials, tools and personnel and a small
water tank trailer. The project will provide small tools, materials (gravel,
emulsified asphalt), fuel, spares and salaries for personnel. The period of
intensive patching activity during the execution of this project will be used
to train the nucleus of workers for patching units to be established in all
three districts. The patching units will thus become part of the normal DRB
maintenance organization. After completion of these preparatory works, the
single and double surface treatments will be applied by contractors.
(c) Resurfacing of Laterite Roads
4.06      Under the two previous projects almost one quarter of the laterite
roads have been resurfaced (680 km). Under this project, two brigades will
be reactivated (para. 3.22) to resurface a further 273 km of interstate and



- 17 -
national laterite roads, which have not been resurfaced with laterite for the
last 10 years. The selected roads can be found in Table 9. Changes in the
selected roads will be subject to the Association's approval. The ideal
solution would be to re-establish three brigades, one in each district. They
could resurface the 2,592 km of laterite roads every 7 to 8 years, as every
brigade can handle about 100 to 125 km per year. This ideal solution can
only be achieved in stages. The proposed project will revive one brigade in
Parakou and supply additional equipment to the second, now operating in the
Bohicon district, and keep both operational for two years. A laterite layer
of an average thickness of about 12 cm will be placed over a width of 6 m for
the selected roads.
(d) Equipment and Materials
4.07      The proposed project continues efforts begun under the First and
Second Highway Projects to strengthen routine road maintenance (Paras. 3.21
and 3.22). The use of equipment procured under these projects was signifi-
cantly curtailed by the lack of spare parts at repair facilities. The exist-
ing stock of spare parts is only 3% of the replacement value of the equipment
fleet, and this is not enough to run an efficient workshop in a country with
few local supply facilities. A large part of the equipment necessary for road
maintenance (routine and periodic) is already available in the country but
needs rehabilitation. The spare parts necessary for this rehabilitation are
listed in Table 10, part A. The spare parts stock of the STI in Cotonou will
be increased to 12% of the replacement value of the equipment (Table 10, Part
B). There is also still need for some essential pieces of equipment to com-
plement existing equipment. This new equipment is listed in Table 11.
4.08      The project also provides materials for construction of an office
and for the purchase of some office furniture and equipment for DSP.
(e)  Technical Assistance Program and Fellowships to DRB
4.09      The proposed project continues efforts begun under the First and
Second Highway Projects to strengthen the management capability of DRB and
consolidate the improvements realized under these two previous projects. The
proposed project thus provides for about 55 man-months of consulting services
to assist DRB in dealing with management, budget and procurment problems. The
project also provides a few short-term fellowships for the training of DRB
personnel.
4.10      Highly qualified specialists (two highway engineers and a mechanical
expert) will assist DRB. The experts' terms of reference have been agreed
upon and emphasize the following:
(i) execution and monitoring of resurfacing of laterite, and
bituminous roads;
(ii) monitoring of repair shops, strengthening STI's stock accounting
system, and execution of maintenance of equipment;



- 18 -
(iii) on-the-job training of key DRB and STI personnel (Annex I);
(iv) preparation of a future maintenance project; and
(v) preparation of a comprehensive permanent program for staff
training, personnel development and management.
(f) Technical Assistance and Fellowships to DSP
4.11      The project provides for technical assistance (30 man-months) to
the Directorate of Studies and Planning (DSP) in the Ministry of Transport
for (i) strengthening its organization and widening its scope of activities
to include collection of data, coordination of all modes of transport, and
preparation of transport planning and policy, and (ii) for training of key
personnel. The project also provides a few short-term fellowships for the
training of DSP personnel.
4.12      To create the capacity for better transport administration and
coordination, the project provides for the services of highly qualified
transport specialists (an economist and an engineer), up to a total of 30
man-months to help DSP with the following tasks:
(i) reviewing the current organization and operations;
(ii)  developing a data collection system and analysis
program for the transportation sector;
(iii)  developing and implementing a training program for DSP
personnel (Annex I); and
(iv)  helping the Government to prepare the transport
development program and to formulate transport policy.
The experts' terms of reference, emphasizing the above tasks, have been agreed
upon.
(g) Preinvestment Study
4.13      The proposed project includes a feasibility and detailed engineer-
ing study of the Ouidah-Allada road (40 km).  This two-lane gravel road
connects the coastal road in the south with the Godomey-Bohicon road at
Allada, thereby considerably reducing travel time for traffic from the south-
western coastal area, which at present often detours via Cotonou. Traffic on
this road is expected to be about 200 vpd. Maintenance costs on this road
are high and the Government proposes improving this road to paved standard.
The feasibility study would determine the type of improvements economically
justified. It will be followed by detailed engineering if justified. Terms
of reference for this study have been agreed upon.



- 19 -
B.   Cost Estimates
4.14      The total cost of the project (net of taxes and duties but includ-
ing contingencies) is estimated at about US$21.3 million equivalent, with
foreign costs of about US$17.0 million (80%). The Government has agreed as it
has done under the Second Highway Project, that the proceeds of the credit for
the project should not be used to finance taxes and duties. The table below
(which summarizes Table 12) shows each project item, including its contingencies,
for co-financing purposes.   Table 13 presents a more conventional approach,
dividing the project into civil works, equipment and material purchases,
consultant services and contingencies.
Cost Estimates, Net of Taxes, at July 1977 Prices
Local  Foreign  Total    Local   Foreign   Total   Foreign as
-----CFAF million-- -      -------US$'000 ------       of Total
Rehabilitation of
A. Godomey-Bohicon-Abomey Road
(107 km) including detailed
engineering and supervision      551    1,970   2,521    2,249    8,041    10,290          78
B. Resurfacing Bituminous
Roads (about 195 km)            253      1,016   1,269    1,033    4,147       5,180       80
C. Resurfacing Laterite
Roads (about 273 km)              105       351      456     428    1,433      1,861       77
D. Purchasing Equipment and
Materials                          61       537      598     249    2,192      2,441       90
E. Technical Assistance and
Fellowships to DRB                 45       176      221     184       718       902       80
F. Technical Assistance and
Fellowships to DSP                 17        72       89      69       294       363       80
C. Preinvestment Study of
Ouida-Allanda road (40-km)         13        49       62      53       200       253       80
TOTAL COST                    1.045      4.171   5,216   4.265   17,025    21.290         80
of which:
Base Costs                      843    3,359   4,202    3,440   13,711    17,151          80
Physical Contingencies            70      300      370      285    1,225      1,510       81
Price Contingencies              132      512      644      540    2,089      2,629       80



- 20 -
4.15      Cost estimates for rehabilitation of the Godomey-Bohicon-Abomcy
road and for resurfacing bituminous and laterite roads are based on the con-
sultant's studies of June 1976 and were updated to mid-1977 by the appraisal
mission. Cost estimates of consultant services and technical assistance are
based on current unit prices applied in Benin and other West African countries.
The billing rate for consultants services is estimated to average US$6,500 per
field month, including salaries, overheads and fees. Reimbursable expenses
payable to consultants are estimated to average US$2,500 per field man-month
including housing, internal and external travel, telecommunications, report
preparation, etc. Costs for equipment and spare parts are CIF prices in bids
received in Cotonou in July 1977.
4.16      Physical contingencies of about 10% for road rehabilitation have
been added for works by contract or by force account. Annual price increases
of 7.5% for equipment and 9% for civil works and consultant services have been
used to estimate price variations in 1977-1980 period.
C.   Execution and Procurement
4.17      The Ministry of Equipment through DRB and the Ministry of Tran-
sportation through DSP will be responsible for the execution of the project.
DRB and DSP will be assisted by consultants to be selected in agreement with
and under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Outlines of
the scope of all consultant services have been agreed upon. The expected
implementation schedule for the major activities of each project element is
shown on the following page. The proposed project is scheduled to be com-
pleted by 1980.
4.18      The rehabilitation of the Godomey-Bohicon-Abomey road will be
financed by Kuwait and OPEC Funds and Government and executed by contractors
on the basis of international competitive bidding. The bidding procedures and
contract awards will follow guidelines agreeble to both organizations. The
consultant Lamarre Valois completed the detailed engineering and preparation
of bidding documents in April 1977. Rehabilitation works are expected to
start in early 1978 and take about 27 months to complete. Rehabilitation
supervision will be provided by consultants in agreement with and under terms
and conditions satisfactory to both organizations.
4.19      The program to eliminate backlog maintenance on bituminous road will
be divided into three parts to be undertaken in the following sequence. The
first part will consist of clearing vegetation and rehabilitation of shoulders,
ditches and drainage structures. This will be executed by force account with
personnel and equipment of DRB subdivisions within whose jurisdiction the work
is performed. The second part will consist of patching existing roads. This
will also be executed by force account by the special patching unit to be
set up in DRB under the project. The third part will consist of placing a
single or double surface treatment on about 195 km of roads and will be
executed by contractors after completion of the force account works on in-
dividual road sections or a combination of sections as determined by the
consultant in agreement with the Government. Resurfacing is expected to begin
in the fourth quarter 1978 and take about 21 months to complete. Bidding



BENIN
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
(CALENDAR YEARS)
ITEM                           ACTIVITY                               ACTION BY                              1977                                 1978                                 1979                                 1980
1st     2nd      3nd      4th       1st      2nd      3rd       4th      1st      2nd      3nd      4th       1st      2nd      3rd  |  4th
Credit                   Signing                                     Government/Bank
Effectiveness                              Government/Bank                                                          *
Rehabilitation of        Bids prepanations                          Contractors
Godomey.Bohicon          Selection of Contractor                    Government/KuwaitVOPEC
Abomey Road              Award of Contract                          Govemment
Rehabilitation                             Contractor                                                                         _                 -                 -                 -         -        -
Rehabilitation Supervision                 Consultants                                                                 _  f         f                    _      f
Resurfacing of           Preparation of Bidding Documents            Government
Bituminous               Preparation of Preqaalification21          Contractors
Roads                    Evaluation of Prequalification              Government/Bank
'195 Km}                 Preparation of Bids                        Contractors
Selection of Contractors                   Government/Bank
Award of Contract                          Government
Resurfacing                                Contractors                                                                                         -                  _                          -
Resurfacing of
Laterite                 Resurfacing                                 Government                                                                                                                     -
(273 Km)
Equipment                Sapply of Equipment                        Suppliers
and Spare Parts          Preparation of Bids (Spare Parts)           Suppliers
Purchase                 Evaluation of Bids                          Government/Bank_
Award of Contract                          Government
Supply                                     Supphers
21~_                                                                                                            _____
Technical Assistance     Short Listing of Consultants                Government/Bank
to DRB and DSP           Preparation of Proposals                    Consultants
Evaluation and Selection of Consultants    Government/Bank
Award of Contract                          Government
Consultants' Services                      Consultants                                                                       _        -        -         -        -        -                  -        -
Pre,nvestment            Short Listing of Consultants                Government/Bank_
Study of                 Preparation of Proposals                    Consultants
Ouidah-Allada            Evaluation and Selection of Consultants     Governmnt/Bank
Road (40 K.)             Award of Contract                           Government
Feasibility Study                          Consultants
Review                                     Government/Bank
Detail Engineering                         Consultants
1/ To encourage more participation by contractors in this and ongoing projects
j! Bids received and contract award under Cr 717-BEN (Benin Feeder Roads)
1 Including techn,cal assistance experts' leave time                                                                                                                                                                                     World Bank   17995






- 21 -
procedures and contract award will be on the basis of international competi-
tive bidding following Bank Group Guidelines. The Government will prepare the
bidding documents with the help of consultants. Consultants will also assist
the Government in planning, coordinating and supervising all force account and
contract works.
4.20      The program to eliminate the backlog of periodic maintenance of
laterite roads will be executed by DRB's field units. Resurfacing of laterite
roads will be executed by force account by the two reactivated brigades. Con-
sultant Lamarre Valois completed the bidding documents in April 1977 for pro-
curement of equipment and spare parts. STI in Cotonou will rehabilitate
existing equipment and will assure the proper servicing of most of the highway
maintenance equipment fleet. In this work, STI in Parakou will provide
assistance by servicing the equipment engaged in maintenance work in the
northern part of the country. Consultants will assist the Government in
planning, budgeting, accounting and supervising the highway maintenance pro-
grams. Consultants will also provide training to key management and field
personnel of DRB and STI. Resurfacing is expected to begin in the fourth
quarter of 1978 and take about 21 months to complete.
4.21      The bulk of equipment and spare parts will be procured on the
basis of international competitive bidding and in accordance with Bank Group
guidelines. Bidders will compete on the basis of cost, delivery time and
reliability of after-sales service offered. Procurement for items costing
less than US$50,000 in connection with the spare parts and construction of
office space for DSP in Cotonou up to a maximum of US$100,000 can be done
under competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association. Items costing under US$10,000, including
office furniture and equipment, small tools, cars, etc., may be procured on
the basis of quotations obtained locally; the total amount of such purchases
should not exceed US$200,000. The above arrangements, as well as the timing
of procurement (para. 4.17), have been agreed upon.
4.22      The consultant for technical assistance program and the preinvest-
ment studies will be selected following Bank Group Guidelines and approved by
the Association.
D.   Financing and Disbursement
4.23      External sources will finance about US$18.6 million or about 87%
of total project costs, net of taxes, covering total foreign costs of about
US$17.0 million and US$1.6 million in local costs. The Government will meet
the remaining local costs of US$2.7 million plus an annual maintenance budget
from US$3.0 million in 1978 to US$3.7 million in 1980.
4.24      The Kuwait Fund, the OPEC Fund and the Government will finance the
rehabilitation of Godomey-Bohicon-Abomey road, element A of the proposed
project. The total cost of this element is US$10.3 million, of which the
Kuwait Fund and the OPEC Fund will provide US$8.6 million and the Government
will provide the remainder (US$1.7 million). The Association and the Govern-
ment will finance the resurfacing of about 195 km of bituminous roads, the



- 22 -
resurfacing of about 273 km of laterite roads, technical assistance and
fellowships to DRB and DSP, and preinvestment study of the Ouidah-Allada
road (40 km), elements B, C, D, E, F and G of the project. The total cost
of these elements is US$11.0 million, of which the association will provide
US$10.0 million, and the Government will provide the remainder (US$1.0
million).
4.25       Disbursements will include about US$300,000 in retroactive financ-
ing for consultant services for detailed engineering of Godomey-Abomey and
preparation of the maintenance elements of the proposed project (paras 4.18,
4.19 and 4.20). To help speed up project implementation, it has been agreed
that IDA will provide US$250,000 in advance as part of its contribution to
project financing. These funds will be deposited in a special account in a
bank acceptable to the Association in Benin, and on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association. IDA credit funds will be disbursed as
follows:
(i) 92% of total expenditure for resurfacing of bituminous and
laterite roads, parts B and C of the project;
(ii) 100% of foreign expenditures and 90% of local expenditures
for equipment, spare parts and materials, part D of the
project; and
(iii) 90% of total expenditures for technical assistance, fellow-
ships and consultant services, part E, F, and G of the project.
The Association's detailed disbursement schedule has been established (Table
14).
4.26       Request for disbursements against the elements of the project will
be fully documented. Disbursements for force account work of element C and
part of element B will be against certificates of expenditures; detailed
documentation will be retained by the borrower and available for inspection by
the Association.
4.27       Should the Association's Funds remain in the credit account after
project completion, they would be used to regravel additional laterite roads
to be approved by the Association.
E.   Project Monitoring
4.28       The Government will appoint an agent who will be in charge of moni-
toring the project and reporting tri-monthly to IDA on all components of the
project. These reports will state the physical progress of each project
element, discuss problems and propose solutions thereto, and outline plans for
the coming months. They will also evaluate the performance of contractors,
supervisory engineers and consultants, review the tri-monthly and cumulative
finances, and update project costs. The reports will be forwarded to IDA
for review.



- 23 -
5. ECONOMIC APPRAISAL
A.   General
5.01      The economy of Benin is predominantly agricultural, but has an
unusually large commercial and administrative sector. For the transport of
agricultural and a small amount of industrial products to domestic and
foreign markets and for passenger traffic, it depends exclusively on roads in
the north and on roads and railways in the south.
5.02      The first objective of this project is to preserve and rehabili-
tate the most trafficked south-north road in the country. The second objec-
tive is to eliminate the backlog of periodic maintenance on bituminous and
laterite roads. A third objective is further overall improvement of the on-
going routine maintenance effort.
5.03      The project is well justified and expected to yield an economic rate
of return (RR) of 75%. The elements not included in the rate of return
calculations (technical assistance to DSP and preinvestment studies) will
strengthen Government institutions and prepare future projects.
B.   Rehabilitation of the Godomey-Bohicon-Abomey Road
(a) Background
5.04      The Godomey-Bohicon-Abomey road links the capital with a major
historic town via the most densely populated and one of the most productive
regions: the major palm oil producing units, including the Hinvi project
financed by the Association, are located there. Considerable increases in
palm oil production are expected in the near future, because trees planted
in recent years are now approaching their productive years. The Godomey-
Bohicon section of the road, which meets the Cotonou-Parakou railroad at
Godomey, Allada and Bohicon, is also part of the main south-north axis.
Everything produced in the north for export via Cotonou or for consumption
in the south, must go through this region via road or rail.
(b) Traffic
5.05      Traffic volumes on the Godomey-Abomey road were determined on
the basis of manual traffic counts organized by the consulting firm during
seven days in February 1976. As February is a period of greater than aver-
age traffic density on this road, these data had to be adjusted to reflect
more realistically the average daily traffic over the whole year. Previous
counts by the Administration did not indicate a clear pattern which could
serve as a statistical basis for adjustment. The consultant made therefore
two calculations, one based on the actual February figures (high estimate)
and one based on adjusted February data, with truck traffic reduced by 50%
(low estimate). According to the consultant, the actual amount of traffic
will most probably be somewhere between these estimates (Table 19).



- 24 -
5.06      The consultants' low estimate (the actual traffic per day of cars
and vans and half of the amount of trucks recorded by the consultant in
February 1976) was adopted as the best conservative estimate by the mission.
This indicates that average daily traffic (adt) in 1976 ranged from 1,202
vehicle equivalents 1/ (1,161 vehicles) on the Godomey-Akassato section
(14 km) to 511 vehicle equivalents (486 vehicles) on the Sehoue-Bohicon
section (26 km) (Exhibit II and Table 19).
5.07      As explained above (para. 2.04), due to the lack of hard economic
information, traffic growth was even more difficult to project. Uncertain-
ties were greatest in the immediate future, because it is unknown when
the expected economic upswing will take place.  On the other hand, as traf-
fic on this road will be influenced mainly by production of palm oil and palm
kernels, and as substantial new plantings have occurred in recent years which
are bound to produce before the end of the 1970s, it was decided to adopt a
uniform growth rate of 4% per annum over the 15-year lifetime of the project.
If the OCBN monopoly is abolished, or if the OCBN railroad is closed, these
estimates would have to be raised considerably in the 1980s, but the proposed
design standards would remain adequate for the lifetime of the project item.
5.08      At the moment the road is not yet an important part of the Benin to
Niger route. The 1976 average daily traffic included less than 15 trucks
per day for Niger, which demonstrates the railroad's effective monopoly for
traffic to Niger, except in emergency situations. However, this situation
is expected to change because the railroad bridges are now being converted
to allow road traffic (para. 2.13) and EDF is planning to pave Bohicon-Dassa
Zoume and is preparing preinvestment studies of Dassa Zoume-Parakou. The
missing link in a bituminous Cotonou-Niamey road is therefore expected to be
filled by the middle of the 1980s. This development has not been taken into
account in the traffic projections, as the future of the parallel railroad and
the Government's policies towards it are unclear. Traffic projections used in
this analysis do not include induced traffic and are therefore most probably
on the conservative side beyond 1985.
(c) Rehabilitation and Maintenance Costs
5.09      The cost estimates, exclusive of taxes, used in the economic eval-
uation, are in May 1976 prices. They include CFAF 1.6 billion in 1978 for
rehabilitation of 57 km and resurfacing of 50 km (US$76,285 and US$44,817
respectively per km), including shoulder and ditch work and removal of
deteriorated sand-asphalt in both cases, and base course renewal in the
1/   Cars and vans equal one vehicle equivalent, trucks with two axles two,
and tractor-trailers four.



- 25 -
case of rehabilitation. 1/ A double surface treatment has been provided for
in 1984 (US$12,000 per km) and annual routine maintenance needs are computed
in the computer model (para. 5.12).
(d) Benefits and Risks
5.10      As indicated above, the only benefits from road construction which
were quantified are savings in vehicle operating costs resulting from the
improved road conditions and savings due to delaying reconstruction and
rehabilitation costs due to improved maintenance (Table 15). Other benefits,
such as induced development, time savings to drivers and occupants of the
vehicles, increase in riding comfort and reduction of accidents were not
quantified. There are no special risks in this project element as it concerns
a major road with well established traffic of more than 500 vehicles per day.
(e) Economic Return and Sensitivity
5.11      The economic appraisal of the Godomey-Abomey road prepared by the
consultant was based on a comparison between the cost of rehabilitation and
the resulting vehicle operating cost savings of existing traffic growing
at a constant rate of 4% per year over the 15-year lifetime of the project.
This simple analysis gave an economic rate of return of about 46% under the
lowest starting year traffic assumption (64% under the high estimate, para.
5.09), but underestimates the life-time of the 58 km of new road and neglects
the extremely high maintenance costs that would be necessary to keep the
existing road practicable in the "do-nothing" alternative. Sensitivity
analysis by the consultant indicated that even with a traffic growth rate of
only 2%, which is less than population growth in the country, the rate
of return still remained about 42% (46% under the high traffic estimate).
5.12      However, the Consultant's appraisal relied exclusively on vehicle
operating cost savings which were to a large extent derived theoretically and
not based on empirical evidence. The Consultant's results were therefore
tested with the Highway Design and Maintenance Model (HDMM) model developed by
the Bank Group's Central Project Staff (CPS) using empirical evidence derived
from experimental research in Kenya. The model derived vehicle operating cost
savings on the basis of geometric data concerning the road, the quality
of its surface, the traffic that passes over it and the actual past and
assumed future maintenance policies. The model also searched for the optimal
rehabilitation policy from among selected maintenance alternatives on the
basis of net present value and internal rate of return criteria, taking into
account benefits from vehicle operating cost savings, but also extra benefits
from delayed reconstruction and rehabilitation. The model indicated that
1/   Although rehabilitation may contractually be spread over a period of
15 months, for purposes of calculating the ER it has been assumed to
take place completely in 1978. In reality disbursements for mobiliza-
tion may well start at the end of 1977 and execution may well spread
into the first months of 1979. These two items will then cancel each
other out.



- 26 -
vehicle operating costs derived from the Kenya experience are lower than
those developed by the consultants for Benin, but the rate of return on this
project component was still 35% and on individual sections between 13% and
47% (Table 15).
5.13      Assuming cost increases and benefit decreases both separately
and simultaneously, this project item keeps a rate of return of about 12%
with a cost increase of 240% and a benefit decrease of 70% and simultaneous
cost increases and benefit decreases of about 55% (Table 18).
C.   Bituminous Road Resurfacing 1/
(a) Traffic
5.14      Traffic on the bituminous roads selected for the project varies
from almost 7,600 vehicle equivalents per day (6466 vpd) on the Seme-Porto
Novo road to about 470 vehicle equivalents (382 vpd) on Come-Lokossa-Dogbo
(Table 8). Traffic growth rates ranging from 10% per annum on the Cotonou-
Seme road (first 20 km of the link with Nigeria and of the link between
Cotonou and Porto-Novo, the two capitals of the country) to 4% on Come-Dogbo
have been assumed between 1978 and 1986, the lifetime of this project item
(para. 3.07).
(b) Cost of Resurfacing
5.15      The resurfacing of bituminous roads will be carried out by con-
tractors. The cost of this element at May 1976 prices, exclusive of taxes
and technical assistance, is CFAF 522 million in 1978 and CFAF 488 million in
1979 (Table 16). These expenditures include rehabilitation of shoulders and
ditches. This amounts to US$16,000 per km of single and US$25,350 per km of
double surface treatment. Maintenance costs of about US$2,000/km have been
added to the cost of reconstruction.
(c) Transport Costs and Benefits
5.16      Transport costs are the costs (at May 1976 prices) of operating
four typical vehicles on five road surfaces. Transport cost savings taken
into account range between 21% for passenger cars and about 55% for tractor
trailers, 4 axle, 250 horsepower, 24 ton loading capacity. These savings are
lower than those used by the consultant for the Godomey-Bohicon road but
still larger than those derived with the HDMM model. Since sensitivity
analysis indicated that the project could stand benefit decreases of 86%
and still give a satisfactory rate of return (para 5.18) no new analysis
was made with the HDMM figures.
5.17      The only benefits which were quantified are savings in vehicle
operating costs resulting from the improved road conditions with existing
traffic growing at the above specified rates. The seven-year benefit streams
for all roads in this project item are summarized in Table 16.
1/   For more details see Tables in Annex II.



- 27 -
(d) Economic Return and Sensitivity
5.18      An economic rate of return of 155% and a benefit/cost ratio of
7.3 at a 12% discount rate was found for the bituminous road element of the
project. The rate of return on individual roads varied from 335 to 37% with
benefit/cost ratios between 25.9 and 1.8 (Table 16). Assuming cost increases
and benefit decreases both separately and simultaneously, this project item
keeps a rate of return of about 12% with sixfold cost increases, benefit
decreases of 86% and simultaneous cost increases and benefit decreases of
about 75% (Table 18).
D.   Resurfacing of Laterite Roads 1/
(a) Traffic
5.19      Traffic on the laterite roads selected for the project varies
between 78 and 41 vehicle equivalents (between 54 and 25 vehicles) per day.
Traffic on all these roads is expected to grow by at least 4% per year over
the next seven years (Table 9).
(b) Cost of resurfacing with laterite
5.20      The cost of resurfacing as of May 1976, exclusive of taxes and
technical assistance, but including amortization of all equipment used,
is estimated at CFAF 261 million in 1978 and CFAF 221 million in 1979 (Table
17). This amounts to US$7,206 per km. These expenditures include rehabilita-
tion of ditches and structures and maintenance costs of about US$1,000 per km
per year.
(c) Transport costs and benefits
5.21      Transport costs are the costs (at May 1976 prices) of operating the
four above-mentioned vehicle types on six different kinds of increasingly
worse gravel roads. Transport cost savings taken into account range from 41%
for passenger cars to 54% for tractor-trailers.
5.22      The only benefits quantified are savings in vehicle operating costs
resulting from the improved road condition with existing traffic growing at
4% per annum. The road will be improved from its 1976 condition and is
expected to last through 1978 or 1979. The seven-year benefit streams for all
roads in this project item are summarized in Table 17.
(d) Economic return and sensitivity
5.23      The economic return calculation has been performed on the basis of
vehicle operating cost savings due to expected improvements in road surface
as a result of resurfacing with laterite. The improvements are expected to
1/   For more details see Tables in Annex III.



- 28 -
last for a period of seven years due to maintenance operations whose costs
are included in the project (US$1,000 per km and per year). The calculation
was performed for each road individually and the benefit/cost ratio for each
road was at least 1.4 and the rate of return 29%. The best road (Pehunco-
Djougou) has a B/C ratio of 2.3 and a RR of 63%. The RR on the whole re-
surfacing with laterite item is 54% with a B/C ratio of 2.1 (Table 17).
5.24      Assuming cost increases and benefit decreases both separately and
simultaneously, this project item keeps a rate of return of about 12 percent
with a cost increase of 108%, a benefit decrease of 52% or a simultaneous
cost increase and benefit decrease of 35% (Table 18).
E.   Distribution of Benefits
5.25      Most project benefits are related to reduced transport costs.
Benefits accruing to government-owned companies are unlikely to be passed on
directly to producers but will be used to improve service and stabilize
tariffs, providing a cushion to absorb some future increases. However, in
setting official farmgate prices for major products, the Government should be
able to reduce the transport allowance to reflect the reduced transport costs
of Government agencies and private firms which collect the scheduled produce.
This produce includes the principal agricultural products of the region served
by the Godomey-Abomey road with a predominantly agricultural population of some
250,000-300,000 people, and by the other roads again with a predominantly
agricultural population of more than 1 million people, or about one-third of
the population with a per capita income of about US$50. Competition for
non-scheduled products and other transport services from private car and truck
owners is unlikely to be a major factor but will ensure that some cost savings
will be passed on in the form of lower freight costs. One of the major
benefits distributed at large will be in the form of improved transport
services and accessibility between the more remote areas and urban areas and
supply centers and an increase in agricultural production stemming from easier
access to markets and cheaper inputs.
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      The following principal items were discussed and agreed upon by the
Government and specified in the Credit Agreement;
(i)  DSP will organize and centralize the collection of transport
data and to analyze transport problems, investment plans and
prospects (para. 2.20);
(ii)  DSP will study the demand and supply situation in the road
transport industry (para. 3.16);
(iii)  the expenditures for highway maintenance will be increased
from CFAF 427 million in 1976 to CFAF 900 million in 1980
and to take steps necessary to implement the financing
schedule (paras. 3.27 and 3.28);



- 29 -
(iv)  DRB's STI will strenthen its stock accounting system
(para. 4.10);
(v) consultants will provide on-the-job training for local
counterpart staff and trainees to be assigned by the
Government (paras. 4.10 and 4.12);
(vi)  contracts for resurfacing will be executed after com-
pletion of preparatory field work by the subdivisions
in charge of individual roads and in accordance with
a work schedule to be prepared by the consultant and
agreed upon by the Government and the Association
(para. 4.19); and
(vii)  appointment of a Government agent to monitor the project
(para. 4.28).
6.02      The following items were agreed upon:
(i) the railway provision of section 4.14 of credit 215-DA will
be waived by an epistolary exchange between the Government
and the Association, reflecting the new situation on the
eastern and western railway lines (paras. 2.10 and 2.11);
(ii)  terms of reference for:  (a) technical assistance to DRB;
(b) technical assistance to DSP and (c) the Ouidah-Allada
preinvestment studies (paras. 4.10, 4.12 and 4.13);
6.03      Agreement having been reached on the above items, the proposed
project is suitable for a Credit to the People's Republic of Benin in the
amount of US$10.0 million on standard IDA terms.
October 1977






TABLE 1
BENIN
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Fuel Consumption, 1970-1976
(in thousands of' cubic meters)
Airplane             Road Vehicles               Diesel       Lamp
fuel for
Year        fuel               Gasoline                     generators    fuel
Regular        Super     Diesel
1970           8.o       26.4            3.1      39.7         1.7         15.0
1971           5.3       26.9            5.6      39.8         3.2         14.5
1972           5.9       28.9            7.4      53.9         5.6         17.0
1973           3.5       29.3            8.3      47.0         3.7         18.7
1974           4.8       27.8            7.6      37.6         3.8         18.3
1975           4.2        31.4           8.5      49.2         5.4         28.6
1976           6.o        32.2           8.6      51.5         8.9         27.3
1976
1st quarter        1.1         8.o           2.1      14.1         2.2          6.9
2nd quarter        0.9         7.9           2.1      12.5         2.0          6.9
3rd quarter        1.2         8.2           2.2      12.8         1.7          7.0
4th quarter        2.8         8.1           2.2      12.1         2.1          6.5
1977
1st quarter        n.a.        n.a.          n.a.     n.a.         n.a.        n.a.
Compound annual
variation (%)
1970-1975       - 13.3       + 3.6       + 22.2      + 4.4      + 25.7       + 13.8
1974-1975       - 14.1       +13.0        +12.0      +31.0      + 42.1       + 56.3
1975-1976       + 42.9       + 2.2       + O.1       + 4.8      + 46.3       -4.
Source:  Service des Mines and SONACOP.
April, 1977



TABLE 2
BENIN
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Transport Investments by Subsector, 1970-1975 and
Planned Investments 1976-1980
(in millions of CFAF)
1970-1975              1976-1980
Subsector                     Amount           %     Amount           /0
Highways                      7,587           84      11,200          46
Railways                      n.a.           n.a.      2,900         12
Seaports                        873           10       9,990          41
1/
Airports-                       575            6       n.a.         n.a.
TOTAL                    9,035          100     24,ogo         102
1/ Does not include 1970 and 1971.
2/ Difference due to rounding.
Source:  Mission Estimate



TABLE 3
BENIN
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Highway Network, 1976
(in kilometers)
Roads                          Paved        Laterite        Earth      Total
A.  Maintained by DRB                75            2,592          1,532    4,883
1.  Interstate                   662           1,461           -       2,123
2.  National                      97           1,131           -       1,228
3.  Secondary and feeder roads-./ -              -           1,532    1,532
B.  Maintained by Min. of Interior
and by local authorities          -              -           2,317    2,317
1.  Feeder roads and tracks       -              -           2,017    2,017
2.  Urban roads                   -              -             300       300
TOTAL                        759          2,592          3,849    7,200
1/  Including 425 km of the Zou-Borgou Cotton Project.
Source: Directorate of Roads and Bridges, and World Road Statistics,
1974 edition.
February, 1977



TABLE 4
BENIN
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Motor Vehicle Fleet, 1967, 1970 and 1975
(motorcycles and agricultural tractors excluded)
(Units)
1967     %           1970     %           19751/    %2/
Passenger cars           6953    65           7011     65         7800        65
Light trucks             2679    25           2662      24         2880       24
Trucks and                896      8           981       9        1080         9
trailers
Special purpose           177      2           195       2          240        2
vehicles
Total                   10705   100          10849    100        12000       100
1/   stimated on the basis of total number of registered vehicles that changed
licence plates when name of country changed,
2/    Composition was assumed to be identical as in 1970.
Note: Average annual compound growth is about 2.0% between 1970 and 1975 (5 years).
Source-:  Ministry of Public Works and Transport, February 1972, and Directorate
of Land Transport, July 1976.
February, 1977



BENIN                              TABLE 5
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Expenditures for Roads, 1970-1975
and their Financing
(in millions of CFAF)
1970    1971    1972    1973    1974    1975    1976
Estimate
I. Expenditures including
bulid up or -Road Fund
Reserves                      910    1117    1935    1126    2374    2742    5919
1. Actual Road Expenditures 746    1096    1935    1126    2374    2680    5919
a. Maintenance
ExpendituresL/         288      401      474      402      401     404      427
b. Investment
Expenditures            458     695    1461       724    1973    2276    5492
i. Outside budget      403      508    1275       565    1700    1967    5248
ii. Ordinary budget       55     187      186      159      273     309      244
2. Road Fund Reserves2/
build up                   164       21      -        -        -        62      -
LI.  Financing                     910    1117    1935    1126    2374    2742    5919
1. Local Sources              507      609     660      561      674      161     671
a. Government Budget!/   277       360      345      263      377      550     402
b. Road Fund Revenue       230     249      289      249      223      217     235
c. Use of Road Fund
Reserves                 -       -        26       49       74      -        34
2. Foreign Aid                403      508-   1j27       X      1700    1975    5248
a. IDA                      -      508      256      149      657     636    1198
b. EDF                     317       -       -       106      608      827     500
c. Nigeria                  -       _       900      225       -        -     2250
d. USAID_/                  -        -       -        -       429      504    1300
e. FAC                      86       -      119       85        6        8    n.a.
f. Other                    -       -        -       _         -       -      n.a.
1/ Includes about CFAF 160 million per year in administrative expenditures.(Actual 1974-75)
2/ Actual reserves of the Road Fund were CFAF.288 mi,llion at the end of 1973.
3/ Includes revenues from equipment rental and special allotment of CFAF 110 million in
1975 for the streets of Lokossa.
/ Calendar year estimates based on actual disbursements during US FY.
Source: Data supplied by DRB, the Ministry of Finance and foreign donors and lenders,
November 1976



TABLE 6
BENIN
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Government Revenues from Road Users, 1975
The following table summarizes the direct revenues estimated to
be received by the Government from road users during 1975
CFAF million
Taxes on gasoline and diesel                         560
vehicles                                  hoo
tires and tubes                           160
spare parts                               233
Vehicle registration fees                            760
Warrant of fitness, driving permit, tag charges    85
1/
2,198-/
1/ This total does not include any other charges made on transit traffic
or any indirect revenues from the increased marketing of products and
associated higher irieomes, made possibly by the road network.
Source: Directorate of Roads and Bridges
March, 1977



TABLE 7
BENIN
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Design Standards for Godomey-Bohicon-Abomey Road
Alignment                                     no change
Lane width                                    3 m
Number of lanes                               2
Shoulder width                                1 m on each side
Sealed shoulder                               0.50 m
Pavement:  Base course                        7 m
Type                               15 or 20 cm of cement
improved laterite
Surface                            double surface treatment
Pavement design axle load                     13 tons
Subbase                                       no change
Structures                                    improvements in the
surface runoff system
Source: DRB
February, 1977



TABLE 8
BENIN
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Bituminous Roads Needing Resurfacing, their Traffic in 1976 and Expected
Traffic Growth, 1978 - 1986
(length in kilometers and cost in millions of CFAF at July 1977 prices)
Year      Estimated Length of   Total              _/
Road Section                     bons-     Surface Treatment      Length        Cost
tructed     Single   Double
(1)       (2)                (1)      (2)
1.  Cotonou-Seme                 1963            -       20          20       -      138
2.  Seme-Porto Novo              1972            -       10          10       -       69
3.  Cotonou-Guezin               1967           62        -          62    .75         -
4.  Guezin-Hilacondji           1967            44                   44       -      194
5.  Come-Lokossa-Dogbo           1965           29       30          59     129      207
TOTAL                                     135        60         195     404      608
Average Daily Traffic
Cars       Vans up        Trucks      Total      Traffic
to 2 t    2-10 t   10 t  vehicle   Growth
vehicle units)                equiv.s/
1.  Cotonou-Seme                 2570          621       232       92    4023        10%
2.  Seme-Porto Novo              3997        1489        911       69    7584         8%
d/
3.  Cotonou-Gu6zin               1036         432        160       60    2028         6%
e/
4. Guezin-Hilacondji              488         144         52        2     744         6%
f/l'
5.  Come-Lokossa-Dogbo            219         110         36       17     469         4%
a/  Figures are averages between February and September counts (high and low
trucking season) adjusted for closure of border with Togo in February 1976
where relevant.
b/ Include repair of shoulders, ditches and culverts and patching, but not contin-
gencies. Ccsts at May 1976 prices, used in economic appraisal, are 10% smaller.
c/ Truck 2-10 ton=2veh. eq. and more than 10 ton=4veh. eq.
d/  Average between counts in Cocodji (between Godomey and Ouidah) and in Guezin.
e/  Estimate based on 1974 and February 1978 actual counts.
f/  Figures are based on averages for counts in Lokossa and Dogbo in 1975 and
February 1976.
Source: DRB
September, 1977



BENIN                                         TABLE 9
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Laterite Roads Needing Resurfacing, their Traffic in 1976 and Expected
Traffic Growth, 1978 - 1986
(length in kilometers and cost in million of CFAF at July 1977 prices)
Total  Clearing       Reshaping                  a/
Sections                          Length  Widening         and                  Cost
Regraveling   Regraveling
(1)             (2)       (1)           (2)
1st Brigade                        135        115            20        155            26
Ketou-Kpedekpo                      20          -            20           -            26
Kpedekpo-Ouade-Sagon                15         15             -          20             -
Sagon-Adjohoun                      53         53             -         72             -
Djougou-Afon                        47         47             -          63             -
2nd Brigade                        138         71            67         96            87
Pehunco-Djougou                     71         71             -          96            -
Kerou-Banikoara                     67          -            67           -           87
TOTAL                              273        186            87        251           113
Average Daily Traffic
Cars       Vans up        Trucks        Total in    Traffic
to 2 t     2-10 t   10 t   vehicle       Growth
(in vehicle units)            equiv.b/
Ketou-Kpedekpo                    8           7           7       3         41         4%C/
Kepedekpo-Ouade-Sagon-Adjohoun  8             7          7        3         41         47%c/
Djougou-Afon                     13          20         14        1         65         4%
Pehunco-Djougou                  21          19          9        5         78         4%
Kerou-Banikoara                  14          10         20        1         68         4%
a/  Actual cost including equipment depreciation and repair of ditches and structures
excluding residual value of equipment.
bI Trucks 2-10 tons = 2 veh. eq. and more than 10 tons = 4 veh. eq.
c/ Already in mid-1977, traffic doubled because of the opening of the bridge over
Oueme River at Kpedekpo.
Source: DRB
September, 1977



TABLE 10
BENIN
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Spare Part Requirements for Equipment Rehabilitation
and Stock Increase
(in millions of CFAF and thousands of US$ at July 1977 prices)
Designation                           Costs net of taxes
CFAF       US$
A. Equipment Rehabilitation
Spares for trucks                          55.9        228.0
(Berliet L-62)
Large components for trucks                14.7         60.0
(Berliet)
Spares for graders                         20.9         85.3
(Frisch F-115)
Large components for motors                13.2         53.9
(Frisch-Deutz)
Tires for miscellaneous equipment          35.5        145.0
Inner tubes of tires                        2.1          8.6
Batteries                                  *3.8         15.5
Subtotal                           146.1       596.3
(146.0)      (600.0)
B. Stock Increase
Spares for dump trucks                     55.5        226.5
Spares for tractors                         1.6          6.5
Spares for graders                         75.7        308.9
Spares for bulldozers                      51.9        211.8
Spares for loaders                         19.5         79.6
Spares for automotor compactors             1.6          6.5
Spares for scrapers                         1.1          4.5
Miscellaneous spares                        4.1         16.7
Subtotal                           211.0       861.0
(211.0)     (861.0)
TOTAL (A + B)                     (357.0)   (1,461.0)
Source: DRB
September, 1977



TABLE 11
BENIN
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Equipment for Resurfacing Brigades for Laterite Roads
(in millions of CFAF and thousands of US$ at July 1977 prices)
Costs
Quantity           Equipment                Unit Price           Net of Taxes
CFAF     US$          CFAF    US$
2         Bulldozer (140HP)           19.7      80.4         39.4    160.8
plus ripper
4         Motorgrader (135 HP)        15.3      62.4         61.2    250.0
2         Tank truck                   7.2      29.4         14.4      58.8
4         Pump (motor)                 0.7       2.9          2.8      11.4
(50 m3/hours)
2         Vibratory compactor          1.5       6.1          3.0      12.2
2         Air compressors              0.5       2.0          1.0       4.0
2         Concrete mixers              1.4       5.7          2.8      11.4
(300 liters)
TOTAL                                        124.7    508.6
(125)   (509)
Source: DRB
September, 1977



BENIN                                    TABLE 12
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Cost Estimates, Net of Taxes at July 1977 Prices
(item by item)
----CFAF millions----  -------US$'000-------
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total
A.  Godomey-Bohicon-Abomey Road (107km)               551    1,970  2,521  2,249    8,041  10,290
1.  Civil Works                                  368    1,460  1,828  1,502    5,959   7,461
2.  Construction Supervision                      55        68    123    225         278      503
3.  Detailed Engineering                          17        30      47      69       122      191
4.  Physical Contingencies on A.1 to 2 (9%)   37           146    183    151         596      747
5.  Price Contingency on A.1 to 4 (16%)            74      266    340    302    1,086   1,388
B.  Resurfacing and Elimination of Backlog
on Bituminous Roads (195 km)                     253    1,016  1,269  1,033    4,147   5,180
1.  Resurfacing by Contract                      153       616    769    624    2,515   3,139
2.  Repair of Shoulders, Ditches and
Structures                                    40       162    202    163         662      825
3.  and Patching by Force Account                   9        32     41      37       130      167
4.  Physical Contingencies on B.1 to B.3(10%) 20             81    101      82       330      412
5.  Price Contingencies on B.1 to B.4 (14%)   31           125    156    127         510      637
C.  Resurfacing of Laterite Roads (273km)             105       351    456    428    1,433   1,861
1.  Resurfacing by Force Account                  84       280    364    343    1,143   1,486
2.  Physical Contingencies on C.1 (10%)             8        28     36      32       115      147
3.  Price Contingencies on C.1 and C.2 (14%)  13             43     56      53       175      228
D.  Equipment and Material                             61       537    598    249    2,192   2,441
1.  Increase Spares Stock at STI                    8      203    211       33       828      861
2.  Rehabilitation of Equipment                   26       120    146    106         490      596
3.  Purchase of Equipment                         10       115    125       41       469      510
4.  Material and Office Equipment for DSP           8        14     22      32        58       90
5.  Physical Contingencies on D.1 to D.4 (10%) 5            45      50      20       184      204
6.  Price Contingencies on D.1 to D.5 (8%)          4       40      44      17       163      180
E.  Technical Assistance and Fellowships to DRB   45            176    221    184         718     902
1.  Preparation of Maintenance Elements
of the Third Highway Project                  10        39      49      41       159     200
2.  Technical Assistance                          27       108    135    110         441      551
3.  Fellowships                                     2        8      10       8        33       41
4.  Price Contingencies (14%)                       6       21      27      25        85      110
F.  Technical Assistance and Fellowships to DSP   17             72      89     69       294      363
1.  Technical Assistance                          14        59      73      57       241      298
2.  Fellowships                                    1         4       5       4        16       20
3.  Price Contingencies                            2         9      11       8        37       45
G.  Preinvestment Studies                              13        49      62     53       200      253
1.  Feasibility Study                              7        27      34      29       110      139
2.  Final Engineering                              4        14      18      16        57       73
3.  Price Contingencies (20%)                      2         8      10       8        33       41
TOTAL COST                                     1,045    4,171  5,216  4,265   17,025  21,290
Base                                             843    3,359  4,202  3,440   13,711  17,151
Physical Contingencies                            70       300    370    285    1,225   1,510
Price Contingencies                              132       512    644    540    2,089   2,629



BENIN                                      TABLE 13
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Cost Estimates, Net of Taxes at July 1977 Prices
(functional classification)
FOREIGN 1/
---CFAF Million------  -------US$'000-------   as %
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total   of T.
A. Construction Works
(i)  Rehabilitation of Godomey-
Bohicon-Abomey road (107 km)       368    1,460  1,828  1,502    5,959  7,461    80
(ii)  Re-surfacing 195 km of
bituminous roads                   202       810  1,012    824    3,307  4,131    80
(iii) Regraveling 273 km of
laterite roads                      84       280    364    343    1,143  1,486    77
Sub-total A                        654    2,550  3,204  2,669   10,409 13,078    80
B. Equipment and Material Procurement
(i)  Regraveling equipment and
rehabilitation of existing
equipment                           36       235    271    147        959  1,106    87
(ii)  Increase of spare parts for STI    8         203    211      33       828    861    96
(iii) Material and Office Equipment for
DSP                                 8        14     22      32        58     90    64
Sub-total B                         52       452    504    212    1,845  2,057    90
C. Consulting Services
(i)  Detailed engineering and
construction supervision--
Godomey-Bohicon-Abomey road         72        98    170    294        400    694    58
(ii)  Preparation of maintenance
elements of project                 10        39     49      41      159    200    80
(iii) Technical assistance and
Fellowships to DRB and DSP          44       179    223    179       731    910    80
(iv)  Pre-investment studies              11        41     52      45       167    212    80
Sub-total C                        137       357    494    559    1,457  2,016    72
Total baseline costs               843    3,359  4,202  3,440   13,711 17,151    80
D. Contingencies
(i)  Physical                            70       300    370    285    1,225  1,510    81
(ii)  Price                              132       512    644    540    2,089  2,629    80
Sub-total D                        202      812  1,014    825    3,314  4,139    80
TOTAL                            1,045    4,171  5,216  4,265   17,025 21,290    80
1/ Calculated in CFAF



TABLE 14
BENIN
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements./
(in thousands of us$)
IBRD Fiscal Year and                          Cumulative Disbursements
End of Quarter                                at End of Quarter 2/
1977/78
December   31, 1977                              1,069
March      31, 1978                              1,331
June       30, 1978                              2.360
1978/79
September  30, 1978                              2,510
December   31, 1978                              3,755
March      31, 1979                              4,875
June       30, 1979                              5,945
1979/80
September  30, 1979                              7,015
December   31, 1979                              8,085
March      31, 1980                              9,043
June       30, 1980                             10,000
1/   Proposed Project Completion Date:   June 30, 1980
Proposed Credit Closing Date:  December 31, 1980
2/ The Association finances the following project components (including
contingencies):
a)  B and C       (92% of total)
b)  D             (100% of foreign or 90% of local expenditures
if locallv Procured)
c)  E, F, and G  (90% of total)
Source: Mission Estimates
September 1977



BENIN
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Godomey-Bohicon-Abomey Road
Yearly Net Benefits by Road Section, 1978-1992
Net Present Value and Rate of Return
(in millions of CFAF at May 1976 prices)
Year        1          2         3          4         5          6         7          8         9        Total
1978    -13.97    -133.04   -627.69    -43.12   -238.14   -111.23   -180.57    -17.15    -75.71   -1,594.95
1979      3.68      57.09    260.68        8.82     37.49      45.o8     59.78      25.24     16.17       514.01
1980      3.92      60.03    273.67        9.07     38.47      47.04     62.72      26.71     16.42       538.02
1981      3.92      63.21    287.39        9.07     39.45      49.25     66.15      26.71     16.66       561.79
1982      3.68      66.40    301.84        8.og     40.43      51.21     69.58      26.71     16.91       584.82
1983      3.68      69.83    317.03        8.og     40.67      53.66     73.26      26.71     16.91       609.81
1984      0.49       52.43    233.24       3.68   -222.95      38.22     48.27    -19.11    - 3.19        323.40
1985      3.92      77.42    350.11        8.09     42.63      58.31     81.34      33.81     17.89       673.51
1986      4.17       81.59    368.24       8.og     43.61      61.01     85.75      35.28     18.13       705.85
1987      4.17       86.oo    387.35       8.og     44.59      63.70     go.41      36-75     18.13       739-17
1988      4.17      90.65    407.44        8.og     45.57      66.40     95.55      38.47     18.38       774.69
1989      4.17      95.55    429.00        8.33     46.80      69.34    100.70      40.18     18.62       812.67
1990      4.17     100.94    451.78        8.33     48.27      72.52    106.33      41.65     18.89       852.85
1991      3.92     106.33    475.79        8.33     49.98      75.71    112.46      43.12     19.36       894.99
1992      3.92     112.46    501.52        8.33     51.45      79.14    118.83      44.59     19.60       939.82
Total    36.99     986.86  4,417.11       61.99    308.95    719-57    990.54    255.29    153.13    7,930.41
Net Present
value at
12%          0.04        1.42      6.31       0.04      0.03       1.03      1.31       0.04       0.17       10.39    >
RR in %       25          47        46         16        13         44        37         13         19          35
Source: Computer Run 2102 of March 11, 1977
May. 1977



TABLE 16
BENIN
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Bituminous Roads Resurfacing
Cost and Benefit Streams, 1979-1986
Rate of Return and Benefit Cost Ratic Road by Road
(in millions of CFAF at May 1976 prices)
Costs
Year    Cotonou   Guezin          Cotonou    Seme        Come       Total
Guezin    Hilacondji    Seme       Porto-Novo  Dogbo
1978     248          274           -           -           -        522
1979       -            -         124          62         302        488
1980      30           22           -           -           -         52
1981      30           22          10           5          29         96
1982      30           22          10           5          29         96
1983      30           22          10           5          29         96
1984       30          22          10           5          29         96
1985      30           22          10           5          29         96
1986      _-                       10           5          29         44
Benefits
1979     651           99                       -           -        750
1980     880           93         185         162          99      1419
1981    1081          141         372         349         142      2125
1982    1001          201         393         363         191      2149
1983    1003          213         417         671         253      2557
1984    1129          226         590         687         232      2903
1985    1027          182         620         704         286      2638
1986       -            -         576         499         264      1339
Rate of return and B/C ratio
RR in %  287           37         200         335          49       155
B/C of 12X
discount  12.0         1.8        11.9        25.9         2.3      7.2
Source:  The mission's estimate and computer runs
March 1, 1977



TABLE 17
BENIN
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Resurfacing of Laterite Roads
Cost and Benefit Streams, 1979 - 1986
Rate of Return and Benefit/Cost Ratio Road by Road
(in millions of CFAF at May 1976 prices)
Year         Ketou         Kpedekpo      Djougou      Pehunco      Kerou          TOTAL
Kpedekpo      Adjohoun      Afon         Djougou      Banikoara
Costs
1978            32            112            -          117             -          261
1979             4             16           77           18           106          221
1980             4             16           12           18            16            66
1981             4             16           12           18            16            66
1982             4             16           12           18            16           66
1983             4             16           12           18            16           66
1984             4             16           12           18            16           66
1985             4             16           12           18            16           66
1986             -              -           12            -            16           28
Benefits
1979            15             51            -           89                        155
1980            15             53           58           93            96          315
1981            16             55           60           97           100          328
1982            17             58           62          101           104          342
1983            18             60           65          105           109          357
1984            18             62           67          109           113          369
1985            19             64           70          113           117          383
1986             -              -           73            -           122          195
Rate of Return and B/C Ratio
RR in %         32             29           61           63            79           54
B/C at 12%
discount       1.5            1.4          2.2          2.3           2.7          2.1
Source: The mission's estimate and computer runs
September, 1977



TABLE 18
BENIN
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Sensitivity Analysis
Resurfacing of Bituminous and Laterite Roads
Reconstruction of Godomey-Abomey
Variations of Costs/Benefits separately                         Rate of
and Costs and Benefits together                                 Return
Reconstruction Godomey-Abomey                                     35%
Cost increase 100%                                                20%
increase 190%                                                14%
increase 240%                                                12%
Benefits decrease 25%                                             29%
decrease 50%                                             20%
decrease 70%                                             12%
Cost increase and benefit decrease 55%                            12%
Resurfacing of bituminous roads                                  155%
Cost increase 200%                                                53%
increase 400%                                                27%
increase 630%                                                12%
Benefits decrease 86%                                             12%
Cost increase and benefit decrease 75%                            13%
Resurfacing of laterite roads                                     12 %
Cost increase  108 %                                              12 %
Benefit decrease  52 %                                            12 %
Cost increase and benefit decrease  35 %                          12 %
Source: Computer runs by mission (CB Pack)
September, 1977



TABLE 19
BENIN
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Economic Appraisal,
Estimate of 1976 Traffic on Godomey-Abomey by Category of Vehicle and by Road Section
(in vehicle equivalentsl/)
High Estimate ?J      Best Estimate 3/
Section            Cars       Vans     Trucks   Tractor-   Trucks   Tractor-
2 axles  Trailers   2 axles  Trailers
A.Godomey-Akassato         279,225   132,130    44,530    10,220    22,265        5,110
(km 1 to 14)
B.Akassato-Attogon         184,325    97,820    34,675    10,220    17,338        5,110
(km 14 to 52)
C.Attogon-Sehoue           148,190    77,380    30,295       8,030    15,148      4,015
(km 52 to 80
D.Sehoue-Bohicon t/        122,640    47,450    25,915       6,570    12,958      3,285
(km 80 to 117)
E.Bohicon-Abomey           290,905    66,795    23,360       5,475    11,680      2,738
(km 117 to 124)
1/  Car or van = 1 vehicle equivalent
Truck 2 axles   2 vehicle equivalent
Tractor-trailer = 4 vehicle equivalent
2/  Count of February 1976  (harvest time)
3/  Half the number of trucks with 2 axles and tractor-trailers.
Same number of cars and vans.
Exhibit II presents average daily traffic in vehicle equivalents of
the Best Estimate.
4/ 6 km of section A and 11 km of section D were reconstructed under the
Second Highway Project.
Source:  Republique Populaire du Benin, Etude de Factibilite de la Refection
et du Resurfacage de la Route Godomey-Bohicon-Abomey, rapport final,
June 1976, by Lamarre Valois International Ltd., Montreal, Canada,
for the Republic of Benin.
April 1977



ANNEX I
BENIN
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Training Program
List of Personnel
A)   Directorate of Roads and Bridges
1.   Consultants' Counterparts
1 Road Maintenance Section Head
I Studies and New Works Head
I STI Head
2.   Trainees
2 Road Maintenance Division Heads (North and South)
2 Road Regravelling Brigade Heads (North and South)
1 Road Engineer for Control of Bituminous Roads Contracted Works
2 Routine Maintenance Brigade Heads for Bituminous Roads
2 Equipment Inspectors
1 Equipment Warehouse Head
2 Equipment Workshop Heads
B)   Directorate of Studies and Planning
1.   Consultants' Counterpart
1 Division of Planning and Coordination Head
2.   Trainees
1 Transport Engineering Subdivision Head
1 Transport Economic Subdivision Head



ANNEX II
Table 1
BENIN
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Economic Appraisal
Bituminous Road Resurfacing
Vehicle ODerating Costs, Net of Taxes on
Different Types of Bituminous Road Surfaces, 1976
Bituminous          Car                 Van               Truck       Tractor-trailer
Surface 1/     Peugeot 504          Peugeot 404       with 2 axles   truck, 4 axles
(Rougb ess in                            bachee        Berliet 10 t   250 HP2/ 24 t
(in CFAF per km)
1 (2500)      22.80                23.12              94.13            114.76
2 (4000)      23.73                24.76             105.46            130.71
3 (5500)      24.66                26.22             116.96            148.45
4 (7000)      26.53                29.90             141.34            181.64
5 (8500)      29.00                37.o6             186.43            254.83
(index surface 5 = 100)3/
1             79                   62                 50                45
2              82                  67                 57                51
3             85                   71                 63                58
4             91                   81                 76                71
5            100                  100                100               100
1/  See Annex IV, Table 3 bis 1.
2/  HP = horse power, t=ton
3/ Percentage saved on vehicle operating cost is 100 - index number.
Source:  R6publique Populaire du Benin, Etude de Factibilit6 de la Refection et du
Resurfacage de la Route Godomey-Bohicon-Abomey, rapport final, June 1976,
by Lamarre Valois International Ltd., Montreal, Canada, for the Republic
of Benin.
April 1, 1977



ANNEX II
Table 2
BENIII
TRIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Economic Appraisal
Bituminous Road Resurfacing
Year of Construction and Surface Condition without the Pro.iect 1977-1993
Road Section            No.  Year con-        Surface condition-of section at start of
of   structed
km.               1977 1978 1979 1980 1981 1982 1983 1984 1985
1986
Cot onou-Seme              20   1963
PKC-1                     1                 4    4    5    5    5    5    5    5    5
PKI-3                     2                 3    3    4    4    5    5    5    5 5
PK3-20                  17                  2    2    3    3    4    4    5    5    5
Seme-Porto Novo            10   1972
PKO-10                   10                 2    2    3    3    4    4    5    5    5
Cotonou-Guez i             62   1963
PKO-1                     1                 5    5    5    5    5    5    5    5    5
PKI-21                  20                  4    4    5    5    5    5    5    5    5
PKI-62                   41                -3    3    4    IL    5    5    5    5    5
Guezin-Hillacondji         44   1967
PKO-11                  v                   3    3    4    4    5    5    5    5    5
PK 11-44                 33                 2    2    3    3    4    4    5    5    5
Come-Dogbo                 59   1965
PK0-l                     1                 5    5    5    5    5    5    5    5    5
PKI-7                     6                 4    4    5    5    5    5    5    5    5
PK7-24                  17                  3    3    4    4    5    5    5    5    5
PK24-59                  36                 2    2    3    3    4    4    5    5    5
1/ Annex IV, Table 3 bis 1.
Source: DRB
April, 1977



ANNEX II
Table 3
BENIN
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Economic Appraisal
Bituminous Road Resurfacing
Assumed Traffic Growth and Surface Condition with the Project, 1979-1986
Road Section                          Surface condition of road at start of
1979 1980 1981 1982 1983 1984 1985 1986
Cotonou-Seme                                    1    1    1    2    2    2    3
Seme-Porto Novo                                 1    1    1    2    2    2    3
Cotonou-Guezin                             1    1    1    2    2    2         _
Guezin -Hillacondji                        1    1    1    2    2    2    3    3
Come'~Dogbo                                     1    1    1    2    2    2    3
Source: DRB
April 1977



ANNEX III
Table 1
BENIN
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Economic Appraisal
Resurfacing of Laterite Roads
Vehicle Operating Costs, Net of Taxes, on Different
Conditions of Laterite Surfaces, 1976
Surface condition
(Roughness in            Car           Van          Truck       Tractor-trailer
mm/km)
(In CFAF per km)
1   (3250)            24.66          20.22         116.96          140.45
2   (4500)             26.53         33.90         138.85          173.90
3   (6ooo)            29.00          37.06         152.59          198.90
4   (8000)             32.62         45.91         183.91          237.76
5  (10000)             36.14         51.84         213.93          261.99
6  (12000)             41.45         59.40         248.80          323.4oI
(Index surface 6 = 100)%'
1               59             48             47              46
2               64             57             56              54
3               70             62             61             61
4               79             77             74             74
5               87             87             86             81
6              loo            100            100            100
a/ Percentage saved on vehicle operating cost is 100 - index number.
Source: Republique Populaire du Benin, Programme Quadriennal d'Entretien
Routier, Rapport Final, by Lamarre Valois International, Ltd., July 1975.
April,   1977



ANNEX III
Table 2
BENIN
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Economic Appraisal
Surface Condition in 1977 of Roads to be Resurfaced with
Laterite and Year of Execution of Resurfacing Work
Road Section                   Length             Surface                 Year
(km)           Conditionl/            Resurfaced
K'tou-Kpedekpo                    20                 4                    1978
Kpedekpo-Ouade-Sagon              15                 4                    1978
Sagon-Adjohoun                    53                 6                    1978
Djougou-Afon                      47                 4                    1979
Pehunco-Djougou                   71                 5                    1978
Kerou-Banikoara                   67                 5                    1979
TOTAL                 273
1/ Without the project. See Annex VI, Table 1 for definition of surface condition.
Source: Republique Populaire du Benin, Programme Quadriennal d'Entretien Routier,
Rapport Final, by Lamarre Valois International, Ltd., July, 1977
September 1977






EXHIBIT I
BENIN
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Organization of the Directorate of Roads and Bridges (DRB) - 1977
Pltia                            Dieco of                              Secreary'                                                     New Works
Committee l Roads and Br8dges [                                      Office                                                 ...... Feeder Roads
Maintenance
u Stdes and                      1ha                
Now Works                      =taintenance                   Fede r Roads 
Service                        Service
intenanrMaintenance                                                                                    DISTRICTS
Cotonou     t(Porto Novo        Lokossa         Bohicon        PSave            Savalou                          Parakou         Kando           Daugou           Natitgou
Allada          Pobe           Com             Cov             DassaZoume    Bante                               Nikki           Bankoara                      1 TenguSta
A  Ketou                                           Kilibo                                                                                            P4hunco
* To be created
World Bank-16737






THIRD   HI'WA4Y PRO1ECi1
GOdOmeY-Abe;0..          1976  Traftic
Legend
783  Aut0mobiles
32 -sSmall Trucks
-Twoae Trucks
-TruCk-trailers
701 1020  |-Vehicles equivalents
v51'   7      3  5 1    2
A SOMEY                                                                                      1_ 202
(PK  124)                                                                              e0Hlon sVehicleequv e
( P 1   7 2 4 )   B O H I C O N1                           5 0
(PK 117)   X                     Scale: 1/500 000
36
9
ZOGBOIlOM
(PK 104)
212
SEHOUE
(PK 80)
OUAGBO ALIHO                  GBOTAGON
ATTOGON     
(PK 52)i     
ALLADA
(PK 46)
AK(ASSATO
(PbK 14)
41                  ABOMEY CALAVI 
OUIDHA                                               GODOMW1
-GUif of Oenin
World f3ank - 16876l






IBRD 12754R
1                    7~-              ,N           I  "I"        31G          E        R '       OCTOBER 1977
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN  \"  k
-2"THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT 4\i
<   s   ~ ~ ~             MALANVILLE  e"s
E       R
>       >~~~ >                      y>~~~~_>80nlkooro ~~~~Angora  ebo}
_IFoIrgo $g3'e\ 
(5     \Bgoio   qJ                                      d           o                 9                               abno
Dossari    /      2r   AKdrou                            1                  Gogourou                               L,      _
)   <<ANGU~NGIETA                                              ,,f'l
_-       Touknouniinuii                          /
\    NATIT        IN       O    o d K                                       .id
N       NGO
-10-                           ion            =!                                     XNk                                                     101-
OAnon no          ,,kk,r
N. Fokons'B.If-g Kon  P, T.o-- Pdh
To L... Kor  B             OGOOJOOL_
9,                     .4                                                                                                                    9,   ,r:
\    |            8  Cy       /1   j~~~~~~PA!AKOL)
9 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~xa tows,1                                   aie  Enieein  une  FistHgh
i           ehiiai   unatl   P,.p-d  Th Sed Hgh-nd PHighay
\ ......... t .........  eK- t.,b                   Reh.bdlt o-
_ j x } e w {^ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R,,-rf-cg wah Lw-frt
                i          aume                                 vf}O  o o o3-  ....... R.-uf.-og  alh Ba.--su Miy
0                      \tT   ug*X5z>w~......  P,e,,,",I-,,t Swud,.s
9        9              ~~~~~~Deto'lled E,,g,,te.-g untder F,rst HKghw.y
/   7       z  yCxY.......  P,ot-ct (Cr 215-DAI
!   8          \      Wv         ^             ~~~~~~~~~Rehocbdhtot,ot, under Seco,nd H,ghway
-8-5'\                                             \   Gatwoiw' SA         VE                       FPro1ect (Cr 415-DA)                     8-
SVALOU                                   I S^ 
in. ,fma rer.xrv. ry mm. ifOi Std
Roads Ad-,i strition
Gbdd.- n  r                                     Heao Duanters        B
anir:!m m n~~~~~endomewallt I v \ [1 ~~~~D R B D,strgc t
_      DR B  Regulor Subdivi-ion
! '            9       '  K)ou ~ _--TSoAb..ko-l           M-i  R..d,:
IN                         Z 4rananodo     Mjn Poed R                     Rods
HgCO                 Tubick
-7.         BENIN          \' st           o      A   t        M                     "' J    *       nte.rao..on.l Aireorn              f
Apia, iw                   Tuhi-              Pob    (                DC-3 Capacity Airports
rt0 X Bhoue'l >             i    -    _   International Boundaries
4 ~ ~~~~~~~~~~                                    D,                                                            N  >jAoe       / < G >    OdTR 
K     ,          1   ~~~~~Agn                         ib         .                        0   10  2    30 40   0
N~~~~~~~~~~
*OO G;G          an&-Popp
.   LOME    hfo~n,ji  Aawue       2    G                                          e    n   t  n
2                      I                     I 



