CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 746 BEN
Development Credit Agreement
(Third Highway Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated November 18, 1977


﻿CREDIT NUMBER /46 BEN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 18, 1977, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
OF BENIN (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the cost of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement by making the Credit as hereinafter
provided;
(B) the Borrower intends to contract from the Kuwait Fund
for Arab Economic Development (hereinafter called the Kuwait Fund)
a loan (hereinafter called the Kuwait Fund Loan) in an amount
equivalent to about seven million dollars ($7,000,000) to assist
in financing Part A of the Project on the terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the Kuwait Fund Loan
Agreement) to be entered into between the Kuwait Fund and the
Borrower;
(C) the Borrower intends to contract from the Organization
of the Petroleum Exporting Countries Special Fund (hereinafter
called the OPEC Fund) a loan (hereinafter called the OPEC Fund
Loan) in an amount equivalent to about one million, six hundred
thousand dollars ($1,600,000) to assist in financing Part A of the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement
(hereinafter called the OPEC Fund Loan Agreement) to be entered
into between OPEC and the Borrower; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to make the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein


﻿- 2 -
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
-ints of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02.   Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "DSP" means the Directorate of Studies and Planning
of the Borrower's Ministry of Transport;
(b) "DRB" means the Directorate of Roads and Bridges of the
Borrower's Ministry of Equipment;
(c) "STI" means the Subdivision des Techniques Industrielles
of DRB, and
(d) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to ten million dollars ($10,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open a Special Account in a bank in its territory acceptable to
the Association and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association.
(c) The Association shall, promptly after the Effective
Date, withdraw on behalf of the Borrower from the Credit Account


﻿-3-
and deposit in the Special Account referred to in paragraph (b)
of this Section an initial amount in the currency of the Borrower
not exceeding $250,000 equivalent and shall thereafter, at the
request of the Borrower, further withdraw from the Credit Account
and deposit in the Special Account such amounts as shall be
required to reimburse the Borrower for payments made out of the
Special Account for expenditures for the Project eligible for
financing under the Development Credit Agreement, but only to the
extent that the amount of any such deposit, together with any
amount on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such
request, shall not exceed in the aggregate the equivalent of
$250,000.
(d) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association in respect
of each payment out of the Special Account such documents and
other evidence as the Association shall reasonably request,
showing that the payment was made on account of the reasonable
cost of goods or services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(e) If the Association shall have determined that any
payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for an expenditure
or expenditures not eligible for financing by withdrawal from the
Credit Account, or (ii) is not supported by the evidence required
pursuant to paragraph (d) of this Section, the Borrower shell,
promptly upon notice from the Association, deposit in the Special
Account an amount equal to the amount of such payment.
(f) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (c) of
this Section, no further deposits in the Special Account shall be
made if the Association shall have determined that such deposits
will not be needed to finance goods or services required for
the Project.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1980
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent


﻿(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstaniing from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each May 15
and November 15 commencing November 15, 1987, and ending May 15,
2027, each installment to and including the installment payable
on May 15, 1997, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be
one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the Republic of France is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through DRB and DSP with due diligence and efficiency and in con-
formity with appropriate financial, administrative and engineering
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to assist DRB in the preparation of
the plans, specifications and bidding documents for, and in the
supervision of, the civil works under Parts B, C and D of the
Project, the Borrower shall cause DRB to employ engineering
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.03. In carrying out Parts E, F and G of the
Project, the Borrower shall cause DRB and DSP to employ engineer-
ing and economic consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association.
Section 3.04. For the purpose of carrying out Parts B, C, E,
F and G of the Project, the Borrower shall, prior to the employ-
ment of the consultants referred to in Sections 3.02 and 3.03
of this Agreement, appoint qualified counterparts and trainees in


﻿-5-
adequate numbers, as set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, to
work with the said consultants in accordance with a time schedule
and training program acceptable to the Association.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by
the Berrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, all
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be used exclusively for the Project until its completion.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
contract documents and work and procurement schedules for the
Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate
to record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof in the
Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited represen-
tatives to visit the facilities and construction sites included in
the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
shall furnish to the Association all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and
rights in respect of land as shall be required for carrying out
the Project.
Section 3.08. Prior to December 31, 1977 or such other date
as shall be agreeable to the Association, the Borrower shall
appoint an agent to monitor the Project and, in addition to
such information as may be requested by the Association pursuant


﻿-6-
to Section 3.06 (b) (iii) hereof, such agent shall, from the
commencement of the execution of the Project until the completion
of the Project, furnish to the Association tri-monthly reports on
all aspects of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with con-
sistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the opera-
tions, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall ensure that:
(a) DRB will collect and record in accordance with appropri-
ate statistical methods and procedures such data as are required
to assess the technical, economic and financial aspects of the
Bori.jwer's road network for the proper planning of maintenance,
improvements and extensions; and
(b) DSP will study the size, components and expansion pro-
spects of the public and private transport industry in Benin and
will periodically review and update such study; such study will
make recommendations to maintain the balance between demand and
supply in said industry.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take such steps as shall be
reasonably required to ensure that the dimensions and axle loads
of vehicles using the Borrower's roads are consistent with the
structural and geometric design standards rf the roads used.
Section 4.04. (a) The Borrower shall cause the roads and
bridges in its highway system and its road maintenance equipment
to be maintained adequately and shall cause all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof to be made promptly, all in accordance with
appropriate engineering standards and economic practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, equip-
ment, services and other resources required for the foregoing.
(b) Without any limitation on the provisions of paragraph
(a) of this Section, the Borrower shall provide the Association


﻿-7-
for its review and comments the Borrower's annual Road Maintenance
Budget no later than July 1 of each year and shall take all nec-
essary measures to increase the resources of its Road Maintenance
Fund at levels which shall be not less than CFAF 750,000,000,
CFAF 830,000,000 and CFAF 900,000,000 in each of the Borrower's
fiscal years 1978, 1979 and 1980, respectively. Following fiscal
year 1980 the Borrower shall maintain or adjust such levels to the
satisfaction of the Association as shall be necessary to meet the
road maintenance needs of the Borrower.
Section 4.05. The Borrower, through STI, shall ensure that
an adequate accounting system of the stock of STI, as agreed with
the Association, shall be established and fully operational by
December 31, 1979 or such other date as shall be agreeable to the
Association.
Section 4.06. Any contract for resurfacing pursuant to Part B
of the Project shall be executed only (i) after the completion of
the required field work by DRB, and (ii) in accordance with a work
schedule to be agreed upon by the Borrower and the Association.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(i) Subject to paragraph (ii) of this Section:
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any loan or grant, including
the Kuwait Fund Loan or the OPEC Fund Loan,
made to the Borrower for the financing of the
Project shall have been suspended, cancelled
or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
the terms of the agreement providing therefor;
or
(B) Any such loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.


﻿- 8 -
(ii) Paragraph (i) of this Section shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction
of the Association that:
(A) Such suspension, cancellation, termination or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of
the Borrower to perform any of its obliga-
tions under such agreement; and
(B) Adequate funds for the Project are available
to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations
of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof, namely, that any event specified in
paragraph (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(i) all of the conditions of effectiveness of the
Kuwait Fund Loan Agreement and the OPEC Fund Loan
Agreement, with the exception of the effectiveness
of the Development Credit Agreement, have been
fulfilled; and
(ii) the Special Account shall have been opened as
provided in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date February 16, 1978, is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Article
IV of this Agreement shall terminate on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty-


﻿-9-
five years from the date of the Development Credit Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for
finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 302
CotOnou
People's Republic of Benin
Cable address:                     Telex:
MINIFINANCES                        522 MINECOP
Cotonou
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145  (WUI)
IN 4ITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the


﻿- 10 -
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
By /s/ Thomas Boya
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Xavier de la Renaudiere
Acting Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works for              4,850,000         92%
Parts B and C
of the Project
(2) Equipment and                1,800,000         100% of foreign
construction                                  expenditures and
under Part D of                               90% of local ex-
the Project                                   penditures
(3) Technical                      900,000         90%
assistance and
fellowships under
Parts E and F
of the Project
(4) Consultants'                   200,000         90%
services for
Part G of the
Project
(5) Advance under                  250,000
Section 2.02 (c)
to finance items
referred to under
Catagory (1) above
(6) Unallocated                  2,000,000
TOTAL       10,000,000


﻿- 12 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency of the
Borrower is also that of another country from the territory of
which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such cur-
rency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign
expenditures"; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of
the Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes
levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or
supply thereof, to that end, if the amount of any such taxes
levied on or ii respect of any item to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit decreases or increases, the Association
may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the disburse-
ment percentage then applicable to such item as required to be
consistent with the aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that with-
drawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $300,000 net of taxes may be made in respect of Categories
(1), (2) and (3) on account of payments made for such expenditures
before that date but after April 30, 1977.
5.   Notwithstanding the alloc,tion of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that
the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and


﻿- 13 -
(ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated short-
fall, reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category
may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been
made.
6.     If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restric-
ting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Associa-
tion under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associa-
tion's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of:
Part A:   Rehabilitation of the Godomey-Bohicon-Abomey Road in
accordance with the design standards set forth in
Annex 1 to this Schedule.
Part B:   Resurfacing, including preparatory works and minor
repairs, of about 195 km of bituminous roads as shown in
Annex 2 to this Schedule and in accordance with existing
design standards.
Part C:   Resurfacing of about 273 km of laterite roads as shown
in Annex 3 to this Schedule and in accordance with
existing design standards.
Part D:   (1) The purchase of equipment and spare parts for road
maintenance operations; and
(2) Office construction and office equipment for DSP.
Part E:   Assistance to DRB for road maintenance consisting
of: (1) technical assistance; and (2) fellowships.
Part F:   Assistance to DSP for transport planning and coordi-
nation consisting of: (1) technical assistance; and
(2) fellowships.
Part G:   A study on the improvement of the Ouidah-Allada Road
(about 40 km).
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1980.


﻿- 15 -
ANNEX 1 to SCHEDULE 2
D( iign Standards for Godomey-Bohicon-Abomey Road
Alignment                                  no change
Lane width                                 3 m
Number of lanes                            2
Shoulder width                             1 m on each side
Sealed shoulder                            0.50 m
Pavement: Base course                      7 m
Type                           15 or 20 cm of cement
improved laterite
Surface                        double surface treatment
Pavement design axle load                  13 tons
Subbase                                   no change
Structures                                 improvements in the
surface runoff system
d.


﻿- 16 -
ANNEX 2 to SCHEDULE 2
Bituminous Roads Needing Resurfacing
Estimated Length of
Surface Treatment (kms)
Single     Double        Total
Road Section                     (1)        (2)           kms
1.   Cotonou-Semf                      -          20           20
2.   Sem6-Porto Novo                   -          10           10
3.   Cotonou-Gu6zin                   62           -           62
4.   Gu6zin-Hilacondji                44          -            44
5.   Come-Lokossa-Dogbo               29          30           59
TOTAL                           135          60          195


﻿- 17 -
ANNEX 3 to SCHEDULE 2
Laterite Roads Needing Resurfacing
Clearing       Reshaping
Length      Widening          and
Sections                 (km)      Regraveling    Regraveling
1st Brigade                   135           115            20
Ketou-Kpedekpo                 20             -            20
Kpedekpo-Ouade-Sagon           15            15             -
Sagon-Adjohoun                 53            53
Djougou-Afon                   47            47             -
2nd Brigade                   138            71            67
Pehunco-Djougou                71            71             -
Kerou-Banikoara                67             -            67
TOTAL   -                273           186            87


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Parts B and E hereof, contracts for the
purchase of goods or for civil works shall be procured in accor-
dance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Part A of
the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines) including the pertinent provisions of the General
Introduction thereto, on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
2.   Bidders for the works included in the Project shall be
prequalified as described in paragraph 1.3 of Part A of the
Guidelines.
3.   In evaluating bids for goods, the Borrower shall give due
consideration to the need for standardization and to the after-
sales service offered by bidders.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for civil works estimated to cost not more than the
equivalent of $50,000 per contract and $100,000 in the aggregate
may be awarded following competitive bidding advertised locally in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
2.   Contracts for the purchase of goods estimated to cost not
more than the equivalent of $10,000 per contract and $200,000
in the aggregate may be procured on the basis of not less than
three quotations obtained locally.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight


﻿- 19 -
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in the People's Republic of Benin may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subjsct to,
the following provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in the
People's Republic of Benin if the bidder shall have
established to the satisfaction of the Borrower and
the Association that the manufacturing cost of such
goods includes a value added in the People's
Republic of Benin equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in the People's Republic of Benin.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
(c) above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C
bids shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid
from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would


﻿- 20 -
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is
the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Civil Works; Preference
for Domestic Contractors
With respect to any contract for civil works included under
Parts B, C and D of the Project, the Borrower may grant a margin
of preference of 7-1/2% to domestic contractors, in accordance
with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a) Contractors shall be required to prequalify as provided
in Part A of this Schedule and applicants for qualification
applying also for such preference shall be asked to provide,
as part of the information for qualification, such information,
including details of ownership, as shall be required to determine
whether, according to the classification established by the
Borrower and accepted by the Association, a particular .irm
or group of firms qualifies for a domestic preference. The bidding
documents shall clearly indicate the preference and the method
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids
to give effect to such preference.
(b) After bids have been received and reviewed by the
Borrower, responsive bids will be classified into the following
groups:
(i) bids offered by domestic contractors eligible
for preference; and
(ii) bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount
equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids received
under group (ii) above.
E.   Procurement Without Contracting
Preparatory works and minor repairs included in Part B of
the Project and civil works included in Part C of the Project may
be carried out by force account through DRB.


﻿- 21 -
F.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1. Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Association in detail of
the procedure to be followed, and shall introduce such modifica-
tions in said procedure as the Association shall reasonably
request. The list of prequalified bidders, together with a state-
ment of their qualifications and, where applicable, of their
eligibility for domestic preference under Part D above and of the
reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification
and for such eligibility shall be furnished by the Borrower to
the Association for its comments before the applicants are noti-
fied of the Borrower's decision, and the Borrower shall make such
additions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list
as the Association shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts.
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association such
information as the Association shall reasonably request, includ-
ing, in the case of bids on civil works, in sufficient time for
review by the Association, a detailed report on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received, together with the recommendations
for award. The Association shall, if it determines that the
intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.


﻿- 22 -
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such            1
contract.
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and not governed by the preceding para-
graph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably requect. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
* . . . . . .


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 4
Training Program
List of Personnel
A)   Directorate of Roads and Bridges
1.   Consultants' Counterparts
1 Road Maintenance Section Head
1 Studies and New Works Head
1 STI Head
2.   Trainees
2 Road Maintenance Division Heads (North and South)
2 Road Regraveling Brigade Heads (North and South)
1 Road Engineer for Control of
Bituminous Roads contracted works
2 Routine Maintenance Brigade Heads for bituminous roads
2 Equipment Inspectors
1 Equipment Warehouse Head
2 Equipment Workshop Heads
B)   Directorate of Studies and Planning
1.   Consultants' Counterpart
1 Division of Planning and Coordination Head
.                2.   Trainees
1 Transport Engineering Subdivision Head
1 Transport Economic Subdivision Head


