FILE COPY
Report No. 1018a-JO
Jordan:
Appraisal of Industrial Development
Bank Including Its Small Scale Industry and Handicraft Program
June 3, 1976
Industrial Credit and Development Finance Companies
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(The JD has been pegged to the SDR
since February 1975 with JD = SDR 2.57895.)
Currency      =  dinar (JD) = 1,000 fils
JD1           =  US$3.03
JD1,000       =  US$3,030
JD1,O00,000   =  US$3,030,300
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
IDB     -  Industrial Development Bank of Jordan
IERR    -  Internal Economic Rate of Return
IFRR    -  Internal Financial Rate of Return
KfW     -  Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
SSI&HP  -  Small Scale Industry and Handicraft Program
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK of JORDAN
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



PM OFFICAL u ONLY
APPRAISAL OF
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF JORDAN
INCLUDING ITS SMALL SCALE INDUSTRY AND HANDICRAFT PROGRAM
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMARY ...........................                                i-ii
I.   INTRODUCTION 1.........................................              I
II.   THE ENVIRr_p.ENT .........
Economic Environment                                                1
The Industrial Sector                                               3
The Tourism Sector                                                  6
The Financial Community                                             7
III.   IDB's STRUCTURE ....................... ..*. ...........            10
Establishment and Legal Basis                                      10
Ownership and Control                                               10
Board and Committees. .......................                      11
Management and Staff 1l
Objectives and Powers                    ....                       12
Policies and Procedures . .      ..     . ........0.. .*...         13
IV.   IDB's OPERATIONS  .... - . ....... . ...... o............           16
Characteristics ........................................            16
The Small Scale Industry and Handicraft Program  .....             17
Economic Impact .. ..............*.00........0.......              21
V.   IDB's FINANCIAL SITUATION  .O  .....000*0.00                        22
Resource Position .. .....6......i.... ..                          22
Quality of Portfolio ............................000               23
Financial Performance and Position  .............0....             24
Audit *. .                                  .      * -. ...   . ..e* * 25
VI.   PROSPECTS ....... **....**.....25
The Environment os* * *o* oo* eo* *** e.* *. ****....*...          25
Operations .        ..      ....       .* .......... ... ......    27
Resource Requirements  ............g.....*....o...                  28
Financial Prospects                                                28
VII.   THE.CREDIT - ITS OBJECTIVES, JUSTIFICATION AND FEATURES.            29
VIII.   RECOMMENDATION . ....... ......... o............. ....              31
This report was prepared by Messrs. Henry B. Thomas and Takashi Miyawaki with
the assistance of Mr. J. Chanmugam on the basis of their two-week mission to
Jordan in November 1975.
This document has a restricted distibuton a  may be usd by recipicnts only in the perfonuace
of their official duties. Its contents may not otberwise be discosed without Wori Bank authoiration.



Table of Contents (continued)
BASIC DATA
ANNEXES
1.   Industrial Production Index
2.   Distribution of Establishments in the Industrial Sector by
Principal Cities
3.   Distribution of Establishments in the Industrial Sector by
Size of Employment
4.   Domestic Exports
5.   Visitor Arrivals by Region 1966-1975
6.   Specialized Credit Institutions
7.   Interest Rates
8.   Expected Real Financial Charges on Subloans
9.   List of Shareholders
10.   Board of Directors
11.   Organization Chart
12.   Investment Policy
13.   Summary of Operations:  1965-75
14.   Classification of Approved Loans:  1965-75
15.   A. Resources and Resource Position
B. Notes on Resources
16.   Loan Portfolio
17.   A. Income Statements:  1971-75
B. Balance Sheets: 1971-75
C. Indicators: 1972-75
18.   Projections:  1976-80
A. Major Assumptions Underlying the Projections
B. Projected Operations
C. Projected Income Statements
D. Projected Cash Flow Statements
E. Projected Balance Sheets
F. Projected Indicators
19.   Strategy Statement:  1976-80
20.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
MAP



APPRAISAL OF
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF JORDAN
INCLUDING ITS SMALL SCALE INDUSTRY AND HANDICRAFT PROGRAM
SUMMARY
i.        The Industrial Development Bank of Jordan (IDB) was established in
1965 with the objective of providing term financing for industry and tourism.
It is the only such institution in Jordan and plays a significant role in
both sectors. While IDB has been in contact with the Bank Group over several
years, the proposed IDA credit of $4.0 million would be the first Bank Group
lending to IDB.
ii.       The economic development of Jordan has been seriously affected by
the political situation in the region since the 1967 war. The return of in-
ternal stability in 1971 permitted the Government to devote more attention to
economic issues and a Three-Year Plan (1973-75) was published in 1972. It
placed heavy emphasis on the development of productive sectors, including in-
dustry. This Plan has been followed by a Five-Year Plan (1976-80) with the
same emphasis. The Government has actively encouraged the private sector
with generous incentives and liberal currency regulations.
iii.      Most of IDB's activities have been in the industrial sector.  This
sector consists of a few large enterprises which, being of national import-
ance, enjoy strong Government support and in many cases Government participa-
tion in ownership, several hundred medium scale enterprises mainly owned by
private interests, and several thousand small scale enterprises. IDB's lend-
ing, until recently, has been directed at the medium scale subsector. Early
in 1975 it initiated an experimental program to provide financial and tech-
nical assistance to the small scale subsector, the first such program in
Jordan. By the end of 1975 IDB had made 43 loans to this subsector, averag-
ing $4,100 equivalent each. It intends to expand this program in the coming
years.
iv.       The tourism sector has received about 15% of IDB's lending.  It
has been especially sensitive to developments in the region but now shows
signs of a strong revival.
v.        In the absence of a formally organized capital market the main
sources of financing for industrial investment are the promoters themselves,
IDB and the commercial banks. During the Three-Year Plan period projects
financed by IDB, which are a representative sample of all projects in the
medium scale industrial and tourism sectors, received half of their funding
from the entrepreneurs' own resources, with IDB providing over 30% of which
most was to finance imported capital equipment. The contribution of the com-
mercial banks during this period was only 14%, and mostly on short-term. The
Central Bank, which exercises the usual regulatory powers over the commercial
banks, has recently taken several measures to improve the mobilization of



- ii -
local financial resources, to absorb part of the excess liquidity of the bank-
ing system and to redirect credit to the productive sectors. These measures
include a restructuring of interest rates and the selective use of credit
ceilings and reserve requirements.
vi.       IDB itself is a sound institution with experienced and capable man-
agement and staff. Its procedures, especially its appraisal work, are good.
It is widely respected within Jordan as a well-run institution. During the
Three-Year Plan period it assisted projects accounting for about 75% of pri-
vate investment in medium scale industry and perhaps 90% of investment in
hotels and related tourism oriented enterprises.
vii.      IDB has prepared a strategy statement outlining the objectives it
hopes to achieve during the Five-Year Plan period. These include three new
initiatives: establishment of an industrial estate, promotion of new proj-
ects and establishment of a management training center. It also intends to
expand its experimental small scale industry and handicraft program (SSI&HP)
as well as its normal lending. IDB and the Government have indicated that
they would like Bank Group assistance and advice as IDB becomes active in
these new areas.
viii.     The proposed project has three components.  The first is the provi-
sion of $3,675,000 million to fill the forecast gap in IDB's foreign exchange
resources directed towards its normal lending activities during the two-year
period July 1976 to June 1978. This would represent about 25% of IDB's for-
eign exchange needs during this period. This portion of the credit will be
lent by the Government to IDB on normal Bank terms. The second component is
the provision of $300,000 to help finance IDB's SSI&HP over the same two-year
period. An important objective here is to ensure the Bank Group's close asso-
ciation with that program to maximize what it can learn from IDB's experience
and to lay the basis for possible future Bank Group assistance to this sub-
sector, both in Jordan and elsewhere. This portion will be provided by
the Government to IDB as a grant. The third component will provide up to
$25,000 to finance an interdisciplinary study of the small scale industry
subsector. The objective of the study is to gain knowledge of the subsector
which IDB's exposure is not likely to provide so that a more complete picture
will emerge of the needs, prospects and constraints of the subsector. The
Government will pay for the cost of the study out of this portion of the
proposed credit. In addition to financial assistance the project will also
include Bank Group technical assistance to IDB in such areas as improving its
appraisal and supervision work as well as the new fields it plans to enter.
ix.       Agreement having been reached on the principal issues, the project
is suitable for an IDA credit of $4.0 million on the usual terms, to be uti-
lized as outlined above.



I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Industrial Development Bank of Jordan (IDB) was established in
1965 with the objective of providing term financing for industry and tourism
in Jordan. It has developed into an efficient development financing institu-
tion with a good record of performance. It recently has undertaken an experi-
mental lending program aimed at snall scale industry and handicraft projects
and intends in the next few years to undertake other new activities. Though
IDB has been in contact with the Bank Group from time to time since its estab-
lishment, the credit proposed in this report would be the first Bank Group
lending to IDB.
1.02      An IDA credit of $4.0 million to the Government of Jordan is pro-
posed. Of this, $3,675,000 will be lent to IDB by the Government on normal
Bank terms for on-lending by IDB to its usual industrial and tourism clients.
This amount will provide about 25% of IDB's foreign exchange resource needs
during the two-year period beginning July 1976; the rest of its foreign
exchange needs is expected to be filled by other foreign loans. A second
portion of $300,000 will be provided by the Government to IDB as a grant for
use by IDB in its small scale industry and handicraft program (SSI&HP). A
third portion of up to $25,000 will be used to finance an interdisciplinary
study of the small scale industry and handicraft subsector. While the Bank
Group can expect to provide IDB with technical assistance relating to its
usual activities as an adjunct to the $3,675,000 portion of the credit, the
main objective in providing funds for the SSI&HP and the study is to ensure
the Bank Group's close association with this subsector to maximize what it
can learn from IDB's experience and to lay the basis for possible future Bank
Group assistance to this subsector, both in Jordan and elsewhere.
II. THE ENVIRONMENT
Economic Environment
2.01      The most recent report on the economy of Jordan entitled "Special
Economic Report, Jordan, Review of the Five-Year Plan (1976-80)" (Report No.
1144-JO, dated May 24, 1976) has been distributed to the Executive Directors.
The report embodies the conclusions of an economic mission which visited
Jordan in January/February 1976 to review the new Five-Year Development Plan
(1976-80).
2.02      Since the 1967 war the economic development of Jordan has been
seriously affected by the political situation in the region. The occupation
of the West Bank with 30% of Jordan's 2.6 million population deprived the
country of most of its agricultural and tourism resources and increased its
dependence on external transfers. The East Bank mostly consists of arid land
with only 5% of the total land area being cultivable. Other natural resources
are also limited with the exception of abundant phosphate deposits. Reflect-
ing the narrowness of Jordan's productive base, services (mainly public serv-
ices and commerce) account for about two-thirds of domestic production. In
1975 Jordan's (East Bank) GNP per capita was estimated at $590.



-2-
2.03      The return of internal stability in 1971 permitted the Government
to devote more attention to medium- and long-term economic issues. In 1972
the Government published a Three-Year Plan covering the 1973-75 period. The
main targets of the Plan were to achieve an 8% p.a. growth of GDP at 1972
prices, to reduce the 8% unemployment rate and the serious underemployment in
the East Bank, to phase out the economy's heavy dependence on foreign budget
support by reducing the budget and trade deficits through increased domestic
revenues and foreign exchange earnings and to foster a more equitable distri-
bution of economic gains between the various income groups and geographical
regions. To achieve these targets, the Plan envisaged a thorough restructur-
ing of the economy by reducing its heavy reliance on services of which defense
was a major part, and by developing agriculture, manufacturing and mining both
through institutional and infrastructure support to private initiative and
through public investment in productive enterprises.
2.04      Development performance during the Plan period was a mixed success.
The real annual growth rate of GDP over the three-year period was of the order
of 3% per year as a result of poor weather conditions and slow growth in com-
merce and services following the October 1973 war. However, mining and manu-
facturing grew at an annual rate of 10%. Rock phosphate accounted for much of
this increase following a doubling of production coupled with a five-fold in-
crease in the world price between July 1972 ($11.4/ton FOB Jordan Rock) and
January 1975 ($56/ton). The real annual growth rate of the manufacturing
sector taken alone was a little over 8% and capacity utilization improved dur-
ing the three-year period to reach 95% in 1975. With a 6% p.a. growth rate,
the construction sector also achieved a better than average performance, due
mainly to increased remittances from Jordanians working abroad which fueled
demand for investment in housing and for related industrial inputs.
2.05      Although the Three-Year Plan aimed at reducing reliance on external
sources to fill the country's chronic resource gap, the trade balance deficit
actually increased from JD 81 million in 1973 to JD 115 million in 1974 and
an estimated JD 147 million in 1975 as a result of sharp increases in the
prices of Jordan's imports such as food and capital goods, only partially
compensated for by the five-fold increase in phosphate prices. Fortunately
this trade deficit was covered by significant increases in unrequited trans-
fers (from JD 65 million in 1973 to JD 151 million in 1975) and in workers'
remittances (from JD 15 million in 1973 to JD 53 million in 1975). However,
the availability and adequacy of these resources in the coming years is un-
certain, at a time when the need for external resources to carry out the in-
vestment program contained in the country's new Five-Year Plan will be very
high. Jordan will thus continue to need substantial external financial as-
sistance.
2.06      Jordan experienced considerable price stability for many years until
the early 1970's. Prior to 1967 the overall price level experienced an aver-
age annual increase of only 2%; from 1967 to 1971 the increase was 4.6% p.a.
However, the Amman cost of living index indicates that the general price level
increased by 8.1% in 1972, 10.4% in 1973 and a record 20.0% in 1974, slightly
below the international inflation rate estimated at 21.7% for that year. The



-3-
increase in the index was about 12% in 1975. Depending on supply conditions,
particularly in agriculture, and on aggregate demand levels, which will be
largely influenced by the rate of implementation of Plan targets, inflation
in Jordan is expected to continue at its current level of 12% per annum dur-
ing the first two years of the Five-Year Plan period, and should drop during
the latter years of the Plan and subsequently decline to about the interna-
tional rate of inflation, which according to Bank projections should fall from
10.8% in 1975 to 7.0% in 1980 through 1985. To some extent, the higher rates
expected in the initial years of the Five-Year Plan result from a bunching of
planned investment expenditures during that period. However, there may occur
substantial slippages in the actual timing of investments which would lower
pressures on domestic resources, resulting in a lower rate of inflation.
2.07      It appears that unemployment is no longer a problem in Jordan.
Emigration to the Gulf States and expanded employment opportunities in Jordan
have created a labor shortage, in particular in the skilled and foreman
classes, which might prove one of the most serious constraints in the imple-
mentation of the Five-Year Plan. This shortage has led to increases in wages
which now appear to reflect correctly the opportunity cost of labor. Jordan's
high literacy rate (65% in 1974) and pool of entrepreneurial skills suggest
that the country enjoys some comparative advantages over its neighbors for its
industrial development.
The Industrial Sector
2.08      Preliminary results from the 1975 industrial census 1/ indicate that
there were 7,478 industrial enterprises (both mining and manufacturing) on the
East Bank of Jordan in 1974, employing some 26,700 workers. Fixed assets at
the end of 1974 were estimated at JD 69.0 million. The value added by this
sector in 1975 was estimated at JD 45 million and represented about 15.6% of
GDP at factor cost. By contrast, this sector contributed only JD 20 million
or 11% to GDP in 1972. Using as weights 1970 prices, the industrial produc-
tion index for about 15 major commodities also shows the steady growth of this
sector, except during the 1967 war and the 1970 domestic disturbances (see
Annex 1). The index increased by 9.9% in 1973, by 6.1% in 1974, and by 7.2%
in 1975.
2.09      Existing industrial activities are heavily concentrated in the Amman-
Zerka area. Of 606 firms covered in the 1974 employment survey 2/, as many
as 559 were located in this area (see Annex 2). However strains are beginning
to appear due to such a concentration, particularly with regard to the supply
1/   This census, the results of which are still being tabulated, covered the
very smallest enterprises (1-4 employees) through the largest (over 200
employees).
2/ This survey did not cover the very smallest enterprises (1-4 employees).



- 4 -
of power and water. The Three-Year Plan called for a better geographical dis-
tribution of industry, but progress in this direction was and will continue
to be slow because of the absence of both infrastructure and markets in the
smaller population centers.
2.10      Industrial activity in Jordan can be conveniently separated into
large scale enterprises which, being of national importance, enjoy strong
Government support and in many cases Government participation in ownership,
medium scale enterprises which, while encouraged by Government, are almost
completely privately owned, and small scale enterprises which until recently
were more or less neglected by Government. The 1974 employment survey indic-
ated that among the 606 establishments covered, the 36 largest (employing 50
or more workers) accounted for 57% of total industrial employment (see Annex
3). Of even greater significance is the dominant role of the eight largest
firms, each of which is the only one of its kind in Jordan and which together
employ 38% of the total. In a 1971 survey they were estimated to account for
over half of the fixed assets held by the sector and almost half of the in-
dustrial sector's contribution to GDP. These firms are the phosphate mine,
the cigarette factory, the tannery, the pharmaceuticals company, the oil re-
finery, the cement mill, the rolling mill and the wet batteries factory.
2.11      Medium scale industry is mostly composed of enterprises producing
consumer goods for export or import substitution. Major industries in this
sub-sector are food processing (mostly flour milling, oil pressing and olive
packaging), clothing, textiles and footwear, and the fabrication of metal
products (hand tools, structural metal products and metal furniture). This
subsector has played a growing role in the past few years. While its exports
are small compared to those of the large scale enterprises (see Annex 4),
they are increasing significantly. IDB estimates that about one-third of its
recent projects, which are by and large all medium scale enterprises, are ex-
port oriented. One result of the comparatively tight labor market is that
Jordanian industry is tending to become relatively sophisticated and capital
intensive, enabling it to become technologically advanced in relation to
competing industry in neighboring countries. The resulting higher quality
of its products has enhanced their acceptability in these markets. Ceramics,
tiles, marble products, aluminum window and door frames, plastic products,
and paints are some examples of products which are being successfully sold in
these markets. Using the projects financed by IDB as a sample, profits made
by medium scale industries are rather attractive: in 1975 the ratio of
profit before interest to capital employed ranged from 16% (paints) to 58%
(tiles) and as high as 77% in cosmestics and detergents.
2.12      The 1975 industrial census attempts to cover for the first time the
small scale industry subsector (firms employing less than five workers) as
well as the medium and large scale subsectors. Of the 7,478 firms covered,
fully 6,887 were in this category. They employed about 10,800 workers versus
the almost 16,000 employed by the larger firms. Clearly this is a substantial
subsector, and one which until recently has almost totally lacked institutional
support. This subsector is a mixture of very small scale industries, handi-
crafts and household or "cottage" industries; almost without exception they



- 5 -
all originated from some form of household industrial activity, the most suc-
cessful ones emerging into small factories with some division of labor and
an emerging need for planning and technical assistance. Stone cutting and
carpentry are typical examples of small scale industry in Amman, tailoring
and traditional embroidery are examples of Jordan's cottage industries while
pottery and wood carving are among the most popular handicrafts. There are
also some "mode-rn small industries" such as ready-made clothing produced by
small factories for delivery to large stores.
2.13      Incentives.  Under the Encouragement of Investment Law projects
that are approved by a committee chaired by the Minister of Industry and
Trade are granted exemptions from income and social services tax for six
years (nine if they are outside the Amman-Zerka area), from custom duties and
other charges on imported fixed assets during the period of project implemen-
tation, and from building and land taxes for five years (seven if outside
Amman-Zerka). Projects outside the Amman-Zerka area may be granted, free of
charge, tracts of government land. Foreign capital invested in an approved
project, whether in conjunction with local capital or not, is given the same
treatment as local capital. In addition, the Law contains provisions facil-
itating the transfer outside the country of profits and interest earned on
foreign investment, the investment itself, and salaries earned by expatriate
staff. To qualify for these benefits, however, a project must have fixed
assets excluding land of at least JD 5,000 (JD 15,000 in the case of tourism
projects).
2.14      The provisions of the Law are quite generous and in general well
directed, although their selectivity might be improved as industrial activity
grows. Most investment projects qualifying under this Law are submitted for
approval. During 1972-75, the committee approved 105 projects involving cap-
ital investments totalling JD 21 million. Besides the exemptions allowed in
the Law, if a suitable case is presented custom duties on imported raw mat-
erials and components may be waived or reduced, and protective duties on im-
ports of competing products raised or imposed. Amendment of the present Law
is under consideration to further enhance its incentives.
2.15      Licensing.  Under the Licensing and Control of Industry Instruc-
tions of 1973, no new industrial establishment may be set up and no existing
industrial establishment may be modernized or expanded without having ob-
tained a license from the Ministry of Industry and Trade. (Projects in the
tourism sector must obtain a similar license from the Ministry of Tourism and
Antiquities.) For a project costing less than JD 5,000, a license is rou-
tinely issued without specific requirements. For a project which costs more
than JD 5,000, the Ministry asks for a study of the project to check its eco-
nomic and technical feasibility.
2.16      In the last few years, licenses have been issued rather liberally.
This reflects a change in policy towards industrial development. Until about
two years ago the Government sought to limit the number of establishments in
each field to what it felt the limited domestic market could sustain. How-
ever, because of this limited market, many enterprises successfully turned to



-6-
foreign markets. Encouraged by this trend, the Government has adopted a new
policy allowing "industrial duplication", i.e., the establishment of several
enterprises in the same line of production. The underlying reasoning is that
more competition will encourage industrial enterprises to break into foreign
markets and bring about more growth. This liberal approach has enhanced the
open atmosphere of Jordan's business climate without apparently leading to
excess capacity.
2.17      Industrial establishments are also required to obtain a license to
import machinery, equipment, spare parts, or raw materials. Reflecting the
liberal project licensing, import licenses are also issued quite liberally,
though the mechanism itself is intended to control allocation of foreign ex-
change. Commercial banks, on the strength of this license, are authorized
by the Central Bank within certain limits to issue a foreign exchange permit.
Thus an industrialist, once his project has been licensed, and because of the
present availability of foreign exchange, is able to obtain foreign exchange
quite easily.
2.18      Tariff Protection.  Industry enjDys varying degrees of tariff pro-
tection from competing imports originating from outside the Arab countries.
Tariffs on typical industrial products are in the 10-30% ad valorem range,
although a few selected manufactured imports such as confectionery, shoes,
furniture and tomato sauce carry tariffs of more than 50%. However, imports
from the Arab Common Market (Egypt, Syria, Iraq and Jordan) as well as im-
ports resulting from bilateral trade agreements with the countries of the
Council of Arab Economic Unity do provide a considerable measure of competi-
tion for Jordan's industrial firms.
The Tourism Sector
2.19      An inevitable result of the 1967 war and the disturbances in Jordan
in the following years was a precipitious drop in tourist traffic. As a re-
sult of the occupation of the West Bank, Jordan was also deprived of her best
known attractions and of 80% of her hotel capacity. Recently, though, a re-
covery of the tourism sector has been felt. In 1975 the number of visitors
reached an estimated 767,000, surpassing the 1966 peak of 619,000 visitors by
a substantial margin (see Annex 5). Jordan is a gateway not only for Moslem
pilgrims en route to Mecca but also for an increasing number of visitors to
the West Bank from Western countries. Some of these visitors take advantage
of their stopover in Jordan to visit historical sites on the East Bank. For
example, there were about 41,000 foreign visitors to the archaeological site
of Petra in 1975.
2.20      In general, the development of tourist facilities on the East Bank
has lagged behind the growth of foreign visitor demand, especially for accom-
modation of international standard. As a result of the recent shortage of
hotel rooms, occupancy rates and financial returns for hotels are relative-
ly high. In response to this situation, a number of hotels are either under
construction or in the planning stage. In addition other tourist facilities
such as shops, restaurants and transportation facilities are also being ex-
panded.



-7-
2.21      Gross foreign exchange earnings from tourism have grown from JD 4.6
million in 1968 to JD 32.2 million in 1975, representing over 28% of total
1975 exports of goods and services. Net foreign exchange earnings from tour-
ism, after deducting imported goods and services, are estimated to be about
70% of gross receipts. Direct employment in tourism facilities is presently
estimated at 4,000.
The Financial Community
2.22      The financial community in Jordan consists of the Central Bank,
eleven commercial banks, six specialized credit institutions and several in-
surance companies. The Post Office began a Savings Fund in September 1974.
There is no organized capital market.
2.23      The Central Bank.  The Central Bank, established in 1964,. has the
usual regulatory power over the commercial banks. It can establish interest
rates and regulate credit as well as establish reserve requirements, liquid-
ity requirements and the capital/deposit ratio (currently 10%). It makes a
market in Government Treasury Bills (first issued in 1969) and Bonds (1971).
It offers rediscount facilities to banks and specialized credit institutions
at 5% p.a.
2.24      The Commercial Banks.  There are eleven commercial banks operating
in Jordan. Four are incorporated in Jordan, three in other Arab countries
and four in other countries (a fifth is expected to open in 1976). These
banks had 73 branches in Jordan at the end of 1975, 43 of which were in Amman.
Credit facilities extended by the commercial banks have been growing steadily,
more or less in line with growing deposits and total assets. Outstanding
credit at the end of 1975 totalled JD 121.4 million, a 45% increase over the
year before. However, this represented only 57% of the banks' total assets.
The vast majority of these credits are bill discounting and short-term loans
and advances, including overdraft facilities. While the banks are not yet
prepared to lend substantial amounts on long-term, due mainly to their con-
servative approach and to the still unsettled conditions in the area, they
do roll over their short-term advances quite freely, particularly for their
established clients.
2.25      Bank lending to industry accounted for only 12% of total bank lend-
ing at the end of 1975. General commence and trade received the bulk of bank
credit (42%) with construction and the purchase of land and buildings being
the second largest category (22%). The banks rarely if ever lend to small
scale industry, the main reason being the lack of sufficient security. They
do hold a substantial amount of Treasury Bills and Government Bonds (11% of
total assets) and maintain large deposits with the Central Bank (15% of total
assets, or 21% of deposits versus the 12% reserve requirement). In view of
this liquidity, the banks rarely use the Central Bank's rediscount facility.
On the whole the structure of commercial bank assets reflects a traditional
outlook which will have to give way to more dynamic banking policies if these
banks are to play a more active role in Jordan's industrialization.



2.26      Until recently the Jordanian commercial banks have been ill-equip-
ped to engage in sophisticated international banking activities, due in part
to restrictions on foreign account operations. In a recent move that must be
interpreted in the context of the virtual immobilisation of the Lebanese bank-
ing system over the past few months, the Central Bank has authorized the com-
mercial banks to exclude their non-resident deposits in foreign currencies,
including deposits by Jordanians residing abroad, from the 12% legal reserve
requirement, and to place these funds with their correspondents abroad in-
stead of placing them with the Central Bank. This move should enable commer-
cial banks to offer more competitive interest rates and to play a more active
role on the Arab and international capital market.
2.27      The Specialized Credit Institutions.  The six specialized credit in-
stitutions, including IDB, are each incorporated under a special law and ex-
tend medium- and long-term credit for specific purposes in different sectors.
None compete with IDB. They are briefly described in Annex 6.
2.28      Other Financial Institutions.  There are some 25 insurance com-
panies and agencies or branches operating in Jordan, of which seven are
Jordanian. Premium income is small (JD 2.7 million in 1973) and is invested
in real estate, government securities and, to a small extent, in equities of
large corporations. The amounts deposited with the Post Office Savings Fund
are still quite small and this too is not a source of industrial finance.
On the other hand, a pension fund recently established by the Government has
the potential to become a source of funds for long-term investment.
2.29      Though there is no organized capital market, there are about ten
private brokers who handle transactions in shares. The volume is small
(there are no statistics available), if only because the number of companies
with public ownership is small.  Despite the narrowness of the market the
Government is actively encouraging equity participation by the private sec-
tor in several major industrial ventures (e.g. refinery, cement). The only
debt instruments available for trade are Government Bonds which are mainly
handled by the banks. The new Five-Year Plan foresees the issuance of deben-
tures by large corporations. Following a request from the Government, IFC
has been providing some technical assistance to the Government for the estab-
lishment of a securities market in Jordan. IFC advice has been particularly
sought for the drafting of a new Capital Market Bill.
2.30      Interest Rates.  As noted in paragraph 2.06, Jordan experienced a
low level of inflation up to the early 1970's. This was still reflected in
the interest rate structure as of September 1975, given in Annex 7, which
had essentially remained unchanged for many years. Whereas until the early
1970's the structure was positive in real terms, in 1975 it had become nega-
tive and had fallen out of line with trends in the international capital
market. To reverse this trend and encourage the channeling of private savings
into the banking system, the Central Bank on January 1, 1976, raised the mini-
mum interest rates payable by commercial banks on savings and time deposits.
These rates now range from 5 to 5-1/2%, as opposed to the 2-1/2 to 3-1/2%



- 9 -
minimum rates prevailing earlier. As a result of this increase in the cost
of funds to the commercial banks, the minimum lending rate charged to prime
borrowers has been increased from 6.5 to 7.5%.
2.31      The recent increase in the long-term lending rate of IDB from 8 to
9% has to be seen in the light of this general overhaul of the interest rate
structure in Jordan.  Although the increase in IDB's lending rate to 9% would
not bring it up to the inflation rates expected for the next three or four
years (see Annex 8), this increase does reflect the effort by the Government
to rationalize the interest rate structure. Since there are clear signs that
the inflation rate is slowly moving downward, the increase represents the
maximum that can be expected from the Government at this time. The Govern-
ment is indeed rightly concerned about the expectation effects of too large
an upward adjustment in interest rates which would have the tendency to signal
a continuation of high inflation rates to consumers and investors. Also the
Government intends to maintain an incentive to investors in the form of an at-
tractive long-term interest rate at a time when investment activity in Jordan
is gaining momentum.
2.32      Other recent steps taken by the Central Bank to reduce excessive
monetary and credit expansion of the commercial banking system while direct-
ing more financial resources to the industrial sector include the following:
(i)  reducing from 80% to 75% the credit-deposit ratio for the
commercial banks; the ratio is expected to be further re-
duced to 70% in July 1976;
(ii)  limiting the expansion of credit by the commercial banks
in the first six months of 1976 to not more than 10% above
the level extended in the previous six months. Credit
extended to joint-stock industrial companies is exempted
from this ceiling; and
(iii)   imposing an additional 3% reserve requirement on commercial
bank over-drafts for all purposes, except on loans to joint-
stock industrial companies. This last measure became effec-
tive on March 1, 1976.
2.33      Mobilization of Local Currency Resources.  During the Three-Year
Plan projects financed by IDB, which are a representative sample of all proj-
ects in the medium scale industrial and tourism sectors, received half of
their funding from the entrepreneurs' own resources.  IDB provided over 30%,
of which most was to finance imported capital equipment. The contribution of
the commercial banks, the only other potential source of long-term funds in
Jordan during this period, was small (14%), and then mostly on short-term.
Thus, the main source for long-term local currency funds was the promoters
themselves. While this pattern of financing may well continue in the future,
the authorities are aware of the need to better mobilize local currency re-
sources for productive investment in all sectors, not only those presently



- 10 -
served by IDB. Recent Government actions, summarized in paragraphs 2.30-2.32
above, toward a restructuring of interest rates and reserve requirements
should be seen as evidence of a serious commitment by the Government to im-
prove the mobilization of local financial resources.
III. IDB's STRUCTURE
Establishment and Legal Basis
3.01      IDB was established in 1965 in accordance with a special Law which
provides IDB with certain privileges and powers not available to companies
established under the Companies Law. The most important of these are that
preference shares issued to the private sector carry a minimum 6% tax free
dividend guaranteed by the Government, IDB is exempt from all taxes, the
nominal value of the preference shares is guaranteed by the Government in
case of liquidation and, at IDB's option, its loans can be collected by the
Government under the terms of the Law for the Collection of Government Funds.
IDB has never had to call on the Government to meet the preference share
dividend nor has it turned any loan over to the Government for collection.
3.02      The IDB Law provides that IDB has a prior charge over a borrower's
assets. This provision created some difficulty in arranging the financing
plan for one project which involved IFC (Jordan Ceramic Industries Company)
and resulted in IDB's not lending to the company but instead making a standby
equity investment commitment. IDB's management considers this an isolated
incident not warranting a change in the provision. The Law is satisfactory
and provides IDB with sufficient flexibility to carry out its objectives.
Ownership and Control
3.03      IDB's authorized share capital is JD 3 million divided into or-
dinary and preference shares with par values of JD 1. Ordinary shares can
be owned only by the Government; preference shares, only by the Jordanian
private sector or by foreign investors. With the exception of dividend and
liquidation rights and the voting procedures for the Board of Directors, the
two classes of shares are equal. Besides the minimum 6% dividend guaranteed
to preference shareholders, these shareholders have the right to receive
dividends of up to 10% before the ordinary shares attract any dividends.
3.04      Initially one million ordinary shares and two million preference
shares were authorized. In 1971, however, the Government bought 110,000
shares previously held by a private bank.  These shares were converted to or-
dinary shares and the number of authorized ordinary shares was increased to
1.11 million with a similar decline in the number of authorized preference
shares.
3.05      The Government has subscribed to and fully paid for all the author-
ized ordinary shares. Some 840 individuals and institutions, including some
non-Jordanians, have subscribed to 1.13 million of the preference shares (see



- 11 -
Annex 9). The initial payment schedule for these shares called for periodic
installments through December 1967. The 1967 war disrupted this timetable,
however, with the result that investors from the West Bank were unable to
make their final payments. These payments are being made from the dividends
declared on these shares; only some JD 1,000 remains to be paid.
3.06      The preference shares are widely held with no one investor holding
more than 5% of the total. The major shareholders are commercial banks oper-
ating in Jordan. There is, however, no dominant group of private shareholders
exercising effective control over IDB's activities. The Government, of course,
is in a position to effectively control IDB but has refrained from doing so.
In any case, the IDB Law prohibits IDB from adopting policies which conflict
with those of the Government. IDB has established an effective working rela-
tionship with the various Government departments while maintaining its auto-
nomy in decision-making.
Board and Committees
3.07      The IDB Law specifies that the Board of Directors shall have from
nine to 15 members, as well as specifying who each member is to represent.
Of the basic nine-man membership, three represent the Government and six the
private sector; this reflects the division of the authorized (though not of
the issued) capital between ordinary and preference shares. The remaining
six seats are reserved for representatives of private shareholders holding 10%
or more of the authorized capital; as there are no such shareholders, these
seats are not filled. The present Board membership is given in Annex 10.
3.08      The three Government representatives are appointed by the Minister
of Trade and Industry, the President of the National Planning Council and the
Governor of the Central bank. The Chamber of Industries appoints one director.
Two directors represent commercial banks, rotating each year. Three directors
are elected by the preference shareholders, excluding the commercial banks.
Directors serve for three years, excepting those representing the commercial
banks. The General Manager attends meetings as a non-voting participant.
3.09      By tradition the Chairman is one of the Directors representing the
preference shareholders. The IDB Law requires that the Board meet at least
once a month; in fact it meets some 14 times a year. Attendance at meetings
is excellent. Two-thirds of the members are required for a quorum and deci-
sions are taken by a simple majority of those present. The Board determines
general policy and approves all loans over JD 10,000 and all equity invest-
ments. It has delegated approval of loans up to JD 10,000 to a Loan Commit-
tee consisting of the General Manager, his Deputy, and the Division Heads.
The Board does not concern itself with internal, day-to-day matters, leaving
these to management.
Management and Staff
3.10      IDB has operated in the past with a very small staff.  From its
founding in 1965 up to 1971 the number of staff remained fairly constant at
about 18, including eight professionals. Since 1972, however, there has been



- 12 -
a drive to recruit new staff members, especially professionals, in order to
keep pace with IDB's expanding business. By the end of 1975 the total staff
had expanded to 35, including 21 professionals. Members of the professional
staff have attended a number of training courses, including those offered by
EDI, and have spent time working in other mature DFCs. As a result they, and
especially the senior staff, are quite familiar with current development bank-
ing procedures.
3.11      As can be seen from the organization chart (Annex 11), IDB is or-
ganized along traditional lines. There are separate investment, technical
and follow-up divisions as well as the usual support divisions. Very recently
created is a separate division to handle IDB's SSI&HP. During 1976 IDB in-
tends to recruit five more professionals for the existing divisions in anti-
cipation of further growth in its business. It also intends to establish
another new division during 1976, the Research and Project Identification
Division, and to recruit at least two new staff members for it. This divi-
sion will handle IDB's promotional work which is expected to be undertaken
during the Five-Year Plan period.
3.12      Mr. Ziyad Annab has been the General Manager since joining IDB in
June 1966 following a distinguished career with the Government. He is an ex-
perienced, capable and articulate individual who has provided strong and ef-
fective leadership. He is ably assisted by Mr. Rajab As-Saad, Deputy General
Manager, who joined IDB in October 1965. The four Division Heads have been
with IDB for between eight and ten years each. They are all well qualified
for their positions. Mlorale among the staff is excellent, in part because
working conditions and remuneration are well above average by Jordanian stand-
ards but mainly because of the open and participatory style of management.
Objectives and Powers
3.13      The IDB Law provides a broad mandate for IDB.  It is to finance
private industrial, tourism and mining projects registered in Jordan through
loans, equity participations, underwriting and guarantees. It is also to
assist in developing a stock market and in encouraging the private ownership
of shares and bonds, to provide technical assistance, to promote new projects
and to help small industries. It is prohibited from financing agricultural
projects, public utilities or government or municipality projects.
3.14      To date it has concentrated its efforts on making loans to indus-
trial and tourism projects, and on providing these clients with technical as-
sistance. It has taken some equity participations but the scope for this
activity in Jordan is small as most companies are organized as partnerships.
The promotion of new projects, and the investment in their share capital, was
expected to be the main activity of the Industrial Development Corporation, a
government-owned entity that was established in mid-1973. As this company
never became active and has since been dissolved, IDB is expected to become
active in this area in the future.



- 13 -
3.15      In view of the large number of relatively small loans that IDB has
made in the past, it can be inferred that IDB has provided some assistance to
small industries. However, it has not directly assisted the very small entre-
preneurs until very recently. This new activity is described in paragraphs
4.07-4.25.
Policies and Procedures
3.16      Policy Statement.  IDB's Board adopted an Investment Policy state-
ment in 1965. It appears as Annex 12, as amended to the present. This state-
ment contains most of the provisions relating to investment policy normally
found in such statements. What is not covered in the statement is covered in
the IDB Law. For example, the Law prohibits a Director from attending Board
meetings at which matters in which he has a special interest (including finan-
cial assistance to projects in which he holds more than 5% of the share cap-
ital) are to be discussed.
3.17      Following discussions with the appraisal mission, IDB's management
intends to suggest to its Board certain modifications in the statement. These
would include a change in paragraph 3 to increase the amount of IDB's paid-in
capital that could be invested in equity participations from the present 25%
to perhaps 100%, an alteration in paragraph 5 to define the base for single
exposures as paid-in capital and reserves and to increase the percentage of
this base that may be lent or otherwise invested in a project from 10% to per-
haps 20%, and a clarification in paragraph 6 to indicate that in the case of
expansion projects IDB's total exposure would not exceed 50% of the total in-
vestment in the existing as well as the expansion project.
3.18      With regard to IDB's reserve policy, the IDB Law requires that 25%
of IDB's profit be allocated each year to a statutory reserve. In addition,
IDB has followed the policy of allocating 10% of profits to the provision for
losses. It has steadily increased the tax-free dividend paid on preference
shares from the guaranteed minimum of 6% to 8% in 1975 and intends to con-
tinue increasing this dividend to 10% (after which ordinary shares would be-
gin to attract a dividend too). This policy is designed to enhance the at-
tractiveness of IDB's preference shares relative to alternative investments
(for example, Government development bonds which yield 8% tax-free) so that
IDB will be able to increase its share capital when this becomes necessary.
In the few transactions that take place IDB's preference shares now trade at
par, though they were trading at below par a few years ago.
3.19      Foreign Exchange Risk.  The foreign exchange risk on loans made by
IDB from foreign lines of credit has been borne by the Government (all of
IDB's loans are denominated in local currency). The Government has confirmed
that it will continue to bear this risk since this is seen by the Government
as a further incentive to industrial investment. At present, with foreign
exchange apparently readily available from the Central Bank for any project
that is licensed (see paragraph 2.17), an increase in IDB's lending rate for
foreign exchange loans would make such loans uncompetitive with local cur-
rency loans; under the existing regulations the proceeds of these loans can
be easily converted into foreign exchange.



- 14 -
3.20      Project Appraisal.  The Ministry of Trade and Industry and the
Ministry of Tourism and Antiquities routinely send IDB a copy of each license
when it is issued for an industrial or a tourism project. IDB in turn con-
tacts each licensee to offer him technical assistance in carrying out his
project and to indicate that it is prepared to consider providing financial
assistance. About 70% of the licensees reply. This is the main source of
IDB's present business, and allows IDB to become involved at an early stage
in the formulation of most projects it finances.
3.21      Prospective clients meet initially with the Head of the Investment
Division who determines whether the proposed project is suitable for IDB. If
so, a team consisting of either a financial analyst or an economist and an
engineer meet with the entrepreneur to discuss the project and IDB's require-
ments in detail. The team will help the client prepare his project if neces-
sary. Project preparation can often stretch over several years while the
client searches for suitable land, locates partners, obtains building permits,
etc. Once the project has been prepared and appraised, a report is prepared
covering the financial, economic and technical aspects of the project. This
report is considered by the Loan Committee and, if found satisfactory (and
the loan amount is over JD 10,000), sent to the Board for its consideration.
3.22      IDB's appraisal work and its reports have undergone considerable im-
provement and broadening in recent years. Earlier reports, for example, did
not separate fixed assets into sub-categories such as land, buildings and ma-
chinery, or forecast financial results; they now do. Recently IDB has begun
to calculate the internal financial rate of return (IFRR) for most projects
and is preparing to calculate the internal economic rate of return (IERR). On
balance, IDB's appraisal work now is quite good.  Further improvement can be
made, however. While the appraisal reports cover the factual aspects of proj-
ects quite completely, they often lack sufficient analysis of these facts.
The assumptions underlying the conclusions in the reports are often not stated.
IDB's management is aware of the deficiencies and is continually working to
improve appraisal work. It anticipates that an association with the Bank
Group will be helpful in this regard.
3.23      IDB has undertaken to calculate the IERR as well as the IFRR on all
projects it submits to the Bank for financing under the proposed line of cred-
it that are above the free limit. As there appear to be few systematic dis-
tortions or subsidies within the Jordanian economy (other than tariff protec-
tion in some cases), it seems likely that the IERR will often not be signif-
icantly lower than the IFRR. In such cases IDB will not be required to make
both calculations but instead will provide a statement explaining why the
IERR would not be lower than the IFRR.
3.24      Project Supervision.  The Follow-Up Division was established as a
separate division in 1971. It is still in the process of developing and
refining its procedures, though a fairly definite pattern has already evolved.
It is clear that IDB recognizes the importance of closely following the pro-
gress of its clients, not only to anticipate problems but also so that its



- 15 -
appraisal techniques benefit from past experience, and continued emphasis on
this aspect of its operation can be expected.
3.25      Supervision during the disbursement of IDB's loans is quite intense.
Site inspections are frequently made. When IDB's loan is about half disbursed
a progress report is prepared discussing, among other things, any delays the
project is experiencing. When disbursements are completed a completion report
is prepared which compares actual costs and timing with those forecast in the
appraisal report.
3.26      Once a project has started operations IDB requests quarterly reports
from its clients. However, IDB usually only receives annual reports, and then
only from the, larger firms. IDB faces two general difficulties in obtaining
better compliance with its reporting requirements. Its clients are often sus-
picious of IDB's motives in requesting financial and operating details. IDB is
making progress in gaining its clients' confidence in this area by demonstrat-
ing the benefits its clients can gain by a continued close association with it.
Secondly, the smaller firms usually do not have well enough developed account-
ing procedures to enable them to produce the required reports. When reports
are not received, IDB attempts to obtain the data through visits to the firms.
3.27      A report is usually prepared once a year on each firm in operation.
This report compares actual results with those forecast and focuses on prob-
lem areas. Clients that are experiencing little difficulty are visited once
a year; those with problems, more often. As the vast majority of IDB's proj-
ects are located in or near Amman, IDB is able in fact to adhere quite closely
to this visitation schedule. As a result of these fairly frequent visits and
because of IDB's widespread contacts within the relatively small industrial
community, IDB is able to follow quite closely the progress of most of its
clients.
3.28      Procurement.  Most projects are too small to justify international
competitive bidding. IDB does require that its clients provide quotes from
at least two suppliers in all cases. The reasonableness of these quotes are
reviewed by IDB. In some cases visits to the suppliers in Europe or else-
where are made. In other cases the services of consulting engineers are used.
IDB's procurement procedures are satisfactory.
3.29      Disbursements.  Disbursements for machinery and equipment are made
on the basis of invoices and, in the case of imported goods, bills of lading.
Disbursements for construction are made on the basis of documents indicating
the progress made, which are checked by site visits. Disbursements practices
and procedures are satisfactory.
3.30      Internal Reports.  IDB has instituted a comprehensive system of re-
gular internal reports. Each month reports are prepared and circulated with-
in the institution covering applications approved during the month and cur-
rently under study, disbursements made during the month and expected to be
made during the next three months, repayments due and received, arrears,



- 16 -
IDB's financial position (trial balance sheet, rebouiae statement and proj-
ected cash flow), etc.   These reports, combined with IDB's small size and
open atmosphere, allow management and senior staff to keep up to date on all
of IDB's activities.
IV. IDB's OPERATIONS
Characteristics
4.01      A summary of IDB's operations since its establishment is contained
in Annex 13. While it has approved several equity investments, most of its
activity has been confined to the granting of loans. The year to year trend
in loan approvals reflects the changing political situation in the Middle
East. After a promising first full year of operation in 1966 (approvals to-
talled JD 933,600), business dropped drastically in 1967 (approvals were only
JD 472,800) and by 1969 had only recovered to about 80% of the 1966 level.
The internal disturbances in 1970 and 1971 led to another slump in business.
Since 1972, however, loan approvals have continually reached new yearly highs,
reflecting the political stability within Jordan and the consequent improved
investment climate.
4.02      Loans.  Annex 14 classifies approved loans according to several
criteria. Of the 285 loans approved through the end of 1975, 45 were for
tourism projects (with only a few exceptions, hotels). The amount approved
for these projects represents about 15% of total approvals. The largest
single industrial category, food, beverage and tobacco, had received a total
of 23% of IDB's loan financing, with the chemical, rubber and plastic pro-
ducts category following with 19%. The remaining loan approvals are spread
over a number of other categories, indicating that IDB has not unduly concen-
trated its efforts on any one industrial branch but has tried to reach all
medium scale industrial activities being pursued in Jordan.
4.03      Over half of the number of loans approved (though accounting for
only about 10% of the amount approved) have been for amounts of less than
JD 20,000 (about $61,000 equivalent). This is a reflection of the small size
of the enterprises IDB caters to. The average size of IDB's loans, while
steadily increasing each year, is still quite small; during 1975 it was JD
59,400 (about $180,000 equivalent) while the average size of all loans ap-
proved since 1965 was JD 36,200 (about $110,000 equivalent).  This again re-
flects the size of the enterprises in the medium scale industrial sector.
Not reflected in these figures is IDB's SSI&HP.
4.04      In recent years most of IDB's loans have had a repayment period of
between five and seven years plus a grace period of about a year and a half.
Most of the projects IDB has supported have been expansion projects, though
new enterprises have been lent more money. IDB began granting loans for raw
materials (working capital loans) following the 1967 war in an effort to as-
sist firms to recover from the effects of the war; it ceased making such



- 17 -
loans in 1973. During the last three years over half of IDB's loans were
made to new clients, some 30% to repeat clients, with the remainder to enter-
prises where some of the partners were new clients and others, repeat clients.
The enterprises assisted by IDB have been heavily concentrated in the Amman-
Zerka region, reflecting the general pattern in Jordan.
4.05      Equity Investments.  Since its establishment IDB has approved
equity investments in six companies. One investment, JD 150,000 in the
Jordan Ceramics Industries Company approved in 1973, was a standby commitment
to cover cost overruns. It was not needed and was cancelled during 1975. An
additional JD 150,000 investment in this company for an expansion project was
approved late in 1975. An investment of JD 10,000 in the Jordan Paper Com-
pany was written off; subsequently the company was reorganized as the Jordan
Paper and Cardboard Factory Company and IDB has invested in its capital. Dur-
ing 1974 IDB received dividends totalling JD 16,700 from three companies, re-
presenting a return of almost 14% on its equity investment portfolio.
4.06      Managed Funds.  IDB manages on behalf of the National Planning
Council a portfolio of small loans made before IDB was established from the
proceeds of a Kuwait loan to the Government. IDB's activities are limited to
collecting amounts that are due, receiving for its efforts 1/4 of 1% of what
it collects.
The Small Scale Industry and Handicraft Program
4.07      The Three-Year Plan called for the establishment of a special fund
to assist the very small entrepreneur. This fund never materialized and in
its absence IDB established in March 1975 an experimental program to begin to
try to provide financial and other assistance to entrepreneurs in the small
scale industry and handicraft field. IDB defines these as enterprises that
employ up to five people and that use manual production methods or simple ma-
chines; small service establishments and traditional handicrafts are also in-
cluded. No studies have been made of this subsector in the past. The re-
sults of the 1975 industrial census will assist IDB and others in learning
more about these entrepreneurs (see paragraph 2.12). Until IDB's entry into
this field there was no institutional support for this subsector. Commercial
banks by and large have not lent to these entrepreneurs.
4.08      The establishment of this program was announced in local newspaper
advertisements and over the radio. Letters describing the program were sent
to all municipalities, Chambers of Commerce and Industry, trade schools and
other interested parties. Staff members from IDB visited different parts of
the country to discuss the program. As a result of this publicity 129 loan
applications were received by the end of 1975. A number of these had to be
rejected as falling outside the scope of the program. Of the remainder, 52
loans were approved totalling JD 72,200. Nine were later cancelled, leaving a
net total of 43 loans amounting to JD 57,700 or an average of JD 1,340 (about
$4,100 equivalent) per loan. IDB estimates that these 43 projects will pro-
vide 71 new job opportunities at an average cost of about $2,800 equivalent
per job.



- 18 -
4.09      All of these loans were for existing projects.  Over half are
located in the Amman-Zerka area with the remainder scattered among other
towns. Almost half have been for carpentry shops with garments being the
next largest category. Other endeavors assisted include stone cutting, tile
manufacturing, cement blocks and printing. IDB estimates that only six of
the 43 enterprises will have assets exceeding JD 5,000 after the execution of
their projects; none exceeded this level before IDB became involved (the aver-
age size was JD 1,550 or $4,700 equivalent).
4.10      IDB has established some general criteria for this program, though
at this initial stage flexibility is being stressed. The maximum size of
loans granted under this program is JD 2,000. There is no minimum size; the
smallest loan granted so far was for JD 360. The interest rate charged on
these loans is 7% p.a. The term of the loans can be up to ten years; the
average term is four to five. The proceeds of the loan can be used only to
finance machinery and tools. In general, IDB will lend up to 80% of the cost
of such machinery and tools, but no more than 75% of the total cost of the
project. However, in some cases it has financed the total cost of expansion
projects. As security IDB will take a mortgage on real estate if any is
available; otherwise it will mortgage the machinery and accept personal
guarantees.
4.11      The 7% interest rate is seen by both the Government and IDB as a
necessary encouragement for these entrepreneurs to approach IDB for funds to
improve their operations. It is not possible to assess the suitability of
this relatively low rate before more is known about the cost of operating
this program, the risks involved and the appropriate form and level of sub-
sidy. These entrepreneurs, because they generally have assets of less than
JD 5,000, do not qualify for the incentives under the Encouragement of In-
vestment Law, and IDB and the Government point out that the lower interest
rate can therefore be seen as a form of compensation for this exclusion. It
is not clear why that Law establishes a minimum asset size for qualification.
It is also unknown whether the incentives available under the Law for larger
enterprises would be of significant benefit to these entrepreneurs or whether
other incentives should be made available. Answers to these questions may
emerge as IDB gains more experience with this subsector.
4.12      IDB is experimenting with a very simplified appraisal procedure for
these loans. Basically it seeks to establish what assets the enterprise cur-
rently has and what additional machinery is needed. As few of these clients
keep records, financial statements are usually not available. IDB attempts
to make simple financial projections on the basis of discussions with the
client.
4.13      IDB is trying to determine what technical assistance these clients
need and how IDB can best provide it. IDB does help these entrepreneurs to
select appropriate machinery and to ensure that the price is competitive. It
tries to visit each of them to see if there are difficulties in obtaining
labor or raw materials. It has determined that financing raw materials is
often a problem for these clients. While suppliers' credit is sometimes



- 19 -
available, the only other sources of credit are family or friends or through
advance payments from customers. Commercial bank financing is rarely avail-
able as the clients are unknown and the amounts involved small.  IDB has so
far not provided raw material financing but has the matter under review.
4.14      IDB has established a separate division to handle this program.  At
the end of 1975 only one staff member was involved full time but IDB intends
to recruit an engineer/technician to assist him.  IDB is keeping the funding
of this program separate from its regular activities. KfW has agreed that
the interest differential fund established with its first loan will be used
to help finance the program. Similarly, the Kuwait Fund has agreed that the
interest differential fund to be established with its second loan will also
be used for this purpose. The amounts to become available from these two
sources are expected to be relatively small (about $100,000 equivalent per
year over the next few years). In addition, the Government has made one
small grant for the program and has indicated its intention to provide addi-
tional yearly grants of JD 100,000 ($303,000 equivalent). The Central Bank
recently announced its intention also to provide yearly grants of JD 100,000.
Finally, if the above funds are inadequate, TDB can borrow funds from the
Central Bank at a preferential rate of 4% against the promissory notes of its
small scale clients. These funds are currently included in IDB's own balance
sheet (grants as liabilities, offset by the small scale industry loans as as-
sets). However, they will be accounted for independently of IDB's balance
sheet as a managed fund in the future.
4.15      It is IDB's intention that the cost of operating this program
should also be covered from these same sources, as it will not be self-sup-
porting. However, it has not yet determined what this cost is and has there-
fore not separated it from its regular operating budget. It will do so as it
gains more experience with the program.
4.16      While all principal repayments and interest payments have so far
been made on time, it should be recognized that the risk of unrecoverable
loans is probably higher under this program than with IDB's normal lending as
appraisals cannot be done with the same thoroughness and supervision of indi-
vidual loans cannot be as intensive as for larger loans. Because the funding
for this program is presently on a grant basis, though, each loan is effec-
tively fully reserved against and any bad debts will not affect IDB's credit-
worthiness. This is an appropriate approach until more experience has been
gained with the debt service performance of these small scale entrepreneurs
and, on this basis, adequate levels for bad debt provisions can be estimated. 1/
4.17      IDB has not yet decided on the best way to institutionalize this
effort. It may prove to be more appropriate to establish this progran as an
affiliate or a subsidiary of IDB instead of as an internal division. Pos-
sibly a separate institution altogether may be preferable. TDB has still to
determine what role, if any, cooperative societies have to play in this ef-
fort, or whether special industrial estates would be useful.
1/ Grant funds are also needed to cover the operating costs not covered
by interest incone.



- 20 -
4.18      IDB anticipates that it will need at least a year and a half to
two years of experience with this program before the needs, prospects and
constraints are clear. By the end of 1976 it expects to have made some 200
loans and to be in a better position to see how best to proceed. In the
meantime there is ample support for this pioneering effort within Government
and elsewhere as it is recognized that it is needed to raise the skills, pro-
ductivity and income levels of this group of entrepreneurs.
4.19      The Bank Group can become associated with IDB's initiative by  pro-
viding some of the resources to be lent to small scale entrepreneurs; this
would ensure that the Bank Group becomes intimately involved with the program
and gains, with IDB, the maximum possible knowledge of this subsector. This
should provide a basis for future Bank Group assistance to this subsector,
both in Jordan and elsewhere.
4.20      It is proposed that $300,000 of the proposed credit be earmarked
for this program, to be committed over the two-year period July 1976 to June
1978. This amount represents one-half of the amount to be made available by
the Government during this period and should be sufficient to provide the
Bank Group with an opportunity to influence the direction of the program. It
represents, however, only about 20% of the total amount to be made available
to the program from all sources. These funds would be made available by the
Government to the program as a grant in recognition of the higher cost and
risk associated with these loans than with IDB's normal lending activity (see
paragraph 4.16). Once experience has been gained with the debt service per-
formance of these clients, consideration can be given to different methods of
funding the program.
4.21      In view of the large number of small loans that will be made from
this portion of the proposed credit, prior approval of each loan would be im-
practical.  Instead the program as a whole will be closely monitored.  Dis-
bursements will be made periodically on a reimbursement basis and will cover
20% of IDB's total disbursements, in line with the proportion of funds being
provided by IDA. The IDA funds will be available only to cover part of the
cost of machinery and tools, not to cover part of the administrative cost of
the program which can be covered by the other available funds. Disbursements
will be made against a certificate of expenditure provided by IDB. Support-
ing documentation such as purchase invoices will not be submitted for review
by the Association, but will be retained by IDB and be available for inspec-
tion by the Association during the course of supervision missions.
4.22      So far most of the machinery and tools for this program have been
imported by local agents specifically for the projects involved against im-
port licences obtained by the entrepreneurs. As the program expands, however,
these agents are likely to begin to stock the more standard items in anticipa-
tion of demand. The foreign exchange component will, in any event, remain
high, certainly well above the 20% to be financed from the proposed credit.
4.23      To place the Bank Group in a position to study the program and at
the same time to help and advise IDB as appropriate, Bank Group supervision
of this program will be especially intensive. This will take the form of



- 21 -
more extensive reporting than normal as well as frequent visits to Jordan.
A sample of appraisal reports (every tenth one) will be translated and for-
warded to Washington. Quarterly summary reports covering such areas as ap-
plications received, approved and rejected, amounts disbursed, repayment ex-
perience, problems detected, technical assistance provided, operating costs,
etc. will be prepared and sent to Washington.
4.24      The Government, IDB and the Chambers of Commerce have expressed an
interest in having an interdisciplinary study of these entrepreneurs carried
out to cover such topics as their existing markets and how market outlets
might be improved, their impact on urban development, their need for services
such as water and power, and appropriate tax and other incentives. Such a
study would provide direction as to how IDB's program should evolve over the
years to best meet the needs of this subsector.
4.25      IDB and the Faculty of Economics and Commerce at the University of
Jordan have prepared a proposal for this study. It will be based on a struc-
tured questionnaire and interviews with a random sample drawn from the almost
7,000 small scale enterprises. Students at the Faculty will carry out the
field investigation under the supervision of faculty members and IDB. The
sample will be selected with the assistance of the Government's Department of
Statistics which carried cut the 1975 industrial census. The approach being
taken is pragmatic and the results will be operationally oriented. As this
study will also be of benefit to the Bank Group by increasing the available
knowledge of this subsector, it is proposed that up to $25,000 of the pro-
posed credit be earmarked to cover the cost of this study, both the local cur-
rency and foreign exchange component. IDB's and the University's preliminary
estimate is that this study should cost about $20,000.
Economic Impact
4.26      The Government estimates that some JD 45 million was invested in
the manufacturing and mining sectors during the Three-Year Plan period, sub-
stantially exceeding the JD 26 million called for in the Plan. Part of this
excess, of course, reflects the sharp increase in the price of imported cap-
ital goods. More striking was the investment by the private sector in medium
and small industrial enterprises, estimated at about JD 31 million or two-
thirds of the total. This was well above the Plan target of JD 14 million.
4.27      IDB's role in achieving this higher than expected industrial invest-
ment was large. It is estimated that during the three years of the Plan IDB
assisted projects accounting for some 75% of private investment in medium
scale industry. Though its tourism activities are quite small compared to
its industrial investment, IDB still plays an important role in this sector.
It is estimated that IDB was associated with perhaps 90% of the investment in
hotels and related tourism oriented enterprises during the Plan period. As
discussed in paragraph 2.33 IDB provided on average about 30% of the funds
required by the projects it assisted in the industrial and tourism sectors.



- 22 -
4.28      About a third of the industrial enterprises IDB assisted during
the Plan period intend to export at least a part of their production. As al-
ready noted, medium scale industry in Jordan is able to compete in neighbor-
ing countries to a surprising degree. While IDB has not yet begun to calcu-
late the IERR of its projects, it has calculated the IFRR on some. These
rates of return have in general been more than satisfactory (see paragraph
2.11). As noted in paragraph 3.23, these calculations can be considered a
reasonable approximation for the IERR. On this basis IDB's projects generally
appear well justified.
4.29      Employment created by projects assisted by IDB was fairly substan-
tial in relation to the size of employment in the industrial sector (see
Annex 3). As an example, in 1974 the 28 industrial projects IDB assisted ac-
counted for the creation of 691 new jobs and the nine tourism projects for
the creation of 194. The average cost per job created was JD 8,800 ($26,700
equivalent) for new projects and JD 7,300 ($22,100 equivalent) for expansion
projects, which is not excessive given the relative sophistication of the
Jordanian industrial sector.
4.30      The economic impact of IDB's SSI&HP is difficult to measure at this
early stage. One can anticipate, however, that it will be of significance in
reducing the level of underemployment in urban and other areas and in raising
the productivity and hence the earning oportunities of this group of entrepre-
neurs. This experimental program, designed specifically to reach the long
neglected informal sector and to reduce economic dualism, is also expected to
generate intangible benefits in that experience gained from it can be drawn
upon for a possible expansion of the program in Jordan as well as for similar
efforts in other countries.
V. IDB's FINANCIAL SITUATION
Resource Position
5.01      Until 1974 IDB's resources were dominated by equity.  It had re-
ceived a small loan in 1970 from the Government and had borrowed small amounts
from the Central Bank. It had also begun to draw down its first foreign line
of credit, granted by the KfW in 1972. Nevertheless, its debt represented
less than half of its equity at the end of 1973. During 1974, it began to
draw more heavily from the Central Bank and, during 1975, also began to draw
down two additional foreign lines of credit, a second KfW loan (granted in
1974) and a first loan from the Kuwait Fund (1974). As a result, its debt
exceeded its equity during 1975, the ratio at the end of 1975 being 1.3.
5.02      IDB's present resource position is described in Annex 15.  Though
the amount currently available for commitment appears quite small, IDB has
recently obtained a second loan from the Kuwait Fund amounting to JD 2.75
million equivalent and expects to negotiate a third loan from the KfW in the
near future. It also is able to borrow from the Central Bank.



- 23 -
5.03      It is the Government's and IDB's stated policy that IDB should use
its local currency resources only to finance local purchases and to draw on
foreign lines of credit to finance foreign purchases. This is in order to
preserve foreign exchange available to the country for expenditures not
covered by specific foreign resources. Such expenditures on projects in-
cluded in the Five-Year Plan are likely to absorb all the foreign exchange
that becomes available for investment in the economy through unrequited trans-
fers, workers' remittances, etc. IDB has not been able to adhere completely
to this policy in the past as available foreign lines of credit were insuffi-
cient to meet its clients' demand for foreign exchange. Instead it has had
to use some of its local currency resources to cover foreign purchases. IDB
intends to follow this policy as closely as possible in the future, however.
5.04      IDB has not attracted funds directly from the Jordanian public (ex-
cept its preference share capital), though it is empowered by its Law to ac-
cept deposits and to issue bonds. It has not accepted deposits as it has
not wished to compete with the commercial banks, many of whom are important
shareholders. It has not issued bonds as the cost would be higher than that
of borrowing from the Central Bank.
Quality of Portfolio
5.05      Details of IDB's loan portfolio are given in Annex 16.  Over 40% of
the principal outstanding is for loans which are still in their grace period.
This reflects the upsurge in IDB's business in the past three years. Almost
40% of the amount outstanding is being repaid according to the originally
agreed schedules and 6% according to revised schedules.
5.06      Some 9% of the outstanding portfolio represents loans made to proj-
ects on the West Bank before the 1967 war that have since been frozen. In-
terest receivable on these loans has been fully reserved against. None of
the principal has been written off. Almost half of this amount was transfer-
red to IDB as part of the Government's equity contribution when IDB was estab-
lished; these were loans made by the old Industrial Development Fund. IDB is
considering asking Government to reassume responsibility for these loans. Of
the West Bank loans that IDB itself made, most are for hotels in Jerusalem.
IDB considers these loans sound and collectable once a political settlement
is reached.
5.07      Seven borrowers on the East Bank account for all of the arrears
over three months. Two companies are in arrears for less than six months and
are experiencing only temporary problems; the arrears are expected to be paid
off shortly. The remaining five companies with loans representing 3.7% of
the portfolio have been in arrears for over two years and are experiencing
serious trouble. Two received small loans from IDB's predecessor; one of
these will be written off while the other is being repaid slowly. A third
company is suffering from over-indebtedness due to a period of poor manage-
ment. IDB is applying pressure to this borrower and expects its loan to be
fully repaid. A fourth company with two loans totalling JD 20,000 outstand-
ing is experiencing severe managerial and marketing problems. It is likely
that the company will be wholly or partly liquidated so that its creditors
can be paid off; IDB anticipates no loss.



- 24 -
5.08      The fifth company, Aqaba Hotels Company, is IDB's main worry.  It
has received three loans, all of which are still outstanding, totalling JD
170,000 or 3.1% of the portfolio. The project is a tourist hotel at the port
city of Aqaba. The 1967 war seriously delayed the completion of construction,
and the 1970 disturbances as well as the general situation in the Middle East
have had, until recently, an adverse affect on tourism. In addition, the
hotel has suffered from such problems as a sporadic water supply, frequent
loss of electric power and difficulties in retaining a good labor force. With
the revival in tourism the hotel's occupany rate is improving and now averages
50-60%. However, a backlog of maintenance work still absorbs much of the com-
pany's cash flow and it has been unable to make more than token payments to
IDB. IDB has been in touch with the Government, which owns 49% of the paid-in
share capital, to try to arrive at a solution. It is optimistic that one can
be found. As IDB has a first mortgage on the company's water front property,
the value of which greatly exceeds IDB's loans, no loss is anticipated.
5.09      On balance, IDB's East Bank portfolio can be considered sound and
well secured. The soundness of the West Bank portfolio is more problematical,
though it is steadily becoming less significant as IDB's East Bank lending
grows. IDB's provision for losses totals JD 169,000 or 3% of its East and
West Bank loan portfolio. If reserves are included, the percentage increases
to 8%. This is a satisfactory position.
Financial Performance and Position
5.10      IDB's financial statements for 1971-75 and relevant ratios are pre-
sented in Annex 17. Net profit represented a return of only 5.3% on average
shareholders' equity during 1975, an improvement over prior years but still
low. This rather poor picture is the result of IDB's low leverage and the
fact that IDB realizes no income from its West Bank portfolio. Were this in-
come to have been available, net profit would have been 8.3% of average share-
holders' equity.
5.11      Financial expenses are increasing as IDB is beginning to use loan
resources more extensively. The total, though, at 2.5% of average total. as-
sets, is still modest. Administrative expenses are also increasing, both ab-
solutely and as a percentage of average total assets (1.7%). This reflects
the increase in IDB's staff. The level of these expenses, however, is not
out of line with other comparable DFCs. In spite of its low level of profit-
ability IDB has still been able to pay a satisfactory dividend to its prefer-
ence shareholders.
5.12      IDB's balance sheet indicates a healthy position.  With a debt-
equity ratio of only 1.3 IDB has the capacity to carry substantially larger
amounts of debt. Its current ratio has been maintained at around 3:1. The
overall picture reflects the rather conservative approach taken during IDB's
formative years when a solid basis was being established for IDB's future
growth. In view of its sound financial position, as well as its strong man-
agement and staff and its good operating procedures, IDB is creditworthy for
the proposed lending operation.



- 25 -
Audit
5.13      IDB's accounts are audited by Saba & Company, a Jordanian account-
ing firm associated with Arthur Anderson. This firm also audits the accounts
of the Central Bank and a number of commercial banks, including the Arab Bank.
Its opinion in IDB's published accounts has noted since the 1967 war that it
has been unable to obtain confirmation from West Bank borrowers of the amounts
that they owe IDB but that it has satisfied itself through other procedures
that these amounts are fairly stated; otherwise its opinion has been unquali-
fied.
5.14      The accounting standards followed in Jordan do not require the ex-
tent of disclosure required in other countries. IDB's published accounts re-
flect this; for example there are no explanatory notes to the financial state-
ments. Saba & Company have indicated that it would prefer more disclosure in
published accounts and is working to upgrade this and other accounting stand-
ards in Jordan. IDB has also indicated that it would have no objection to
more disclosure in its published accounts, provided that this does not con-
flict with the secrecy stricture in its Law and that the West Bank situation
is dealt with with sensitivity.
5.15      Saba & Company is familiar with the Bank Group's long form audit
requirements for DFCs and has indicated that it could comply with these re-
quirements with little additional work. IDB has undertaken to have a long
form audit prepared in the future.
VI. PROSPECTS
The Environment
6.01      The prospects for continued economic development in Jordan are
reasonably bright. The Government's "Five Year Plan for Economic and Social
Development, 1976-1980" was published in December 1975. This Plan places
high priority on the productive sectors of the economy and on such social
changes as a more equitable distribution of income. It calls for increasing
GDP by 12% annually, and commodity exports by 24% annually. Total investment
envisaged by the Plan is JD 765 million (over $2.3 billion equivalent) over
the five year period. This level of investment would represent 36.4% of ex-
pected GDP, versus the 32% level attained during the Three-Year Plan. Al-
though an investment program of this size may somewhat exceed the available
physical, human, administrative and financial resources of Jordan, the rela-
tive sectoral emphasis of the investment program seems well placed and the
bulk of projects appears to be of high priority.
6.02      The Industrial Sector.  The Plan calls for the industrial (includ-
ing mining) sector's contribution to GDP to grow from the 1975 level of 15.6%
to 28.3% in 1980. Income from this sector is expected to grow 26.2% annually.



- 26 -
Though the demands on this sector are large, the dynamism it displayed during
the Three-Year Plan suggest that it may well meet these targets. However the
evolution of the price for rock phosphate, which decreased recently from its
1975 peak, will play a crucial role in the final outcome.
6.03      Investment in this sector is expected to total JD 229 million (al-
most $700 million equivalent) during the Plan period or 30% of total invest-
ment (22% for manufacturing industries and 8% for mining). The bulk of this
investment is expected to be in a relatively few, large scale projects which
have strong Government support. These include a phosphate fertilizer project
(JD 61 million) 1/, expansion of the oil refinery (JD 39 million), additional
phosphate production (JD 32 million) 1/, potash extraction (JD 25 million) 1/,
and a new cement plant (JD 21 million).  Implementation of several of these
projects has already begun. IDB will have only a very limited role to play in
financing these investments.
6.04      The private sector is expected to invest some JD 35 million in
medium and small scale industries. Based on the performance during the Three-
Year Plan and on existing license applications, this target appears realistic,
if not conservative. It is in this area that IDB will play a very large role.
The Plan anticipates that of this total JD 14 million will be invested to ex-
pand existing medium scale industries, JD 12 million to establish new medium
scale industries and JD 9 million to establish new and to expand existing
small scale industries.
6.05      As noted earlier, the industrial sector is operating at close to
capacity. New investment to expand capacity will be needed to meet the grow-
ing demands for construction materials and consumer goods in neighboring Arab
countries, as well as in the smaller domestic market. The Jordanian indus-
trialist has demonstrated his ability to identify export opportunities and to
exploit them.  The smaller enterprises have been especially successful in
this regard as they have the flexibility to give personal attention to cus-
tomers' orders and to provide quick delivery. With the strengthening of
Jordan's links with its partners in the Arab Common Market, and with other
Arab countries through bilateral trade agreements, export opportunities will
grow. The Five-Year Plan envisages a target of JD 71 million in 1980 for
manufacturing exports, including JD 40 million from fertilizer and JD 31 mil-
lion from other manufactured goods. Compared to the 1975 figures of JD 16
million and given Jordan's expanding share in the Arab Common Market, this
target for other manufactured exports could well be exceeded.
6.06      One of the specifically identified projects in the Plan is the es-
tablishment of several industrial estates. While much of the cost would be
met by the Government, IDB is expected to develop and manage these estates.
Their creation is seen as one way to encourage the geographical dispersion of
1/ These projects are being reviewed for possible Bank Group assistance.



- 27 -
industrial development away from the Amman-Zerka area. Plans for an estate
south of Amman are well advanced and the Plan mentions Zerka, Irbed, Salt and
Aqaba as other potential sites. IDB intents to embark on this activity cau-
tiously, beginning with the estate south of Amman (see paragraph 7.01).
6.07      The Plan also envisages simplifying the industrial licensing proce-
dure to make it easier to establish a new business and improving the Encour-
agement of Investment Law to provide more incentives to industrialists, espe-
cially exporters (though still not to the smallest entrepreneurs). A new
draft of the Custom Tariffs Law, presently under discussion between various
government agencies, would fully exempt from import duty all machinery and
raw materials. This would enable Jordan's manufactured products to compete
under fairer conditions with Arab countries' goods made from tax exempted raw
materials and then imported duty-free to Jordan under either bilateral agree-
ments or the provisions of the Arab Common Market. Improvements in these
areas can only add to the already positive business climate in Jordan.
6.08      The Tourism Sector.  Given its growing importance to the economy,
tourism has been given high priority in the Five-Year Plan. Investments in
the sector are high, projected at roughly JD 18 million for the Plan period.
Of this about one-third is to be invested in a number of specific projects
supported by the Government with the private sector being expected to invest
the remaining two-thirds in unspecified projects. With the recent resurgance
in tourism, coupled with the planned development of the two historic sites at
Petra and Jerash, to the financing of which a proposed IDA credit of $6 mil-
lion would contribute, and the further development of Aqaba as a tourist re-
sort, these targets appear feasible. IDB can be expected to be associated
with a good part of the expected private sector investment, though its finan-
cial involvement in tourism projects will probably remain a small fraction of
its total business.
Operations
6.09      Annex 18 presents IDB's operational and financial projections for
the five-year period 1976-80, as well as the major assumptions underlying the
projections. The forecast of loan approvals for 1976 is based on IDB's pipe-
line of projects and on IDB's capacity to process projects (basically a man-
power constraint). Loan approvals forecast for future years assume an aver-
age growth in current prices of about 19% p.a., less than the growth exper-
ienced in recent years but reasonable in light of the Five-Year Plan and
IDB's future staffing forecast. The forecast assumes that 80% of loan ap-
provals will be for foreign purchases, thus requiring foreign exchange re-
sources; this is based on past experience. As in the past, loans are ex-
pected to have terms ranging between five and ten years, with an average life
of about seven.
6.10      The forecast of equity investments is at a notional level of JD
100,000 a year. This might be substantially higher if IDB gets heavily in-
volved in promoting new projects. The projected operations in Annex 18 do
not include small scale industry and handicraft loans as these will be fi-
nanced from separate resources.



- 28 -
6.11      IDB has not attempted to separate its forecast operations into in-
dustrial and tourism projects. It anticipates that, as in the recent past,
some 10% of its financing will be directed to the tourism sector. Total dis-
bursements during the five years are forecast at JD 17.1 million. This re-
presents about one-third of the investment expected in the Plan to be made by
the private sector and is similar to IDB's experience during the Three-Year
Plan.
Resource Requirements
6.12      IDB expects to be able to continue to rely on borrowing all of its
local currency requirements from the Central Bank. As noted in paragraph
5.03, it is the Government's and IDB's policy to have IDB cover foreign pur-
chases with foreign lines of credit. IDB's present foreign lines of credit
will be fully committed by mid-1976. It has recently received a second loan
from the Kuwait Fund amounting to about $8.3 million equivalent. With this
new loan its foreign exchange requirements through June 1976 are covered.
6.13      During the two-year period July 1976 to June 1978 IDB forecasts
that its commitments for foreign currency loans will total about $14.4 mil-
lion equivalent. For the purpose of these projections it has been assumed
that IDB will receive a third loan from the KfW toward the end of 1976 equi-
valent to about $4 million (twice the amount of the second loan). With most
of the second Kuwait Fund loan still available for commitment, the gap in for-
eign exchange resources for this two-year period is about $3.7 million, the
size of this component of the proposed IDA credit. This would represent about
25% of IDB's foreign exchange commitments during this period.
Financial Prospects
6.14      Projected financial statements for the five years 1976-80 are given
in Annex 18. Interest income is expected to grow rapidly, reflecting the
growth in the outstanding loan portfolio. It is also expected to grow as a
percentage of the portfolio as IDB's lending rate has recently been increased
to 9% p.a. from the earlier 8% p.a. Interest expense will also grow rapidly
as IDB relies more and more on borrowed funds. As the average cost of these
borrowed funds is assumed to be only 6.5% p.a., reflecting a mix between rela-
tively expensive money such as the proposed Bank Group loan and more conces-
sionary funds such as the KfW and Kuwait Fund loans, the return on equity is
forecast to improve.
6.15      IDB intends to continue increasing the dividend paid on preference
shares until it reaches 10% (in 1977). The payout ratio, however, will drop
steadily and the build up in reserves is forecast to be at a satisfactory
rate. No dividend is forecast to be paid on ordinary shares, which is accept-
able to the Government.
6.16      The debt/equity ratio is forecast to grow steadily, but not to ex-
ceed 4 to 1 during the five years. No share capital increase is assumed in
the projections. Interest coverage is expected to average about to 1.5 times



- 29 -
during the period. Total debt service coverage during the five-year period
is forecast to be satisfactory with loan collections exceeding by a substan-
tial margin repayments on borrowings.
VII. THE CREDIT - ITS OBJECTIVES, JUSTIFICATION AND FEATURES
7.01      IDB has prepared a strategy statement outlining the objectives it
hopes to achieve during the Five-Year Plan period; it is attached as Annex 19.
These objectives are in line with the overall objectives of the Five-Year
Plan. There are six main ones:
(a)  To continue to meet the growing demands for finance from its
traditional customers. In doing so, IDB will try to encourage
more coordination and linkage between industries within the
sector and between the industrial sector and other sectors in
the economy.
(b)  To put more stress on export oriented industries.
(c)  To attempt to bring about a better geographical distribution
of industry. Specifically, IDB will, in cooperation with the
Government, establish an industrial estate 25 km south of Amman
(outside of the heavily industrialized Amman-Zerka area). From
the experience gained with this project IDB will consider estab-
lishing additional industrial estates in other parts of Jordan.
(d)  To expand the SSI&HP, including the provision of technical
assistance.
(e)  To become active in identifying and promoting projects, leading
to an expansion of its equity participation activities.
(f)  To establish a management training center to improve the
managerial capabilities of Jordanian entrepreneurs.
7.02      These are important objectives and worthy of Bank Group support.
With regard to the first two, IDB has proven itself an effective institu-
tional source of financial and technical assistance for medium scale industry
in Jordan. This subsector has demonstrated its export earning and import
substitution ability and potential. Similarly, the tourism sector is begin-
ning again to become an important foreign exchange earner. Both have pro-
vided the people involved with opportunities to upgrade their entrepreneural
skills and incomes, thereby reducing the incentive to emigrate.
7.03      The objectives of establishing an industrial estate, promoting new
projects and establishing a management training center represent new activi-
ties for IDB. By becoming associated with IDB at this time through a lending



- 30 -
operation the Bank Group will have an opportunity to assist IDB in these en-
deavors. Both IDB and the Government have expressed a desire for this assist-
ance.
7.04      The most challenging objective may well be the expansion of the
SSI&HP, still very much in the experimental stage. While IDB has learned a
good deal already, much more experience is needed to understand how best to
assist these entrepreneurs, both financially and, more importantly, tech-
nically.
7.05      The support that the Bank Group can provide IDB in meeting these
several objectives is, on the one hand, by helping to meet IDB's foreign ex-
change resource needs and, on the other, by providing technical assistance to
IDB. During the two-year period July 1976 to June 1978 IDB will have a for-
eign exchange resource gap relating to its medium scale industrial lending of
about $3.7 million equivalent which the proposed credit will fill. On the
technical assistance side IDB is aware that its appraisal work, while on the
whole quite good, can still be improved, and that its supervision work needs
strengthening. It looks to the Bank Group for help in achieving these im-
provements. Equally important, IDB wants to be able to draw on the Bank
Group's experience as it embarks on the new activities of promoting projects
and establishing an industrial estate and a management training center.
7.06      The SSI&HP presents a different opportunity to the Bank Group.
Here the objective is not so much to provide financial assistance (the needs
are still small) or technical assistance. Rather, as the Bank Group itself
is only beginning to gain exposure to and experience with this type of entre-
preneur and project, an association with IDB's program should provide the
Bank Group with excellent first hand knowledge of what the needs of these
entrepreneurs are, and how best to meet them. The proposed study of this
subsector should provide a wider and fuller context in which to view and
understand the results of IDB's program. This experience, in turn, will
provide insights which could be helpful for future Bank Group assistance to
this subsector, both in Jordan and elsewhere.
7.07      The proceeds of that part of the proposed credit earmarked for
IDB's normal medium scale industrial and tourism lending ($3,675,000) will
be lent to IDB by the Government on normal Bank terms and will be utilized by
IDB to meet the foreign exchange cost of directly imported goods and services.
IDB will relend these proceeds at an interest rate of at least 9% p.a. and
for a period of no longer than fifteen years. The amount relent to an indi-
vidual project will be limited to a maximum of $500,000. The free limit will
be $150,000 and the aggregate free limit, S1.8 million; this should result in
between ten and twelve projects being submitted to the Bank Group for review
and approval, an appropriate number. As the foreign exchange risk will be
borne by ,he Government and as IDB's management has indicated its ability to
handle funds well, this part of the credit will be repaid to the Government
in accordance with a f-xed amortization schedule.



- 31 -
7.08      The proceeds of that part of the proposed credit earmarked for
IDB's SSI&HP ($300,000) will be made available to IDB by the Government as a
grant and will be utilized by IDB to cover 20% of the loans it makes to these
clients. It will not be utilized to cover any part of the operating cost of
this program. IDB will relend these proceeds on its usual terms for loans of
this type; no prior approval by the Bank Group will be needed for their com-
mitment.
7.09      The proc,eds of that part of the proposed credit earmarked for the
study of the small scale industry subsector (up to $25,000) will be used by
the Government to cover the cost, both local and foreign, of the study.
7.10      The estimated disbursement schedule for each of the three compo-
nents of the credit is shown in Annex 20. Amounts earmarked for one compo-
nent will be reallocatable to another component if, after consultation with
IDB and the Government, this should prove desirable. Given IDB's strong
financial position and debt carrying capacity, IDB's debt-equity ratio limit
will be set at 4 to 1. The usual definitions of debt and equity will apply.
Other terms of the credit will be those normally applied to DFC borrowers.
VIII. RECOMMENDATION
8.01      The project is suitable for an IDA credit of $4.0 million on the
usual terms, to be utilized as outlined in paragraphs 7.07-7.10.






BASIC DATA
ON
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK of JORDAN
Year of Establishment: 1965
Ownership (as of December 31, 1975)                       JDs         Percent
Jordanian Government                             1,110,000         49.5
Jordanian commercial banks                         209,000          9.3
Other Jordanian shareholders                       454,217         20.3
Total Jordanian                              1,773,217         79.1
Foreign shareholders                               468,500         20.9
Total                                        2,241,717        100.0
Resource Position (as of December 31, 1975)            (in JD 000's)
Equity                                             2,496.3
Government loan                                      112.5
Central Bank loan                                  1,992.9
Foreign loans                                      2,096.1
Total Resources                                6,697.8
Outstanding loans                                  5,232.8
Outstanding investments                               295.2
Total Portfolio                                5,528.0
Resources Available for Disbursement               1,169.8
Commitments of Loans and Investments                  1973         1974       1975
(in JD 000's)
Loans for domestic purchases                     121.5        303.5       413.0
Loans for foreign purchases                    1,344.8      1,533.7    1,688.6
Equity investments                               237.5         -           58.8
Totals                                    1,703.8      1,837.2    2,160.4
Loans and Investments Disbursed                        849.7     1,324.9    2,230.7



-2 
Earnings Record (percentages)                           1973         1974        1975
Profit before tax and provisions
to average total assets                          5.6          5.2         4.3
Profit before tax and provisions
to average equity                                7.2          8.1         8.9
Net profit to year-end share capital               4.6           5.2        5.9
Dividends paid to preference shares                 7.0          7.5        8.0
Dividends paid to ordinary shares                     0            0          0
Financial Position (as of December 31, 1975)
Total debt/equity ratio                                          1.4:1
Long-term debt/equity ratio                                     1.3:1
Reserves and provisions to loan
and investment portfolio                                      7.5%
Interest Rates and Charges (as of December 31, 1975)
Interest rate on loans                                          8.0%  1/
Commitment charge                                            0.5 - 1.0%
Interest rate on small scale industry
and handicraft loans                                          7.0%
1/ Since raised to 9.0%,



ANNEX1
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK of JORDAN
Industrial Production Index
(East Bank Only)
Year                    Index
1966 Base                 100
1967                       91.1
1968                       92.7
1969                      110.8
1970                       95.9
1971                      113.7
1972                      139.1
1973                      152.9
1974                      162.3
1975                       173.9
Source: Department of Statistics, GOJ
April 1976



ANNEX 2
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK of JORDAN
Distribution of Establishments in the Industrial Sector
By Principal Cities
Mining                       Manufacturing
Cities                No.  Est.    No. Emp.              No. Est.       No. Emp.
Amman                   72           2341                    450           9534
Zarqa                   11             90                     26           1110
Irbid                   24            196                     12             98
Salt                     3             22                      3            179
Karak                    4             51                      1             17
Ma'an                    0              0                      0              0
Aqaba                    0              0                      0              0
Total               114           2700                   492          10938
Source: Department of Statistics, "Employment Survey for Establishments
engaging five persons or more," April 1974.
December 1975



ANNEX 3
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK of JORDAN
Distribution of Establishments in the Industrial Sector
By Size of Employment
Mining                     Manufacturing
Size of            No.            No.             No.            No.
Employment          Estab.        Employ.         Estab.         Employ.
5-9                65            388            231           1,243
10-24               47            519            185           2,379
25-49                0               0            42           1,392
50-99                1              86            17           1,065
100-199               0               0            10           1,359
200 or more             1           1,707              7          3,500
TOTAL                 114           2,700            492         10,938
Source: Department of Statistics, "Employment Survey for Establishments
Engaging Five Persons or More," April 1974.
December 1975



ANNEX 4
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK of JORDAN
Domestic Exports
(in JD 000's)
10 months
1970     1971       1972      1973        1974      1975
Phosphate        2,237    2,238      3,497      4,020     19,531      15,048
Cement              320      471     1,922      1,296      4,078       1,650
Cigarettes          519      368        398       546         711        555
Wet Batteries       304      335        433       409         495          87
Textiles            128      319        143       429         990       n.a.
Leather
& Products        169       238       383        260         272       n.a.
Paper-board         241      227        227       327         436       n.a.
Medical and
Pharmaeutical
Products           -         -        255        549         901       n.a.
Sub-total     3,918    4,196      7,258      7,836     27,414        n.a.
Agricultural
Exports         2,939    2,173      2,218      2,727       6,080       n.a.
Other Exports    2,463    2,448      3,130      3,447       5,943       n.a.
Total         9,320    8,817    12,606    14,010       39,437    32,198
Source: Department of Statistics, GOJ
April 1976



ANNEX 5
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK of JORDAN
Visitors Arrivals by Region 1966-1975
(thousands)
Arab       Other M.E./Asian       European  American    Other    TOTAL
Year   Visitors      (Non-Arab) Visitors  Visitors  Visitors  Visitors  Visitors
1966      366.6             75.2            100.9       63.7       10.4      616.8
1967      262.9             79.1              53.5      24.0        6.1      425.6
1968      279.4             75.6              15.0        3.6       1.8      375.4
1969      271.5             44.4              15.9       5.8        2.2      339.8
1970      223.4             77.0              14.5       4.6        2.2      321.7
1971      223.1             14.6              12.2       4.7        2.1      256.8
1972      244.0             17.4              19.4       8.4        3.0      292.0
1973      258.6             17.0              19.1       9.8        3.3      307.8
1974      350.0            149.1              29.5      21.0        5.3      554.9
1975       427.0                             3740.0                          767.0
.1/ Estimates for the full vear based on arrivals for the first ten months.
Sourcet fepartaent of Statistics, GOJ
ADril 1976



ANNEX 6
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK of JORDAN
Specialized Credit Institutions
1. Municipal and Village Loans Fund
Established in 1966. It extends loans at 4-5.5 percent
to road, electricity and water projects financed by
municipal councils. It is totally owned by the
government.
2. The Industrial Development Bank
Established in 1965. It extends medium and long-term
loans to private sector industrial enterprises at 8 percent
interest. Owned by the government and the private sector.
3. Housing Agency
Established in 1965. It builds housing units for sale to
individuals who receive long-term credits from the Agency
at 5% interest rate. Owned by the government.
4. Agricultural Credit Corporation
Established in 1960. It extends medium and long-term credits
for agricultural development projects including agricultural
industries at 8% interest for short-term loans and at 6%
interest for long-term loans (5-10 years). It has received
two IDA credits in 1963 and 1967 totalling $6 million. It
is totally owned by the government.
5. Jordan Co-operative Organization
Established in 1968. There are about 750 co-operative
societies in Jordan, each of which is a member of the Jordan
Co-operative Organization. About a third of the co-operative
societies are agricultural and the rest are in marketing and
housing. It lends money to co-operatives at 6% interest, which
in turn extend short-term credit to individual members at
8%.
6. Housing Bank
Established in 1973. It extends credit to individuals, housing
corporations, co-operative housing societies and construction
companies for 1-15 years at 7-1/2-8-1/2 percent interest. Shares
are held by the government and the private sector.
EMENA/IC&DFC
December 1975



AINNX 7
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF JORDAN
Interest Rates
As of               As of
September 30, 1975   January 1, 1976
Central Bank:                 Rediscount Rate                                  5.0%                  n.c. 1/
Three Month Time Deposits                        4.0%                  n.c.
Deposits Subject to Notice                       3.0%                  n.c.
Commercial Banks:             Overdrafts                                   7.0% - 9.0% 2/      7.5% - 9.0% 2/
Bills Discounted                             6.5% - 9.0% 2/      7.5% - 9.0% 2/
Sight Deposits                               4.0% - 6.0%         5.0% - 6.5%
Savings & Time Deposits                      4.0% - 6.0%         5.25% - 7.0%
Post Office Savings Fund                                                        5.0% 3/               n.c.
Industrial Development        Medium scale Enterprises                         8.0% 4/               n.c.
Bank:                       Small scale Enterprises                          7.0%                  n.c.
Agricultural Credit           Short Term                                        8.0% 4/               n.c.
Corporation:                Medium & Long Term                               6.0%                  n.c.
Jordan Cooperative            To Cooperatives                                   6.0%                  n.c.
Organization:               To Individuals                                   8.0%                   n.c.
Municipal & Village           To Municipals for 10 years                        5.5%                  n.c.
Loan Fund:                  To Villages for 15 years                         4.0%                   4.5%
Jordan Housing                                                                  5.0%                  n.c.
Corporation
Housing Bank                                                                7.5% - 9.0%               n.c.
Government Instruments :      Treasury Bills (3 months)                        4.9T 3/                n.c.
4 year Construction Bonds due 1975               7.0% 3/               n.c.
(issued 1971)
5 & 6 year Construction Bonds due                6.07 3/               n.c.
1977 & 1978 (issued 1972)
6 & 7 year Development Bonds due                 7.5% 3/ 5/            n.c.
1979, 1980 & 1982 (issued 1973-1975)
8 year Development Bonds due 1983
(issued 1975):
for subscription by individuals                8.0% 3/               n.c.
for subscription by commercial banks           6.25% 3/              n.c.
1/ n.c.= no change by January 1, 1976
2/ The addition of service and other charges often results
in an effective rate above 9.0% p.a.
3/ Tax exempt.
4/ Includes 1% service charge; since raised to 9% p.a.
5/ Plus a lottery every 6 months with cash prizes which adds about 0.5%
p.a. to cost. Available for subscription by individuals only.
Source: IDB
April 1976



ANNEX 8
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK of JORDAN
Expected Real Financial Charges on Subloans
To determ!ine the likely real cost of loans to IDB's medium scale
borrowers, real financial charges were calculated under three different
projections of inflation rates in Jordan. Loan terms were taken as 9.0%
p.a. interest and thirteen equal semi-annual payments of principal and
interest beginning at the end of the second year. Interest is paid during
the grace period. Disbursements are assumed to be 75% at the beginning of
1976 and 25% at the beginning of 1977. The assumptions on inflation and
the consequent real cost of loans to the borrowers are as follows:
Assumed Inflation
Low                Middle             High
( % change per year)
1976                                   9                    12                15
1977                                   9                    12                15
1978                                   8                    11                14
1979                                   7                    10                13
1980                                   6                     9                12
1981                                   5                     8                11
1982                                   4                     7                10
1983                                   4                     7                10
Real Cost (% p.a.)                    1.2                  -2.0              -5.1
Loans made in 1977 and later years would carry a larger real cost as the
rate of inflation is expected to decrease.
EMENA/IC & DFC
April 1976



ANNEX 9
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK of JORDAN
List of Shareholders
(as of December 31, 1975)
No. of Shares   Percent of
Ordinary Shares                                    Subscribed 1/       Total
Jordan Government                                1,110,000          49.52
Preference Shares
Arab Bank                                          109,000           4.86
*  Arab African Bank                                  100,000           4.46
*  British Bank of the Middle East                    100,000           4.46
*  Grindlays Bank                                     100,000           4.46
Abdul Majid Shouman 2/                              90,200           4.02
*  Arab Land Bank                                      50,000           2.23
Bank of Jordan                                      50,000           2.23
*  Government of Qatar                                 50,000           2.23
Jordan National Bank                                50,000           2.23
Jordan Petroleum Company                            50,000           2.23
*  Al-Shark Insurance Agency                           25,500           1.14
*  Irving International Finance Corp.                  25,000           1.11
Jordan Cement Factories Co.
Employee Provident Fund                          25,000           1.11
Jordan Petroleum Co.
Employee Provident Fund                          20,000           0.89
Jerusalem Electric Co.                              15,000           0.67
Arab Hotels Co.                                     10,000           0.45
Jordan Insurance Co.                                10,000           0.45
Jordan Press & Covering Co.                         10,000           0.45
Jordan Worsted Mills Co.                            10,000           0.45
Shihadeh Twall                                      10,000           0.45
*  Syrian Insurance Co.                                10,000           0.45
Industrial Development Bank
Employees Provident Fund                          8,501           0.38
*  Arabian Insurance Co.                                8,000           0.36
Taher Shihabi                                        6,340           0.28
18 Shareholders each holding between
1,001 and 5,000 shares                           46,268           2.06
47 Shareholders each holding between
501 and 1,000 shares                             42,499           1.89
96 Shareholders each holding between
251 and 500 shares                               40,091           1.79
137 Shareholders each holding between
101 and 250 shares                               26,023           1.16
518 Shareholders each holding between
1 and 100 shares                                 34,295           1.53
Total Preference shares                  1,131,717           50.48
Total Shares Subscribed                             2,241,717         100.00
1/ Each Share has a par value of JD 1
2/ Chairman of Arab Bank
* Non-Jordanian shareholders
Source: IDB
February 1976.



ANNEX 10
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK of JORDAN
Board of Directors
(as of December .31, 1975)
Represents
Mr. Rouhi El-Khatib           Chairman         Preference Shareholders
(Chairman, Arab Hotels Co. and
ex-Mayor of Jerusalem)
Mr. Hussein El-Kasem          Vice-Chairman   Central Bank of Jordan
(Deputy Governor)
Mr. Walid Asfour                               Chamber of Industry, Amman
(President)
Mr. Mohammed Bani Hani                         National Planning Council
(Head, Financing Department)
Mr. Mohammad Abdullat                          Ministry of Trade & Industry
(Head, Insurance Division)
Mr. Sa'ad Tell                                 Preference Shareholders
(General Manager, Jordan
Petroleum Co.)
Mr. Yousef Sindaha                             British Bank of the Middle East
(Manager)
Mr. Mahmoud Ala-Eddin                          Arab Land Bank
(Manager)
(vacant)  1/                                   Preference Shareholders
1/ Temporarily, due to death of previous incumbent.   A new member will be elected
at the Annual Meeting which will probably be held in May 1976.
Source: IDB
February 1976.



INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF JORDAN
ORGANIZATION CHART
(December 31, 1975)
SHAREHOLDERS
Staff:
Professional                                                 BOARD OF
Management          =   2                                 DIRECTORS
Division Heads      =  4
Professionals (P)   =  15                                                          AUDITORS
Total:              = 21                                                           S
Others (0)                                                   MANAGER
Secretary/Typists   =  4                                  Ziyad Annab
Accountants         =   2
Administration      =   3
General Services    =   5
DEiPJTY
Total:              =  14                                  GENERAL
MANAGER
Rajab As-Saad
LEGAL ADVISOR                                     REAL ESTATE
(part time)                                     ASSESSORS
^    (part tzme)  l                |    {~~~~~~~~part time) l
ADMINISTRATIVE            ACCOUNTING               INVESTMENT               TECHNICAL               FOLLOW UP               SMALL SCALE
DIVISION                DIVISION                DIVISION                 DIVISION                DIVISION                INDUSTRY &
Rajab As-Saad          Farid Theodossy          Ahmad El-Eid            Tayseer Wahbeh           S.K. Suleiman            HANDICRAFT
P=O        0=12         P=2         0=2          P=5        0=0           P=3        0=0           P=4      0-0             P-1       0-0
World Bank-1 5459






ANNEX 12
Page 1
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK of JORDAN
Investment Policy
(Approved by the Board of Directors on October 11, 1965
as amended through August 10, 1974)
1.   The amount of any loan granted to any industrial or tourist project
shall not be less than JD l000.*
2.   The Bank. shall not have a controlling interest in any project it finances
or assume the responsibility of its management except when such control
would secure IDB's investment in the project.
3.   The Bank may not invest more than 25% of its paid in capital in equity
participations.
4.   The Bank may not extend loans to a project in which its equity subs-
cription is equal to 50% of the total cost of the project.
5.   The amount of loans, guarantees orequity participation in any project
shall not exceed 10% of the paid in capital of the Bank plus its
reserves and loans it obtained.
6.   The amount of loans, guarantees or equity participation in any new
project shall not exceed 50% of its total cost. In cases of expansion of
existing projects each case would be considered on its own merits.
7.   Loan applications to finance working capital will not be considered
except in special cases.
8.   Loans may not be sanctioned to any project unless it provides IDB
with a detailed economical, financial and technical feasibility acceptable
to the Bank.
9.   Loans to any project may not be sanctioned except after investigating
their books, accounts and records by a chartered accountant or by the
Bank's accountants.
10. Loans to any project may not be sanctioned unless their capital
structure is sound.
Loans are granted against one or more of the following securities:
a.      An acceptable local or foreign bank guarantee covering the
amount of loan and its interest valid until the date of final
repayment of the loan & its interest.
b.      First mortgage on land or buildings provided that 75% of its
estimated market value is accepted as security for the loan. In
exceptional cases a second mortgage is acceptable.



ANNEX 12
Page 2
c.      First charge on shares of local or foreign public share
holding companies acceptable to the Bank. 70% of its nominal
or market value which ever is lower is taken as security for the
loan.
d.      First charge on governmental bonds issued by the government
of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan on condition that its
maturity date is not more than the maturity date of the loan.
70% of its nominal or market value which ever is lower is taken
as security for the loan.
e.      Life insurance policies issued in Jordan or outside from insurance
companies acceptable to the Bank on condition that their maturity
date is not more than the maturity date of the loan. 70% of
its paid premiums is taken as security for the loan.
f.      Promissory notes guaranteed by two persons acceptable to the
Bank and according to the limits set up by the Board of Directors
from time to time.
* On January 30, 1975 a decision was taken by the Board of Directors
to grant loans of less than JD 1000 and up to JD 2000 to small and
handicraft industries.
Source: IDB
December 1975



ANN    13
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK of JORDAN
Summary of Operations: 1965 - 75
(JD 000's)
1965-                                                                     1965-
1970         1971       1972        1973         1974         1975        1975
Approvals
Loans: For domestic purchases         n.a. 1/       46.0      360.5        121.5        307.6        461.0       n.a.
For foreign purchases          n.a.         234.5      580.0     1 345.8      1,627.4      1,975.6       n.a.
Total loans              3,269.7        280.5     940.5      1,467,3      1.935.0      2,436.6    10,329.6
Equity investments                       47.5        -          2.6        237.5          -          208.8        496.4
Total approvals           3,317.2       280.5     943.1      1,704.8      1,935.0      _64A    !=Q826.
Cancellations 2/
Loans: For domestic purchases         n.a.            1.0      33.0         -             4.1         48.0       n.a.
For foreign purchases          n.a.          13.6       53.0          1.0         93.7       287.0       n.a.
Total loans                626.2         14.6      86.0           1.0        97.8        335.0      1,160.6
Equity investments                                    - -                                  -         150.0 3/    150.0
Total cancellations        6 6=.=4=6               86.0           1.0        97.8 8                _13=,0*
Commitments
Loans: For domestic purchases         n.a.          45.0      327.5        121.5        303.5        413.0       n.a.
For foreign purchases          n.a.         220.9      527.0     1,344.8      1,533.7       1,688.6      n.a.
Total loans               2,643.5       265.9     854.5      1,466.3      1,837.2      2,101.6      9,169.0
Equity investments                       47.5         -         2.6        237.5         -            58.8        346.4
Total commitments        2,691.0        265.9     857.1      1,703.8      1,837.2      2,160.4      9,515.4
Disbursements
Loans: For domestic purchases         n.a.           75.0     175.0        257.3        259.4        303.8       n.a.
For foreign purchases          n.a.         359.5      331.7        512.4     1,063.6       1,753.7       n.a.
Total loans               2,396.2-      434.5     506.7        769.7      1,323.0      2,057.5      7,487.6
Equity investments                      45.0          2.5       2.6         80.0          1.9        173.2         305.2 k/
Total disbursements      2,441.2       437.0      509.3        849.7      1,324.9     2L230.7        7,792.8
=====     =s=e    ====           ====         =======      ====        =   ==
1/ The distinction between loans for domestic purchases and for foreign purchases
was not made in IDB's earlier years.
2! Shown in the year cancelled, which is not necessarily the year approved.
3/ A standby commitment in the Jordan Ceramics Industries Company, approved in 1973.
4/ One investment, totalling JD 10,000, has been written off.
Source: IDB
February 1976.



ANNEX lh
INDUSTRIAL DEVELIPMENT BANK of JORDAN
Classification of Approved Loans: 1965-75
(amounts in J0 000's)
1965 - 1971              1972                1973                 1974             1975               1965 - 1975
No.      Amount       No.      Amount      No.      Amount      No.      Amount      No.     Amount       No.     Amount
Industrial Category -
Food, beverage & tobacco                     23         977.0        6       255.0       8        314.0       1         60.0       7        723.0      45     2.329.0
Textiles & leather                           20         388.0        2         11.5      4        193.0       8        364.5       4         87.6      38     1,044.6
Wood & vood products                          7          37.0        -           -        -           -       -           -        2         15.5       9         52.5
paper & paper products, including            4         222.5         2        30.0       1         75.0       2        280.0       1        150.0      10        757.5
printing
Chemical, rubber and plastic products    18            402.0         5         60.0     10        539.0       2         10.0      15        906.5      50     1,917.5
Non-matalli.  ineral products                 7         143.5        3         21.5      4        183.8       2        100.0       3        194.0      19       642.8
Basic metal industries                        2         300.0        -           -        -           -       2        470.0      -           -         4        770.0
Metal products, machinery & equipment    34             494.3        3         57.5       8       114.5       8        200.0       4        136.0      57     1,002.3
Tourism                                      24         567.4        6       505.0       4         48.0       9        380.0       2         68.0      45     1,568.4
Others                                        2          18.5       _            -        -           -       3         70-5       3        156.0       8       245.0
Total                                   141        _L5502       27        940.5      39      10467.3      37      1,935.0      41     2,436.6    285    10,329.6
Size
Belo  JD 1,000                                             _         _           _                                       -
3D 1,000 - 2,999                             10          20.1        2          3.0      8         15.3       4          8.0       4          8.1      28         54,5
JO 3,000 - 4,999                             20          67.6        1          3.0       1         4.0       3         11.0       4         13.0      29         98.6
JO 5,000 -9,999                              24         151.0        3         19.5      5         30.0       8         51.0       3         24.5      43        276.0
ID10,000 - 19,999                            32        379.5         7        80.0       7         88.0       3         30.0       4         61.0      53        638.5
JD20,000 -49,999                             32        895.0        8        215.0       7        220.0       7        235.0       9        250.G      63     1,815.0
JD50,000 -99,999                             12         777.0       4        210.0       6        365.0       6        370.0       7        420.0      35     2,142.0
30100,000- 199,999                           10      1,060.0         1       160.0       5        745.0       3        430.0       7        930.0      26     3,325.0
J3200,000 and over                            1        200.0         1       250.0       _           -        3        800.0       3        730.0       8     1,980.0
Total                                   141       3,550.2       27        940.5      39      1,467.3      37      1_935.0      41     2,436.6    285    10,329.6
Duration   1/
Up to 1 year                                               -
From   -3years                                1           1.0         -          -       -           -        -           -        -           -        1          1.0
From 3 - 5 years                            42         840.5         10      173.5       12         95.3      5          12.0       6         15.1    75       1,136,4
From 5 - 7 years                            32         289.7        10       247.0       20        852.0    29        1,393.0      27      1,231.5   118       4,013.2
From 7 -10 years                            20         431.5          2       50.0         6       370.0      3         530.0       8      1,190.0    39        2,571.;
Fro' 10-12 y,ars                            .6       1,500 0          5      470.0         -           -      -                     _           _ -     1       ',970.?
Pr., 12-i5 years                              6        283.i          -          -         i  h, .   5
15 yeass and over                            4         ?04.0         -         _          _           _         _        _          _                  4
Total                                  141       3 50;2         27      __           =2      L44L2       37      1             41 =62l=   36     285      1O322=
Natureof groject
Nev Enterprises                            20         667.4          6     325.0        18      1,053.8    20        1,268.0      20      1,570.0    84       4,884.2
Expansions                                 81       1,968.0         12     443.5        13        326.5    17          667.0      21        866.6   144       4,271.6
Raw Materials                              40         914.8          9     172.0         8         87.0    -              -        -                  57       1,173.8
Total                                  143       3,550.2        27      940=        =3=9,=    1   ,1   3=         1=.3,Q      AL.    2h4h,6   285         1=22,9,
Geographical Distribution
Amman                                     102       1,810.5         21     814.0         29       899.3    28          818.5      26        951.6   206        5,293.9
Zerka & Ruseifeh                            16        911.0          3      31.5         8        486.0      4         800.0      10     1,055.0    41        3,283.5
Aqaba                                        3         170.0         -         -          -           -      1          25.0       -           -       4         195,0
Al-Salt                                      4        267.0          -         -          1        80.0      1           1.5       2        240.0      8         588.5
Irbed                                                     -                              1          2.0      -            -        2        170.0      3         172.0
Suweileh                                                  _          1      20.0          -           -      1         200.0       1         20.0      3         240.0
Al-Mafrak                                                 -          1      60.0          -           -      -            -        -           -       1          60.0
Madaba                                                   -          -          -          -                  1          40.0       -                   1          40.0
Beit Jala                                    1           5.0         -         -          _- _                                                 -       2 1         5.0
Dead Sea                                     -            -          1      15.0          _           _      1          50.0       -           -       2          65.0
West Bank  2/                               15         386.7         _                                                                         -      15         386.7
Total                                  141      3==,510,        27      940=5        39      1,467.3    37        1,935.0      41     2,436.6   285       10,329.6
1l  Excludes grace period which averages about 1.5 years.
V1 All of these were made prior to 1967; 10 in 3erusalem, 2 in Bethlehem  and 1 each in Nablus,
'ebron and Ramallah.
Source: IDB
Februarv,, lQ7



ANNEX 15
Page 1
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK of JORDAN
A. Resources and Resource Position
(as of December 31, 1975)
Contracted amounts
net of repayments
(in JD 000's)
Equity:                   Share capital                            2,240.8
Reserves                                  255.5
Long-term Loans:          National Planning Council                  112.5
Kuwait Fund (KD 1.0 million)            1,085.7
KfW I (DM 3.0 million)                     370.9
KfW II (DM 5.0 million)                    639.5
Central Bank                            1,992.9
Total Resources                       6,697.8
Outstanding loans (net of provisions) 1/         5,232.8
Outstanding investments                            295.2           5,528.0
Available for disbursement            1,169.8
Outstanding commitments:
Loans                 1,681.4
Investments              41.2           1,722.6
Available for commitment               (552.8)
1/ Excludes small scale industry and handicraft loans
Source: IDB
Februarv 1976



ANNEX 15
Page 2
B. Notes on Resources
1.        Equity.  IDB's authorised share capital totals JD 3 million divided
into ordinary shares (JD 1,110,000) which can only be held by the Government
and preference shares (JD 1,890,000) which can only be held by the private
sector. All of the ordinary shares have been subscribed for and paid. JD
1,131,717 of the preference shares have been subscribed for with JD 940
remaining to be paid. The amount in arrears is due from shareholders on the
West Bank who since the 1967 war have been unable to make remittances to the
East Bank. It is being paid off from the dividends declared on the shares.
2.        National Planning Council Loan. This loan, originally totalling JD
150,000, was made to IDB in 1970 by the Jordan Development Board, since
renamed the National Planning Council. Repayment began in 1973 and will
continue through 1984. The interest rate is 5% p.a.
3.        Kuwait Fund Loan. This line of credit was made available in July 1974.
It is to be repaid in 24 equal semi-annual installments beginning in 1980.
IDB receives a spread of 2.5% p.a. while the Kuwait Fund receives 4.0% p.a.
The difference (2.5% p.a. at an IDB lending rate of 9.0% p.a.) is retained by
IDB in a special account to be used for purposes to be agreed upon by IDB and
the Kuwait Fund. The line of credit is available to cover the cost of imports
from any country and the foreign exchange component of local purchases under a
formula to be established (this provision has never been used). There is no
free limit. The line is fully committed.
4.        KfW Loan I. This line of credit was made available in June 1972.
It is to be repaid in 40 equal semi-annual installments beginning in 1982. The
interest rate is 4.5% p.a.; 2% p.a. is paid to KfW with the remaining 2.5% p.a.
retained in a special account maintained by IDB. It has been agreed with KfW
that funds in this special account are to be used to support IDB's small scale
industry and handicraft program. The line of credit was available to cover
the cost of capital goods imported from any country; a commitment fee of
0.25% p.a. was payable on undisbursed amounts. The line was fully committed
within one year and is fully disbursed.
5.        KfW Loan II.  This line of credit was made available in November 1974.
It is to be repaid in 40 equal semi-annual installments beginning in 1985.
The interest rate is 4.5% p.a.; 2% p.a. is paid to KfW with the remaining
2.5% p.a. retained in a special account maintained by IDB. The purposes for
which this special account is to be used are to be agreed upon by IDB and KfW.
The line of credit is available to cover the cost of capital goods imported from
any country; a commitment fee of 0.25% p.a. is payable on undisbursed amounts.
KfW has the right to refuse to make disbursements after June 30, 1977. A free
limit of JD 25,000 has been established. For projects below this limit IDB
will be reimbursed for disbursements made before submitting the project to KfW,
whose approval is automatic. However, KfW requires a translation of the full
appraisal report for projects below as well as above the free limit. Commit-
ments total DM 4.5 million.



ANNEX 15
Page 3
6.          Central Bank Loan. The Central Bank of Jordan is prepared to
advance IDB 80% of the value of its clients' promissory notes for up to
five years. The interest rate is 5% p.a. Notes with a longer maturity
than five years can be resubmitted after five years. Notes representing
funds drawn from foreign lines of credit can be submitted. A ceiling on the
outstanding amount during 1976 of JD 2.5 million was established on
December 12, 1975; the amount shown in Part A is the amount actually drawn.
Source: IDB
February 1976



ANNEX 136
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK of JORDAN
Loan Portfolio 1/
(amounts in JD 000's)
A. Status as of December 31. 1975
Status                                                No. of       No. of       Lean Amount    Principal   Outstanding
Loans      Companies    Committed         Amount           %
In grace period                                         44           42            3,116         2,320          42.9
Repaying regularly                                      89           71            2,892         2,024           37.5
In default (East Bank)                                  14           10              290           265           4.9
Rescheduled (East Bank)                                 12            8              444            312           5.8
Frozen (West Bank) 2/                                   56           52              590            481           8.9
No dishursements   -                                     9            9               775           -              -
Totals                                           J24           122 -1                                     _l
B. Loans in Default as of  December 31. 1975
Amount in Arrears
No. of     No. of    Loan Amount  Principal          Principal       Interest              Total
Period in Default  Loans       Companies   Committed   Outstanding    Amount   %          Amount    %         Amount      %
0 - 3 months           3            3          5.0            2.6          0.6    0.5       4/       4/         0.6     0.4
3 - 6 months          3            2          69.0          61.5           5.3    4.5      2.8      4.9         8.1     4.6
6 - 12 months         -            -            -              -            -      -        -        -           -       -
12- 24 months         -            -            -             -             -      -        -        -           -       -
Over 24  months       8            5         215.5         200.5        111.5   95.0    54.9    95.1         166.4    95.0
Totals          14           10         289.5         264.6        117.4  100.0    57.7   100.0         175.1   100.0
C. Frozen Loans as of December 31, 1975
No. of     No. of    Loan Amount  Principal                      Amount in Arrears
Loans     Companies  Committed    Outstanding    Principal           Interest               Total
56           52        590          481             398               441                   839
1/ Excludes small scale industry and handicraft loans.
2/ Of which 46 loans, amounting to JD 225,000 of the principal outstanding, were
made by IDB's predecessor, the Industrial Development Fund.
3/ Of the 140 companies on the East Bank, fifteen have loans in two categories.
4/ Negligible
Source: IDB
Februarv 197h



ANNEX 17
Page 1
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK of JORDAN
A. Income Statements: 1971-75
(JD 000's)
Year ended 1ecerber 31
1971        1972         1973       1974             1975
_____________________(A,,Aited) ---------------------
Income
Interest and charges on loans:
East Bank                                            160.7        173.5        182.0       228.1        335.5
West Bank 1/                                          52.6         57.8         59.2        68.0         74.0
Subtotal                                          213.3       231.3        241.2        296.1        409.5
Dividend income                                            -           0.7          4.8         16.7        12.2
Interest on securities                                    7.3          7.6          7.9          8.1         9.8
Other income                                              0.1          6.1 2/       1.2          0.3         5.8
Gross income                                      220.7        245.7       255.1        321.2        437.3
Expenses
Financial Expenses:
Interest paid                                         12.6         17.5        28.4         50.6        120.1
Interest retained                                       -            -           1.8         6.4          8.2
Subtotal                                           12.6         17.5        30.2         57.0        128.3
Administrative expenses:
Salaries and bonuses                                  21.6         26.6         35.1        47.0         63.3
Depreciation                                           1.8          1.7          1.9         2.5          2.7
Other expenses                                        12.6         13.7         14.9        17.6         22.5
Subtotal                                           36.0         42.0        51.9         67.1         88.5
Total expenses                                     48.6         59.5        82.1        124.1        216.8
Profit before provisions                                   172.1        186.2        173.0        197.1        220.5
Provision for West Bank interest income 1/               52.6         57.8         59.2         68.0        74.0
Provision for losses                                     11.9         16.0         11.4         12.9        14.6
Provision for taxes V                                                1 2                      - -3.
Net profit                                                 107.6        112.4        102.4        116.2        131.9
Dividend                                                 77.7         78.3         7R.9         84.8        90.5
Profit carried to reserves                                  29.9         34.1         23.5         31.4         A1.1!
of which: Statutory reserve                              29.9         32.1         2R.4         32.2        36.6
Voluntary reserve                                -           2.0        (4.9)        (0.8)         4.8
- - - - -as percent of average total assets - - - - -
East Bank interest income                              6.0          6.1          5.8          6.0         6.5
West Bank interest income                              1.9          2.0          1.9          1.8          1.4
Other income                                           0.3          0.5          0.5          0.7         0.6
Gross income                                           8.2          8.6          8.2          8.5         8.5
Financial expenses                                     0.5          0.6          1.0          1.5         2.5
Gross spread                                           7.7          8.0          7.2          7.0         *.0
Administrative expenses                                1.3          1.5          1.6          1.8         1.7
Profit before provisions                               6.4          6.5          5.6          5.2         4.3
Provision for West Bank interest income                1.9          2.0          1.9          1.8          1.4
Provision for losses                                   0.5          0.5          0.4          0.3         0.3
Net profit                                             4.0          4.0          3.3          3.1          2.6
1/ Not shown separately in audited accounts.
2/ Includes reversal of dividend declared on certain preference shares in
1970 that were taken over by Government and converted to ordinary shares.
3/ IDB is exempt from taxes.
February 1976.



ANNEX 17
Page 2
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK of JORDAN
B. Balance Sheets: 1971-75
(JD 000's)
December 31
1971         1972         1973         1974             1975
- - - - - - - - - - - - -(Audited)- - - - - - - - - - - - -
Assets
Cash                                               28.0         23.7         13.5         37.2             43.6
Securities                                        167.8        139.6        124.7        114.9            150.7
Accrued income 1/                                 122.0        161.0        100.0        125.0             66.7
Other current assets                               24.3         26.5         34.8         57.4             66.1
Total current assets                          342.1         350.8        273.0        334.5            327.1
Loans:
East Bank                                   1,945.1      2,126.8      2,441.6       3,352.9          4,921.0
West Bank                                     493.0         493.0        493.0        493.0            480.8
Small scale industry & handicraft                 -            -            -            -              47.8
Equity investments                                 45.5         48.1        120.1        122.0            295.2
Subtotal                                    2,483.6      2,667.9      3,054.7       3,967.9          5,744.8
Less: Provision for losses                        130.9        145.9        141.5        154.3            169.0
Total portfolio (net)                       2,352.7      2,522.0      2,913.2      3,813.6           5,575.8
Employee housing loans                               -            -          49.2         61.0             62.7
Fixed assets (net)                                 61.6         60.4         61.4         62.3             61.9
Total assets                                2^7,654      L222-32       329  81.                      6,027.5
Liabilities and Equity
Dividends payable                                  77.7         78.3         78.9         84.8             90.5
Other current liabilities                          22.4         16.6         24.2         28.7             44.3
Total current liabilities                      100.1         94.9        103.1        113.5             134.8
Long-term debt:
National Planning Council                     150.0         150.0        137.5        125.0            112.5
Kuwait Fund                                       -            -            -            -             803.2
KfW I                                             -            -         138.4        300.5            370.9
KfW II                                            -            -            -            -              84.0
Central Bank                                  165.6         309.2        493.2     1,269.5           1,392.9
Total long-term debt                            315.6        459.2        769.1      1,695.0          3,363.5
Special accounts 2/                                  -            -           1.8          8.2             16.4
Government grant 3/                                  -            -            -            -               16.5
Shareholders' equity:
Ordinary shares                              1,099.0      1,099.0       1,110.0      1,110.0          1,110.0
Preference shares                            1,116.8      1,121.0       1,130.2      1,130.6          1,130.8
Statutory reserve                              102.9        135.1         163.5        195.8            232.4
Voluntary reserve                                22.0         24.0         19.1         18.3             23.1
Total shareholders' equity                   2,340.7      2,379.1       2,422.8      2,454.7          2,S96.3
Total liabilities and equity                 2,756.4       2,933.2      3,296.8      4,271.4          6,027.5
Contra Accounts
National Planning Council loans                   185.1        190.3        195.6        192.5            201.4
Employees' provident fund                          10.2         14.0         20.4         31.0              45.0
Memo: Reserve against interest receivable
on West Bank loans                          181.8        239.6         298.8        366.8            440.8
1/ Accrued plus past due interest income on East Bank loans only;
accrued plus past due interest income on West Bank loans is fully reserved against.
2/ Interest on foreign loans retained by IDB for agreed upon purposes.
3/ To support the small scale industry and handicraft program.
February 1976



ANNEX 17
Page 3
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK of JORDAN
C. Indicators: 1972-75
1972          1973           1974             1975
Profitability Indicators
Net profit as % of average shareholders' equity 1/          4.8            4.3            4.8              5.3
Dividends as % of net profit                               69.7           77.1           73.0             68.6
Dividends as % of par value share 2/                        7.0            7.0            7.5              8.0
Book value share as % of par value share 3/               114.2          116.2          118.9            122.6
Book value share as % of par value share 4/               107.2          108.2          110.0            111.4
Year of operation                                           7th.           8th.           9th.            10th.
Operational Indicators
Gross income as Z of average total assets 5/                6.6            6.3            6.7              7.1
Administrative expenses as % of average total assets        1.5            1.6            1.8              1.7
Financial expenses as % of average total assets 6/          1.2            1.3            1.8              2.8
Administrative expenses/number of professional staff
(in US $000's)                                           14.5          11.5           10.4             13.1
Dividends and realized capital gains as % of average
equity portfolio                                          1.5            5.7           13.8              5.8
Income from loans as % of average total loan portfolio 5/6.9               6.6            6.7              7.3
Income from loans as % of average East Bank loan
portfolio 5/                                              8.5            8.0            7.9              8.1
Volume of approvals/number of professional staff
(in US $000's)                                          326.8         379.8          301.7            392.9
Cost of debt as % of average debt                           4.5            4.9            4.6              5.1
Number of professional staff (year-end)                        9           14             20               21
Financial Structure Indicators
Total debt/year-end shareholders' equity                    0.2            0.4            0.7              1.4
Long-term debt/year-end shareholders' equity                0.2            0.3            0.7              1.3
Debt/equity (proposed for IDA agreement)                    0.2            0.3            0.7              1.3
Provision for possible losses as % of loans,
equity and guarantee portfolio                            5.5            4.6            3.9              2.9
Interest coverage ratio                                     7.5            4.5            3.1              2.0
Year-end total assets excluding contingent
liabilities (in US $ million)                             9.1           10.2           13.3             18.8
Year-end total assets including contingent
liabilities (in US $ million)                             9.8           10.9           16.7             19.6
Year-end share capital and reserves (in US $ million)    7.4               7.5            7.6              7.8
1/ IDB is exempt from taxes
2/ Excluding ordinary shares on which no dividend is paid.
3/ Excluding ordinary shares which are held by Government.
4/ Including ordinary shares.
5/ Excludes interest receivable on West Bank loans.
6/ Provision for losses included with financial expenses.
Source: IDB
Februarv 1976



ANNEX 18
Page 1
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK of JORDAN
Projections: 1976-80
A. Major Assumptions Underlying the Projections
(all amounts are in current prices)
I. Projected Operations
Approvals: Approvals for 1976 are based on IDB's present pipeline
of projects and processing capability. Approvals for later years are
projected to grow at between 18 and 19% p.a. The forecast is in line with
the Five Year Plan targets. Loan approvals are assumed to be 80% for
foreign purchases; this is based on past experience.
Cancellations: Cancellations during 1976 are forecast to amount
to 8% of approvals, dropping steadily to 6% in 1980. This is based on
past experience and reflects the assumption that the imposition of an
appraisal fee on applicants who later withdraw their project will reduce
non-serious applications.
Commitments: These equal approvals less cancellations.
Disbursements: Loans are expected to be 40% disbursed in the year
committed and 60% in the next year. Equity investments are expected to be
disbursed the year committed. This is based on past experience.
Small scale industry and handicraft loans: Loans made under this
program are not included in the Projected Operations forecast as they are
funded from separate resources. They are reflected in the Projected Balance
Sheets.
II. Projected Income Statements
Interest income: Loans made through June 1976 are assumed to carry
the present interest rate of 8% p.a.; loans made from July 1976 forward are
assumed to carry a 9% p.a. rate. All interest income due on West Bank loans
is fully reserved against.
Interest expense: New borrowings are forecast to cost an average of
about 6.5% p.a.
Salaries and bonuses: This item is forecast to increase 25% p.a.,
reflecting new staff additions and normal increments.
Provision for losses: Ten percent of profits after reserving against
West Bank interest income is allocated to this provision.
Provision for taxes: IDB is exempt from taxes.



ANNEX 18
Page 2
Statutory reserve: Twenty-five percent of profits after reserving
against West Bank interest income is allocated to this reserve in accordance
with the IDB Law.
III. Projected Cash Flow Statements
Increase in share capital: This item represents the payment of
amounts owing on shares subscribed to by West Bank investors before the 1967
war. Payments will be made from dividends declared on these shares.
Kuwait Fund II loan: This loan is assumed to be available early
in 1976 and to be drawn down over three years.
KfW III loan: This loan is assumed to be available at the beginning of
1977 and to be drawn down over three years.
IDA I credit: This proposed credit is assumed to be available in
mid-1976 and to be drawn down over three years.
IV. Projected Balance Sheets
Special accounts: These represent the interest differential funds
connected with the KfW and Kuwait Fund loans. They, together with the
Government gnd Central Bank grants (of JD 100,000 per year from each source) and
IDA funds (US$300,000), are assumed to be devoted entirely to the small scale
industry and handicraft loan program.



INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK of JORDAN
Projections: 1976-80
B. Projected Operations
(JD 000's)
Year ending  December 31,          1975              1976         1977         1978         1979          1980
Actual          - - - - - - - - - - - -  Projected - - - - - - - - - - -
Approvals
Loans: For domestic purchases               461.0               540.0        640.0        760.0        900.0       1,080.0
For foreign purchases             1,975.6             2,160.0      2,560.0      3,040.0      3,600.0       4,320.0
Total loans                   2,436.6            2,700.0      3,200.0       3,800.0     4,500.0        5,400.0
Equity investments                          208.8              100.0         100.0        100.0        100.0         100.0
Total approvals               22645             2=800.0        3.300.0      3.900.0      4260O0 5.50000
Cancellations
Loans: For domestic purchases                 48.U                43.0         51.0         53.0         63.0          65.0
For foreign purchases                287.0               173.0        205.0        213.0        252.0         259.0
Total loans                      335.0               216.0        256.0        266.0        315.0         324.0
Equity investments                           150.0 1/               -            -            -            -             -
Total cancellations              485.0               216.0        256.0        266.0        315.0         324.0
Commitments
Loans: For domestic purchases                413.0               497.0        589.0        707.0        837.0       1,015.0
For foreign purchases              1,688.6             1,987.0      2,355.0      2,827.0      3,348.0       4,061.0
Total loans                   2,101.6             2,484.0       2,944.0      3,534.0      4,185.0       5,076.0
Equity investments                            58.8               100.0        100.0        100.0        100.0         100.0
Total commitments             2==604                            35=          3            4,285.0       5,176 0
Disbursements
Loans: For domestic purchases                303.8               480.0        535.0        635.0        760.0         910.0
For foreign purchases              1,753.7             1,920.0      2,140.0      2,540.0      3,040.0
Total loans           ~~2,057.5            2,400.0      2,675.0      3,175.0      3,800.0       4,550.0
Eauitv investments                          173.2                100.0        100.0        100.0        100.0         100.0
2~~A250               3,275.0     3,900.0        4,650.0
Total disbursements           2,230.7                500 0     2,775 0
1/ A standby commitment in the Jordan Ceramics Industries Company.
Source: IVn
February 1976



INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK of JORDAN
Projections: 1976-80
C. Projected Income Statements
(JD 000's)
Year ending December 31,  1975          1976         1977         1978         1979       1980
Actual     - - - - - - - - -  Projected - - - - - - - - - - - -
Income
Interest and charges on loans:
East Bank                                       335.5         488.6        638.4        772.6         937.0     1,102.5
West Bank                                         74.0          73.0         79.0         85.0         92.0        100.0
Subtotal                                     409.5         561.6        717.4        857.6      1,029.0      1,202.5
Dividend income                                      12.2          16.0         16.0         18.0         19.0         20.0
Interest on securities                                9.8          11.0         11.0         11.0         11.0         11.0
Other income                                          5.8           1.0          1.0          1.0          1.0          1.0
Gross income                                 437.3         589.6        745.4        887.6      1,060.0      1,234.5
Expenses
Financial Expenses:
Interest paid                                   120.1         184.8        261.6        341.2        422.8         501.8
Interest retained                                 8.2          49.0         64.0          77.1         82.8         82.0
Subtotal                                     128.3         233.8        325.6        418.3        505.6        583.8
Administrative expenses:
Salaries and bonuses                             63.3           79.1         98.9       123.6         154.5        193.1
Depreciation                                       2.7           4.0          4.0          4.0          4.0          4.0
Other expenses                                   22.5          28.1          35.2         43.9         54.9         68.6
Subtotal                                      88.5         111.2        138.1        171.5        213.4        265.7
Total  expenses                              216.8         345.0        463.7        589.8         719.0       849.5
Profit before provisions                               220.5         244.6        281.7        297.R        341.0        385.0
Provision for West Bank interest income              74.0          73.0         79.0         85.0         92.0        100.0
Provision for losses                                 14.6          17.2         23.3         21.3         24.9         28.5
Provision for taxes                                                 -             -            -                   -
Net profit                                             11i.q         154.4        182.4        191.5        224.1        256.5
Dividend                                             90.5         101.8        113.1        113.1        113.1        113.1
Profit carried to reserves                                                         69 3         78.             .0       14,34
of which: Statutory reserve                          36.6          42.9         50.7         53.2         62.3         71.3
Voluntary reserve                          4.8           9.7         18.6         25.2         48.7          72.1             4
Source: IDB
February 1976



INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK of JORDAN
Projections: 1976-80
D. Projected Cash Flow Statements
(JD 000's)
Year ending December 31,    1976          1977        1978         1979          1980
Sources
Profit before provisions                                  171.6        202.7        212.8       249.0         285.0
Non-cash charges                                             4.0         4.0          4.0          4.0          4.0
Increase in share capital                                    0.3         0.3          0.3          -            -
Loan collections                                           541.0     1,255.0      1,690.0     2,216.0       2,835.0
Drawdown of loans:
Kuwait Fund I                                         282.5           -            -            -
Kuwait Fund II                                      1,000.0      1,000.0        750.0          -
KfW II                                                555.5           -            -           -
KfW III                                                 -          570.0        450.0       280.0
IDA I                                                  82.0        570.0        450.0       111.0            -
New loans (foreign currency)                              -           -         423.5     1,515.6       1,923.6
Totals                                           2,636.9      3,602.0     3,980.6      4,375.6       5,047.6
Uses
Disbursements:
JD loans                                               480.0        535.0        635.0       760.0         910.0
Foreign currency loans                               1,920.0      2,140.0      2,540.0     3,040.0       3,640.0
Equity investments                                     100.0        100.0        100.0       100.0         100.0
Loan repayments:
National Planning Council                                12.5        12.5         12.5        12.5          12.5
Central Bank                                              -         726.4        560.0       200.0          40.0
Kuwait Fund I                                                          -            -           -           82.0
IDA I                                                                  -          20.0       150.0         150.0
Fixed assets                                                50.u          -            -           -            -
Dividends                                                   90.5       101.8        113.1       113.1         113.1
Changes in working capital                                 (16.1)      (13.7)           -           -            _
Totals                                             2,636.9      3,602.0     3 980 6      4,375.6       5,047.6          m0 x
Source: IDB
February 1976



ANNEX 18
Page 6
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK of JORDAN
Projections: 1976-80
E. Projected Balance Sheets
December 31,        1975          1976         1977         1978         1979           1980
Actual      - -    - - - - - - - - Projected - - - - - - - - - - - -
Assets
Current assets                                   327.1          352.9        352.9        352.9        352.9          352.9
Loans:
East Bank                                  4,921.0        6,780.0      8,200.0      9,685.0    11,269.0        12,984.vi
West Bank                                     480.8         480.8         480.8        480.E        480.8         480.8
Equity investments                               295.2          395.2        495.2        595.2        695.2          795.2
Subtotal                                    5,697.0       7,656.0      9,176.0    10,761.0    12,445.0         14,260.0
LeAs- ProvisiorLs foi losses                     169.0          186.2        206.5        227.8         252.7         281.2
Total portfolio (net)                       5,528.0       7,469.8      8,969.5    10,533.2    12,192.3         13,978.8
Small scale industry and
handicraft loans                               47.8         305.9         618.1        919.2      1,202.0       1,484.0
Employee housing loans                            62.7           62.7         62.7         62.7          62.7          62.7
Fixed assets (net)                                61.9          107.9        103.9         99.9         95.9           91.9
Total assets                                6,027.5       8299.2    10,107.1    11,967.9    13,905.8           15,970.3
Liabilities and Equity
Current liabilities                              134.8          173.1        198.1        198.1        198.1          198.1
Long-term debt:
National Planning Council                    112.5         100.0          87.5         75.0         62.5           50.0
Kuwait Fund 1                                803.2       1,085.7      1,085.7       1,085.7      1,085.7       1,003.7
Kuwait Fund II                                -          1,000.0      2,000.0       2,750.0      2,750.0       2,750.0
KfW I                                        370.9         370.9         370.9        370.9        370.9          370.9
KfW II                                        84.0         639.5         639.5        639.5        639.5          639.5
KfW III                                       -             -           570.0       1,020.0      1,300.0       1,30C.0
IDA I                                                       82.0        652.0      1,082.0       1,043.0         893.C
Other loans                                   -               -             -         423.5      1,939.1       3,862.7
Central Bank                               1,992.9       1,992.9      1,266.5         706.5        506.5          466.5
Total long-term debt                        3,363.5       5,271.0      6,672.1       8,153.1      9,697.2      11,136.3
Special accounts                                  16.4           65.4        129.4        206.5         289.3         371.3
Government and Central Bank                       16.5          240.5        488.7        712.7         912.7       1,112.7
Shareholders' equity:
Ordinary shares                             1,110.0       1,110.0       1,110.0      1,110.0      1,110.0        1,110.0
Preference shares                           1,130.8       1,131.1       1,131.4      1,131.7      1,131.7        1,131.7
Statutory reserve                             232.4         275.3         326.0        379.2        441.5          512.8
Voluntary reserve                              23.1           32.8         51.4         76.6         125.3         197.4
Total shareholders' equity                  2,496.3       2,549.2       2,618.8      2,697.5      2,808.5        2,951.9
Total liabilities and equity                              8,299.2    10,107.1    11,96'79    13,cO5.8           15,970.3
Source: IDB
FelT,lArv 1976



ANNEX 18
Page 7
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK of JORDAN
Projections: 1976-80
F. Projected Indicators
1976       1977        1978.       1979        1980
Profitability Indicators
Net profit as % of average shareholders' equity 1/               6.1         7.1         7.2         8.1         8.9
Dividends as % of net profit                                    65.9        62.0        59.1        50.5        44.1
Dividends as Z of par value share 2/                             9.0        10.0        10.0        10.0        10.0
Book value share as X of par value share 3/                    127.2       133.4       140.3       150.1       162.8
Book value share as % of par value share 4/                    113.7       116.8       120.3       125.3       131.7
Year of operation                                               11th.       12th.       13th.       14th.       15th.
Operational Indicators
Gross income as % of average total assets 5/                     7.2         7.2         7.3         7.5         7.6
Administrative expenses as % of average total assets             1.6         1.5         1.6         1.7         1.8
Financial expenses as % of average total assets 6/               3.5         3.8         4.0         4.1         4.1
Administrative expenses/number of professional staff
(in US $000's)                                                 n.a         n.a         n.a         n.a         n.a
Dividends and realized capital gains as % of average
equity portfolio                                               4.6         3.6         3.3         2.9         2.7
Income from loans as % of average total loan portfolio 5/ 7/ 7.7             8.0         8.2         8.6         8.7
Income from loans as % of average East Bank loan
portfolio      5/                                              8.4         8.5         8.6         8.9         9.1
Volume of approvals/number of professional staff
(in US $000's)                                                 n.a         n.a         n.a         n.a         n.a
Cost of debt as % of average debt                                5.4         5.5         5.6         5.7         5.6
Number of professional staff (year-end)                          n.a         n.a         n.a         n.a         n.a
Financial Structure Indicators
Total debt/year-end shareholders' equity                         2.1         2.6         3.1         3.5         3.9
Long-term debt/year-end shareholders' equity                      2.1        2.5         3.0         3.5         3.8
Debt/equity (proposed for IDA agreement)                         2.1         2.5         3.0         3.5         3.8
Provision for possible losses as % of loans,
equity and guarantee portfolio    7/                           2.4         2.3         2.1         2.0         2.0
Interest coverage ratio                                          1.7         1.6         1.5         1.5         1.4
Year-end total assets excluding contingent liabilities
(in US $ million)                                             25.9        31.5        37.3        43.4        49.8
Year-end total assets including contingent liabilities
(in US $ million)                                              n.a         n.a         n.a         n.a         n.a
Year-end share capital and reserves (in US $ million)             7.9        8.2         8.4         8.8         9.2
1/ I)B is exempt from taxes
2/ Excluding ordinary shares on which no dividends are paid.
3/ Excluding ordinary shares which are held by the Government.
4/ Including ordinary shares
5/ Excludes interest receivable on West Bank loans
6/ Provision for losses included with financial expenses
7/ Excludes loans for small scale industry and handicraft.
Source: IDB
February 1976



ANNEX 19
Page 1
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK Of JORDAN
Strategy Statement: 1976-80
1.   Being the only specialized industrial credit institution IDB will continue to
expand its operations to meet the growing demand for medium and long term loans
to medium and small scale projects in the industrial and tourism sectors.
It is the intention of IDB, in the process of extending these loans, to
try and encourage a measure of coordination and linkage between industries
in the sector and also between this sector and other sectors in the econoTy.
IDB will also strive to help its clients to select the most suitable
technology that is commensurate with available skills and management
capability of the Jordanian entrepreneur.
2.   In order to realize economies of scale and due to the limitations of the
local market Jordanian industry is looking more and more to outlets in the
neighboring Arab countries and especially those within the Arab Common
Market due to the preferential treatment that Jordanian manufactured products
receive in these countries. Therefore, export oriented industries will play
a prominent role in the future operations of IDB during the next five years.
3.   Practically all industrial activity is concentrated in the Amman - Zerka
area where the basic infra-structure is available. This is creating serious
social and economic problems that relate to the concentration of population
in this area and also the provision of the necessary services to them.
It will be the intention of IDB, during the coming five years, to try and
bring about a rational redistribution of industrial activity in the country
in order to insure a more equitable distribution of the fruits of develop-
ment.  The Law for Encouragement of Investment provides for liberal
incentives for industries that will be located outside Anman - Zerka area.
Yet the number of industries that take advantage of these incentives is
negligible due to the fact that the basic infra-structure is not available.
That is why the establishment of Industrial Estates in various parts of the
country is a very important tool in attracting industry away from Amman -
Zerka area. IDB,in cooperation with the Government, intends to establish
such an estate 25 km. south of Amman and on the strength of experience
gained from this project look into the establishment of similar estates in
other parts of the country.
4.  The operations of the small scale industries and handicrafts division will
be expanded to include the provision of advisory services on a wider scale.
These operations were started by IDB in March 1975 due to the lack of
sources of finance at a reasonable cost to cater for the small entrepreneur.
These operations aim at providing financing to this sector with a view to
raising its productivity and income particularly in urban areas. Such
activity becomes more important when it is known that there are 6885 indus-
trial establishments in the country employing four workers or less and
providing employment for about 11,000 people. Through the provision of
financing, IDB will strive to improve the efficiency and general performance
of this sector.



ANNEX 19
- 2 -                          Page 2
5.   Since its establishment in 1965 IDB has concentrated on extending medium
and long term loans to industrial and tourist projects and acquiring
expertise in project evaluation. It is felt that IDB should be active
in the field of project identification and preparation of industrial
profiles or prefeasibility studies for promotion by IDB. Through the
promotion of such projects IDB expects to expand its equity participation
and also be instrumental in creating a wider base of project ownership.
A special division at IDB called "Research and Project Identification" will
assume this responsibility.
6.   The improvement of managerial capability of Jordanian entrepreneurs is a
very important factor in the success of industrial projects and the
achievement of the goals of the Five Year Plan in this sector. There is
no management training facilities in the country at the present. IDB
feels that the establishment of a management training center under its
umbrella, to provide intensive training to middle and higher management
in industry, is the best tool to upgrade managerial efficiency in industry.
This center will also provide consultancy services to the industrial sector.
Source: IDB
December 1975



ANNEX 20
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK of JORDAN
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Cumulative Disbursements at end
IDA Fiscal Year and Quarter                        of Quartet
(Us$' 000)
1977                               Part Al/      Part BRi      Part C3J  Total
September 30, 1976                 _            _             _          _
December 31, 1976                 200          20              5        225
March 31, 1977                    500          50             10        560
June 30, 1977                     800          80             20        900
1978
September 30, 1977              1,200         120             25      1,345
December 31, 1977               1,600         160             25      1,785
March 31, 1978                  2,100         200             25      2,325
June 30, 1978                   2,600         240             25      2,865
1979
September 30, 1978              3,000         260             25      3,285
December 31, 1978               3,200         280             25      3,505
March 31, 1979                  3,400         300             25      3,725
June 30, 1979                   3,500         300             25      3,825
1980
September 30, 1979              3,600         300             25      3,925
December 31, 1979               3,675         300             25      4,000
1/ For the $3,675,000 portion of the credit to be on-lent by IDB to medium
scale industAal and tourism enterprises.
2/ For the $300,000 portion of the credit to be on-lent by IDB to small
scale industrial and handicraft enterprises.
3/ For the $25,000 portion of the credit to be used to cover the cost of
the study of the small scale industry and handicraft subsector.
Source: Mission Estimates
May 1976






IBRD-1212OR
APRIL 1976
2- g  /  1/z r@h     -        gISCSS  Y  R  I A
, ~ ~ ~       ~      ~       ~      ~     ~       - QQqly     2 >  ,;0'.       _(I;TLL A  
rs Jem le     thnnie  /         Modobaf   \ -                2 osr el Khoronro 
Ab. 4_____/   4/   2   g '/\2>.  '^_51g                               \.                SAUDI
e-    -  }; ---,                            \.            A  RA B IA
,'MA'ilJORDAN
(                                                                          ---.-Hnssa--- Pipe Lines\
-I              *Ss      <     Wf  S r < O  Qa'                                        Refinery
IRoshrdlyr )/ i - .i Xt   Phosphate Deposits                                                                     \
7'//                                                                                            Notional Highways
S   I   /      1l                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Second Class Roads
Oilibr      j  -- -  Aer  Roads  A I
J  1--0    Raiways  
Hassa                                                     Pip----Truce Line -  948
j -.trr] d  If E Jr tr , , International BH usdaries
V \OIlther------ Wadis                                         /
\  Mudflias and Wadi Beds         /
,//  t   Sbcqd    ,;O_ Dams                                                          /
Rivers                      /
(0O    Prae en NoqO           1tT> ^\)                                               2          West Bank
38~
.~DIF(RR      N   /- ;J 5SY RIA
/   Lt Quweira                                          /                          iRfOtRttiEtAtY~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EA Y,    I RAQ
J   X  p1Attiya                                                              5  OAnenss
\   /   t /           d                              ,              1                Xr  _~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ t, j   0 AMY
57%<   1qob               0    10  20   30   40   50   60   70
KILOMETERS                              ,J
'  oT                              10      20       30      40
M LES 
,  .'sT j  M L E 5                                   \ , .   ,       SSAUDI ARABIA
/3  rhe    b-sundZres  h  ......... *n an ,,, -p do  AR A-B\4
-         ~         /                   e.pI, ,odu. ment or  CLceptr>e hy Ike  REPUBLIC\   REP
z   WofldBookood,r,dfjO,er        EGYPT   ,, SfA
EGYPT



