CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 646 Jo
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
(Industrial Development Bank Project)
between
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 19, 1976


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 19, 1976, between THE HASHEMITE KING-
DOM OF JORDAN (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in the Schedule
to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) Part C of the Project will be carried out by the Borrower
and the Industrial Development Bank of Jordan (hereinafter called
IDB);
(C) Parts A and B of the Project will be carried out by IDB
with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance,
the Borrower will make available to IDB the parts of the proceeds
of the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
(D) The Association is willing to make the Credit available
upon the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a Proj-
ect Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
IDB;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the following modifications thereof (said
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of
the Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the Gen-
eral Conditions):
(a) the following subparagraph is added to Section 2.01:
"13. The term 'Project Agreement' has the meaning set
forth in paragraph (c) of Section 1.02 of the Development
Credit Agreement."
(b) Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following
new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Association. If (a)
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit
Account shall have been suspended with respect to any amount
of the Credit for a continuous period of thirty days or (b)
(i) with respect to Part C of the Project, at any time the
Association determines, after consultation with the Borrower,
that an amount of the Credit will not be required to finance


﻿-3-
the Project's costs to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, and (ii) with respect to Parts A and B of the Project,
by the date specified in Section 2.03 (e) and Section 2.05 (c)
of the Project Agreement no applications for approval or re-
quests for authorization to withdraw from the Credit Account
in respect of any portion of the Credit shall have been re-
ceived by the Association, or having been so received, shall
have been denied or (c) after the Closing Date an amount of
the Credit shall remain unwithdrawn from the Credit Account,
the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, terminate
the right to request such approvals and authorization or to
make withdrawals from the Credit Account, as the case may be,
with respect to such amount or portion of the Credit. Upon
the giving of such notice such amount or portion of the
Credit shall be cancelled."
(c) the words "and the Project Agreement" are added after
the words "the Development Credit Agreement" in Section 6.06; and
(d) the words "or the Project Agreement" are added after
the words "the Development Credit Agreement" in Section 10.02.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the con-
text otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General
Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Law" means the Borrower's Industrial Development Bank
Law No. 5 of 1972 as published in the Borrower's Official Gazette
dated March 16, 1972 as amended from time to time;


﻿-4
(b) "IDB" means the Industrial Development Bank of Jordan as
established by the Law;
(c) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and IDB of even date herewith as the same may be
amended from time to time;
(d) "sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made
within the scope of Part A of the Project by IDB out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit to an Investment Enterprise for an Investment
Project, and "free-limit sub-loan" means a sub-loan, as so defined,
which qualifies as a free-limit sub-loan pursuant to the provisions
of Section 2.02(c) of this Agreement;
(e) "investment" means an investment other than a sub-loan,
made or proposed to be made within the scope of Part A of the
Project by IDB out of the proceeds of the Credit in an Investment
Enterprise for an Investment Project;
(f) "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which IDB
proposes to make or has made a sub-loan, or in which it proposes
to make or has made an investment;
(g) "Investment Project" means a specific development proj-
ect to be carried out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing the
proceeds of a sub-loan or an investment;
(h) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and IDB pursuant to Section


﻿-5-
3.02(a) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement;
(i) "sub-credit" means a credit made or proposed to be made
within the scope of Part B of the Project by IDB out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit to a small-scale enterprise in accordance with
Section 2.02 (a)(ii) of this Agreement;
(j) "small-scale enterprise" means a private industrial or
handicraft enterprise employing not more than 5 people and using
manual production methods or simple machines or as such term may
be amended from time to time and notified to the Association;
(k) "Jordanian dinars" and "JD" mean the currency of the
Borrower;
(1) "foreign currency" means any currency other than the
currency of the Borrower;
(m) "Statement of Policy" means the statement of lending and
investment policy approved by tUe Directors of IDB on October 11,
1965, as amended to the date of this Agreement;
(n) "subsidiary", in relation to IDB, means any company of
which a majority of the outstanding voting stock is owned or ef-
fectively controlled by IDB or by any one or more subsidiaries of
IDB or by IDB and one or more of its subsidiaries;


﻿-6
(o) "Small Scale Industry and Handicraft Program" means the
program designed to promote the development of small-scale private
industrial and handicraft enterprises as approved by the Directors
of IDB on January 30, 1975 as such may be amended from time to
time and notified to the Association; and
(p) "Project Completion Report" means the report to be sub-
mitted by IDB to the Association attthe time the Credit is sub-
stantially disbursed but not later than the Closing Date as de-
scribed in Section 2.04 of this Agreement, containing such
information related to the Project and the use of the proceeds
of the Credit as the Association shall reasonably request.


﻿7
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to four million dollars ($41000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account (i) in respect of Part A of the Project up to the equiva-
lent of three million six hundred seventy-five thousand dollars
($3,675,000) for amounts expended by IDB for an Investment Proj-
ect or, if the Association shall so agree, for expenditures to
be made by IDB for an Investment Project, to finance the rea-
sonable foreign exchange cost of goods and .ervices required
under a sub-loan or investment for the Investment Project in
respect of which the withdrawal is requested; (ii) in respect
of Part B of the Project up to the equivalent of three hundred
thousand dollars ($300,000) for 20% of such amounts as shall
have been disbursed by IDB to finance the reasonable cost of
goods required under sub-credits to small-scale enterprises; and
(iii) in respect of Part C of the Project up to the equivalent
of twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000) for amounts expended
for consultants' services required for said Part C of the Project.
(b) Withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to para-
graph (a) (i) of this Section may be made in respect of such
amounts as shall have been expended (or, if the Association


﻿-8-
shall so agree, shall be required to meet expenditures to be made)
in a currency other than the currency of the Borrower for goods
procured, or services supplied from, outside the territories of
the Borrower, provided, however, that no withdrawal shall be made
in respect of a sub-loan or investment unless (i) the sub-loan or
investment shall have been approved by the Association, or (ii)
the sub-loan shall be a free-limit sub-loan for which the Associa-
tion shall have authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account.
(c) A free-limit sub-loan shall be a sub-loan for an Invest-
ment Project in an amount to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit which shall not exceed the sum of Ci) $150,000 equivalent,
when added to any other outstanding amounts financed or proposed
to be financed out of the p roceeds of the Credit for such Invest-
ment Project or (ii) $1,800,000 equivalent, when added to all other
free-limit sub-loans financed or proposed to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the foregoing amounts being subject to
change from time to time as determined by the Association.
(d) Except as the Association and the Borrower shall other-
wise agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (i) in respect of pay-
ments made for expenditures prior to this Agreement, (ii) in re-
spect of a sub-loan or investment which shall exceed the equivalent
of five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000), and (iii) on account
of expenditures made by an Investment Enterprise in respect of a
sub-loan subject to the Association's approval, or in respect of
an investment, if such expenditures shall have been made more than
ninety days prior to the date on which the Association shall have
received in respect of such sub-loan or investment the application
and information required by Section 2.03(b) of the Project Agree-
ment or, under a free-limit sub-loan, more than ninety days prior


﻿9
to the date on which the Association shall have received in respect
of such free-limit sub-loan the request and information required by
Section 2.03(c) of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.03. IDB is designated as representative of the Bor-
rower for the purpose of taking any action required or permitted
to be taken under the provisions of:
(a) Section 2.02 (a)(i) of this Agreement and Article V of
the General Conditions with respect to expenditures of IDB under
sub-loans or investments under Part A of the Project; and
(b) Section 2.02 (a)(ii) of this Agreement and Article V of
the General Conditions with respect to expenditures of IDB under
sub-credits under Part B of the Project.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1981 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (311
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdralm
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each June 1


﻿- 10 -
and December 1 commencing June 1, 1986 and ending December 1, 2025,
each installment to and including the installment payable on Decem-
ber 1, 1995 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project;
Use of the Proceeds of the Credit
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out and cause IDB to
carry out Part C of the Project, and cause IDB to carry out Parts
A and B of the Project, with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, industrial
and scientific practices, and shall provide, or cause to be pro-
vided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for that purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall relend to IDB, under a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and IDB under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association,
the equivalent of such portion of the proceeds of the Credit as
shall be disbursed by the Association for Part A of this Project.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes
of the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall make available as a
grant to IDB, the equivalent of such portion of the proceeds of
the Credit as shall be disbursed by the Association for Part B
of the Project, under an agreement satisfactory to the Associa-
tion, to be entered into between the Borrower and IDB.


﻿- 12 -
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the agree-
ment referred to hereinabove in such a manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend nor
waive said agreement nor any provision thereof.
Section 3.04. In order to assist the Borrower and IDB in
carrying out Part C of the Project, the Borrower shall in con-
sultation with IDB employ consultants whose qualifications, ex-
perience, and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Association.
Section 3.05. Without any limitation or restriction upon any
of its other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement,
the Borrower shall cause IDB to perform in accordance with the
provisions of the Project Agreement, the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
and the agreement referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement,
all the obligations therein set forth, shall take and cause to be
taken all action necessary or appropriate to enable IDB to perform
such bligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) IDB shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement;
(b) the Borrower or IDB shall have failed to perform any of
their respective obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c) any part of the principal amount of any loan to IDB having
an original maturity of one year or more shall, in accordance with
its terms, have become due and payable in advance of maturity as
provided in the relative contractual instruments, or any security
for any such loan shall have become enforceable;
(d) a change shall have been made in the Law or in the State-
ment of Policy, which will materially and adversely affect the
carrying out of Parts A and B of the Project or the operations or
financial condition of IDB;
(e) legislation shall have been enacted for the dissolution
or liquidation of IDB;
(f) a subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created
or acquired or taken over by IDB, if such creation, acquisition or


﻿-14-
taking over would adversely affect the conduct of IDB's business
or IDB's financial position or the efficiency of IDB's management
and personnel or the carrying out of Parts A and B of the Project;
and
(g) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that IDB will be able to perform its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) the events specified in paragraphs (a), (b), (f) or (g)
of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue
for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been
given by the Association to the Borrower and IDB; and
(b) the events specified in paragraphs (c), (d) or (e) of
Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿- 15 -
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a) the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on
behalf of IDB have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary
corporate and governmental action;
(b) the execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment on behalf of the Borrower and IDB, respectively, have been
duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and govern-
mental action; and
(c) the execution and delivery of the agreement referred to
in Section 3.03 of this Agreement on behalf of the Borrower and
IDB, respectively, have been duly authorized or ratified by all
necessary corporate and governmental action.
Section 5.02. The following are snecified as additional mat-
ters, within the meaning of Section 12.02(b) of the General Condi-
tions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished
to the Association:
(a) That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, IDB, and
is legally binding upon IDB in accordance with its terms;


﻿- 16 -
(b) That the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly autho-
rized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the
Borrower and IDB, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and IDB
in accordance with its terms; and
(c) that the agreement referred to in Section 3.03 of this
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed
and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and IDB, and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and IDB in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date October 18, 1976 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Articles
III and IV of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date
on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date twenty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.


﻿- 17 -
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The President of the National Planning Council
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
National Planning Council
P.O. Box 555
Anman
Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
Cable address:                Telex:
NPC                           NPC
Aman                          JO-1319
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INDEVAS                       440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
6145 (wUI)


﻿- 18 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the paries hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
By /s/ Abdullah Salah
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Maurice P. Bart
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE
Description of the Project
The purpose of the Credit is to assist the Borrower in finan-
cing such industrial development in Jordan as will contribute to
the economic and social development of the country. The Project
consists of the following Parts:
Part A.   The financing by IDB of industrial development through
loans and investments for productive purposes to private enter-
prises in Jordan other than those included in Part B hereunder
for specific economic development projects, in furtherance of
the corporate purposes of IDB.
Part B.   The provision of loans by IDB to small-scale private
industrial and handicraft enterprises in Jordan under IDB's Small
Scale Industry and Handicraft Program.
Part C.   The carrying out by the Borrower and IDB of a study of
the small-scale industry and handicraft sub-sector in Jordan.


