Document of
The World Bank FILE WPX
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 1971l.-EGT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Menufiya - Sohag)
May 31, 1978
Regional Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENT EQUIVALENTS
US$  1.00         =       Egyptian Pound (LE) 0.70          Parallel market exchange
]   rate at time of appraisal
LE   1.00         =       US$ 1.43                          used in this report.
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 feddan (fed)        =       1.04 acres (ac)
1 feddan (fed)        =       0.42 hectares (ha)
1 kilometer (km)              0.62 miles (mi)
1 meter (m)           =       3.28 feet (ft)
1 cubic meter (m3)   =       35.21 cubic feet (cuft)
1 metric ton (m ton) =        0.984 long ton (ton)
ABBREVIATIONS
PBDAC              =     Principal Bank for Development and Agricultural
Credit
BDAC               =     Bank for Development and Agricultural Credit
GOVERNMENT OF ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FISCAL YEAR
January 1         to      December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
APPRAISAL OF
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    PROJECT BACKGROUND ..................................                     1
Project History  ................................                   1
The Agricultural Sector  ..... .............                        1
Agrarian Reform and Agricultural Cooperatives  ..                   3
Agricultural Credit Institutions  ...............                   5
Agricultural Extension and Research  ............                   8
Agricultural Mechanization  .... .............                      8
Previous Bank Projects in Agriculture  ..........                  10
II.    THE PROJECT AREA ....................................                    11
General Features                      ..                           11
Irrigation ...................           ..................        12
Agricultural Production  ...........       ..     ...........      14
Farm Mechanization  .............       ..    ..............       15
Population, Land Use and Land Tenure ...........                   17
Extension Service  ..............       ..    ..............       17
Agricultural Cooperatives  ..........        .. ..........         18
Agricultural Credit  .....           .......................       18
Marketing, Transportation,  Storage  .............                 18
III.    THE PROJECT .........................................                    19
Project Objectives  .............       ..     ..............      19
Project Description .............        ..     .............      20
Project Features  ..............      ..      ...............      22
Project Costs  ................      ..     ................       24
Project Financing  ..............       ..     ..............      25
Procurement  ...... .............          .................       25
Disbursement  ................      ..     .................       26
Implementation Schedule  ...........       ..     ...........      26
Environmental Impact  ............       ..     .............      27
This resport is based on the findings of a Bank appraisal mission which
visited the Arab Republic of Egypt in October/November 1977, comprising
Messrs. P. Economides, A. Bose, E. Nagele and W. Cuddihy (Bank) and
R. Gifford and R. Noronha (Consultants).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
IV.  PROJECT ORGANIZATION ...............................       27
Implementing  Agencies   .........................   27
Project  Coordination   ..........................   28
Agricultural Credit System ....     ................  28
On-Lending Procedures and Terms ....   ...........   30
Machinery Service and Maintenance ....  .........    33
Agricultural Cooperatives ....     .................  33
Agricultural Extension ........................      34
Monitoring and Evaluation ....     .................  35
Accounts and Audit .36
V.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .........................      36
General   .......................................    36
Benefits of Mechanization ....     .................  37
Prices, Production and Markets ....   ............   40
Farm Budgets .41
Project Beneficiaries.42
Economic Analysis .43
Land Tenure .45
Risks .45
VI.   RECOMMENDATIONS   ....................................    47
List of Tables in the Main Text
1  Cropping Area, Yields and Production - Project Area,
Present Situation
2  Need for New Tractors at National Level
3  Need for New Tractors for Menufiya Governorate
4  Need for New Tractors for Sohag Governorate
5  Project Cost (Detailed)
6  Project Equipment
7  Present and Future Crop Areas, Yields and Production (in area
of 180,000 feddans)
8  Present and Future Economic Values of Crop and Animal Production
9  Incremental Economic Flows at Sohag and Menufiya
10  Present and Future Cash Flows for a 3-feddan Model Farm at
Menufiya and Sohag
Chart No.
Cl  Organization Chart - Ministry of Agriculture
C2  Degree of Mechanization - National Level (IBRD 18411)
C3  Degree of Mechaniztion - Menufiya (IBRD 18413)
C4  Degree of Mechanization - Sohag (IBRD 18412)
C5  Labor Requirements in Project Area (IBRD 18578)



Table of Contents (Continued)
Maps No.
1     Menufiya Governorate (IBRD 13363)
2     Sohag Governorate (IBRD 13364)
3     Pilot Irrigation Scheme - Present Situation (IBRD 13365)
4     Pilot Irrigation Scheme - Future Situation (IBRD 13366)
List of Supporting Documents in the Project File






ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. PROJECT BACKGROUND
Project History
1.01      The Government of Arab Republic of Egypt has requested the Inter-
national Development Association to finance an Agricultural Development
Project in two governorates, Menufiya and Sohag. This project evolved out of
the interest of the Government and the Bank Group to broaden the basis of the
Bank's agricultural lending program in order to raise the level of production
in the "old lands." It was first identified by a Food and Agriculture Organi-
zation/IBRD Cooperative Program mission, which visited Egypt in June 1976 and
presented its findings in September 1976. The project was subsequently
prepared by another FAO/IBRD CP mission which visited Egypt in November 1976
and presented its findings in February 1977. The project was preappraised by
a Bank mission which visited Egypt in May 1977.
1.02      A Bank appraisal mission visited Egypt in September-October 1977
to carry out field appraisal. Detailed findings of this mission are given
in the present Appraisal Report.
The Agricultural Sector
1.03      Agriculture continues to be the largest sector in the Egyptian
economy. Farming generates 29% of GDP, contributes about 34% of national
exports directly and provides employment to about 44% of the labor force.
Dominant industries are based on processing farm products. All these make
the economy rather sensitive to the performance of this one sector.
1.04      Although around 95% of Egypt's land area is desert, the irrigable
cultivated lands are richly endowed. Among developing countries, Egypt's
crop yields are relatively high, and cultivated soils are among the most
fertile in the world. Abundant water of good quality flows down the Nile
and is distributed to farms through a well-developed storage and distribution
system. Almost all the cropland is irrigated since the country is virtually
rainless. This spares Egypt the vagaries of rainfall variation and provides
maximum sunlight for year round plant growth with a high cropping intensity,
presently at 190%. The cropping system is a complex rotation of multipurpose
crops based primarily on small farm animal technology. The key crop is
cotton which, since its introduction over 100 years ago, remains the nexus
around which the Egyptian economy revolves, whether it is at the level of the
national accounts or at the levels of village transactions.
1.05      Despite its inherent advantages, Egyptian agriculture also has
its handicaps and has been beset with problems. Cultivation is virtually
restricted to irrigable land along the Nile (the "old lands"). Until the
completion of the Aswan High Dam in the mid-sixties, production was subject



- 2 -
both to occasional devastating floods and to years of drought, and fluctuated
accordingly. The High Dam made possible the complete regulation of the Nile
flows, the conversion of all the old lands to perennial irrigation, the elim-
ination of production fluctuations resulting from irregular water supplies,
and in addition, it increased total water supplies so that the cultivated area
could be expanded into new lands for which there was hitherto insufficient
water. As a result, the total crop area has increased by about one million
feddans or 10%, since the completion of the High Dam. This is equivalent to
a growth rate in crop area of about 0.8% per annum compared with a population
growth rate of 2.3% per annum over the same period. The reduction in the per
capita crop area which has been such a feature of the Egyptian economy for
many decades has thus continued unabated. The cropped area per capita has
approximately halved over the last four decades, from just over half a feddan
to about one-quarter of a feddan today.
1.06      The High Dam also brought about a spurt in productivity, particularly
in maize by enabling it to be planted at a better time. However, this momentum
was not sustained and, with the rapid increase in salinity and rise in water
tables that were a direct result of the High Dam, productivity in Egyptian
agriculture has been increasing at a very low rate. Total value added, includ-
ing the effects of both increased cropped area and increased yields, only grew
at the rate of 1.7% per year during 1971-75. Since the cropped area grew at
about 0.8% per year, the rate of yield increase would appear to be around 0.9%.
As a result per capita agricultural and food production have continued the
decline which began in the late 1950s.  The value of sectoral exports has
fallen sharply, while food imports have risen at a time when world grain prices
have been at very high levels; in 1974, the economy went into a net deficit on
agricultural trade for the first time.  Real incomes in agriculture have thus
been declining, and are currently at about LE 90 or US$128 per capita or one-
third of that for urban areas. The absolute poverty level in 1976 is estimated
at US$387 per household or US$67 per capita per year for the rural population,
which puts 25% of the rural population below the absolute poverty level as
compared to 19% of the urban population.
1.07      Part of the explanation for the relatively low level of incomes
in agriculture compared with other sectors of the economy has been the Govern-
ment's policy of maintaining low producer prices for such major commodities as
cotton, wheat and rice, combined with compulsory requisition in accordance
with area and delivery quotas. Despite Government's subsidization of the
major agricultural inputs, the result has been a substantial net taxation
of agriculture. This has fallen most heavily on the crops in which Egypt is
most competitive internationally, cotton and rice, both of which are taxed
at about 40%. This in turn has encouraged farmers to switch to producing
alternative uncontrolled commodities whenever possible, such as animal prod-
ucts and fodder which are protected at rates of between 50% and 100%. Not
unexpectedly this has made it difficult for the Government to achieve produc-
tion targets for crops subject to control and led to greater than required
growth in uncontrolled products. Small farmers have been the most affected
by this price policy since they are most closely tied to cotton growing, con-
tribute relatively more to the cotton tax, receive less subsidy from use of
inputs, and have less freedom of action to switch to uncontrolled crops. This



heavy taxation of agriculture has also largely dried up the flow of private
savings going into on-farm investment.
1.08      After the completion of the High Dam, the agricultural sector as a
whole received a rapidly declining share of public investment, falling from
25% in the mid-sixties to only an estimated 7% in 1975. Public sector
investment in agriculture accounts for an estimated 96% of all investment in
the sector. The new lands have been receiving the biggest (although a decreas-
ing) share of the funds. This averaged 40-60% up to 1972 although they con-
tribute only about 2% to production. In the last four years, the share of
the old lands has increased again as large investments needed to deal with
drainage problems there have become more urgent. Such investments, however,
are merely designed to prevent further production declines and to bring capac-
ity back to previous levels, rather than to provide net increments to produc-
tive capacity. The Government has been frequently urged by the Bank to expand
investment, both public and private, in the old lands to raise their productive
capacity. This present project was identified with this objective in view.
However, institutional weaknesses in the old lands are a major obstacle to
such expansion. As will be seen from the following paragraphs, the project
would provide assistance to tackle the major institutional problems as a first
step towards increasing investment in the old lands. It would also provide
funds to make machinery available and against which the credit institutions
could make loans.
1.09      The Bank Group is engaged in a series of discussions with the
Government on agricultural sector issues, in the context of a continuing
dialogue on economic policy matters and the preparation of a basic economic
report. In most of these discussions the Government's pricing policy has
been identified as the major obstacle to increased agricultural production.
However, it is not yet clear how this can be changed without major repercus-
sions throughout the rest of the economy; last year's disturbances following
changes in food subsidies exemplify the results of hasty moves. The Bank
Group is therefore working with the Government to try to clarify what changes
are feasible. It has been agreed with the Government that a Bank study of
the structure of the agricutural pricing system and its effect on agricul-
tural production and other parts of the economy would be undertaken. It is
thus premature to seek changes in price policy in the context of the present
project, which concentrates, instead, on the need to strengthen agricultural
institutions.
Agrarian Reform and Agricultural Cooperatives
1.10      Since the 1952 revolution the Government has introduced a series of
reform measures to correct the skewed distribution of ownership. Prior to
1952, 4,000 landlords owned the same amount of land as 2,640,000 peasants while
another 1,200,000 laborers were landless. A series of reforms eventually
limited ownership to 50 feddans per person and almost one million feddans have
been distributed to those owning little or no land. The latest data on land-
ownership are for 1965, before the last round of reforms in 1969, and these
show that almost 95% of the land was owned in titles of less than five fed-
dans, with an average of 2 feddans. However, because some 60% of the total



- 4 -
area is rented, the actual unit of operation, averaging 3.5 feddans is almost
double the average area owned. While these reforms were successful for a
time in increasing the average area of ownership, this increase has also been
steadily eroded through a combination of a virtually fixed land area, a rising
population and inheritance laws favoring fragmentation. The greatest effect
of the land reform seems to have been improving the security of tenure and
reducing the rents, of some one million tenants, an improvement which is
permanent.
1.11      One of the advantages of cooperative membership was that land could
be farmed in blocks of large contiguous areas under each crop, with machinery
and extension services offered to groups of farmers. The system displaced the
private entrepreneur in the supply of inputs and credit, and became the major
marketing channel for the most important crops. The attempt was to provide a
structure to direct the production decisions of the many small, independent
farmers via an output quota allocation tied to input supplies, the resulting
pattern of agriculture to be consistent with Government's production targets
for food and exports independently of the structure of prices.
1.12      Cooperatives were initially successful in providing land reform
beneficiaries with benefits of inputs, credit and block cultivation. This
led to the spread of this new system to the rest of the cooperatives until
it covered the entire rural area. A conplex structure developed with the
Egyptian General Cooperative Organization as the supervisory and regula-
tory body, replaced in 1976 by the Under Secretariat of the Department of
Cooperatives in the Ministry of Agriculture and four differentiated national
("general") societies, including those for new and old lands and multipurpose
societies. Direct channels of command link general societies to central
societies at the governorate level, to joint cooperatives at the district
level and to village cooperatives. As of the end of 1975, at the village
level there were 4,200 multipurpose agricultural cooperatives, 654 agrarian
reform societies and 133 land reclamation societies. This complex structure
gave rise to overlapping functions, conflicting lines of authority and
duplication of staff.
1.13      Since input supply was linked to membership in cooperatives almost
all farmers or cultivators have been members of local cooperative societies.
Cooperative society managers and staff, seconded by various Government agencies,
have been responsible for ensuring the implementation of the Government's agri-
cultural plans by all members, involving supervision of crop rotation, use
of recommended inputs and delivery of output quotas to cooperatives. In addi-
tion cooperatives have provided services of tractors and other implements at
controlled subsidized rates and rendered a variety of other assistance to
farmers. Much of their record has been satisfactory.. Small farmers in par-
ticular have benefitted from regular supply of inputs, the link between input
supply and credit recovery has broken the role of the traditional money
lenders, and land consolidation has permitted the introduction of better
farming practices. However, as the cooperative program has broadened certain
weaknesses have become apparent:
(a) Cooperatives have served mainly as conduits of the programs
of the Ministry of Agriculture;



-5-
(b) The proportion of inactive members is surprisingly high and
may be even more than 50% according to certain estimates,
against the official 6% figure;
(c) In many instances it is apparent that benefits of services
other than input supplies, such as mechanization. have gone
to relatively few members, such as cooperative directors and
farmers with larger holdings; and
(d) Proliferation of cooperatives and the nature of their orga-
nization has rendered most of them weak institutions, i.e.,
unprofitable and poor in managerial skills; their staff
usually lack training and commitment. They have an unsuc-
cessful record of managing tractor and other machinery
services.
1.14      The future of cooperatives is under review.  The Government is dis-
cussing a draft agricultural cooperatives bill. A process of reorganization
has commenced, and stores and accounts staff have been transferred from
cooperatives to village banks. It is the Government's intention to highlight
the voluntary nature of cooperative membership by removing the de facto
monopoly of cooperatives for input and credit supply. Some of the important
changes proposed by the draft law are: the sole responsibility for supervision
and regulation of cooperatives will be borne by the Ministry of Agriculture;
there will be some reorganization in the cooperative structure with a likely
reduction in the total numbers of cooperatives, arising from the proposal that
each cooperative serve a minimum of 1,000 feddans and the requirement that
there should be only one cooperative of each type in an area; the Government
will assume the obligation to provide financial and technical assistance to
the societies; and increased emphasis will be placed on "productive projects",
i.e. setting up of workshops, agroindustries and training institutes. An
important objective of the Project would be to assist the Government in imple-
menting this reform, in particular in strengthening the ability of cooperatives
to provide effective mechanization for their members. The United States Agency
for International Development is also providing technical assistance to coop-
eratives. The Bank and USAID are working closely together to coordinate their
respective inputs.
Agricultural Credit Institutions
1.15      The agricultural credit system, like the cooperatives, to which it
is closely tied, is a major tool of Government in implementing its agricul-
tural policies. The credit system channels the bulk of its credit through
cooperatives. It has also been used as a means of supplying inputs, again
through cooperatives, and as a channel for marketing produce procured by
Government. During the early part of its history, the partly privately-
owned banking system was business oriented. It was converted into a fully
Government-owned institution in 1964, when the Ministry of Agriculture took
over control. Since then, it has been fully available for implementing the
Government's agricultural policies and programs, and has become increasingly



- 6 -
dependent on Government subsidies. By far the major primary source of insti-
tutional credit for agriculture is the Principal Bank for Development and
Agricultural Credit (PBDAC) and its affiliated Banks for Development and
Agricultural Credit-(BDACs) in 17 governorates, which in turn have some
5,300 branches, most of them in villages. The four public sector commercial
banks which provide limited direct financing for agriculture are a secondary
source, lending to the agricultural banking system from time to time.
1.16      The present status of the agricultural banking system derives from
the PBDAC Act, Law No. 117 of September 1976, whose objectives include resto-
ration of the system's financial viability and enlargement of its organization
and resource base. Two major organizational changes were introduced by the
Act, viz the establishment of an extensive branch bank network reaching into
the villages, and the authority to deal directly with farmers, without manda-
tory cooperative intermediation, for credit, input supply and crop procurement.
This has resulted in rapidly increasing numbers of individual farmer accounts
and transactions. It is clearly the intent of this Act, and this is borne out
by subsequent Government actions, that PBDAC should be turned into a full
fledged development bank and in particular that its capacity for medium and
long term lending should be strengthened. It is the principal objective of
this project to assist in this reform.
1.17      The agricultural banking system continues to be highly centralized,
with administrative powers concentrated in the Ministry of Agriculture and, to
a smaller extent, in PBDAC. The system makes short term production credits as
predetermined by the Ministry on standard cost estimates of inputs and labor,
by crops and area. Medium term investment loans of up to ten years are made
primarily on security considerations, which are very stringent. The system
does little project appraisal or supervision, as normally understood, for any
lending. For supply and marketing, the banking system works on an agency
basis, receiving commissions which are fixed annually by the Government for
each input or crop.
1.18      The bulk of the agricultural banks' lending, 95% to 99% by amount,
has been in the form of short term loans for periods up to 14 months for pro-
duction and livestock. Despite its large volume, short term lending has
stagnated in the past five years at slightly over the LE 80 million level, due
to the rigid manner in which credit needs are determined by the Government and
since the banks have no active lending program. Medium term lending has been
for purposes such as purchase of farm machinery, orchard, livestock and land
development and construction of farm buildings. The highest annual level
achieved in medium term lending has been only LE 1.7 million. The agricul-
tural banking system currently charges interest at the rate of 3% per year on
short term loans plus a fixed administrative fee of twenty per 1,000 units
of loans, which together amount to 5.4% on a nine-month loan, the average
lending period. Since the agricultural banks are now paying 8% interest on
their borrowings, there is a 5% loss on short term lending assuming that the
fixed fee covers administrative expenses. The Government is committed in
principle to compensating for such losses, but in practice delayed payments
have been the rule. The current interest rate on medium term loans is 9%,
as compared to 7% in 1975. This is more or less in line with rates charged
by other Government-owned financial institutions in Egypt.



- 7 -
1.19      The trading activities of the agricultural banking system, i.e. pro-
curement and supply of inputs and collection and disposal of crops, are its
predominant operations in physical and financial terms, amounting to about
LE 300 million annually and occupying the bulk of its staff. Inputs are
supplied in kind to farmers, who are required to sell their quota outputs
through the banks and repay outstanding loans from the proceeds. In this way,
credit, marketing and loan collection are interlinked.
1.20      The agricultural banks have an elaborate and generally satisfactory
accounting system which is, however, not geared to generating basic management
information including those on loan portfolio, arrears, costing of individual
types of operations and other financial indicators. Some of the accounting
practices or principles followed are at variance with internationally accepted
accounting principles, e.g. in the treatment of accrued interest and of com-
modity stocks held on behalf of the Government. Statutory audit of the
accounts of PBDAC and BDACs is carried out by the State Audit Authority, which
is essentially an administrative audit. At the Bank's request in 1977, the
Government authorized a commercial audit and financial review of the agricul-
tural credit system by an independent firm of public accountants, whose
findings in regard to the consolidated accounts of the system through 1976
have been used in this report.
1.21      The financial condition of the agricultural credit system as of
the end of 1976 was extremely poor, with accumulated losses totalling about
LE 60 million as against just over LE 2 million in capital and reserves.
Among the factors responsible for losses are negative margins on short term
credit operations not fully compensated by the Government, inadequate com-
missions on trading operations, delays by Government agencies in settling
outstanding accounts related to trading, high loan default rates and periodic
debt write-off or rescheduling under Government instructions. The accumulated
losses themselves erode earnings as interest bearing funds have to be borrowed
instead. Provisions for bad and doubtful debts totalling LE 27 million were
judged to be adequate by the accountants, although no detailed analysis could
be made of the loan portfolio. As much as LE 37.7 million or 45% of the
LE 83 million in loans outstanding to farmers had been rescheduled on Govern-
ment instructions for repayment over 15 years. The Government has not compen-
sated PBDAC in this respect. Another outstanding obligation is for loans
amounting to about LE 14 million which the Government had asked to be written
off. To add to the burden, a Government subsidy against losses was made
available to PBDAC in 1975 as a loan at 5% interest rate, rather than a grant
payment. The Government has recently decided on corrective measures relating
to the last two matters (para. 4.08).
1.22      There have been certain hopeful developments recently.  The inde-
pendent audit of PBDAC, a departure from usual practice for public enterprises,
is one indication of the Government's increasing concern over the mounting
losses of the agricultural credit system. Second, commissions on commercial
activities, which are reviewed annually, have been increased so that in 1977
an overall profit is expected, with losses on only three out of eight types
of activities. Third, PBDAC has put into effect a more rigorous lending
policy especially to deal with persistent defaulters. Finally, loan collection
efforts have been stepped up, backed by an incentive system. The loan recovery



-8-
ratio (of loans collected to loans due for repayment in that year) increased
from 70% in 1974 to 79% in 1976.
Agricultural Extension and Research
1.23      As with credit, the cooperatives until recently have been the most
important channel for getting extension advice to the farmer, with the local
cooperative manager at the village level acting as the official spokesman of
the Ministry of Agriculture on extension matters. Since he was also the
official spokesman on other matters of Government policy, his extension role
was not always very effective. As a result the system was reorganized in
1976 with the objective of creating a cadre of village agents to replace
the cooperative manager. The emphasis of the reorganization was on improving
effectiveness at the field level. Progress in implementing the reorganization
has been slow, so that most of the existing shortcomings continue. It would
be an important component of the Project to help the Government accelerate
it implementation in the two selected Governorates, particularly in trying
to create conditions in which the village agent can operate more effectively.
1.24      Both extension and research services are hierachically organized
and highly centralized. Despite the elaborate structure in the governorates
and districts, there is very little decentralization. Decisions are taken
at the national level and are expected to be implemented without flexibility
or expectation of feedback. Individual initiatives are not encouraged.
1.25      As with other services, there is a severe shortage of transportation
and equipment which particularly affects the work of extension. Mobility
of extension workers is also affected by lack of housing except for a limited
number of senior staff. Village extension agents, therefore, are posted
near their home area and have to arrange their own transport, which generally
results in irregular attendance and infrequent meetings with farmers. Staff
motivation and morale are low.
1.26      Communications and links between extension and research are very
poor and, at the field level, nonexistent. Researchers work in isolation from
production problems. Some of the recommendations made by the main Research
Institute at Giza are conveyed to the Ministry of Agriculture's Extension
Department and often converted into work programs for the governorates.
However, execution has been usually weak and there is no feedback of results.
In brief, the extension services have been of very little value to farmers
and research needs much greater contact with farm problems if it is to be
more effective. The British Government through its Agricultural Training
Board is providing considerable assistance in training extension workers.
The present project will help to make these trained workers more mobile and
improve their working conditions.
Agricultural Mechanization
1.27      Despite the high population density in the cultivated areas mechani-
zation of certain key operations, especially land preparation, has been
spreading in Egypt for some time particularly since 1963 when local tractor
assembly began.  Until the end of August 1977, 27,000 tractors of the 50-65 hp



- 9 -
'range had been either imported (35%) mostly from USSR, or locally assembled
(65%).  Of these about 21,000 are less than ten years old, although how many
are actually still in operation is unknown. The rate of increase has acceler-
ated in recent years, from only about 1,300 annually before 1974 to 2,700 in
1974 and 3,600 in 1977.  About 14% of these are in non-agricultural use.  A
survey indicated that about 75% of tractors were in private hands, 11% owned
by cooperatives and 14% in the public sector. The Government estimates that
30% of all land preparation and 20% of threshing is now mechanized.
1.28      A dual pricing system for tractors has prevailed over the last
years. The official rate (US$1 = LE .39) was applied to tractor imports from
"iclearing currency areas", mostly Eastern European countries, and the parallel
market rate (US$1 = LE 0.70) to imports from other areas. As a result of this
rate structure imports at the official rate cleared the market easily while
imports at the parallel rate faced a sluggish market. Recently, tractor
imports from clearing currency areas have been stopped and all tractors will
in future be priced at the parallel rate thereby eliminating the dual system.
1.29      The Government's policy as stated in the current Five Year Plan
is to secure a gradual expansion of agricultural mechanization so as to
liberate animals from agricultural labor and humans from "drudgery" for
productive employment in industry. The target is to achieve full mechaniza-
tion of primary tillage by 1985. This would require an increase of 3,500
tractors annually to reach a total of 35,000 tractors in operation. The
present project therefore, is in line with the Government's development
objectives. The Government is negotiating with an international firm to
expand local assembly/manufacture of tractors but imports are likely to be
required for a few years yet.
1.30      The Government's policy towards mechanization must be examined in
both medium and long term perspectives to reconcile the apparent contradiction
between encouragement of mechanization and the agricultural and demographic
circumstances. Water was once considered the limiting factor in Egyptian
development, but the High Aswan Dam has shifted the focus, for the time
being, to land. The indications are that land, rather than water, will be
the binding constraint in the foreseeable future, especially because of the
predicted growth in population to some 59 million by AD 2000. Against this
background, mechanization is viewed as a land-saving measure. Animals have
long been the sole or main alternative to manual labor in Egyptian agricul-
ture: they have provided traction for cultivation and transport, power for
pumping, and even trample cereals to thresh grain. It is estimated that as
much as a quarter of Egypt's cropped area is devoted to feeding animals.
Up to 2-2.5 milion feddans could be freed for other uses if most of the draft
animals were replaced by other sources of energy--petroleum, hydroelectric or
maybe, looking farther in the future, one of Egypt's most plentiful resources,
sunshine. How the country would use this extra land is far from clear at this
time, partly because the recent experience has been one of poor service so that
farmers have not had sufficient confidence in farm machinery to make dramatic
changes, and partly because until this project there has been no comprehensive
attempt to satisfy the farmers' power needs for cultivation, transport, pumping



- 10 -
and threshing. However it is clear that there are several alternative uses,
viz grains, higher value food or export crops, or even more productive live-
stock management. The project, by providing comprehensive mechanization in
two Governorates, would assist Government planners by revealing farmers'
reaction to the changes and suggesting what concurrent changes are needed to
influence the optimum use of the freed land.
1.31      In the medium term tractor cultivation raises practical problems and,
like water pumping and threshing, raises socio-economic questions concerning
labor displacement and appropriate technology. It is often suggested that
the small farm size is a practical impediment to tractors. This is not so,
in Egyptian circumstances, where tractors are most commonly hired out for
custom work. For many reasons--not the least of which is pest control--it
is desirable to grow cotton in large contiguous blocks, a practice whose
advantages were recognized before tractors were introduced. The real prac-
tical problem is the low standard of maintenance, the shortage of spares,
and the generally poor management of machinery. These issues would be
tackled by the proposed project. The social aspects of labor displacement
are far from clear since the national picture is confused by local and
seasonal shortages in rural areas.
1.32      Finally, while there is little doubt about the appropriate levels
of technology for pumps and threshers, there are unanswered questions about
the most appropriate technology for cultivating equipment, specifically the
problem overcoming the comparative inefficiency of locally made implements.
This problem is twofold, first, finding durable designs which will have the
desired, yield-improvement effect on the soil; and second, matching these
implements to available sizes of tractor. This is a national problem to
which the project will provide inputs of experience.
Previous Bank Projects in Agriculture
1.33      The Bank's agricultural lending in Egypt has, until recently, been
confined to drainage of the old lands in order to counteract the effects
of rising water tables and increasing salinity resulting from additional
water supplies made available by the High Dam. Four such projects have so
far been financed (CR 181-EGT of FY70, CR 393-EGT of FY73, CR 637/LN1285-EGT
of FY76 and LN 1440-EGT of FY77). These form part of a long term Government
program which will eventually extend to the whole cultivated area. They have
been beset by many problems, mostly managerial and financial rather than
technical, which have greatly delayed their implementation. The first project
is likely to take nearly twice as long to complete as originally planned.
However, recent improvements, particularly the greater concern of Government
to see the drainage program implemented more rapidly and its willingness to
allocate adequate local currency to make this possible, give hope that some
of the lost time will be made up. The labor intensive construction methods
originally adopted have had to be supplemented by mechanical drain laying
in the face of labor shortages in project areas, thus reinforcing the case
for mechanization of some agricultural operations. Assistance to strengthen
the extension services' ability to advise farmers on drainage matters was
provided through these projects but this has not so far been effectively



- 11 -
utilized, largely due to lack of coordination between the different Ministries
involved, but this situation has recently improved. Initial results of the
effects of drainage on crop yields show yield increases of 25% for wheat and
maize and 32% for rice, three years after the installation of field drainage,
which are higher than appraisal estimates.
1.34      A Fruit and Vegetable Project in FY76 (1276-T-EGT) is the only
other project directly in the agricultural sector. This was aimed at
increasing and improving horticultural production and exports, and building
institutions related to horticultural production and marketing. The insti-
tution building aspects have gone slower and been more difficult than expected
and intensive supervision is being used to assist implementation.
1.35      Four other Bank group projects have also assisted the agricultural
sector in a number of ways. An Agricultural and Industrial Imports Project
(CR 524 and LN 1062 of FY75) financed imports of feedstuffs, pesticides and
machinery spare parts. It also financed the import of 695 agricultural
tractors. A fertilizer project (CR 484 of FY74) financed the expansion of
urea capacity and when it comes on stream in 1979 will make Egypt virtually
self-sufficient in nitrogeneous fertilizers. A Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation
Project (CR 423 of FY73) financed the first of a three phase program for
modernizing the cotton ginning industry. This has suffered from delays in
civil works construction and heavy inflation of local costs with the result
that it is likely to be completed at least two years behind schedule. A
Regional Electrification Project (LN 1453 of FY77) will provide power for
irrigation water pumping among other uses. The Bank is also Executing Agency
for a UNDP Project planning the future utilization of water resources in
Egypt.
II. THE PROJECT AREA
General Features
2.01      Project activities would be confined to two governorates:  Menufiya
in the Nile Delta and Sohag in the Nile Valley. Since this was envisaged as
a pilot project they were selected as typical of conditions in the Delta and
in Upper Egypt respectively. They represent two distinct agricultural zones
with different levels of development. Menufiya's total cultivated area is
323,000 feddans. Its capital, Shibin-El-Kom is located 75 km north of Cairo.
The Menufiya governorate has eight districts and 308 main villages (Map IBRD
13363). Sohag's total cultivated area is 287,000 feddans. Its capital, Sohag
is located 440 km south of Cairo.  The Sohag governorate has 11 districts and
282 main villages. (Map IBRD 13364.) Menufiya governorate is more prosperous
than Sohag.
2.02      The climate in the two areas is generally dry, with hot summer and
cool winter. Rainfall is about 35 mm in Menufiya and negligible in Sohag.
In Menufiya average winter temperatures range from 6°C at night to 23 C during
the day, while summer temperatures range from 19 C at night to 35 C during the



- 12 -
day. Sohag's climate is fractionally warmer with average winter temperatures
ranging from 5 0C at night to 250C during the day and summer temperatures from
210C at night to 38 0C during the day.
2.03      The topography in both Governorates is generally flat due to centu-
ries of sediment deposited during the inundation season by the Nile. There is
a gentle average slope from south to north of 7-8 cm per km. Topographic
surveys have been extensive and maps at a scale of 1:25,000 with ground level
contour interval of 0.5 meter are available.
2.04      Soils in both Governorates are formed from alluvial deposit.  They
are of fine texture, tending to be slightly coarser in Sohag. The alluvium
layer averages 8-10 meters in depth. The sediments have come from the
weathering of igneous rocks and are rich in plant nutrients such as potassium,
calcium, magnesium, iron and to a lesser extent phosphorus. About 73% of the
cultivated area in Menufiya and 71% in Sohag have soils belonging to Classes I
and II. Their productivity is high, and they can support good crops. In
Sohag, because of lack of appropriate drainage, salinity is becoming a problem
in some areas, although this is now coming under control as a result of
drainage projects, financed by the Bank.
Irrigation
2.05      Agricultural production in either governorate is not possible without
irrigation. Water reaches the fields through a complex network of earth canals,
some of them being navigable. The current water turn system in Menufiya is
seven days supply and seven days closed from May 15 to September 15 and five
days supply and ten days closed for the rest of the year. In Sohag the system
is seven days supply and seven days closed throughout the year.
2.06      Most of the irrigation canals have their water level well below the
ground surface. Farmers have to lift the water from the canals. It is esti-
mated that out of 323,000 and 287,000 feddans cultivated in Menufiya and Sohag
only 25,000 and 65,000 feddans respectively are irrigated by gravity. For the
irrigation of the remaining lands farmers are obliged to use water lifting
devices as shown below:



- 13 -
Menufiya                      Sohag
Number       Irrig.         Number        Irrig.
of         Area             of          Area
Units         Fed.          Units          Fed.
Water wheels (saqias)            16,700       200,000         3,440        40,000
Portable pumps                    2,280)                        310)
Stationary pumps                    120)       98,000         3,560)      182,000
Electric pumps                       30)                         60)
Subtotal                           298,000                     222,000
Gravity irrigation                             25,000                      65,000
Total                              323,000                     287,000
Water wheels, the traditional "saqia", are operated by animals (cows or buffa-
loes). Normally one animal is used; saqias serving larger areas need two
animals. The area served by each saqia varies from 4 to 35 feddans, the
average being 12 feddans. The replacement of these by mechanical pumps is
a long-term Government objective which will be supported by the Project.
Portable centrifugal pumps, mostly powered by diesel engines, are the prin-
cipal mechanical means for lifting water from the canals. Most of these pumps
are in the 10 to 15 hp range with the smaller sizes being more common. Most
of the stationary pumps are in Sohag. They were installed more than 35 years
ago to lift groundwater from wells before the introduction of perennial
irrigation. They are still in use because of their convenience since they
make the farmers independent of the water turn system. Most of them are
obsolete models. Spare parts are not available and operational costs high.
2.07      Water management at the field level has received little attention
from the Government in the past. Most of the efforts made were limited
to water use research which, in spite of relevant results, did not find its
way to the farmers. The main reason is that the Extension Service, under
the present structure, does not cover matters related to irrigation or
drainage practices, and there is poor collaboration between the Ministries
of Agriculture and Irrigation in solving their joint problems at the farm
level. Farmers in general tend to over-irrigate their land resulting in
waterlogging conditions which, without a proper drainage system, have serious
deleterious effects on root growth and plant development. A water management
program is now under preparation with technical assistance provided by USAID
in collaboration with the Ministry of Irrigation and the Ministry of Agri-
culture.
2.08      Water use depends on the location and cropping pattern.  It is
estimated that, following the introduction of perennial irrigation, the
average annual gross amount of water used per feddan is 6,000 m3 and the
average number of applications 13.



- 14 -
Drainage
2.09      The increase in the total quantity of irrigation water diverted and
applied annually following the construction of the Aswan Dam, resulted in a
parallel increase in the need for drainage water to be removed from the area.
The natural drainage process has not been able to function to the degree
desired. The result has been a rise of the water table, following each water
application, to 60 cm or less from the surface. This is too close to the
surface for the optimum development of the rooting system of many crops. In
addition, salts tend to build up in the surface soil layers because of the
rise of the saline groundwater.
2.10      Works for installation of an efficient drainage system in Egypt were
started by the Government in 1960 and have been supported by the Bank since
1970.  These works are being carried out by the Egyptian Public Authority
for Drainage Projects, part of the Ministry of Irrigation. In Menufiya, out
of a total area of 323,000 feddans, about 230,000 feddans (71%) have already
been provided with a tile drainage system. The remaining 93,000 feddans, will
be provided with tile drainage within two years. In Sohag, out of the total
of 287,000 feddans, 163,000 feddans only need drainage of which about 40,000
feddans have already been provided with tile drainage system. The remaining
123,000 feddans will be provided with tile drainage within two years. There-
fore it is expected that, by the end of 1979, the drainage problem, which is
a serious constraint in agricultural production, will be totally solved in
the project area. The snail borne disease bilharzia is prevalent throughout
the project area as a result of sluggish water flows in the irrigation and
drainage systems and is a major public health hazard. In Sohag governorate
the problem is likely to be controlled over the next few years as a result
of a bilharzia control program financed under the Bank's Nile Delta Drainage
II project. No control program is in operation in Menufiya Governorate,
since satisfactory chemotherapy for controlling one of the schistosomes
found in the Delta, but not found in Upper Egypt has not yet been developed
and controlling the host molluscs is ineffective in reducing the incidence of
disease without it.
Agricultural Production
2.11      Farm production in both governorates is based on providing food-
grains for local consumption, fodder for dual purpose animals, and cash
crops for sale and to meet government production quotas. The staple food-
grain in Menufiya is summer maize where it occupies 64.5% of the summer
crops area (Table 1). In Sohag the hotter, less humid climate favors sorghum
which is planted on 53.2% of the summer area with maize falling to only 17.2%.
The major winter grain is wheat with a minor amount of barley. Together they
account for 29% of the winter crop area in Menufiya and 43.2% in Sohag. Wheat
is important for off-farm sales to urban consumers.
2.12      Animal fodder production is dominated by berseem (Egyptian Clover)
which accounts for 68% of the fall-planted crops in Menufiya and 42% in
Sohag. It can either be grown as a short-term crop, in which case it only
provides one cut of fodder but can be followed by cotton, or else it can be
kept on to provide four cuts of fodder and often a seed crop as well, but in



- 15 -
this case can only be followed by a summer grain such as maize or sorghum. In
Sohag the short-term practice predominates whereas in Menufiya the reverse is
the case. Summer feed is provided by leaf strippings and thinnings from the
growing crops and by straws and brans from harvested material.
2.13      The predominant cash crop in both governorates is cotton.  The
relative plantings are 23% of the area in Menufiya and 28% in Sohag. Other
important cash crops are broad beans, sesame and onions in Sohag and horti-
cultural crops in Menufiya. Production quotas on various crops have been in
force but are currently limited to cotton and wheat.
2.14      A standardized rotation of two or three years' duration is prac-
ticed, with the latter most common. The rotation is followed in order to
provide a fertility balance in the soil as well as to give a mixture of
products for the varying purposes in any one year. The usual rotation begins
with a short-term crop of berseem in the first winter followed by cotton in
the summer; in the second winter a long-term of berseem is grown followed
by a summer grain such as sorghum, maize, rice or millet. In the third year
the sequence is completed by a winter crop of wheat or barley followed again
by a summer grain. Another major purpose of the rotation is pest control.
Control of the cotton leaf worm is a major problem and initial pest popula-
tions are kept low if cotton does not follow cotton on the same land and if
planting of the alternate winter host, which is berseem, is delayed.  Yields
are slightly higher in Menufiya with advantage in quantity and quality of
cotton. Yields of cotton have recently declined in both areas. This is not
due to cyclical fluctuations but it should be attributed to low controlled
cotton prices that discourage intensive cultivation.
2.15      Animal production is traditionally centered around meat, milk and
provision of draft for crops. However, specialist meat producers are beginning
to emerge under government sponsored programs. The number of mature female
cattle and buffalo are estimated at 78,000 and 165,000 in Menufiya and 74,000
and 131,000 in Sohag respectively. Statistics on animal performance are scant
but well documented evidence and yield observations point to a major shortage
and imbalance in animal feedstuffs. Output in terms of milk and meat is
low with some 300 litres/working cow as an annual average for milk with a
65% calving rate and perhaps 400 litres/working buffalo with a 45% calving
rate.
Farm Mechanization
2.16      Supply of tractors in the two project areas followed the national
pattern. After a slow start, the inflows of tractors has picked up between
1974 and 1977 in particular in Menufiya. Mechanization of primary tillage has
reached 32% in Sohag and 49% in Menufiya. By the end of 1977, 1,049 tractors
operated in Menufiya and 673 in Sohag. More than 95% of the tractors are in
the 50-65 hp category.
2.17      Field observations indicate that, due to a low level of maintenance
and repair, shortage of spare parts and untrained operators, the reliability



- 16 -
coefficient (probability for a tractor to be operable when needed) is on
average 0.50. Moreover, due to frequent movements from one field to the other
and lack of experience of operators, the field efficiency for ploughing (ratio
between area actually ploughed and area resulting from the tractor speed
multiplied by the implements' width) does not exceed 0.50 in average. Based
on the above assumptions, it is estimated that about half the crop area in
Menufiya and one third in Sohag could be ploughed with the existing tractors.
Moreover, unless the existing tractor fleet is progressively replaced as it
becomes worn out, this area will decrease over the next decade to around zero
(Tables 3 and 4 and charts C3 and C4). Maintenance facilities are essentially
confined to the repair workshops of private dealers which tend to be central-
ized in the bigger towns. Rural repair facilities are scarce.
2.18      The main implement currently used for primary tillage with tractors
is the chisel plough. Most of the existing chisel ploughs are locally manu-
factured. They are in a poor state of repair and of poor design, not suitable
for preparing a proper seedbed. Thus, under the existing conditions, the only
advantage in using mechnical ploughing, as opposed to animal ploughing, is the
lower cost. The use of improved design chisel ploughs would improve the
quality of seedbed preparation.
2.19      Tractors, mainly owned by private individuals, are increasingly used
for transport. Ministry of Agriculture records show a total of 475 4-wheel,
4-ton capacity trailers in Menufiya and 370 in Sohag. It is estimated that
this is enough to cater to about 40% of the total transport demand. Trans-
portation of people with tractor/trailer is common and felt to be significant
but there are no data available from any source to indicate the amount of use
per annum for this purpose.
2.20      The locally made threshers do not separate the grain from straw.
This operation is done either by hand operated winnowing fans or manually with
winnowing baskets. This threshing system accounts for considerable losses of
grain, estimated at 10%. At present there are 233 thresher units in Menufiya
and 156 units in Sohag. Assuming 60-day season, these could thresh 20,000
feddans of wheat in Menufiya (24%) and 13,000 feddans in Sohag (11%). Threshers
recently started to be used for threshing sorghum in Sohag but there are no
data available to indicate the amount of use.
2.21      There are at present 162 mechanical sprayers in Menufiya and 328 in
Sohag. They are mostly imported models of 600 liters capacity and powered
by small auxiliary engines, used almost exclusively to apply chemicals to
cotton. Because of the present practice of planting cotton at 60 cm row
spacing, it is not possible to use the sprayers with booms, which would travel
through the field behind a tractor. Therefore, the sprayers are towed to the
edge of the cotton fields by animals or tractors, and spraying is done by
laborers through long plastic hoses. Sprayers are supplemented by aircraft
spraying and by some 7,800 knapsack sprayers in Menufiya and 13,800 in Sohag.
It is estimated that the combination of these three spraying methods is
reaching 100% of the cotton pest control in the two Governorates. Many of
the mechanical sprayers are reaching the end of their working life and need
to be replaced.



- 17 -
2.22      Public sector including cooperatives presently own about 30% of
the total machinery in the project area, while the remaining 70% is owned
by the private sector. Both use the machinery on a hire service basis.
Most individual farm machinery owners are also farmers and use the machinery
on their own land as well as providing custom service to other farmers.
Cooperative hire charges are lower than those of private custom operators;
both are below rates which would be required with current tractor prices.
2.23      Spraying of agricultural chemicals, subsidized by about 50%, is
always carried out by the Ministry of Agriculture or by cooperatives under
the supervision of the Ministry. Private owners of tractors/trailers appear
to provide the greater part of transport services for agricultural inputs and
outputs. They also provide virtually all the service with tractors and
trailers for transporting people.
2.24      Although animal power still prevails in the project area there is
only a limited amount of animal hire service. For the most part, farmers
either own sufficient animals or they exchange with neighbors or relatives to
acquire the animals required for draft purpose. The current hire charges for
ploughing with animal powered traditional plough is twice as high as the hire
charge for machinery services.
Population, Land Use and Land Tenure
2.25      According to 1976 census, the population in Menufiya is 1,711,000
(4.6% of the country) of whom 337,000 live in urban areas and 1,374,000 in
rural areas. In Sohag the population is 1,925,000 (5.25% of the country)
of whom 405,000 live in urban areas and 1,520,000 in rural areas. The nucleus
family predominates and the average family size is just over five persons.
The social and cultural patterns in rural areas of these two governorates are
typical of the country as a whole.
2.26      In the project areas land use and tenure patterns are similar to
those prevailing in the country as a whole. In Menufiya and Sohag, 209,000
and 202,000 owners hold on the average 1.55 and 1.42 feddans respectively.
In fact many small owners are incapable of running profitably plots which
often cover less than 1 feddan. As a result they have to rent out their
land and this enables some farm operators to build up economical farm units
averaging 3 feddans. The small owners often stay on their land as hired
laborers.
Extension Service
2.27      Extension services in both governorates are understaffed, Sohag more
severely than Menufiya, where 37 villages (12%) do not have village extension
agents as compared to 185 villages (65%) in Sohag. Specialist staff are all
agronomists but there are no animal husbandry, irrigation practice or farm
management specialists. Conforming to the national patterns, extension
workers in the two governorates are poorly motivated and lowly paid. Mobility
is limited because of a shortage of Government provided transport and poor



- 18 -
housing. Therefore, attendance is irregular, affecting the creditability of
extension staff with farmers. Better transport and accommodation would go a
long way to make the job of village agent more attractive although low pay
scales are probably the major deterrent.
Agricultural Cooperatives
2.28      Menufiya and Sohag are well covered by agricultural multipurpose
cooperative societies, of which there were 272 and 282, respectively as of
1977. Menufiya also had 12 specialized societies and Sohag only one, indi-
cating the latter's lower level of development. The total membership of
the societies was around 250,000 in each governorate of whom over 90% were
officially registered "active". In fact the proportion of active members
is estimated to be considerably less. The Department of Cooperatives, which
has certain supervisory and assistance roles, is well staffed in the two
governorates. The Department appoints managers for the multipurpose soci-
eties.
2.29      Cooperatives in the project area are organized on the same lines as
those in other parts of the country. They face comparable problems, including
some uncertainty regarding their future role and lack of management for under-
taking complex services or production operations.  The boards of the societies
are controlled by the rural elite, who are usually the main beneficiaries of
services, such as tractor hire.  About 80% and 60% of cooperatives in Menufiya
and Sohag respectively owned tractors in 1977, but these were not operational
for fairly long periods in the year because repair facilities are grossly
inadequate. With about one tractor per 900 members and operating only some
300 hours per year, cooperatives are able to serve only a fraction of their
members' requirements. At best about 20% of members receive tractor services
and then only for a part of their needs. With these services being provided
at subsidized rates, it is not to be wondered at that the lands of the more
influential farmers tend to be ploughed first. There is thus a brisk demand
for private tractor services.
Agricultural Credit
2.30      The project areas are served by two BDACs in Sohag and Menufiya
governorates, respectively. They have characteristics similar to those for
the agricultural credit system indicated in Chapter I. Although the BDACs are
separate entities by law, for all practical purposes they are like branches of
PBDAC since very little management authority has been delegated to them. The
BDAC for Menufiya is located in the City of Shebin-El-Kom. It has 8 branches,
38 village banks and 308 agencies; total loans outstanding at the end of 1976
were LE 2.9 million. The BDAC for Sohag, located in Sohag city, has 11 bran-
ches, 49 village banks and 282 agencies; total loans outstanding at the end
of 1976 were LE 5.2 million.
Marketing, Transportation, Storage
2.31      As in the rest of the country, the marketing system is composed
of a mixture of official and private enterprises. Administered prices and



- 19 -
compulsory sales to the village banks characterize the official side of
marketing which handles cotton exclusively and specified proportions of wheat
and rice. Parallel to the official market exists the "free village market"
for over-quota amounts of produce, which typically offers higher prices than
the official marketing channels.
2.32      Transportation does not pose a serious limitation.  The road and
railway systems, together with water transport on the Nile, provide satis-
factory connections with major consumption centers and ports. For the trans-
port of agricultural products from the field to the farmers' villages,
animals (camels, donkeys) and to a less extent tractors with trailers are
used. Trucks and tractors with trailers are the most common means for the
transport of outputs/inputs to and from marketing centers.
2.33      Storage for agricultural outputs/inputs is the responsibility of
the BDACs and village banks. Most of the products delivered to them by
farmers are kept in open stores. Due to the dry climate losses are not
excessive. Inputs (fertilizer and seeds) are in principle kept in closed
stores, but because of the limited storage capacity and bad storage condi-
tions, losses are often considerable, estimated on average at 4%.
III. THE PROJECT
3.01      Ever since the completion of the Aswan High Dam made enough irriga-
tion water available both for perennial irrigation of the existing cultivated
area (the "old lands") as well as for extension of cultivation into "new lands"
up to about 1972, Government investment concentrated on the "new lands" and
neglected the "old". Rising water tables and increasing salinity in the old
lands have made a massive investment in drainage imperative there and in
the last four years investment in the old lands in general has increased
considerably. Analyses of the likely returns on investment in the old com-
pared with the new lands by the Bank and other agencies have indicated that
the returns would be higher in the old lands. This project evolved out of
the interest of the Government and the Bank Group in further stimulating
agricultural investments in the old lands. The project is of a pilot nature
which seeks effective forms of investments and mechanization, in particular
for these densely populated areas. The project as designed adheres closely to
Government's objective of mechanization of primary tillage of all crops in the
country within ten years. It is also consistent with the Bank's sector work
on Egypt (Sector Paper 931b-EGT of March 18, 1976) in which reference is made
to the benefits which mechanization can have on livestock production, to the
need for development of a coherent mechanization policy and to improvement of
the credit, cooperative and extension systems.
Project Objectives
3.02      The major objectives of the proposed project are:



- 20 -
(a)  to initiate a process of restructuring and strengthening of
agricultural extension, credit and cooperative institutions
to enable them to become genuine promoters of economic
development and of the interest of small farmers;
(b)  to increase crop and livestock production and productivity
and farm incomes through carefully designed farm mechaniza-
tion, for the benefit mostly of smallholder farmers,
relieving human drudgery and releasing animals from work,
with a minimal adverse impact on employment;
(c)  to carry out machinery testing activities and pilot trials
in covered irrigation, to study and demonstrate advanced farm
machinery and irrigation systems for future use; and
(d)  to evaluate the impact of mechanization on land use, live-
stock and employment, leading inter alia to policy pre-
scriptions and preparation of development projects.
3.03      While the project is restricted to two governorates, there would be
demonstration effects that would become the basis for policy improvements with
a nationwide impact.
Project Description
3.04      The project would finance investments during 1979-82 in farm mechani-
zation and water lifting for irrigation in the governorates of Menufiya and
Sohag, pilot farms and rural stores in these areas, and technical assistance
for establishing project monitoring and evaluation, and towards strengthening
of the agricultural extension service, cooperatives and the agricultural credit
system; initiate measures towards financial rehabilitation and planning for
development of the agricultural credit system; and finance project preparation.
3.05      The farm mechanization component would comprise financing for the
following:
(a)  Approximately 1,000 tractors and accessory equipment consist-
ing of 1,000 each of chisel ploughs and land levellers, 100
reversible mouldboard ploughs and 300 furrowers. This equip-
ment is projected to meet certain mechanization needs in the
governorates during the first four year time slice of a
ten year program of mechanization.
(b)  580 threshing units, 300 pest control spraying units, and
500 4-wheel trailers to supplement transport capacity.
(c)  Spare parts for the above equipment.
(d)  Establishment of new repair and maintenance facilities for
agricultural equipment and upgrading of existing facilities;
and an intensive training program for machinery operators.



- 21 -
3.06      The project would also provide equipment for the modernization of
water lifting for irrigation consisting of 2,000 small diesel (5 to 6 hp) and
2,000 electrical (3 to 4 hp) pumps to replace traditional animal drawn water
wheels; 300 larger electrical pumps of 10 to 20 hp to replace old stationary
diesel pumps; and construction of 200 kms of electrical lines of 11 kv with
transformers, needed to connect these new load points with the extensive power
system in the two governorates.
3.07      Pilot schemes under the project would be in two fields:
(a)  one experimental mechanized farm in each of the two governorates
equipped with a package of farm machinery including small size
tractors and accessories, to carry out adaptive trials and
demonstrations, train extension and cooperative staff, and
develop guidelines for future mechanization; and
(b)  a pilot irrigation scheme covering 2,600 feddans in Menufiya
to study the use of large pumps at canal heads for gravity
distribution of irrigation water through buried pipelines.
3.08      The project would finance the construction of about 380 stores of
simple design for seeds and fertilizer.
3.09      Institutional reform nationally and in the project area would be
supported and supplemented under the project by a variety of technical assis-
tance involving a total of about 180 manmonths of consultancy services, as
follows:
(a)  a farm mechanization specialist for the experimental mechanized
farms and an irrigation engineer for the pilot irrigation scheme
(12 and 6 manmonths respectively);
(b)  for the agricultural extension services two consultants, one
to develop appropriate extension packages and initiate adaptive
research, and the other to assist in organizing monitoring and
evaluation and training (24 manmonths);
(c)  three consultants to assist agricultural cooperatives:  one
management specialist for the Ministry of Agriculture to
assist in the strengthening of cooperative management and
financial resources, and two specialists in farm machinery
management to advise central cooperatives of the two gover-
norates on technical matters and training (48 manmonths);
(d)  a consulting firm or group of consultants to assist the
agricultural credit system through PBDAC in evaluating and
supervising term lending and in setting up a monitoring
and evaluation system (30 manmonths), and a second con-
sulting firm or group of consultants to assist PBDAC in



- 22 -
studying key problems relating to the organization, policies,
finances and operations of the agricultural credit system
(36 manmonths); and
(e)  a group or groups of consultants to assist in the estab-
lishment and operation of a monitoring and evaluation unit
attached to the national project coordination committee (24
manmonths).
3.10      To support the institutions, the project would also provide funds
for the following:
(a)  vehicles totaling approximately 42 pickup trucks, 4 micro
buses, and 400 motorcycles between the institutions;
(b)  office equipment for agricultural cooperatives, agricul-
tural credit system, and coordination committees;
(c)  for the extension service, construction of some 100 new
houses mainly in Sohag, and demonstration/research equip-
ment; and
(d)  fellowships for the agricultural credit system, and for
instructors for farm machinery operators, for training
abroad.
3.11      Project preparation would be funded through the project in two ways:
(a)  Technical asisstance to the Animal Husbandry Department
of the Ministry of Agriculture to carry out studies on
livestock production, forage crops and animal nutrition
and husbandry, in the context of release from work through
mechanization of animals under this project, leading to
the preparation of livestock development projects suitable
for Bank Group financing. A group or firm of consultants
would be employed for 30 manmonths for this purpose.
(b)  Preparation of a credit type project suitable for Bank
Group financing to be undertaken by the second group of
consultants to PBDAC indicated in para 3.09(d).
Project Features
3.12      Farm mechanization.  Project machinery would assist in the mechaniza-
tion of seedbed preparation, threshing and pest control; the tractors would
also serve to augment transport capacity. Seedbed preparation, i.e. primary
tillage for the main field crops, is intended to be fully mechanized over a
ten year period, in line with the Government's program. Approximately 3,900
additional tractors are estimated to be required for this purpose in the
project area. The 1,000 project tractors (485 for Menufiya, 515 for Sohag)



- 23 -
will meet the needs of the first four year timeslice. Project tractors would
be partly replacements and partly net additions, which are projected to
increase plowing capacities in cultivated areas in Menufiya and Sohag from 49%
to 60% and 32% to 50%, respectively.                                 r
3.13      The selection of an appropriate size of tractor would be based on
economic criteria, including the consideration that all of the tractors are
likely to be used for custom work. Despite the fragmentation and small size
of farm holdings, the unit of cultivation is often quite large as a result of
land reform and the Government's controls over cropping patterns. For this
reason and because of the heavy clay soils which require high power, the
choice of tractor size is between about 35 hp and 65 hp. Cost comparison of
different operations showed that the 60-65 hp tractor is the most economical
(para 5.07). Farmers have long been used to this size of tractor, which is the
most common in Egypt, and it is likely that it will continue to be the choice
for purchase by cooperatives and individuals. Therefore, project cost estimates
have been based on this size of tractor, although there will be some flexibility
in the final selection.
3.14      To ensure acceptable standards of maintenance and repairs of trac-
tors and other equipment procured, the project would establish the facilities
indicated (para 4.17), and provide spare parts to the extent of 30% by value
for tractors and 20% for the rest of the machinery. Better maintenance and
operation of tractors are expected to increase their reliability coefficients
and field efficiencies, enabling one 60-65 hp tractor to serve an estimated
area of 180 feddans, or 1,000 tractors of 180,000 feddans. Threshing needs
for wheat and sorghum over the latter area would be met by 580 new diesel
engine driven threshing machines of an improved design. The chisel ploughs,
reversible mouldboard ploughs, land levellers and furrowers would similarly be
of improved design, and would be imported. Sprayers would be replacements,
and for increasing chemical application capability.
3.15      Experimental and pilot farms.  The two experimental mechanized farms
would each be about 100 feddans in size. One of the farms would be located in
the Shandaweel Research Station near Sohag city, and the other on a Government
farm in a location to be determined. The project would provide a package of
farm machinery, including tractors of two sizes (40-45 hp and 60-65 hp), disc
ploughs, seed drills for wheat, inter-row cultivators and self-propelled
binders. To obtain data on the economics of irrigation by large pumps at
canal heads for gravity distribution of water through underground pipes, a
pilot irrigation project would be established, covering about 2,600 feddans
in the area of Berket-EI-Saba in Menufiya served by the El Aft canal. Eight
electrical pumping stations of sizes varying from 50 to 225 hp, serving each
140 to 610 feddans, would be installed on existing secondary canals to supply
the buried distribution system with water under low pressure. The pipelines
would be of locally made asbestos-cement pipes. About 500 alfalfa valves
would be installed for the delivery of water to fields. The project would
also finance the construction of an electric line of 11 KV required for the
electrification of the pumping stations.



- 24 -
3.16      Rural stores.  Usually, one store of a suitable size is needed to
serve every district, large village (containing a village bank) and small
village in the project area. Taking into account existing stores, the number
of new stores required at these three levels are 10, 70 and 300, respectively.
Standard designs are available for stores of simple brick and concrete con-
struction of sizes 750 m2, 600 m2 and 100 m2, respectively, considered appro-
priate for the type and volume of goods expected to be held by village banks.
Simple equipment such as scales, forklifts and carts would be provided under
the project.
Project Costs
3.17      The total project cost is estimated at about LE 32 million or
US$46 million equivalent, of which about US$32 million or 70% would be in
foreign exchange. Estimates are based on late 1977 prices. The base cost of
consultancy services, totaling 210 manmonths, has been taken at US$6,000 per
manmonth. Physical contingencies amounting to 10% have been provided only for
civil works. Price contingencies have been provided for civil works at the
rate of 15% per year, and for imported equipment, consultants and fellowships
at the rate of 7% per year. The parallel market rate for foreign exchange of
US$1 = LE 0.70 has been used for exchange conversion. The costs exclude cus-
toms duties, estimated at US$3.6 million (LE 2.5 million). Incremental
administration expenses of the implementing organization are included in
costs. Detailed project cost estimates are presented in Table 5 and sum-
marized below.
Costs
Foreign
LE million               US$ million           Cost
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Percent
Farm mechanization             1.91   12.05   13.96   2.73   17.21   19.94    86
Irrigation                     2.12    4.77    6.89   3.03    6.81    9.84    69
Rural stores                   1.97    0.15    2.12   2.81    0.21    3.02          7
Extension service              0.58    0.60    1.18   0.82    0.86    1.68    51
Agricultural Cooperatives    0.11    0.31    0.42   0.16    0.45    0.61    74
Agricultural Credit System   0.01    0.41    0.42   0.02    0.59    0.61    97
Project preparation (live-
stock)                        --      0.13    0.13    --       0.18    0.18   100
Coordination Committees        0.20    0.11    0.31   0.30    0.16    0.46    35
Subtotal                  6.90   18.53   25.43   9.87   26.47   36.34    73
Contingencies                  2.65    3.94    6.59   3.78    5.63    9.41    60
Total                     9.55   22.47   32.02  13.65   32.10   45.75    70



- 25 -
Project Financing
3.18      The proposed IDA credit of US$32 million would finance the full
foreign exchange cost of the project. The proposed financing plan is shown
below.
Amount
LE million       US million         %
IDA                             22.4             32.0           70
Government/PBDAC                 8.0             11.4           25
Sub-borrowers                    1.6              2.3            5
3.19      The Government would on-lend to PBDAC an amount of US$24.5 million or
LE 17.15 million equivalent. An additional US$960,000 or LE 672,000 equivalent
would be made available as a grant (para 4.12). The Government's agreement
was obtained at negotiations on the above financing plan, and especially on
the timely availability of its own share of financing.
Procurement
3.20      Tractors and associated equipment, irrigation pumps, equipment and
materials for electric lines/connections and vehicles (except as indicated
below) financed from the IDA credit (total value about US$30.4 million) would
be procured by international competitive bidding in accordance with IDA's
guidelines, bulked where appropriate. Tractors and associated equipment
including spare parts, would be procured through a single contract, and the
irrigation pumps through another contract. Domestic bidders would be allowed
a margin of preference of 15% or the actual rates of custom duties, whichever
is lower. However, successful local bids are not expected because of the
relatively high level of manufacturing costs, except possibly for tractors.
Contracts below US$50,000 equivalent each but not exceeding US$1,000,000 in
aggregate may be awarded on a competitive basis, following solicitation and
receipt of quotations from at least three sources in each case. Proprietary
items costing up to US$150,000 equivalent in aggregate may be purchased off-
the-shelf from reliable suppliers. If the aggregate cost of such equipment
exceeds US$150,000 equivalent, the three-bid method of procurement would be
followed.
3.21      Consultants for the various forms of technical assistance under the
project (total cost US$1.5 million) would be engaged following procedures and
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
3.22      Civil works for the pilot irrigation scheme and machinery repair
facilities (US$920,000 of which IDA is financing US$170,000) would be awarded
to local contractors after bidding on the basis of local advertising and in
conformity with other local procurement procedures, which are acceptable to
IDA. These simple works are not suitable for international competition.



- 26 -
3.23      Installation of electric lines and electrical connections of pumps
(excluding materials) and construction of rural stores, houses for extension
staff and other buildings would not be financed by IDA, and would be awarded
to local contractors in accordance with Government procurement procedures.
Disbursement
3.24      The proposed IDA credit of US$32 million is expected to be dis-
bursed over a four year period in accordance with the following estimated
disbursement schedule.
Year
1979       1980        1981        1982
---------- US$ million ------------
6.1       11.8        11.0         3.1
3.25      Withdrawal of the proceeds of the IDA credit would be in accordance
with the following percentages:
(a) Tractors and associated equipment, sprayers, pumps, and other
imported equipment and vehicles (US$22.5 million): 100% of
foreign expenditures, and of local expenditures ex-factory
and 80% of local expenditures of imported items procured
locally.
(b) Civil works for machinery repair facilities and pilot irriga-
gation scheme (US$170,000): 20% of total expenditures,
estimated to be the foreign exchange component.
(c) Electrical lines and connections for pumps and pilot
irrigation scheme (US$2.57 million): 100% of foreign
expenditures and of local expenditures ex-factory.
(d) Consultancy services and fellowships (US$1.29 million):
100% of total expenditures.
Implementation Schedule
3.26      The proposed IDA credit is expected to be effective by the end
of October 1978, which will mark the beginning of project implementation.
All major procurement actions are projected to be completed during 1979,
while actual delivery of the goods would be variously phased, in accordance
with needs and institutional absorptive capacities. For example, deliveries
would be scheduled as follows: farm machinery 1979-82, irrigation pumps
1979-81, pilot irrigation equipment 1980-81, electric lines/connections
1979-80 and vehicles and equipment for institutions 1979-80. Rural stores
would be constructed during 1979-82. Deadlines for the engagement of the
various consultants are indicated in the respective sections. A detailed
implementation schedule would be agreed to during negotiations.



- 27 -
Environmental Impact
3.27      Overall, the project is expected to have a beneficial impact on
the population and physical environment in the project area. Mechanization
of primary tillage should relieve human drudgery. Improved animal husbandry
will eventually result in higher milk and meat production in beneficiary
farms, and thus in some improvement in nutrition levels. The mainly under-
ground irrigation system to be investigated by the pilot irrigation farm,
if it proves feasible, would hold the potential for significant containment of
bilharzia. The trained staff involved in chemical spraying would be educated
on the related hazards.
IV. PROJECT ORGANIZATION
Implementing Agencies
4.01      The Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt would be the Borrower
under the project. Project implementation would involve the Ministries
of Agriculture and Irrigation, the Rural Electrification Authority and PBDAC.
During negotiations the Government agreed to a division of responsibilities as
indicated below.
4.02      The Ministry of Agriculture being the principal implementing agency,
would be responsible for overall coordination at national and governorate
level and for providing general policy guidance. Responsibilities within
the Ministry of Agriculture would be as follows:
(a) The Farm Mechanization Department for procurement of
tractors, other farm machinery, sprayers and pumps, estab-
lishment of new machinery repair facilities, training of
machinery operators and operation of the machinery testing
farms; and for procurement of vehicles and other equipment
for the credit system, extension and cooperatives.
(b) The Extension Department for all extension activities,
recruitment of consultants for extension, and construction
of houses for extension staff.
(c) The Cooperative Department for activities related to
agricultural cooperatives, including recruitment of
consultants.
(d) The Animal Husbandry Department for carrying out studies
on the impact of mechanization on livestock production,
and on forage crops and animal nutrition and husbandry,
and recruitment of consultants for project preparation
(para 3.11(a)).



- 28 -
4.03      The Ministry of Irrigation, through the Research Institute for
Water Distribution and Methods of Irrigation, would be responsible for the
design, execution, operation, maintenance, monitoring and evaluation of
the pilot irrigation scheme. The Institute would also be responsible for
the procurement of equipment required for this purpose and recruitment of
the consultant.
4.04      The Rural Electrification Authority would be responsible for the
installation of the new electric lines, including procurement of equipment
and materials, and for the connection of newly installed pumping stations
and pumps with the power network. The electric lines and connections would
be owned and maintained by the Egyptian Electricity Authority. Pump owners
would be charged electricity tariffs at rates adequate to cover the cost of
supply. A review of electricity tariffs is underway, which would be submitted
to the Bank by the Egyptian Electricity Authority as agreed under the on-going
Rural Electrification project.
4.05      PBDAC and the two governorates banks would be responsible for
extending credits to borrowers for investments in farm machinery and pumps
and for upgrading of existing machinery repair facilities. PBDAC would also
be responsible for recruitment of consultants, and the construction or reha-
bilitation of rural stores.
Project Coordination
4.06      Successful implementation of the project would require close coopera-
tion and coordination of the agencies involved at national and governorate
levels. The Government's agreement was obtained at negotiations to the
following arrangements. The Ministry of Agriculture would be responsible
for overall project coordination. A national project coordination committee
and two governorate project coordination committees would be established
prior to effectiveness of the proposed IDA credit. The Minister of Agricul-
ture or his appointeee would be chairman of the national project coordination
committee, on which would be represented the Farm Mechanization, Extension
and Cooperative Departments in the Ministry of Agriculture, PBDAC, Ministry
of Irrigation, Rural Electrification Authority and each of the two gover-
norates. An experienced senior officer from the Ministry of Agriculture would
be assigned as project coordinator, prior to credit effectiveness (this has
been already done). Each governorate level committee would be similarly
constituted, and be headed by the Governor or his representative. A secre-
tariat and a project monitoring and evaluation unit (para 4.24) would be set
up in the Ministry of Agriculture to serve the national coordination committee,
which would be the focal point of implementation and communication. The com-
mittee would be also responsible for arranging for the audit of project
accounts.
Agricultural Credit System
4.07      IDA appraisal of the agricultural credit system was limited to an
overview of PBDAC and reviews of its medium term lending and of the financial
study by independent public accountants (para 1.20). A complete appraisal



- 29 -
of this complex system would have been a prolonged exercise and was not con-
sidered necessary, in any case, since no direct lending to PBDAC is involved
under this project and because IDA funding of farm machinery and equipment
would be in an area which at present constitutes a very small part of the
system's operations. The system has very little autonomy and little
experience of development landing. However, it is the only institution in
Egypt which has the capacity to serve large numbers of cultivators. The
Government has demonstrated its interest in strengthening the system into a
reasonably autonomous, financially viable development institution for agri-
culture, most notably through enactment of the PBDAC Act of 1976. PBDAC and
its affiliates have the potential in the long run to meet these expectations.
Clearly, the serious basic problems of the agricultural credit system cannot
be dealt with through a single project. Therefore, a two-fold strategy has
been adopted, consisting of immediate and long range measures, which are
described below.
4.08      First, the immediate measures, consist of organizational improve-
ments for development lending and short-run financial support. In regard
to organization, the strategy is to focus on establishing units and identify-
ing staff who would concentrate on proper management of project investment
activities. This relatively small part of the organization would be provided
with appropriate technical assistance (para 3.09(d)). At the same time,
the Government, which is interested in putting PBDAC on a sound financial
footing, would begin a process of financial rehabilitation and restructuring
of PBDAC and affiliated banks, whose completion is expected to be spread
over several years. The Ministry of Finance recently decided on important
measures of financial assistance to PBDAC, thereby indicating the Government's
commitment to the future of PBDAC and meeting a part of its outstanding
obligations. These measures are as follows:
(a) The Government would reduce PBDAC's outstanding overdrafts
with national commercial banks by about LE 14 million
(equal to PBDAC's loans to farmers which had been written
off under Government instructions, para 1.21), thus providing
it with additional resources of an equal amount.
(b) The Government loan to PBDAC of LE 17.1 million (in compensation
for losses on account of subsidized lending) would be converted
into equity.
(c) PBDAC would be allowed to retain its current surpluses to off-
set its accumulated losses.
During negotiations, the Government agreed to implement measures under (a) and
(b) above by December 31, 1978, and also to the following:
(i)  It would enable PBDAC to obtain suitable fees on its marketing
and distribution operations, and
(ii) Government departments and agencies would pay promptly their
dues for services rendered by PBDAC, thus regularizing their
financial relations with PBDAC.



- 30 -
4.09      Second, steps would be taken to identify and study key problem
areas of the agricultural credit system with a view to initiating a program
of institutional reform. The design and timing of the studies have been
carefully conceived so as to give the Government and PBDAC an opportunity
to become familiar with agricultural development credit operations of the
type financed by the Bank Group, and to enable PBDAC to do initial prepara-
tion; and placing primary responsibility on PBDAC itself. Since this is the
first operation with PBDAC, some lead time will also enable the Bank Group
to get a better feel for the achievements and problems of the agricultural
credit system. Therefore, the scheme is as follows. PBDAC's management
would undertake responsibility for carrying out the abovementioned studies
on terms of reference to be submitted to the Association, for its comments,
by March 31, 1979. The scope of the studies would include (a) management and
organization--effectiveness and efficiency, delegations and decentralization;
(b) efficiency of commercial operations and optimal organization required;
(c) operational policies and procedures for effective lending programs; (d)
financial rehabilitation and capital restructuring; (e) evaluation of finan-
cial and cost accounting systems, mechanization of accounts; and (f) devel-
opment of management accounting system--financial planning, forecasting,
classification of portfolio. PBDAC would compile the necessary data for the
studies and prepare initial draft documents. The PBDAC management would be
assisted by an experienced firm or group of management and financial consul-
tants (para 3.09(d)), who would be engaged by September 30, L979, i.e. after
certain minimum data has been compiled. The consultants would also assist
in preparing a credit type project suitable for Bank Group financing.
The studies would be completed by September 30, 1980 or such other date as may
be agreed with the Association. Recommendations emanating from the studies,
as agreed with the Government and the Association, would be progressively
implemented. Assurances on these matters were obtained during negotiations.
4.10      The Government has also agreed to prepare long range proposals for
redefining the policies, strengthening the organization and improving the
financial position of PBDAC, based on the findings of the above-mentioned
studies. The preparation will involve the examination, inter alia, of the
costs and appropriateness of the agricultural credit system's commercial
activities, and capital and resource structures appropriate for a system which
has credit as well as commercial operations. The proposals would include
measures to enable PBDAC to obtain long term resources on appropriate terms.
They would be submitted to IDA by December 31, 1980, or an agreed later date.
The Government and PBDAC would thereafter implement such of the proposals as
are agreed with the Association.
On-lending Procedures and Terms
4.11      PBDAC and the two governorate banks would be responsible for
appraising the financial, technical and economic merits of loan applications
for farm machinery and pumps under the project, and for adequately supervis-
ing the projects financed. At present little such appraisal is being done.
Therefore, technical assistance and support services would be provided under
the project (para 3.09(d)) to help in building up the necessary capability.



- 31 -
PBDAC would employ by December 31, 1978 a firm or group of specialized con-
sultants, with qualifications and on terms of reference satisfactory to IDA,
to assist in project appraisal and supervision and in establishing a monitoring
and evaluation system for the banks. The technical assistance would concentrate
initially on project related organization and activities, but later expand to
cover the full range of the credit system's medium and long term lending
operations. By December 31, 1978, three project units would be established,
one each in PBDAC and the two BDACs, to carry out responsibilities under the
project. These units would each be headed by a qualified manager. PBDAC
would arrange to staff each of the project units initially with at least six
professionals who have the potential for doing investment financing work.
PBDAC would develop appraisal and supervision systems satisfactory to the
Association before making any loans under the project, and submit to the
Association for its comments sample appraisal reports from time to time.
IDA's assistance will thus be available for review of appraisal methodology
and typical farm and cooperative model analysis to be developed by PBDAC.
A national committee, including representatives of the Ministry of Agricul-
ture and PBDAC, has been established recently to process applications for
agricultural machinery purchases and loans. The Ministry's technical
expertise is thus made available, and the Government intends that this or
a similar arrangement will be continued for the project.
4.12      The Government would bear the foreign exchange risk on all on-
lent IDA funds. It would on-lend to PBDAC, in accordance with a subsidiary
agreement satisfactory to the Association, an amount of US$24.5 million
representing the total amount of the IDA credit proceeds allocated to farm
machinery, pumps and 20% of equipment cost of machinery repair facilities,
at 3% interest for 15 years, including 5 years grace. The subsidiary agree-
ment would be entered into prior to effectiveness of the IDA credit. The
Government would also make a grant to PBDAC of an amount of US$960,000
representing IDA credit proceeds allocated to rural stores, technical assis-
tance, vehicles and equipment for PBDAC.
4.13      Project funds for farm machinery and pumps would be on-lent by PBDAC
through the two BDACs on the following arrangements. Not less than 80% of the
IDA credit allocated to tractors, threshers and associated implements would be
earmarked for lending to cooperative societies on agreed terms and conditions.
Cooperatives would levy hire charges for the machinery to cover full fixed
costs and operating expenses, so that their operations are financially viable.
Standard costing norms would be established by the Ministry of Agriculture and
PBDAC, in consultation with IDA. Subsidization of hire charges in the past
has given the more influential farmers an incentive to monopolize the use of
tractors, a trend which was reinforced by the low tractor availability
relative to cooperative members' total needs. Both factors would change under
the project. In order to reinforce these changes and support the Government's
policy of ensuring that small farmers have access through cooperatives to
appropriate mechanization, assurances were obtained at negotiations that:
(1) cooperatives would ensure that farmers cultivating five
feddans or less would receive a share of farm machinery
services proportionate to their share of the total area
served by the cooperative; and



- 32 -
(2) that the Government would, through PBDAC, closely monitor
project cooperatives receiving farm machinery to establish
their pattern of use.
Whether these changes in the way that farm machinery services are made avail-
able to cooperative members will in fact really enable the small farmer to
benefit cannot be established at this time. If the monitoring shows that
small farmers do not receive an equitable share of such services, the Govern-
ment will take suitable corrective measures, in discussion with IDA.
4.14      When applying for a loan for purchase of farm machinery, a coopera-
tive will be required to submit a list of eligible active and resident members
indicating their respective land holdings with a plan of allocation of
machinery services between them acceptable to PBDAC, indicating inter alia
how members holding five feddans or less would be served; usage records would
be kept. PBDAC and BDACs would include these specific requirements in their
agreements, and would be responsible for adequate monitoring of tractor
allocation and usage, making available the related records to IDA supervision
missions for inspection. The balance of IDA credit proceeds allocated to
tractors, threshers and associated implements under the project, a maximum of
20%, would be on-lent to cultivating individuals or groups of farmers.
Financing of pumps would be without any restriction regarding borrowers.
PBDAC would charge interest at the rate of not less than 9% to cooperative
sub-borrowers (the same rate as its current interest on medium term loans) and
not less than 10% to others. The other on-lending terms would include flexible
amortization schedules, not to exceed 10 years for any loan including grace
periods not to exceed one year; and minimum contributions by private borrowers
to financing of 15% of total project costs. Furthermore, PBDAC would apply
the above-mentioned rates of interest to all its lending, in the project area,
for terms longer than two years. Agreement on these matters was obtained
during negotiations.
4.15      The proposed on-lending rates are appropriate in prevailing cir-
cumstances. The 3% interest to be paid by PBDAC on IDA funds will give this
financially distressed institution a sorely needed margin for improving its
organization, and for meeting additional expenses arising out of new activities
related to project appraisal and supervision. PBDAC's minimum on-lending
rates for medium and long term loans of 9% or 10% will be above comparable
rates in agriculture of 8% to 9%, and much above the 3% it charges on short
term loans. Although all of these rates are negative in real terms, with
inflation in the economy currently at about 15% and projected to come down to
10% over the next five years, they must be seen in an overall economic context.
For the project, more significant than any interest rate change would be the
pricing of imported agricultural equipment at the parallel market rates
conversion, thereby eliminating the high subsidy implicit in the official
exchange rate conversion, which was hitherto widely prevalent. Since the
present fiscal and pricing policies result in a net taxation of agriculture to
support the other more affluent sectors, it would not be reasonable to increase
interest rates for agriculture without changes in those policies. The Bank's
efforts in regard to pricing policy have been indicated (para 1.09).



- 33 -
4.16      Tractors and associated equipment and pumps would be sold to
users (cooperatives, individuals or groups) only on a credit arrangement,
i.e. financing by the agricultural credit system. Upon approval of financing,
title to the equipment would pass from the Ministry of Agriculture to the
user, subject to the security interests of PBDAC or BDACs. At that time, the
amount of IDA credit proceeds involved in financing would be debited to
PBDAC's account.
Machinery Service and Maintenance
4.17      The Ministry of Agriculture through its Farm Mechanization Department
would be responsible for establishing a central repair and maintenance facility
for tractors and associated equipment, in the capital city of each of the two
governorates, and three such smaller facilities in each of these governorates.
All of these facilities, to be owned by the Ministry of Agriculture, would be
operated under contract by the successful bidder for supply of tractors and
other equipment, who would be responsible for providing designs for the
buildings, installation and operation of equipment and technical assistance
for repair and maintenance. These eight facilities would carry out the repair
and maintenance of pumpsets in the same manner as for tractors, with technical
assistance from the successful bidder for the pumps. Private owners of
tractor and pump repair facilities, who obtain financing under the project
from PBDAC for improving their facilities, would have access to spare parts
and technical data on the same basis as the six Ministry of Agriculture
facilities.
4.18      Due to the acute shortage of trained tractor operators in Egypt, an
effective training program will be critical to the success of farm mechaniza-
tion. Accordingly, the Government's agreement on the following matters was
obtained during negotiations. The tractor supplier under the project would
provide the necessary training manuals and be responsible for training of
trainers, who would be drawn from cooperatives and the Ministry of Agricul-
ture. Training would be carried out primarily through cooperatives which
obtain project tractors. The number of machinery operators required to be
trained is estimated at about 2,000, allowing for turnover. The trainers
would consist of four senior instructors and eight training supervisors
belonging to the Farm Mechanization Department of the Ministry of Agriculture,
and approximately 60 master operators cum instructors from cooperatives or the
Ministry of Agriculture but all seconded to the cooperatives. The training
would include orientation at the three Government training centers in the
project area, actual operations and group instructions. The trained operators
would be required to pass tests and would be duly certified. The national.
standards on these matters would be used. A training program on the above
basis satisfactory to IDA would be drawn up by October 31, 1978.
Agricultural Cooperatives
4.19      The future role of agricultural cooperatives will evolve inter alia
through the adoption of a new law on cooperatives, interaction of cooperative
with other rural agencies including the credit system, and the outcome of



- 34 -
intended efforts to strengthen their organization and management. To re-
inforce other assistance to the Government in designing a long-term strategy
for cooperatives (para 1.14), the Government is planning to engage in the near
future, with World Bank assistance and funding, a consultant with specific
terms to draw up implementing regulations related to cooperative legislation
and model bylaws for cooperative societies, which will give practical affect
to the Government's stated policies, and review the cooperative development
strategy.
4.20      The project would provide technical assistance for cooperative
development (para 3.09(c)). The three consultants involved would be recruited
individually or as a team by December 31, 1978. One of them would be a
management consultant with strong background of cooperative development, who
would assist the Ministry of Agriculture for about 12 months in preparing and
implementing programs fo-r strengthening cooperative management and financing
resources in relation to their evolving future role in farm mechanization, and
developing effective links between cooperatives at various levels. While the
focus of this consultant would be national, the other two consultants, to be
engaged for approximately 18 months each, would advise central cooperatives in
each of the two governorates on the technical and business aspects of farm
machinery management and, through cooperatives, help to organize technical
training for cooperative staff and project beneficiaries. The project would
also organize training complementary to that under the UK bilateral program,
for management and staff of the approximately 200 reorganized cooperative
societies in the project area. The training would include management, oper-
ations and accounts of cooperatives, and coordination with local agencies.
Agricultural Extension
4.21      Strengthening of extension services in the project area would
be carried out in the framework of the national reorganization of these
services started in 1976. In the project area, such reorganization would be
accelerated by various means, including increases in farm level contact and
improvements in the training and motivation of extension agents. The emphasis
would be on preparing and communicating extension messages addressed to better
use of farm machinery and livestock and improving cultural practices and
water management. The national reorganization process would be intensified in
the two governorates by the following measures, the outlines of which were
agreed during negotiations:
(a) The addition of specialists on cotton and cereal agronomy,
soils, fertilizer, farm machinery and training to extension
staff at the governorate level, and those on mechanization,
irrigation and animal husbandry at the local levels. Almost
all of these specialists can be engaged through redeployment
of the countrywide extension staff, including secondment from
Cairo.
(b) Increasing the corps of sector and village extension agents
to one for eight villages and one per village, respectively,
over a two-year period, requiring net inflows to the project



- 35 -
area of ten sector extension agents and 160 village extension
agents, most of whom could be found by reallocation of
national and district staff.
(c) Setting up a system of regular scheduled meetings between
village extension agents and farm leaders (each representing
5 to 10 farmers) for dialogues on farm problems, communica-
tion of extension messages and assessment of results.
(d) Purposeful, systematic training of extension staff, including
orientation courses for specialists and others, annual in-
service training for sector and village extension agents prior
to the two major cropping seasons, and frequent on-the-job
training. An appropriate training program would be prepared
by June 30, 1979, with the help of consultants.
(e) Strengthening links between extension and research by having
two zonal research centers in the project area carry out
project related research, problem solving and field trials,
with the help of research specialists seconded to the local
extension organization; and representation of the research
centers on the governorate project coordination committees.
4.22      A monitoring and evaluation unit would be established in the Ministry
of Agriculture Extension Department to evaluate the results of the above men-
tioned activities. Project technical assistance (para 3.09(b)) would comprise
the services of two consultants to be employed by March 31, 1979, one for about
18 months to assist in the proposed reorganization, development of practical
extension packages and initiation of adaptive research; and the other for six
months to assist in organizing monitoring and evaluation and training. In
addition the project would finance 30 manmonths of fellowships for senior
extension staff.
4.23      The provision of housing and vehicles under the project should prove
to be an important incentive for extension staff. The 100 new houses will be
mainly constructed in villages of Sohag where housing accommodation for the
extension agents is difficult. In the remaining villages, it is believed that
it will be possible to find suitable houses for renting.
Monitoring and Evaluation
4.24      The Ministry of Agriculture would have overall responsibility for
guiding and coordinating project monitoring, and evaluation of benefits real-
ized. It was agreed during negotiations that by March 31, 1979, a monitoring
and evaluation unit would be established in this Ministry, responsible to the
national project coordination committee (para 4.06). Project technical assis-
tance would finance about 24 manmonths of expert services in agricultural
economics, sociology, agronomy, animal husbandry and statistics. This unit
would determine appropriate sample survey methods and obtain physical and
sociological data, including yields, production and employment impact, for
control and beneficiary farms, for farm products and livestock. The following



- 36 -
monitoring units would provide primary data: (a) the Farm Machinery Department
of the Ministry of Agriculture on tractors, machinery and pumps allotment in
the project area and on the results obtained from adaptive trials in the two
pilot mechanized farm units; (b) the Research Institute for Water Distribution
and Methods of Irrigation of the Ministry of Irrigation on the results obtained
from the operation of the pilot irrigation scheme of Menufiya; (c) PBDAC on
borrower profiles (landholding, incomes, cooperative membership/user patterns);
and (d) the Extension Department on analysis of training results and visits
and adoption patterns.
Accounts and Audit
4.25      The Ministries of Agriculture and Irrigation, the Rural Electrifi-
cation Authority and PBDAC/BDACs would establish and maintain separate accounts
of project funds in accovdance with their respective functions. These accounts
would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Asso-
ciation. Such accounts and the reports of auditors would be submitted by the
national project coordination committee to the Association within six months
of the close of the fiscal year.
4.26      The intended progressive adoption by PBDAC of generally accepted
accounting principles would be aided inter alia by regular audit of PBDAC's
consolidated accounts by an independent national firm of public accountants.
One such audit has been carried out for the 1976 accounts, and during nego-
tiations agreement was reached to continue similar annual audits in future.
The annual financial statements and audit reports would be made available to
the Association not more than six months after the end of each fiscal year.
V. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
General
5.01      The project seeks to alleviate public and private investment short-
ages in two governorates in the "old lands" by providing a package of invest-
ments designed to modernize agriculture. It is expected that, if successful,
modest but significant increases in productivity of both land and labor would
increase production in the project areas, and that there would be reductions
in cultivation costs due to mechanization, achieved through reduced livestock
and labor requirements. Apart from physical improvements, the project would
support the strengthening of institutions involved in agricultural credit,
cooperative development and extension, thus benefiting all farmers in the
project area not just those who make investments. For credit, the project
would initiate proper evaluation and supervision for term lending so as to
improve the quality of investments financed and bring about a better allocation
of investment resources to smallholders. In particular, a changeover to the
use of earning power rather than asset value as collateral in evaluating
creditworthiness will help small farmers to invest. For cooperatives the proj-
ect would support and add to ongoing efforts by Government to formulate and
implement a program to develop them so they can provide the maximum service



- 37 -
to small farners through voluntary association. Technical assistance and
training under the project would be the practical tool to strengthen cooper-
ative management and their ability to handle tractor services and other pro-
ductive ventures. For extension services the project would assist ongoing
Government programs to strengthen field level staff with physical investments
which would bring about greater mobility and efficiency in providing services
to cultivators. Training and technical assistance would improve extension
organization and encourage applied research, including evaluation of suitable
extension packages. Finally, it is the expectation that, by combining improve-
ments in several institutions and services, viz. credit, cooperatives and
extension into a single project in a concentrated area, the resultant improve-
ment in agricultural conditions would be greater than if each were tackled
independently. The intention is that the project would serve as a model for
other ares. Benefits arising from all the developments outlined above should
be demonstrated by monitoring and evalution data. To sum up, considerable
institutional improvements are expected under the project nationally and in
the two governorates, whose benefits cannot be adequately quantified, but
which should nevertheless manifest themselves in gradual improvements in the
economic condition of beneficiaries. It is intended that this project would
be the first in a series of projects to strengthen the whole national agri-
cultural credit system as a means of promoting increased private, particularly
small farmer, investment in agriculture on a large scale in Egypt. The
studies to be carried out by PBDAC should help in mapping out a strategy for
this purpose.
Benefits of Mechanization
5.02      One of the Egyptian Government's major policies in agriculture is
the complete mechanization of primary tillage and water lifting during the
next ten years. The Government's expectation is that such mechanization
would result in the release of land presently devoted to fodder crops for
working animals, in yield increases through better and more timely tillage,
and in substantial savings in labor cost. The Bank believes the release of
land is only likely to occur over a relatively long period of time since it
involves a major change in the system of farming and in farmers' outlook.
Farmers' initial reaction to mechanization will be to maintain their existing
livestock until they come to realize that mechanization does represent a
reliable alternative for ploughing, threshing and pumping. As their reali-
zation grows that they no longer need to keep their animals for work purposes,
and that the animals upkeep is extremely expensive in terms of the land needed
to support them, a chain of alterations in the farming cycle will start. How-
ever, since it is impossible to predict when it will start, or even which
direction it will take, it was not taken into account in estimating project
benefits, although it will, over time, be far more important and far more
extensive than the set used to calculate the project's economic benefits.
For the calculations of project benefits, it was assumed that farmers would
not get rid of their animals but that, since they no longer need to expend
energy on work, their productivity in terms of milk and meat would increase.
Together with other factors this is enough to justify mechanization. However,



- 38 -
it should not be regarded as the long term justification, which is the inten-
sification of agriculture through a change in the farming system. Mechani-
zation is the only way by which the 25% of the crop area now largely devoted
to feeding draught animals can be released for more productive uses. Its
long run benefits will, therefore, be much greater than those attributed to
it here.
5.03      In the 180,000 feddans directly affected by the mechanization com-
ponent of the project there are about 120,000 working cows and buffaloes whose
average annual milk yield is about 300 litres. Field observations show that
the effect of stopping work is to approximately double milk yields. For the
purpose of calculating project benefits a yield of 540 litres per year is
taken as the level which project animals will reach when they stop work. It
is assumed that additional concentrates will be fed to support this additional
production. Calving intervals are expected to decrease as well, from 18 to 14
months. Both these changes come about solely as a result of farm animals
being released from work. They will not involve better management on the part
of farmers not are they expected to lead to any increase in the need for
veterinary or animal health services.
5.04      Production increases, either through higher yields due to better
and more timely tillage or increase in cropping intensity due to the farmers'
ability to plough more of his land in time, are the second of the Govern-
ment's reasons for encouraging mechanization. Such increases, though hard
to quantify precisely, are potentially quite considerable. Egyptian data
on the benefits of better tillage, though fragmentary, indicate increases in
the order of 15%. Evidence from other countries substantiates yield increases
in the range of 5-15% which is more or less in line with these Egyptian
figures. The key to this kind of increase is not so much the use of a
tractor as the use of the appropriate implements. These will be supplied
under the project. They will result in better seedbed preparation leading
to higher and more uniform seed germination (and in the long run thus lead
to lower production costs through a reduction in the amount of seed required).
In addition, as a result of deeper soil cultivation, plants would develop
a more vigorous root system. More important under the highly intensive
system of farming practiced in Egypt, where the gap between crops is often
very short, is the increased timeliness of sowing which mechanization will
permit. For instance, when the Aswan High Dam enabled the date of maize
sowing to be advanced from July/August to June, average national maize yields
increased over 40% in five years. Earlier planting is now hindered by delays
in preparing the land after the winter crop and even a saving of a few days
can be expected to increase yields by one or two percent. Similar increases
can be expected for cotton. This timeliness factor is an important reason
for believing that mechanization's yield increasing impact will be higher in
Egypt than in most other countries where mechanization has recently been
introduced. In addition, because of the tight scheduling of crops in the
already intensive rotation, the increase in intensity that followed on the
availability of perennial water from the High Dam has been slow. Mechaniza-
tion is thus expected to enable farmers to make better use of the plentiful



- 39 -
water supplies now available. For all these reasons the 5% production
increase, which has been assumed in calculating project benefits, is
believed to have a high probability of achievement.
5.05      The third of the Government's reasons for encouraging mechanization,
the reduction in labor costs, is not thought to be very significant since
most of the labor saved will be unpaid family labor. While this represents a
significant saving in economic costs, it is not a reduction in cash outlays.
Only in the case of threshing, where most labor used is hired, is there a
significant reduction in cash outlays.
5.06      An important objective of the project's mechanization component
would be the establishment of an appropriate infrastructure for mechanization.
By financing the establishment of full maintenance and servicing facilities
and providing for driver training, the project would assist in establishing
an efficient and economical infrastructure. While the benefits of this to
the project area are taken into account, it is also intended that the project
will develop a mechanization pattern which can be duplicated in other gover-
norates resulting in significant improvements in the use of machinery else-
where. The benefits of this are not easily quantifiable but could be
considerable.
5.07      An analysis of hourly costs between a 60-65 hp tractor and a 45-50
hp tractor showed that the larger tractor is 30-40% less expensive for seedbed
preparation but 10% more expensive for transport. It is assumed that each
tractor works a total of 800 hours per year. Maximum tractor use for primary
tillage is calculated to be about 470 hours per year, on the basis of present
cropping pattern and time available for cultivation, thus leaving 330 hours
per year for transportation. Since 60% of the tractor's time is expected to
be devoted to seedbed preparation, the larger tractor is the more economic
overall. It is assumed that transportation rates cover full operational and
maintenance costs and depreciation without a profit margin. At this price
tractors would be more economic than trucks, even were they available, for
short hauls over bad roads.
5.08      The introduction of threshing machines of advanced technology for
wheat and sorghum would have an additional benefit on yields by reducing grain
losses. It is a general conviction that, using traditional threshing methods
(animals and local threshers) grain losses amount to at least 10% of the pro-
duce. With the proposed improved threshing machines these losses would easily
be halved. Losses with the project are thus assumed to fall to 5%. Even with-
out the project the mechanization of threshing would proceed because this is a
major bottleneck in the annual cycle of farm operations. However, it would
proceed with the relatively inefficient locally produced mechanical thresher
which has a lower capacity and a higher rate of wastage. An indirect benefit
of this component of the project thus would be the introduction of threshers
of improved types leading eventually to an all-round improvement in the type
of machines in use in Egypt.



- 40 -
Prices, Production and Markets
5.09      Two sets of prices for agricultural commodities and inputs have been
used for project appraisal, one for economic and the other for financial analy-
sis of farm budgets.
Financial Prices      Economic Prices
LE/ton               LE/ton
Wheat                               57                    83
Sorghum                             54                    69
Maize                               57                    83
Cotton                             165                   340
Berseem                             10                    10
Meat (live weight)                 900                   500
Milk (per 1,000 liters)            100                   100
For economic analysis, tradeable commodities (wheat, sorghum, maize, cotton,
meat, fertilizers and pesticides) have been valued at international prices on
the basis of Bank projections, in 1978 constant prices, adjusted for local
conditions at the farm gate converted at the parallel exchange rate. Non-
traded commodities (berseem, milk) have been valued at the foreign exchange
equivalents of average local prices. In the case of milk this represents
US$0.15/liter which is about the price at which Egypt could import and recon-
stitute dried milk.
5.10      For financial analysis all commodities have been valued at prevail-
ing farm gate prices. It is thus implicitly assumed that the agricultural
price policies of the Government would not change significantly during the
project's life. As far as crops and milk are concerned any change would
likely be in an upward direction and could thus only improve the project's
financial rate of return. As far as inputs go, no change in their use is
expected so that the effect of any price change would be neutral. Meat prices,
however, are highly subsidized and have been rising. They could continue to
rise if the Government wishes to continue subsidizing them; on the other hand
they could fall if the relative prices of meat and other crops were to be
rationalized in line with Government policy. Either way the effect on the
project's benefits would be small as meat only accounts for about 12% of
incremental GPV valued at financial prices.
5.11      At present, wheat, maize, sorghum, berseem and cotton are the main
products in the project area with animal products being of minor importance.
It is estimated that the project would not affect the cropping pattern but
would lead to an increase in production after a development period of four
years, as shown below:



- 41 -
Incremental              Incremental
Production         GPV at Economic Prices
1000 tons               LE Million
A.   Crops
Wheat                               9.1                      0.8
Berseem                            77.6                      0.9
Sorghum                            8.1                      0.6
Maize                               7.8                      0.7
Cotton                              1.9                     0.7
Total A                                                3.7
B.   Animal Production
Calves, in lOOOs                  12.0                       0.4
Milk, million liters               28.8                      2.9
Total B                                                3.3
5.12      Incremental gross production values at economic prices in the project
area would increase by about 10% from LE 68.8 million to LE 75.8 million with
53% of the incremental gross benefits coming from crop and 47% from animal pro-
duction. Incremental net production values would increase by 19% due essen-
tially to savings in the cost of hired labor. The incremental production in
the project areas would be easily absorbed by the official and free markets in
view of the shortage of food and fodder in the country. Cereals would con-
tribute towards meeting calorie, and animal products towards meeting protein
deficiencies of the rural population. Transportation and storage of incre-
mental production would be handled by the cooperative, banking and private
sectors, able to do so in particular as a result of project implementation.
Farm Budgets
5.13      The typical operational unit in the project area is a 3 feddan farm.
Budgets of such farms in Menufiya and Sohag (Table 10) show that, as a result
of the project, gross production values would rise from LE 679 per farm to
LE 781 in Menufiya and from LE 586 to LE 687 in Sohag, an increase of 15%
and 12% respectively. The major increase in cash costs as a result of the
project will be for machinery hire which will be offset to some extent by
savings in hired labor costs. The net result of these various factors is
an increase in cash costs that is estimated to absorb 74% of the increase
in gross production value in Menufiya and 64% in Sohag, leaving a 3 feddan
farmer in Manufiya with an increased cash income of LE 28 or 9% and in Sohag
with an increase of LE 37 or 23%. This increase is considered an adequate
incentive to change since it will be accompanied by a reduction in the number
of days spent in some of the most arduous farm work. In addition, provided
the farmer can be assured of a reliable and timely service, the individual
risk of changing over to mechanized methods is not great, particularly since



- 42 -
it does not require any high capital input on his part, merely the payment of
hire charges, and does not require any change in his farming practices. In
addition, his livestock will always be available if the machinery service is
inadequate.
Project Beneficiaries
5.14      The project would primarily benefit the small landowner/tenant
target group through cooperatives. This group is composed of cultivators
working 3 feddans or less and accounts for some 85% of farmers in both gover-
norates who own about 69% of the land. Farm families within this class
have at present an estimated average net income from farming of US$75 per
capita which places them on average just above the absolute poverty level
(US$67). Even with the project an estimated 65% of small farmers would still
remain in the absolute poverty group. Since they are all members of the co-
operative system, this institution has been chosen to ensure that the maximum
amount of potential benefits to this group. Safeguards to this effect have
been proposed (paras. 4.13 and 4.14). Large farmers and non-farmer private
entrepreneurs have demonstrated that they are able to get sufficient machines
and credit through normal commercial channels. Therefore, no more than 20% of
project machinery would be available to them. An exception would be made
in the case of pumps where no restrictions would be established.
5.15      Because the project specifically reduces labor costs it will reduce
labor incomes to landless workers. This process has already been underway in
Egypt for some years with increasing mechanization of primary tillage and
threshing. To the extent that equipment supplied under the project merely
replaces existing equipment as it becomes worn out there will of course be
no effect on labor use. It is expected, however, that a substantial propor-
tion of the project equipment will represent a net increase. If it is assumed
that all the equipment replaces animal technology then the project would lead
to a reduction of one million mandays of hired labor use or about 4.5% of
present total employment. This would all come from the mechanization of
threshing. The mechanization of primary tillage would lead to a reduction
in the number of hours which family labor would be required to work by 1.2
million mandays or just over 6%; there would also be a 1% reduction in family
labor use from the mechanization of threshing. Since mechanization results
in a net increase in farm family incomes what the decrease in family labor
implies is an increase in labor productivity, the first step towards agri-
cultural modernization. Family labor will earn more for less work. While
the productivity of family labor released from on-farm work through the
mechanization of primary tillage will increase, such labor also represents
a potential addition to the casual labor force which would, if it were to
compete with existing workers, tend to drive down the average level of daily
wages. Such an impact, however, is not expected to be significant since most
of the labor will be released at a period of the year when the supply is
already tight; and there is also a growing overall scarcity of rural labor.
In the longer run the demand for family labor could well increase if an
intensive system of milk production is adopted.



- 43 -
5.16      Although reducing one kind of labor, mechanization will also create
new employment for tractor drivers, machinery and pump operators and mechanics.
It is estimated that the increase through the project will be 1.1 million man-
days. A majority of the new jobs are expected to be taken by young people
from the project area, many of whom could well be from farmer families and
who, in the absence of the project, would tend to gravitate into the pool of
the underemployed, possibly in an urban area. Since this increase in skilled
and semi-skilled work more than offsets the mandays of unskilled hired labor
displaced, the net effect of the project is to slightly increase employment.
5.17      The project will lead to changes in income distribution within the
project area by raising the productivity, and thus the incomes, of those who
are able to benefit from the mechanization package over those who do not so
benefit, as well as by lowering the incomes of landless laborers who were
previously earning supplementary wages during the threshing season. The
elimination of one million man days of hired labor does not represent the
loss of any full-time jobs, since threshing occurs only twice a year for
perhaps a month at a time. However, working during the threshing season is
believed to provide some landless laborers with an important supplementary
source of income. At the same time, with the apparently rapidly changing
labor situation in rural Egypt, together with the increasing enrollment of
farmer dependents in schools and universities as a result of expanded free
education, it is becoming increasingly difficult to find laborers at these
periods so that farmers are being forced to turn to mechanical threshing to
get the work done.
5.18      Investment in a mechanical thresher is also highly profitable.  The
economic rate of return to threshing alone, including the saving in labor cost
as a benefit, is in excess of 100%. Even if the saving in labor is excluded,
on the assumption of zero opportunity cost, the ERR is still 29%. Furthermore,
mechanized threshing may well have important indirect benefits through facil-
itating the spread of high yielding wheat varieties which have to be harvested
and threshed quickly as they shatter easily, unlike traditional varieties which
can be kept until the summer crop is planted. For all these reasons, the
adverse impact must be accepted and dealt with in other ways such as through
providing alternative rural employment opportunities. A Rural Development
Project with this basic objective and covering part of the project area is
currently under preparation. This would help to alleviate some of the decrease
in employment created by this project. The USAID is also providing the Gov-
ernment with aid for the development of rural infrastructure and creation of
rural employment through PL480 Title III.
Economic Analysis
5.19      The economic analysis was carried out for a 180,000 feddan portion of
the total cultivated area in the two governorates. This is the area which
can be completely mechanized by project components (tractors, threshers and
pumps). It is assumed that all three components are used as a package on this
area. The basic analysis is the comparison of an animal technology situation



- 44 -
with one using mechanized technology, since the gains in livestock production
come from releasing animals from all work. Other operations now done by hand
remain unmechanized.
5.20      Investment costs and operation and maintenance costs include the
economic costs of farm machinery and water lifting. Since extension service,
cooperative and agricultural credit system would serve the total area in two
governorates, only one third of the investment costs for these instituions has
been included in the economic analysis. Cost of staff salaries has not been
considered as the required additional staffing would be reached by realloca-
tion of personnel already in service.
5.21      On the basis of these assumptions, economic rates of return are 32%
for the project as a whole, or 26% and 37% for Menufiya and Sohag, respectively.
Since project net benefits are due in part to savings in hired labor, a fall
in the opportunity cost of labor would reduce rates of return. If the oppor-
tunity cost of labor were zero, the overall rate of return would decrease from
32% to about 23%. The rate of return is also very sensitive to variations
in the assumptions about benefits. These benefits come from three sources:
increased crop production as a result of higher yields due either to better
tillage or more timely cultivation and of increased crop area due to an
increase in the sown area; reduced losses of wheat and sorghum from the
mechanization of threshing; and increased livestock production as a result of
freeing animals from work through mechanizing the operations now carried out
by animals. The threshing and livestock benefits are regarded as reasonably
firm while the crop production increases are more difficult to substantiate
for reasons given in para 5.04. The production increase of 5% assumed in the
basic analysis is believed to have a high probability of achievement. Never-
theless, a sensitivity analysis showing the results of different assumptions
about crop production increases has been carried out. It indicates that even
a 1% crop production increase would still give a 10% economic rate of return.
A lower increase than this seems highly improbable. And even if only 80% of
the expected threshing and livestock benefits were achieved an increase of
only about 2.5% in crop production would still achieve the same result. This
still seems a highly probably outcome. A range of possibilities calculated is
as follows:
Economic Rate of Return
Livestock and Threshing Benefits
Crop Yield Increase %               As Assumed              80% of Assumed Level
1                              10                           1
2                              15                           8
3                              21                          13
4                              26                          19
5                              32                          25



- 45 -
Further, sensitivity analysis in respect of livestock production indicates
that a 50% reduction in the assumed level of livestock benefits would reduce
the economic rate of return to 16%, while a reduction to as low as one-third
of the assumed level would still leave the rate of return at slightly over
10%. An increase of costs by 20% would yield an economic rate of return of
about 19%, still an acceptable level. The project is, therefore, reasonably
justified with any but the most pessimistic combination of adverse circum-
stances.
5.22      The economic justification for rural stores to be financed by the
Government as part of the project is that this will reduce losses of farm
inputs, particularly seeds, currently estimated to average 4%, although losses
of up to 10% are recorded. On the assumption that proper storage and handling
facilities would reduce fertilizer losses to 2% and seed losses to 3%, together
with saving in rebagging costs, the rate of return to a village store is about
18%. Rates of return have not been calculated for the pilot irrigation or for
mechanization components. The capital cost of the pilot irrigation area at
US$345 per feddan (without price contingencies) is not excessively high. It
is for instance about half the annual gross production value per feddan in the
area.  It would thus be replicable over a wide area.  Its justification comes
partly in terms of the saving of land currently occupied by water channels,
partly in terms of better water control and water saving and the reduced need
for drainage and partly in terms of bilharzia control. The determining factor
is the marginal value of water. Under present conditions this is not high.
However, it may well become so over the next two decades by which time the
economics of a buried irrigation system will be apparent.
Land Tenure
5.23      Contrary to what has happened in some countries, mechanization is
unlikely to lead to displacement of tenants. The opposite trend is presently
to be found: small owners who cannot make a living off their own land rent
it out to others who are thus able to reconstitute fragmented areas into
more economic units. As a result the average unit of operation in the project
area (3 feddans) is two to three times the average small farm onwership size.
There is no inherent reason why cooperative mechanization should alter this
trend unless, by enabling landowners to operate their farms without livestock,
it induced some of them to resume cultivating their own land on a more inten-
sive rotation than before. It is not expected that this kind of development
will be significant. On balance, given the present strong laws protecting
the rights of tenants, the effect of mechanization on land tenure is likely
to be neutral.
Risks
5.24      There are two major areas of risk.  Firstly, there is the possibil-
ity that, for a number of reasons, the effective demand for project tractors
may be lower than expected. One reason for this could be the recent increase
in tractor prices due to the use of the parallel rather than the official
rate of exchange. This is not felt to be likely for the 80% of tractors



- 46 -
earmarked for cooperatives since there is a strong demand for tractor services
from cooperative members. It may, however, affect the private demand, partic-
ularly if prospective tractor buyers are hesitant to face the possibility of
being outpriced by cooperatives, which now provide services at subsidized
rates fixed by the Government. This latter point is being tackled through
the project and cooperatives will be required to charge an economic price for
tractor services. Another possible reason would be if tractors from other
sources were made available in the two project governorates in sufficient
numbers so as to reduce the need for project tractors. This also seems
improbable in view of the overall foreign exchange constraints on the economy
and the Government's procedures for regulating distribution of imported
machinery which can be relied upon to keep the total supply of tractors to
the two governorates at levels consistent with the level of supply under the
project. Thus, while this risk is recognized, it is not felt that it will be
a major factor in project implementation.
5.25      The second major area of risk is in regard to rural institutional
reforms, which have been historically very slow and often unsatisfactory.
Major improvements are called for in the project for credit institutions,
cooperatives and extension services. However, the extent of changes are
considered to be reasonably practicable in the project context, and would
be buttressed by the relatively large measures of technical assistance in
various forms. For credit institutions, the initial strategy would be to
concentrate on the management of project investments, involving a very
small part of the system which would have its own identity and be provided
with adequate technical assistance. The very serious basic problems of
the agricultural credit system can be tackled only as a long term exercise,
but it is important to identify them and initiate remedial measures, as has
been proposed under the project. Cooperative development presents a more
serious risk in view of the lack of cohesive thinking by the authorities on
their proper future role and functions, and their present ineffectiveness in
undertaking commercial or productive operations. Development of management
cadres for cooperatives is likely to be a slow process. Therefore, there
is a risk that farm mechanization through cooperative tractor ownership,
as proposed for the project, may be delayed or frustrated. Such delay,
however, would only affect the project viability if the tractors had been
procured by the Ministry of Agriculture and could not be used due to lack
of organization at the cooperative level. This is unlikely but even if it
did occur the project would remain viable even with quite long delays. A
delay of one year between tractor purchase and the start of production
increase would still leave the economic rate of return at 20% and even a
two year delay would leave it at 14%. The variety of technical assistance
to cooperatives should help in reducing some of the risk.
5.26      Despite these risks, and despite the adverse effects of the mechani-
zation of threshing on the employment opportunities of hired labor, it is felt
that this project is a vital one for the modernization of agriculture in the
old lands of Egypt. Aside from the provision of drainage the Government's
programs for agricultural development in these areas are hampered by the
inadequacy of the institutional framework. It is now starting to strengthen
this and the project will assist. Above all it is the lack of an agency



- 47 -
capable of providing farmers with medium and long term credit which will
prevent any growth in private investment in these areas, although changes
in price policy are another necessary condition of such growth. Again the
project will assist in developing PBDAC into such an agency through which
it is hoped future Bank lending can eventually be channelled. The mechaniza-
tion component of the project is a first step towards greater agricultural
specialization within the old lands which is at present hampered by the need
to devote a significant proportion of the cropped area to fodder crops for
feeding working animals. All project components are thus aimed in helping
the Government redirect its investment efforts towards greater emphasis on
the old lands, a policy which the Bank has long been urging the Government
to adopt.
VI. RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      The following would be special conditions of effectiveness of the
proposed credit:
(a) The Government would appoint suitably constituted project
coordination committees at national and governorate levels,
and an experienced senior officer as Project Coordinator
(para 4.06); and
(b) a subsidiary agreement satisfactory to the Association
would be signed between the Government and PBDAC relating
to the proceeds of the IDA credit to be on-lent to PBDAC
(para 4.12).
6.02      During negotiations the Government's assurances were obtained
on the following:
(a) it would suitably monitor various aspects of project
impact and submit regular progress reports to the Asso-
ciation including a project completion report (para 4.24);
(b) PBDAC would carry out studies relating to development of
the agricultural credit system: terms of reference would
be prepared for submission to IDA by March 31, 1979 and
the studies would be completed by September 30, 1980 or
other agreed date (para 4.09);
(c) it would implement by December 31, 1978, its decisions in
regard to the funding of PBDAC, and take other measures
for the financial strengthening of PBDAC as indicated
(paras 4.08, 4.10);
(d) not less than 80% of the IDA credit proceeds allocated to
tractors, threshers and associated implements would be ear-
marked for lending to cooperatives on agreed terms and con-
ditions, including the levy of hire charges for machinery



- 48 -
based on "full" costing, and convenants on equitable avail-
ability of tractor services (paras. 4.13 and 4.14); and
(e) PBDAC would make loans in accordance with agreed policies
and on terms and conditions as outlined, including interest
charges at not less than 9% and 10% to cooperative sub-
borrowers and others, respectively (para 4.14).
6.03      The project is technically feasible, economically sound and finan-
cially viable. The above assurances having been obtained, the project
constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA Credit of US$32 million on standard
terms. The Borrower will be the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt.



-4 S-
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Related Documents Available in the Project File
A.   DOCUMENTS RELATED TO PROJECT BACKGROUND
A-1.  EGYPT - Agricultural Development Project
Identification Mission Report (Two volumes)
FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program - September 1976
A-2.  EGYPT - Agricultural Development Project
Preparation Mission Report (Three volumes)
FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program - February 1977
A-3. EGYPT - Preappraisal of Agricultural Development Project
Bank-to-Office Report with Annexes - June 1977
A-4 thru A-6.  Agricultural Credit, Extension and Cooperatives (Documents
of Staff Appraisal Report)
A-7.  Set of Reports on Finances of PBDAC and BDACs by Z. Hassan,
H. Hassan & Co., Public Accountants.
B.   DOCUMENTS RELATED TO THE PROJECT AREA
B-1.  Cropping Pattern at National Level and in the Project Area
(Table)
B-2.  Cropping Operation Calendar (Table)
B-3.  National Tractor Inventory (Table)
B-4.  Tractor and Selected Machinery Inventory for Project Area (Table)
B-5 thru B-8.  Tractor 60-65 hp - Work Required, Capability, Area Served,
Requirements (Tables)
B-9.  Volume for Transport in the Project Area (Table)
B-10. Cost of Transport by Camels (Table)
B.11. Present Animal Use (Table)



-50-
C.   DOCUMENTS RELATED TO PROJECT PROPOSALS
C-1 thru C-3.   Farm Machinery -- Purchase Cost, Operating Costs, Cost per
feddan (Tables)
C-4 thru C-5.   Tractors -- Annual Working Hours, Cost Comparison Between
60-65 hp and 45-50 hp (Tables)
C-6 thru C-7.   Threshing -- Hourly Cost and Requirements (Tables)
C-8.   Water Lifting for Irrigation - Technical Characteristics and
Costs (Document)
C-9.   Cost Comparison of Irrigation with Saqia, Diesel Pumps and
Electrical Pumps (Table)
C-10.  Pilot Irrigation Scheme - Technical Characteristics and Costs
(Document)
C-li thru C-18. Detailed Cost Estimates -- Experimental Mechanized Farms,
Repair Facilities, Training Operators, Water Lifting, Rural
Stores, Extension Services, Agricultural Cooperatives,
Agricultural Credit Banks (Tables)
C-19. Terms of Reference for Consultants (Document)
C-20. Technical Specifications for Farm Machinery (Document)
D.   DOCUMENTS RELATED TO PROJECT BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
D-1. Assumptions Underlying Appraisal (Document)
D-2. Agricultural Data: Farm 3 feddan (Table)
D-3. Prices of Inputs and Outputs (Table)
D-4 thru D-5.   Crop Budget -- Financial and Economic (Tables)
D-6 thru D-7.   Requirements -- Labor per Feddan and Animal per Farm (Tables)
D-8 thru D-9.   Menufiya -- Present -- Cash Income and Cash Costs per Farm
(Tables)
D-10 thru D-11. Menufiya -- Future -- Cash Income amd Cash Costs per farm
(Tables)
D-12 thru D-13. Sohag -- Present -- Cash Income and Cash Costs per Farm
(Tables)



-51-
D-14 thru D-15. Sohag -- Future -- Cash Income and Cash Costs per Farm
(Tables)
D-16 thru D-17. Menufiya and Sohag -- Economic Cost of Animal Production
(Tables)
D-18 thru D-19. Menufiya and Sohag -- Economic Cost of Labor (Tables)
D-20 thru D-21. Present and Future Economic Income from Meat and Milk of --
Two Cows (Tables)
D-22. Income from Animal Production (Table)
D-23. Labor Requirements in Project Area -- With and Without
Project (Table)
D-24. New Employment Opportunities Due to the Project (Table)
D-25 thru D-26. Menufiya and Sohag -- Area, Yield, Production and Economic
Value of Production (Tables)
D-27 thru D-28. Foreign Exchange -- Earnings and Flows (Tables)






Table 1
Page 52
ARAB REPIJBLIC OF EGYPT
APPRAISAL OF
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJFCT
Cropping Area, Yields and Production - Project Area - Present Situation /1
Menufiya                                   Sohag
Crop                     Area       Yield      Production       Area          Yield       Production
(feddans) (tons/fed.)      (tons)       (feddans)   (tons/fed.)       (tons)
Summer Planted
Maize                192,870         1.7         327,879        47,550          1.5          71,325
Sorghum                 -             -             -          146,990         1.6         235,184
Rice                      700        2.2           1,540          -             -              -
Others                 8,350          -             -            2,030           -             _
Subtotal       201,920          -             -          196,570          -             -
Fall Planted
Wheat-Barley          83,760         1.6         134,016       119,470          1.4        167,258
Berseem (Full-term) 125,490         20.0       2,509,800        49,840        20.0         996,800
Berseem (short-term) 78,500          5.0         392,500        67,200         5.0         336,000
Others                11,250          -             -           32,540           -             -
Subtotal     299,000           -             -           09,050          -             -
Spring Planted
Cotton                69,280         0 .9         62,352        77,300         0.9          69,570
Others                18,560          -             -            7,760                        -
Subtotal      87,840          -             -           85,060          -            -
Total            588,760                 -                 550,680          -
/1 Averages 1970-1976.
February 1978



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
APPRAISAL OP
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Need for New Tractors 60-65 HP at National Level
Existing           ------Area with Summer Crops-Feddans----------------                  Total New              Incremental             Tractors to be Provided
Year              Operational            Cultivated           Suggested/l          Remaining for                Tractor                 Annual                By the          By Other
Tractors         with Existing             to be              Mechanization             Requirements/2            Tractor               Project         Sources
Tractors           Mechanized           with New Tractors                                 Requirements/2
1978                 19,000            1,786,000                1,786,000                      0
1979                 15,600            1,466,400                1,980,778               514,378                   5,472                    5,472                 245            5,227
1980                 14,836            1,394,584                2,175,556               780,972                   8,309                    2,837                 240            2,597
1981                 13,784            1,295,696                 2,370,333            1,074,637                  11,433                    3,124                 275            2,849
1982                 12,683            1,192,202                2,565,111             1,372,909                  14,605                    3,172                 240            2,932
1983                 11,275            1,059,850                2,759,889             1,700,039                  18,085                    3,480                                3,480
1984                 10,116              950,904                 2,954,667            2,003,763                  21,316                    3,231                                3,231
1985                  7,777               731,038               3,149,444             2,418,406                  25,728                    4,412                                4,412
1986                  5,968               560,992               3,344,222             2,783,230                  29,609                    3,881                                3,881
1987                  3,115               292,810               3,539,000             3,246,190                  34,534                    4,925                                4,925
1988                      0                                     3.539,000             3,539,000                  37,649                    3,115                                3,115
TOTAL                                                                                                                                     37,649               1 0 0           36,649
/1  Progressively increased to 1007, in ten years.
2 Calculated on the basis of 94 feddan served by one 60-65 HP tractor per season
Sourcet Ministry of Agriculture
December 21, 1977



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
APPRAISAL OF
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Need for New Tractore 60-65 NP for Menufiya Governorate
-------------Area with Summer Crops-Feddans-----------
Existing            Cultivated             Suggested/i        Remaining for              Total New               Incremental           Tractors to be Provided
Year              Operational         with Existing              to be            Mechanization               Tractor                   Annual              By the         By Other
Tractors             Tractors              Mechanized       with New Tractors           Requirements/2             Tractor             Project         Sources
Requirements/ 2
1978                 1,049                98,610                  98,610
1979                   992                93,248                 110,089                 16,841                    135                    135                 120              15
1980                   943                88,642                 121,568                 32,926                    264                    129                 115              14
1981                   853                80,182                 133,047                 52,865                   423                     159                 140              19
1982                   803                75,482                 144,526                 69,044                    553                    130                 110              20
1983                   740                69,560                 156,004                 86,444                    692                    139                  -              139
1984                   661                62,134                 167,483                105,349                    843                    151                  -              151
1985                   556                52,264                 178,962                126,698                  1,014                    171                  -              171
1986                   413                38,822                 190,441                151,619                  1,213                    199                  -              199
1987                   305                28,670                 201,920                173,250                 1,386                     173                  -              173
1988                     0                     0                 201,920                201,920                  1,615                     229                 -              229
TOTAL                                                                                                                                    1,615                485             1,130
/1 Progressively increased to 1001/. in ten years.
/2 Calculated on the basis of 125 feddans served by one 60-65 NP tractor per season.
oe 11
Source   Ministry of Agriculture
December 21, 1977



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
APPRAISAL OF
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Need for New Tractors 60-65 HP for Sohag Governorate
- ------- -__Area with Sumaer Crops-Feddans------------
Existing              Cultivated             Suggested/I         Remaining for            Total New               Incremental            Tractors to be Provided
Year             Operational           with Existing              to be             Mechanization               Tractor                Annual               By the         By Other
Tractors               Tractors             Mechanized         with New Tractors         Requirements/2             Tractor              Project        By Other
Requirements/2
1978                  673                63,262                  63,262
1979                  643                60,442                  78,074                  17,632                    141                     141                125              16
1980                  613                57,622                  92,886                  35,264                    282                     141                125              16
1981                  563                52,923                 107,698                  54,775                    438                     156                135              21
1982                  521                48,974                 122,510                  73,536                    588                     150                130              20
1983                  471                44,274                 137,322                  93,048                    744                     156                 -              156
1984                  411                38,634                 157,134                 118,500                    948                     204                 -              204
1985                  381                35,814                 166,946                 131,132                  1,049                     101                 -              101
1986                  331                31,114                 181,758                 150,644                  1,205                     156                 -              156
1987                  271                25,474                 196,570                 171,096                  1,369                     164                 -              164
1988                    0                     0                 196,570                 196,570                  1,573                     204                 -              204
TOTAL                                                                                                                                    1,573                515           1.058
/I  Progressively increased to 1007. in ten years                                                                                                                                                I
/2  Calculated on the basis of 125 feddans served by our 60-65 HP tractor per season.
Source: Ministry of Agriculture
December 21, 1977



-- Tabl. 5
ARAB REPUBLIC OF  GY? 
AXPRAISAL OF
AGRICULTURAL DIVRSOFPHRST PROJECr
(Detailed)
unit      -           Cost
'Ite                    Unit   Quatity  Coat       Local      Foreign        Total
A. FARM MACHINERY
1. Enuicast
- Wheel Tractor 60-65 Hp        No    1,000    7,820    1,020,000   6,800,000    7,820,000
- Chisel Plough - 7 tine        Po    1,000    1,495      195,000   1,300,000    1,495,000
- Reversible mould board
plough - 3           No      100    1,955        25,500     170,000      195,500
- Leveller                      R.    1,000      805       105,000     700,000      805,000
-Furro,ser - 3 ro on
too1 bar                  No      300    1,035       40,500      270,000      310,500
- Thresher 600 kg/h with engine No      580    6,440      487,000   3,248,000    3,735,000
- Trailer 4-tons (local)        Ho      500    1,380      340,000      350,000      690,000
- Sprayer 600 It                }o      300    1,150       45,000      300,000      345,000
- Spare parts (30% for tractors
and 207 for impleeents)      Sm                            --     3     300000    3 300 000
Subtotal                                         2,258.00   16 418 000   18 696 000
2. Repair Facilities
- Buildings                     Sum                        107,000      15,000      122,000
- Tools and Equipnent           SUD                         35,000     165,000      200,000
- Vehicles                      Sum                         34.000     134.000      168,000
Subtotal                                          176,000      314,000      490.000
3. Trainia% of Operators
_ Local training                Sum                        139,000      __          139,000
- Fellooships                   Sum                         --          20,000       20,000
- Vehicles - Equipment          Sum                         15000     172,000      187,000
Subtotal                                           154.000     192.000      346.000
4. Experintal MeehAnized Falue
B Huildings                    H2     1,000      120       120,000      __          120,000
- Equipment                    SUm                          24,000     190,000      214,000
- Consultant Services          M/H       12    6,000          --        72,000       72,000
Subtotal                                          144,000      262,000      406,000
TOTAL A                                             2.732.000  17.o06o000   19.938.000
B.     Irrigation
1. Portable Diesel Pumps (5-6 Hp)
- Puop units aod
azcessories              Ho     2,000    1,095      390,000   1,800,000    2,190,000
- Spare parts (20%)            Sum                           --        360.000      360,000
Subtot.l                                         390,000   2,160,000    2,550,000
2.  Small Electric Pop. (3-4 Hp)
- Pop units and accessories   No      2,000      680       160,000   1,200,000    1,360,000
- Installation                 No     2,000      220       249,000     200,000      440,000
- Electric connection          No     1.000    1.450       750.000     700,000    1,450.000
Subtotal                                       1,1S,O000   2.100.000    3,250,000
3. Stationary Electric Pumrs (10-20 Hp)
_______- Pump units nd accessorits   No          300    1,200       45,000     315,000       360,000
- Installetion                 No       300      300       51,000       39,000       90,000
- Electric connections         No       300    1,450      225.000      210.000      435,000
Subtotal                                         321,000     564.000       885,000
4. Electric Lines and Transformers
- Electric Lines 11 KV         km       200   10,000      600,000   1,400,000    2,000,000
- Transformers                 Sum                        100.000      200,000      300.000
Subtotal                                         700.000   1.600.000    2.300.000
5. Pilot Irr.ixtion Scheme
- Pumping stations             Sum                         77,000     109,000       186,000
- Asbestos pipelines           Sum                        352,000      88,000      440,000
- Alfalf, valve.               No       500      150       10,000      65,000        75,000
- Electric Iit. 11 KY          Y.         9   10,000       30,000      60,000       90,000
_ Spare parts                  Su                            __        24.000       24,000
- Consultant                   H/tl       6   6.000          --        36Q000       36Q000
Subtotal                                         469.000     382Q000      851.000
TOTAL B                                           3.030.000   68Q06.000    9.836.000
C. RURAL STORES
1. District Stores (10)
_ Lsnd acquisition             M2    30,000        3       90,000       __          90,000
B .uilding.                    H2     7,500       40      300,O0        --         300,000
- Equipment                    Sum                         10.000      000 00       30.000
Subtotal                                         400,000      2Q.000      420,000



Table 5 (con't).
Page 57
Proiect Costs
(Detailed)
Unit                 Cost
Unit    Quantity Cost    Local      Foreign       Total
C. RURAL STORES con't.
2.   Village Bank Stores (70)
- Land acquisition               M2    105,000      2     210,000      --         210,000
- Buildings                      M2     35,000    30   1,050,000       --      1,050,000
- Equipment                      Sum                       35,000  70,000         105,000
Subtotal                                       1.295.000  70,000      1.365.000
3.   Village Stores (300)
- Land acquisition              M12    150,000      1     150,000      --         150,000
- Buildings                      N2     30,000    30      900,000      --        900,000
- Equipment                      Sum                       60.000 120,000         180,000
Subtotal                                       1 1,10 000 120000      1,230.000
TOTAL C                                            2.805,000 210,000      3,015,000
D. STRENGTHENING EXTENSION SERVICE
- Vehicles                           Sum                        49,000 492,000        541,000
- Extension and Training aids        Sum                         4,000  40,000          44,000
- Demonstration equipment            Sum                         10,000 100,000        110,000
- Applied Research equipment         Sum                          5,000  50,000         55,000
- Housing for Extension Agents       No          100 7,200      720,000     --         720,000
- Training Extension Agents          Sum                         36,000  30,000         66,000
- Consultants                        M/M          24 6,000         --  1i44000         144,000
TOTAL D                                              824.000 856.000       1 680Q000
E. AGRICULTURAL COOPERATIVES          __
- Equipment                          Sum                         16,000 165,000        181,000
- Training managers and Board
members          Sum                       145,000     --         145,000
- Conaultants                        H/M          48 6.000         --   288.000        288,000
TOTAL E                                              161-000 453,000        614,000
F. AGRICULTURAL CREDIT SYSTEM
- Equipment                          Sum                         19,000 183,000        202,000
- Consultants                        HIM          66 6,000          --  396,000        396,000
- Fellowships                        M/M          12 1,000          --   12,000         12,000
TOTAL F                                                19.000 591.000        610 000
G. PROJECT PREPARATION - LIVESTOCK
- Consultants                        M/M          30 6,000          --  180,000        180.000
TOTAL G                                                   --  180,000        180,000
U. COORDINATION COMMITTEES
- Equipment                          Sum                          60,000 20,000         80,000
- Consultants                        H/M           24 6,000          --  144,000        144,000
- Administrative Expenses            Sum                         240,000   --           240,000
TOTAL H                                              300.000 164.000        464.000
I. CONTINGENCIES
- Physical                                                       355,000  11,000        366,000
- Price                             _          _3,422,000 5,617.000    9.039,000
TOTAL I                                            3.777.000 5,628,000    9,405,000
GRAND TOTAL                                       13,648,000 32,094000  45, 742,000
May 15, 1978



7.61. 6
Volt0 6t tknal ot
1. FAH KaliU0  8AC1A6S
- 86..l tr.toto  60.65 Hp           ,         1,000        1,0250         6,800       7,02°5      1,020,000   6,000,000owoo   7,82, 000
-Ollp2067 tOo.                        1,000          195          1,300       1.495         195,000   1,300.060    1,495,000
-   ...ibl. .cldbotrd plocoh - 3               1000         255          1,700       1.955          25,300     170,000      195,500
- L.o.11.,                                    1,0 D          105            700         805         105,000     7OO,O0o      b05,000
-  crO.    2t.orto  bat                  300          13             900       1, 035         4020        27000        300.000
-Thr..h-r600 kg/h .1th .71.                    580         840           060         6,660         487.000   3268,000    3735,000
Spr=..r 600 lt                               300          150          17000       1.150          45,000     300 000      345,000
*rolr4-too-                                500          600            700       1,380         360,000     3000000      60.0
5Spr. pat,  cr f b0v. (302 for trctor.-    3                                                                A 3on nnn        .0 0nn
-nd 20% f-r iwl-e.)
2 botr.1l                                                                             2.25R.000  I 458 nnn  IR tOO nnn
2. RIPAI FACILIS71S
0-01. ad ,.ort*c. *qD1pn                      S .                                                  35.000     165,000      200.000
-h 0.htla   Pitoop                              12          700          7,000       3,700           0,:4OO     84,:000      92,:400
- apaIr trok                         2        3,a0o         12 ,50      16.300           7 600      234300       32.600
_p t      -                       10        1.800          2.500       4.300          18.000      25.000       43.000
Sohutot.                                                                                 69.000     299.000      368.000
3. TRINTN0 OPHAT010-5
V hitI-   Pit-p.                                 12          700          7,000       7,700           8,400      84,000       92.400
rotorcyclo.               ~~~          ~~~           ~~40  60  600  160         2,400      04,000       26,400
- Aodi,Ia o1 rqoipnt                           So.                                                    2,000      20,000       02,000
- Mt1cl.laeoca eq.t.pani od apar. prt.         5uo                                                    2.600      44.000       46.60b
Scbtoi.t                                                                                 15.400     172Z000      187.470
4. 670IX7rTAL H00N12ND PaRKs
-      T-t.1 20.0100 60-65 HI                    4         1,020          6,800       7,820           4,000      27,200       31.280
- Wheel Tr-.t00 40-45 Hp                         4          900           6,000       6,900           3,600      24,000       27,600
Chi..1 810 - 7 010.                             4          193          1,300       1 495             780       5,200         5090
Chit.l Plt, - 5 ¶10.                            4          150          1,000       1,150             600       4,000        4,600
=  -0. bOe Nocldbo-td plooSh - 3                 4           250          1.700       1,950           1,000       6,800        7,800
_ 8.     1ibl. H-ldbo.rd 1006b - 2               4           230          1,500       1, 730            920       6,000        6,920
05. 7100                                        4          250          1, 700      1, 950          1,000       6,800        7,800
C-i.  drtll. 7                                  4          4W0          3,150       3,630           1,920      02,600       14,350
- OTtar.ro. tolttrtoor-   - 2 ro.                4          100            630          730             400       2,520        2,020
- 0p--d. Ia.IOp  02                                         200          1. 350      1.55              400       2,0          510
* S.lf-pt  lld  biad.r- - 15 Op               4          450           3,000       3.450           1,800      122,000      13,800°
_ K1.0.11.oooc. aqoip..oot   tool.             So                                                    6,000      40 000       46,000
_ Vahlrle. - P106-op.                             2          700          7,000       7,700           1,400      14,000 1W.600
= Sp-r. part for abac. (301J                    Sm                                                      __       26.170       26.180
S.btot.1                                                                               23,900     190.0W0      213,900
5. WAuTn Loro
Dit..I Puop -it. 5-6 Hp                      2.000         195           900        1,095         390,000   1,8W,00 W      190 000
- b 11 aleotric pup co-t. 3-4 Hp              2,000           80            600         60          160 ,     1,200 ,00    1,360,000
- St.ti-o,.ry K12.trio p-ap -nit. 15-20 Rp       300         150          1,250       1,200          45,000     315,000      360,000
- Eoolpnet a.,d .5.0.000. for .lattrir
tcoo.OttioOO                                Sc                                                 140,000     910,000    1,050,000
-     .qlpatan  _tateta   fo- e.c-tro 11...
=1 50ulpel  Sni po teri-l Eor eIectric llpe                                  210,000   1,400,00O    1,610,000
_ Tra.fo.ert. for .bove It...                    bo                                                  30,000     200,000      230.000
- Spare part. for  pp                                                                                  --       360.OD      360.000
Stbtotal                                                                              975,000   6,185,000    7.160.000
6. PILOS TRRCATION SCEHE0
= Po.p coit .   50 Hp                             2          530          3,080       3,610           1,060       6,160        7,220
- Equip_ t  - 75 Oprlfor                        12          840          4,600        5,440          10,000      55.200       65.280
-Eqclpaot  _06  -.11. for- .tt
tq-n qt110 .                               Sc                                                   7,160      47,640       54,800
- Iqclp_nt .   tertal. lot .l.otrlt
hIoI  11                                   S S-                                                 9,000      60,000       69,000
_ Alfalfa  Is..                                 500           20            130         150          00,000      650,00        79.0WW
Spat Ppt.t    P-PIo  coitt                      8                                                     -_        24W000       264000
Sob-.1                                                                                 37.300     258.000      295,300
7. RIUAL 8ST0ES
_ Slt.      P quippt                            5,                                                  I05.008 O    10.000      315,000
._btotal                                                                              105.000     210,000      315,000
_ Vhiolca   Pick-op.                             38          700          7,000       7,700          26,600     266,000       292,600
Hi t....                             6          8050         6,500       9,350           32,'0      34,000        37,400
Sotoroyol..              ~~~~          ~~~~200  60    600         660           I22,000    020,000      132,000
E.t  ...      t.5.                                                                             7.000      72.000       79,000
- lo¶.o.io. .od   i.totrg kida                  S                                                     4,000      40,000        44,O0
i qolpn t, t101. od Ctd      tl  Or
deO- -Uttatt0 .-1 Opplt.d -e.aOrch           SV                                                   15,000      15000W       165,000
ShtoOt.1                                                                               68,000      682,000      750.000
9. AG3RICLTURAL COOPERATI7VE
-  ottrola.                                     200           bO            600         660            12,000    120,000      132,000
- spot pct.                                      So.                                                   2,000      25,0OW       27,000
_ OffIt.  qcip.ot                                So.                                                   2          -0-W   0-000  22,000
Scboot.1                                                                                16,W00    165,000      181,000
10. AGl0TI7SU.L -CUD77 SYSTEM
V- hiI.. - Pik-op.                              4          700          7,0W0        7,700            2,80      28,000       30.800
SpWo. part.                                    9m                                                     1,200      5,000        6,200
- Offi8 . .itt                                   So     _                                             15.000    150,000       165,00
S.btot.1                                                                                19,00      I83000       202.000
51.   COTTOIIU  OTU0788
- 0001.. .q..ip.a.t                             _                                                     60 0oiO    2170,oC      80,000
8610.0.1                           _  -_ _ _ _ _ _                  _ _ _ _ __ I8100_0 800                       80,000
00001                              -     -_____-    ...                              ,645,6002.802.000  2S.64*8.00
000 15, 2970



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
APPRAISAL OF
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Present and Future Crop Production in Sohag and Menufiya
(Area of 180,000 feddans directly affected by mechanization)
Cropping Area (1,000 fed)                  Present                   Future
Sohag   Menufiya      Total          Yield      Production    Yield         Production
1,000 fed.    tons/fed.    1,000 tons   tons/fed.   1,000 tons
Wheat                         44.6      25.2        69.8          1.35           94.23          1.48         103.3
Short berseem                 27.9      23.5       51.4           5.0          251.0           5.25         269.85
Long berseem                  20.5      38.3       58.8          20.0        1,176.0          21.0        1,234.8
Sorghum                       53.9                 53.9           1.61          86.78          1.76          55.66
Maize                         15.8      62.6        78.4          1.96         153.66           2.06         161.5
Cotton                        23.3      23.5       46.8           0.95          44.46           0.99         46.33
186.00   173.1       359.1
March 1978                                                                                                         UI



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
APPRAISAL OF
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Present and Future Economic Values of Crop and Animal Production
Menufiya and Sohag
(LE Million)
--Present---------                -------------Future ---------       --------Incremental---------
Menufiya      Sohag     Total      Menufiya      Sohag      Total      Menufiya      Sohag      Total
Gross Production Values
Crops                          31.1      29.6        60.7        32.9         31.5       64.4       1.8           1.9        3.7
Animals                         3.9        4.2         8.1        5.5          5.9       11.4       1.6           1.7         3.3
Total                          35.0      33.8        68.8        38.4         37.4       75.8       3.4           3.6        7.0
Less
Materials                      5.0         5.4       10.4         5.0          5.4       10.4        -              -          -
Fodder                         7.4         7.9       15.3         8.0           8.5      16.5       0.6            0.6        1.2
Labor                          1.4         2.6         4          1.2           1.9        3.1     -0.2          -0.7        -0.9
Sagia                          0.2         0.3         0.5         -            _           -      -0.2          -0.3        -0.5
Total                           14.0        16.2        30.2        14.2         15.8       30.0       0.2          -0.4       -0.2
NET PRODUCTION VALUES           21.0        17.6        38.6        24.2         21.6       45.8       3.2           4.0        7.2
February 27, 1978
oC
OQ I,-o



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
APPRAISAL OF
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Incremental Economic Flows at Menufiya and Sohag
(LE Million)
-----------------------BenefitsC----------------------       ---------------------------Costs--------------------------
------ Menufiya ---------     ----------Sohag ----------      --------Menufiya -----------      -----------Sohag----------
Net                            Net                                          Operation &                      Operation &
Production                     Production                                      Maintenance                      Maintenance
Year        Values        Transport        Values         Transport      Investment          Costs         Investment         Costs
1            0.8            0.1            1.0             0.1            2.1               0.2             2.2              0.2
2            1.6            0.2            2.0             0.2            3.5               0.6             3,8              0,7
3            2.4            0.3            3.0             0.3            3.4               1.1             3.5             1.2
4.           3.2            0.4            4.0             0.5            1.0               1.3             1.0              1.4
5.           3.2            0.4            4.0             0.5                              1.3                              1.4
6.           3.2            0.4            4.0             0.5                              1.3                              1.4
7.           3.2            0.4            4.0             0.5                             1.3                              1.4
8.           3.2            0.4            4.0             0.5                              1.3                             1.4
9.           3.2            0.4            4.0             0.5            0.6               1.3             0.7              1.4
10.          3.2            0.4            4.0             0.5            0.6               1.3             0.6              1.4
11.          3.2            0.4            4.0             0.5            0.9               1.3             1.0              1.4
12.          3.2            0.4            4.0             0.5            0.9               1.3             1.0              1.4
13.          3.2            0.4            4.0             0.5            0.7               1.3             0.7              1.4S1m
14.          3.2            0.4            4.0             0.5            0.2               1.3             0.2              1.4A69D
15.          3.2            0.4            4.0             0.5                              1.3                              1.4
March 1, 1978



Table 10
Page 62
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
APPRAISAL OF
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Present and Future Cash Flows
for a 3-Feddan Model Farm at Menuifya and Sohag in LE
------------Menufiya------------    --------Sohag----------------
Present    Future    Incremental    Present    Future    Incremental
Crop Production         638        682          44             545        588          43
Animal Production       193        251          58             193        251          58
Gross Production        831        933         102             738        839         101
Value
Subsistence (food)      152        152          -              152        152          _
Cash Income             679        781         102             586        687         101
Costs
Inputs                  110        110          -              111        111
Hired Labor             102         93          -9             151        121         -30
Sagia Repairs             9          0          -9               9         -           -9
Machinery Hire           -          79          79              -          90          90
Animal Purchases         63         63          -               63         63          -
Concentrates             19         25           6              19         25           6
Overhead                 35         35           -              35         35          -
Miscellaneous             33        40           7              38         45           7
Cash Costs              371        445          74             426        490          64
Net Cash Flow            308       336          28             160        197          37
March 3, 1978



AFAR REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
APPRAISAL OF
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOFNENT PROJECT
ORGABISATION CHART -  IWISTRY OF AGEICLfVRE
M}SSTUR0  ACRI WIIUR
AGRICULTURAL TRATNING BOARD
Under Secretar for                         Vnder Secretary fornderUncretecyetorytf
Aricultural Economics                       Planning & Pollouup                                     Under Secretary for                                          are Ofo
and Statistics                                                                             [Adjiitration and Finance                                 Miitr  Office9
Department for Planning
Department for Economica                    Department for Pofllowup                             Department for Administration                       Department for SecrtatrJ
and Statistics                            Department for ooaluation                            Department  for Fionancl ore                        Department for Inspection
and Statiatice    DeWtment for hlnluation                             ~~Department for Financime  AnlaDepartment for Foreiga Relations
Department for Legislation                          Department for Companies and
Department for Inspection                             Institutions
Sector for Land Reclamation                                                        (Administration and Finance)                      Department for Organi8Ation
Division for Illegal Returna                        Office for Complaints
Office for Security
General Compamy for Land Reclamation        Organisation for Settlement and
Moseaaamet El Behaira Company                 Aricultural Projeote
General Company for Underground             Organisation for Agrarian Reform
Water Research
Arab Company for Land Reclamation
Al Akareia Egyptian Company                                                                         8ector for Rural Development.
Wadi Cam Ombo Company 
General Company for Grape Products                                                                  tdor Secretary for Engineerin
North Tahrir , ricultural Company                                                                  Depertment for Civil Engineering
General Egypl4an Agricultural Company                                                              Department for Agricultural                         Sector for Agricultural Eeeearch
Mxariut Agricultural Company                                                                         Engineering
West Nubaria Agricultaral Company        ,nder Secretary for Extension                                                                               pReearch Institutes
South Tahrir Agrioultaral Company                                                                                                                     SianrtrReac
e=prtient for Extension                            Desert Research
Department for Training                            Cotton Research
Sector for Plant Produotion                         Department for Community Development                Field Crops Research
Horticulture Research
Plant Protection Research
plant Digseaes-Research
Under Secretary for                Egyptian Agricultural Society                                                           Animal Production Research
Agricultural Areas                 Organisation for Agriculturl A1nial Health Research
Department for Agricultural          Production                                                                            Eoonomice and Planning Research
Areas                            Organisation for Balancing
Under Secretary for                  Prices
Pest control                       Organisation for Cotton
Department for Pest Control          Development                                    Sector for AnSimsl Production                                                n
Department for Locust Control                                                      Egyptian Meat and Milk Companny
and Agrioultural Aviation                                                        General Company for Poultry
Department for Rorticultural                                                       Veterinary Department                                                         o
Extension                                                                          Under Secretariat for Fisheries
Egyptian Company for Fishing Equipment
Eryptian Company for North Fishing



Chart C-2
Page 64
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
APPRAISAL OF
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DEGREE OF MECHANIZATION
NATIONAL LEVEL
100 _                                                                      37,650
90                                                                        33,885
80                                                                        30,120
z
0
W  70                                                                        26,355 :
0
c-
>  60                                                                        22,590  F-
rr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
z
cc                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
a. 50                                                                        18,825  <
z
0
40_                                                                         15,060 D
co
Lii
~130       1      1                                                       11,295
Lii
20                                                   *.  ,7,530
10
1978   1979   1980   1981   1982  1983   1984   1985   1986   1987
1     2      3      4      5      6      7      8      9      10
YEAR
*---.----- DEGREE OF MECHANIZATION OBTAINED WITH EXISTING ONLY TRACTORS.
- -- - DEGREE OF MECHANIZATION TO BE OBTAINED WITH ADDITIONAL TRACTORS
PROVIDED UNDER THE PROJECT.
MECHANIZATION TARGET TO BE OBTAINED WITH ADDITIONAL TRACTORS
FROM OTHER SOURCES.
World Bank - 18411



'hart C-3
Page 65
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
APPRAISAL OF
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
EXPECTED DEGREE OF MECHANIZATION
MENUFIYA
100                                                                     1,615
90 _                                                                 - 1,453
80 _                                                                      1,292
z
0
w
70                                                                       1,130 O
C.)
<  60                                                                      970  ..
0 r  | 
z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
a  50                                                                      807 <cc
0~
-.~~~~~~~U
U.,    _                                                          'e_ 16
3 0                                                                       646 .
w
1 0                                                                       48 
1     2      3      4      5     6      7      8      9     10
YEAR
........... DEGREE OF MECHANIZATION OBTAINED WITH EXISTING ONLY TRACTORS
--- -  DEGREE OF MECHANIZATION TO BE OBTAINED WITH ADDITIONAL
TRACTORS PROVIDED UNDER THE PROJECT.
-          MECHANIZATION TARGET TO BE OBTAINED WITH ADDITIONAL
TRACTORS FORM OTHER SOURCES.
World Bank -18413



thart C-4
Page 66
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
APPRAISAL OF
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
EXPECTED DEGREE OF MECHANIZATION
SOHAG
100                                 _                                  1,570
90 _                                                 /                1,413
-  80 -                                                                 - 1,256
2
0
<  70                                                                     1,100 c
<  60                                                                      942 l
50                                                                     785 <
000~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
N                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
z                                                                               U-
<  40                     3                                                628 7
0   20                                                                     47. 14'
1015
0
1     2      a     4      5      6     7      8      9     10
YEAR
.......... DEGREE OF MECHANIZATION OBTAINED WITH EXISTING TRACTORS.
- --. DEGREE OF MECHANIZATION TO BE OBTAINED WITH ADDITIONAL
TRACTORS PROVIDED UNDER THE PROJECT.
MECHANIZATION TARGET TO BE OBTAINED WITH ADDITIONAL
TRACTORS FROM OTHER SOURCES.
World Bank - 18412



Chart C-5
Page 67
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
APPRAISAL OF
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Labor Requirement With and Without the Project
(for 180,000 feddans)
6500
6000                                                                HIRED LABOR
WITHOUT PROJECT
FAMILY LABOR
5500                                                                NEW EMPLOYMENT
WITH PROJECT    HIRED LABOR
FAMILY LABOR
45000 
4600 -
4000
X  3500
I
<  3000
200
2000                             "                         I 
25001 
2000 
1500!
1000
C50 f1  d'
JAN   FEB   MAR   APR   MAY   JUN   JUL   AUG   SEP   OCT   NOV   DEC
World Bank - 18578



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Menufiya Governorate
=T  -   iot irrigation zone
Moin ccols
2  FuI                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T. T-t.r                 -  Ma n drc>is
,-<                                                             ------5    i t  -- .A°I--xn\Con:  ++    - Railways
)  I                                   **,                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Highssays
tI  /**~~~~~~~  ~       ~         ~          2I2<  ~~~~Major fawn,s
Tala/~  T;Z.fi.                                                                          -Distitbaurdaries
|l_   Tala~         1                                             -~  ToZoro                    Goverisrate baumo niry
¢3X@, T U _ _- <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 2                                                                                    =                 > -  4  6   
bi,,  .->   cYrRU6<   :  SyRlA  \  > - \\\ \j                           MILES
tsrAlnrarer;arrv 2       I BAM                       ,                                             g
'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                            ~       ~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 2                               4GP  1D\      6 \ X C
ISAE  %'IRA,2
ARAB             5Aji.
L    IY RE PUSLIC  bF          ARABIA
EGYPT
i   ,    Jt  'Sev<      ThfmoPa3rnppaedr e ord6EsphrCM   frtecnvrece<                                         9        Delta barrage
S JAN D  A 
C H A D    ;   E   rE   I    y  D mVS 3S show~~~~~~ n , 2Pthsm o o no. pIrp. oL hePb2fl,rro WodO 6o~,                                                                                 iSd{d:ZS \      Xw    
2yp                 ros    '0       '*\, o,       5wo,<e or0oi, s/wbouna eSO.                                                                   o                                                    C






I RE 13364
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sohog Governorote b                                                                       /    S
M.is  dss,s 
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
. ~    ~~~ _
Go---Rs   -J.
~~27I2Y ~~~~~~~                                                        \\ KA T-
Akh'I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,5c
2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--        /                                                                                                                                    4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ooIoes~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E






IBRD 13365
4  as   X                 ~~~~~MARCH 1978
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SOHAG and MENUFIYA
El Atf  Pilot Irrigation  Area
Existing Situation                                           c
Open Drains
Earth Canals
Roads
-*--I-I-4--Railroads
0     Sagias (Waler Wheels)
OW    Pumping Station (Pumping from Well)
OC    Pumping Station (Pumping from Canal)
<      ! Towns
012
KILOMETERS
ffi   > /    DerbaybW    nk sn                                                     f
(3                                                    the cnnnf the rao o
R/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h reor to7 aril ieOt
Th. d-nr,in-troo usd-ad the
knudans hwno this -ep
-nnt-iply. -n the part of the
World Bank end, itsaflrtn, any
judg-et en the legal statu  of
ey tertor orany endo nt
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o eocCao ofJ num° /tnare
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.   p_ r( - b-urd.ri..  Ihonsuth m h
TURKEY     t
i/M tt   J  heich                                  LIBYA   i    A.R.9  
I   EGYPT             S SAUDI
0                              .   .E.N. RO-AD                 i               e       ARABIA
i     Su  
JETHIOPiA



I



IBRD 13366
r                                                               4      X                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MARCH 1978
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SOHAG and MENUFIYA
El Atf  Pilot Irrigation  Area                                                    Pi
Proposed Layout
Proposed Buried Pipelines
Proposed Pumping Stations
'  _  . Existing Earth Canals                                                  ,
Existing Open Drains
Roads
-I--i--4----Railroads                                                                    C
Towns
0                    1i 2ha
KILOM ETERS                                                                                    P2
Derboyba U-            
|        -'4y                   ~~~~~ ~~P3 EWj,
Ths map has hoe qpreacd hy the
t P7            6       ll                                                   W_fd B      VW -1-i-lWas io
theep.n to whiMh it atthed
The. d--ei-eto- -sd ard the
b_adaies sho- on th,s map
do not ntpfy, on the Par   f the
Word Bask and itsefhkateofanbyt
Ihdym-nt sthe ogWtats of
C20  /7y f-/t., -a Y- oranyad--oament
- 1        1 1                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ora eCcptanot of such hassdanes.
G. 5REECE   7 :      t TURKEY
t /  t                           -°5>ior  b    - :gtg) ~~~~~~~~~~~~~SYRIA> 2
t   /                           -S''a    ............... lsRAtWi.,$9  ~~~~~IRAQ  .
0P8/                                                         S         \J--
i%/M t   bu Sheich                                   LIBYA        A.'.A4            AD
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ AS '''-  
?    ;.EN       A J-EHOI&,-,
. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ el te          ,            IRA  -
I EGYT              SAUDI
I~ ~~~~~AAI
CHAD
Fj  SuDN       f     



