Document of
The World Bank
FILE  COp y                      FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2294-EGT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON
A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
June 14, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients oniy in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURREICY EQUIVALENTS
Official Rate
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)                                   US$2.56 or SDR 2.118
1 US Dollar                                             LE 0.391
Parallel Market Rate
Until February 1976:
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)                                   US$1.70
1 US Dollar                                             LE 0.59
From February to May 1976:
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)                                   US$156
1 US Dollar                                             LE 0.64
From May 21, 1976:
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)                                   US$1.47
1 US Dollar                                             LE 0.68
From December 1, 1976:
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)                                   US$1.43
I US Dollar                                             LE 0.70
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
Measure Equivalent
1 feddan      =        1.04 acres
0.42 hectares
List of Abbreviations
BDAC    Bank for Development & Agricultural Credit
DCA     Draft Development Credit Agreement
CODE    Gulf Organization for the Development of Egypt
PBDAC   Principal Bank for Development & Agricultural Credit



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:               Arab Republic of Egypt
Beneficiaries:          Ministries of Agriculture and Irrigation, Rural
Electrification Authority and Principal Bank for
Development and Agricultural Credit (PBDAC)
Amount:                 US$32.0 million
Terms:                  Standard IDA
Relending Terms:        (a)  Government loan to PBDAC of US$24.5 million from
Credit proceeds for 15 years including 5 years' grace
at 3 percent interest.
(b) Subloans by PBDAC at not less than 9 percent
interest to cooperative sub-borrowers and not less
than 10 percent interest to other sub-borrowers, for
not more than 10 years including maximum one year's
grace. Foreign exchaage risk borne by Government.
Project
Description:           The project saeks to stimulate the process of modern-
ization of Egyptian agriculture, to strengthen rural
institutions to enable them to promote economic
development, and, through investments in two selected
governorates in the old lands, to increase crop and
livestock productivity. It would provide credit to
cooperatives and farmers for purchase of tractors and
accessory implements, threshers and irrigation pumps;
and finance equipment for two experimental mechaniza-
tion farms and a pilot irrigation farm, construction
of rural stores, technical assistance for extension,
cooperative and agricultural credit institutions, and
preparation of future livestock and credit projects.
The project would initiate a process of rehabilitation
of the agricultural credit system. Not less than 80
percent of credits for farm machinery would be ear-
marked for agricultural cooperatives in order to bene-
fit 52,500 smallholder farmers, 65 percent of whom now
have incomes below the relative poverty level. The
project is expected to increase their incomes by at
least 10 percent in six years. The project faces risks
of unsatisfactory progress in institutional improvement,
especially for cooperatives and the extension services,
which would be addressed by technical assistance.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost:                                                             Foreign
Cost
US$ Million             as %
Local   Foreign    Total    of Total
Farm machinery                      2.7     17.2        19.9        86
Irrigation pumps and
electrical connections           3.0       6.8         9.8        69
Rural stores                        2.8      0.2         3.0         7
Technical assistance and
equipment for institutions       1.3       2.2         3.5        63
Contingencies                      3.8       5.6         9.4        60
Total                        13.7      32.0        45.7        70
Financing Plan:                                           US$ Million
Local       Foreign         Total
IDA Credit                              0.0        32.0           32.0
Government and PBDAC                   11.4         0.0           11.4
Sub-borrowers                           2.3         0.0            2.3
Total                    13.7        32.0           45.7
Estimated Disbursements                                   US$ Million
Bank/IDA FY  79  80   81   82    83  Total
Annual                       3.0  9.0 11.4  7.1   1.5  32.0
Cumulative                   3.0 12.0 23.4 30.5  32.0  32.0
Rate of Return:                32 percent
Staff Appraisal Report:        No. 1971b-EGT of May 31, 1978
Regional Projects Department, EMENA



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT TO THE ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR AN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit for the equivalent of US$32.0 million to the Arab Republic
of Egypt to finance the foreign exchange costs of an Agricultural Development
Project. The development credit would be made on standard IDA terms. Part of
the proceeds of the development credit would be on-lent to the Principal Bank
for Development and Agricultural Credit (PBDAC) at an interest rate of three
percent per annum for a term of 15 years including five years grace. The
Government would bear the foreign exchange risk on the credit.
PART I - THE ECONOMY I/
2.        A Basic Economic Report entitled "Arab Republic of Egypt:  Economic
Management in a Period of Transition" (No. 1815-EGT), and dated May 8, 1978,
has been distributed to the Executive Directors in six volumes. The report
was based on the findings of a basic economic mission which visited Egypt in
May/June 1976, as updated by a series of missions, the latest of which took
place in January 1978. A report on Recent Economic Development and External
Capital Requirements (No. 2071-EGT), prepared for the June 14-16 meeting of
the Consultative Group, was distributed to the Executive Directors on May 30,
1978. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.        From 1960 to 1966 Egypt experienced rapid growth (around 6 percent a
year in real terms) under fairly rigid centralized planning and control. This
system came under increasing pressure in the second half of the decade follow-
ing bad harvests and increased defense expenditures, particularly as a result
of the civil war in Yemen. It deteriorated further after the war of 1967,
with the loss of the Sinai oil fields, the closure of the Suez Canal, the
abandonment of the Canal cities and the cost of resettling the population of
about a million, and the virtual cessation of Western economic assistance.
With the continuing military confrontation in the Middle East, Egypt further
increased defense spending at the expense of other types of consumption and
of its development program. Thus, in 1973 the economic picture was one of
rigorously curtailed private consumption and inadequate investment, with a
deteriorating capital stock of infrastructure and productive facilities.
Real GDP growth for 1967-73 averaged only 3.5 percent a year.
1/   Except for paragraphs 2 and 6, Part I of this report is identical to
Part I of the recent President's Report No. P-2241-EGT for the Develop-
ment Industrial Bank Project, distributed to the Executive Directors on
March 9, 1978.



4.        The changed political situation after October 1973 laid the ground-
work for a new "open-door" policy enunciated by President Sadat and approved
in a national referendum in May 1974. This policy reflects a major effort to
accelerate economic development through modernization and making Egypt's
largely publicly owned and centrally controlled economy more market-oriented.
Specifically, the policy envisages (i) decentralization of decision-making in
state-owned enterprises; (ii) liberalization of the private sector; (iii) in-
centives for private foreign investment; and (iv) expanded economic coopera-
tion with Arab countries. Since 1974 Egypt has initiated a number of steps
towards restructuring the economy. In particular, steps have been taken to
remove some of the restrictions on private business activities, to decentralize
public enterprise management, to encourage foreign private investment, to
expand foreign exchange transactions outside the official rate, and to loosen
many of the restraints on banking activities.
5.        Substantial inflows of external assistance from both Arab countries
and Western aid donors and institutions have eased some of the problems of the
Egyptian economy in making the transition. However, major structural diffi-
culties remain, largely due to the continuing tension in the region and the
neglect of investment. These structural difficulties are linked to the major
weaknesses of the economy: the rapid increase in the population, slow growth
in agriculture, the large deficit in the balance of payments, the low level of
government savings, and low efficiency in the public sector.
6.        In November 1976, following elections to the People's Assembly,
which were the first in which a choice of candidates representing diverse
political views was offered to the voters, a new government was formed which
included a team of economic ministers headed by a Deputy Prime Minister.
President Sadat directed that economic questions should be in the forefront
of the new Cabinet's tasks. This team succeeded in considerably strengthening
Egypt's economic management and financial position. The position of Deputy
Prime Minister for Financial and Economic Affairs was eliminated in a minor
Cabinet reshuffle in May 1978. The other members of the economic team remain.
Recent Economic Developments
7.        Growth in National Income.  Real growth in GDP (1975 prices) in-
creased from 3.2 percent in 1974, to 9.8 percent in 1975, and 6.1 percent in
1976. The growth rate in 1977 is not yet available, but preliminary indica-
tions are that it was high. The more rapid growth after 1974 is attributed
largely to the recovery of industrial activity through the provision of
greater aid-financed inputs, increased petroleum production and construction
(particularly in the Canal Zone), and growth of trade and services.
8.        Investment.  Egypt was able to sustain a higher level of investment
during 1974 and 1975, largely as a result of generous external assistance from
Arab countries. Gross investment increased from $1,373 million in 1973 to
$2,867 million in 1975 (in 1975 prices). This included a considerable replen-
ishment of stocks, which had been drawn down in the pre-October 1973 period.
During 1976, as a result of shortages of both domestic and foreign resources,
investment is estimated at only about $2,300 million (1975 prices).



- 3 -
9.        Income Distribution.  It is estimated that in 1974/75, the lowest
40 percent of the household income distribution in both rural and urban areas
accounted for about 16 percent of income originating in the respective sector.
The income distribution per person was more egalitarian, with the distribution
in rural -reas being somewhat more equitable than its urban counterpart, but
at a lower average income level. In the rural areas, those in the lowest 40
percent of the personal income distribution accounted for about 25 percent of
total incomes in that sector, compared with about 21 percent for the urban
areas; however, the average annual income in the rural areas was about $166,
while in urban areas it was $327.
10.       Public Finance.  Because of the size of the public sector, the bulk
of Egypt's domestic financial resources for development is mobilized through
the state budget and public sector corporations. Considerable efforts have
been made in the past to increase such resources, largely by way of taxation;
for example in 1976, tax revenues were 22 percent of GNP. Total public reve-
nues reached 41 percent of GNP, a major effort for a country of Egypt's low
per capita income.
11.       The high level of Government current expenditures, however, absorbed
most of these resources. This was almost entirely due to the level of defense
expenditures, and, more recently, to the growth of subsidies, which increased
from $480 million (about 5 percent of GNP) in 1973 to $1,415 1/ million (about
10 percent of GNP) in 1976, as the Government endeavored to protect consumers
from the sharp increases in the import prices of foodstuffs and other essential
commodities. Exact data on defense spending are not available, since a large
portion is channelled through a separate account, partly foreign financed--the
Emergency Fund.
12.       Credit expansion in 1976 was 19 percent, a much smaller increase
than the 44 percent registered in 1975. Credit policy was more restrictive
and the credit needs of public sector companies were reduced because of a
running down of inventories and a decline in import commitments. Money and
quasi-money expanded by 26 percent compared with 21 percent in 1975. The
official consumer price index for the urban population estimated the price
rise in 1976 at 10 percent, but the actual rate was probably much higher.
Indications are that the rate of inflation in 1977 remained high.
13.       Balance of Payments.  Despite an increase in the value of commodity
exports from $1,003 million to $1,612 million between 1973 and 1976, export
earnings fell well short of imports, which rose from $1,664 million to $4,214
million. Indeed the country's import bill almost tripled in this period due
to increases in quantities imported, and soaring food and other prices. The
imbalance in Egypt's trade was compensated to some extent by fast-growing
earnings from services and from workers' remittances; the latter rose from
$205 million in 1974 to $757 million 1/ in 1976. Nevertheless, the overall
1/   Including direct subsidies and public economic sector deficits.
2/   Including the financing for "own exchange" imports.



- 4 -
deficit on the trade and services account reached $1,518 million in 1976,
increasing from $654 million in 1973.
14.       Balance of Payments estimates for 1977 are still provisional.
The indications are that imports will be about $5.4 billion, while exports
are put at around $2.2 billion. A surplus of $1.6 billion is expected
on the services account (where the main contributor is workers remittances,
estimated At $1.4 billion); the current account deficit is thus estimated
at about $1.6 billion.
15.       The large deficits on the goods and services account in 1973-1977
were met mainly through assistance from Arab countries, Iran and the United
States. The Arab support comprised grants as well as loans, and deposits in
the Central Bank of Egypt. However, in 1973 and 1974 the deficit was also
met by substantial short-term borrowing, including the use of banking facili-
ties. The Government has taken action in 1977 to drastically reduce reliance
on such financing (see also paragraph 29).
Development Problems and Prospects
16.       Egypt's rapidly growing population, widespread poverty and dilapi-
dated infrastructure require the generation of more resources for investment
and a more rigorous determination of the priorities into which they are
channelled. In turn, this implies: (i) greater restraint on the growth of
consumption; (ii) the removal of constraints created by inadequate infrastruc-
ture (particularly ports, power, transport and telecommunications); (iii)
greater emphasis on quick-yielding projects; (iv) more emphasis on completing
ongoing projects than on starting new ones; (v) more active use of prices
(including the price of foreign exchange) as indicators of relative scarcities;
(vi) streamlining bureaucratic processes; (vii) a vigorous move towards
increasing industry's efficiency and making it more export-oriented and
employment-generating (which would involve using existing industrial capacity
more fully, paying more attention to considerations of quality, and encourag-
ing small-scale industry); and (viii) a strengthened program to curb the
growth of population and the articulation of urban and rural strategies
which would decentralize the growth of the urban population away from Cairo
and Alexandria and create more productive opportunities in smaller towns and
the rural areas. These issues will be addressed in the context of a medium-
term plan, which has been presented to the National Assembly. The first year
of the Plnn has been approved and approval of the entire Plan is expected
during the current Parliamentary session.
17.       Over the long-run, Egypt's economic potential is considerable.  The
reasons for this are, in brief: (i) the country has a large domestic market, a
proficient population, low wages, varied raw materials, and a key geographical
location, which makes it a natural base for industries that wish to supply
the growing regional market; (ii) Suez Canal revenues are estimated to con-
tinue to rise gradually until the Canal expansion program is completed in
about 1980--there is then likely to be a substantial increase; (iii) pros-
pects for oil production, which are put at one million barrels a d-y by 1982,
substantially exceed domestic requirements; (iv) considerably increased



earnings from tourism--these reached an estimated $398 million in 1976; and
(v) an increasing flow of remittances ($757 million in 1976) from Egyptians
working abroad. 1/
18.       However, Egypt's long-term potential also hinges upon a number of
factors outside its own control. The most important is a movement towards an
equitable and definitive peace settlement in the Middle East. Moreover, Egypt
requires the transfer of large amounts of capital from abroad; this, in turn,
must be preceded by preparation of a suitable portfolio of projects to which
potential investors, whether private or official, foreign or domestic, can
contribute. Finally, it requires fundamental changes in economic policies
and institutions. Hence, it will probably take at least 5-10 years to achieve
a significant restructuring of the economy.
19.       Recent Policy Actions.  Beginning in 1976, the Government, in close
consultation with the Bank and the IMF, began to undertake a series of policy
actions aimed at making more effective use of foreign resources, curbing
excess consumption, and improving allocative efficiency. Thus (i) the
parallel exchange market has been successively widened to comprise all exports
except raw cotton, rice and petroleum and Suez Canal revenues, and all imports
except basic mass consumption commodities; (ii) the parallel market rate
itself was further depreciated to about 56 percent of the official rate; (iii)
the attractiveness of the parallel market was increased by establishing a list
of items which may be imported through it without exchange restrictions; (iv)
parallel market imports were valued for customs duties at the parallel market
exchange rate (a measure equivalent to an increase of about 80 percent in the
tariff on applicable imports); (v) ceilings on interest rates were removed and
interest rates increased; (vi) the "general organizations" that exercised
rigid control over public industrial enterprises were dissolved and replaced
by "higher councils," which permit somewhat more initiative to the individual
enterprises; and (vii) in April 1977 the IMF approved a Stand-by arrangement
for an amount of SDR 125 million (about $145 million) over a 12-month period.
Discussions are in progress on what arrangements should follow the current
Stand-by.
20.       The Five-Year Plan (1978-82).  The 1978-82 Plan advocates a high
growth strategy spearheaded by an industrialization drive and supported by
increasing income from petroleum, the Suez Canal, and remittances from
Egyptians working abroad. In the context of the "open-door policy", the
domestic and foreign private sectors are expected to play an increasing role
in the development effort, although the public sector will retain its dominant
position.
1/   A substantial amount of remittances ($399 million in 1976) came in the
form of "own-exchange" imports, i.e. commodities financed by Egyptians
working abroad, and hence not involving a transfer of foreign exchange
from Egypt.



- 6 -
21.       Real output is projected to grow at 12 percent per annum.  This is
based both on a high level of investment and increased efficiency. The invest-
ment ratio is expected to increase from 20 percent in 1976 to 28 percent in
1982, and the incremental capital-output ratio is expected to average 2.5
during the Plan period.
22.       The Plan's investment allocations give primary emphasis to infra-
structure and industry. Thus, more than 50 percent of public investment is
designated for the various components of infrastructure, and around 30 per-
cent for industry and petroleum. Agriculture and irrigation are allocated
only 8.6 percent.
23.       The Five-Year Plan will be implemented through the mechanism of
Annual Plans, which will take account of the actual circumstances prevailing
at the time and modify the targets and the strategy in an appropriate manner.
The first such Annual Plan--that for 1978--has been approved. It aims at
a lower growth rate than implied by the 1978-82 Plan, and adopts a more
optimal strategy by allocating nearly 90 percent of investment to completing
or rehabilitating existing projects. However, the main targets of the Five-
Year Plan--for investment, growth, and the marginal rate of savings--remain
ambitious, and will probably require continued modification by subsequent
Annual Plans.
External Assistance
24.       In 1967 the substantial amounts of Western external aid which Egypt
had been receiving practically ceased, and up to 1974 service payments gen-
erally exceeded disbursements. During the period 1968-1973, non-military
aid from Eastern countries, estimated to have been in excess of $800 million,
financed the bulk of Egypt's development.
25.       Since 1973 the substantial deficits on the goods and services ac-
count have been financed primarily by official Arab grants, loans and deposits
with the Central Bank of Egypt. Commitments of Western medium- and long-term
(M&LT) capital assistance began to grow after October 1973, but because of the
slow disbursements inherent in the aid process, actual transfers began to
become qubstantial only from 1976.
26.       Among western aid donors, the US Government is currently committing
about $700 million of project and commodity aid per annum (in addition to about
$200 million of food assistance under US Law PL 480). Aid from the other OECD
countries, especially France, Germany and Japan, has remained at the increased
levels of 1974/75 (i.e., about $235 million per year).  The European Community
is providing increasing amounts of food aid; moreover, in January 1977 the
Community signed a financial protocol with Egypt committing, over a five-year
period, $70 million in grants and $119 million in concessional loans.
27.       Consultative Group.  In July 1976, Egypt requested the Bank to set
up a Consultative Group comprising a number of oil-producing Arab countries,
Iran, major western countries and Japan, and leading international and regional



-7-
institutions, including the IMF. The first meeting of the Consultative Group
was held in Paris on May 11 and 12, 1977. At the meeting, the major aid-giving
countries and institutions discussed the most important problems confronting
the Egyptian economy, its prospects over the next few years, and its needs for
external assistance. The delegates recognized that the structural changes
undertaken by the Government would take a number of years to complete. They
felt that the Government was taking energetic steps towards accelerating
growth and expressed their support of the Government's statement on its
development strategy and of its efforts to direct future development within
the framework of an integrated plan. Another meeting of the Consultative
Group has been scheduled for June 1978. Estimates of the aid requirements
for 1978 are still very tentative (in part because the final outcome for 1977
is not yet available). The indications are that if Egypt succeeds in imple-
menting a substantial development effort in 1978 and continues to reduce the
use of banking facilities, it will require gross external inflow in the
neighborhood of $3.3 billion. Because of the already reduced use of banking
facilities and the greater effort expected from Egypt to mobilize its own
foreign exchange resources (e.g. through the use of development bonds) it
is likely that the cash aid requirements will decrease. However, commodity
aid requirements will remain important, both to meet the balance of payments
gap and to generate domestic resources.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
28.       Egypt's non-military medium- and long-term debt outstanding and dis-
bursed at December 31, 1977 was estimated at about $8 billion as compared with
$5,858 million at December 31, 1976. A large part of this increase represented
the replacing of short-term (180 days) banking facilities, which had led to
serious liquidity problem, with loans of maturity of 10 years of more. Of the
total of about $8 billion, medium and long-term loans amounted to $5,458
million (of which $730 million was in clearing currencies), medium- and
long-term deposits with the Central Bank to $1,938 million, and suppliers
credits to $640 million. Major creditors were Kuwait and Saudi Arabia,
followed by the USA, USSR and the Federal Republic of Germany. IBRD/IDA debt
comprised about 3 percent of the total debt disbursed and outstanding. Debt
service on medium- and long-term debt was estimated to amount to $897 million
in 1976, giving a debt service ratio of 25 percent. 1/ No reliable estimates
of military debt are available; Egypt is still making efforts to obtain
rescheduling of service payments on such debt.
29.       Commercial bankers' credit facilities outstanding at December 31,
1977 were $1,131 million of which $556 million were disbursed as compared to
$2,123 million, of which $1,396 million were disbursed at December 31, 1976.
This type of external indebtedness created severe liquidity problems for Egypt
in 1976 when payments arrears were building up. These increased substan-
tially during the first half of 1977 but by the beginning of September 1977
1/   Ratio of amortization and interest on medium- and long-term (M and LT)
debt to foreign exchange earnings.



- 8 -
had all been cleared through receipt of $1,075 million under a cash loan from
the Gulf Organization for Development of Egypt (GODE) and the mobilization of
additional foreign exchange resources by Egypt, 1/ specifically $200 million
in 5-7 year Development Bonds.
30.       The Government's recent policy actions (discussed in paragraph
19 above) have initiated the structural adjustments required by Egypt's
economic situation and international environment. The situation however,
requires continuing review and further action. At the Government's request,
the Bank has arranged to continue reviewing developments in the economy by
economic missions three or four times a year.
31.        If progress towards curbing the increase of both consumption expend-
itures and imports is maintained and the country's export earnings potential
realized, the deficit on the current account is estimated at about $2-2.4
billion per annum for the remainder of the decade. The required capital
inflows are large--but if they are available on the terms expected, Egypt
would have the debt servicing capacity to borrow the amounts envisaged,
including a limited amount on harder terms. The burden of servicing medium-
and long-term debt as a percentage of total foreign exchange earnings is
estimated at 25 percent in 1976 and is expected to decline to 16 percent in
1980. It is then expected to rise again to about 20 percent in 1983, before
starting to decline to about 17 percent in 1986. In these circumstances Egypt
may be considered creditworthy for a limited amount of Bank lending in addition
to the IDA assistance which Egypt merits on the ground of its poverty and
difficult balance of payments position.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT
32.       This proposed development credit and that for the urban project,
also being presented to the Executive Directors, would be the World Bank's
thirty-fifth and thirty-sixth lending operations in Egypt. They would
together bring Bank and IDA commitments made since 1970 to $1,108 million.
Annex II contains a Summary of Bank loans and IDA credits as of April 30,
1978, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
33.       The principal consideration of the Bank/IDA operational program in
Egypt is its positive developmental impact on institutions and sector policies.
Thus the program continues to provide for broad involvement in the major sec-
tors of the economy, so as to spread this impact as widely as possible. Proj-
ects are aimed at (i) increasing capacity utilization, (ii) increasing foreign
exchange earnings or substituting for imports, (iii) rehabilitation and
expansion of infrastructure needed to facilitate development, (iv) developing
selected social sectors, including population, education, and rural and urban
1/   The remaining tranche of $650 million from GODE was diverted largely into
financing the import of an agreed list of commodities. By December 31,
1977 approximately $150 million had been disbursed.



- 9 -
development, and (v) strengthening institutions. The impact of Bank/IDA
participation in projects has been widened by attracting additional foreign
exchange required for several of these projects from other donors. Besides
including technical assistance under many Bank/IDA projects, the Bank is
Executing Agency for a UNDP-financed National Power Sector Survey and for
a Master Plan for Water Resource Development and Use. The Bank also extended
limited technical assistance in the preparation of a five-year development
plan and in October 1977 in the establishment of an investment monitoring
system.
34.        Preparation of projects for future lending follows the strategy
outlined in the preceding paragraph. Second population and education projects
have been appraised and tourism and development finance projects are to be
appraised soon. A pipeline of projects for possible future lending is also
being developed, including further projects in water supply and sewerage,
population, education, power, rural and urban development, transportation,
agriculture (including drainage), development finance and industry.
35.       Bank Group disbursements continued in 1977 to represent less than
4 percent of Egypt's overall capital inflow requirements. The Bank and IDA
shares of total external debt outstanding and disbursed were about 1 percent
and 2 percent, respectively at the end of 1977. For the future, the Bank and
IDA shares of total external debt outstanding and disbursed (excluding military
debts) are estimated to reach about 4 and 2.5 percent respectively in 1980.
It is estimated that in 1980, debt service payments due to the Bank and IDA
will represent about 3.5 percent and 0.2 percent, respectively of service pay-
ments due on Egypt's external debt.
36.       The first IFC participation and lending, for a ceramics project, was
approved by the Executive Directors in 1976, the second, for a ready-made
garment project, in 1977, and the third, a project for an agricultural complex
primarily for sugar beet, in May 1978. IFC is also discussing several other
private sector and joint venture projects.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
37.       The Egyptian agriculture sector is described in detail in the report
"Egyptian Agriculture: Development Problems, Constraints and Alternatives",
(931b-EGT) of March 1976, and in the Basic Economic Report distributed to the
Executive Directors in May 1978. Agriculture continues to be the largest sec-
tor in the Egyptian Economy, generating 29 percent of GDP, employing 44 per-
cent of the labor force, and contributing about 33 percent of direct exports.
The agricultural base is rich. Although around 95 percent of the land area
is desert, cultivated soils are among the most fertile in the world, and the
climate provides excellent growing conditions for year-round cropping. Almost
all crop land is irrigated by the waters of the River Nile. The cropping
system is a complex rotation of multi-purpose crops, based mainly on small
farm technology and the use of animals.



- 10 -
38.       Despite its inherent advantages, agriculture has been beset with
problems, and sectoral management has not provided farmers with adequate
incentives. Cultivation is virtually restricted to irrigable land along the
Nile ("the old lands"), so that the total cropped area has increased only
marginally in the past decades, whereas the rural population has grown rapidly.
Crop yields are relatively high by world standards, but comparison with other,
favorably endowed areas shows that there is considerable potential to obtain
much higher yields. Over the last decade output has been growing at less than
2 percent a year, so that per capita agricultural prodution has steadily
declined since the late 1950s. Real incomes in agriculture have thus been
declining, and are currently at about LE 90 or US$128 per capita, or one-third
of that for urban areas. The absolute poverty level in 1976 is estimated at
US$382 1/ per household or US$66 per capita per year for the rural population,
which puts 25 percent of the rural population below the absolute poverty level
as compared to 19 percent of the urban population. Despite the importance of
agricultural exports, agricultural trade is in substantial deficit, due mainly
to heavy cereal imports.
39.       Agricultural Policy.  Shortcomings in the agricultural policy frame-
work and institutions contribute to Egypt's inability to exploit its agricul-
tural potential. The Government's controlled pricing system has distorted
production patterns, caused disincentives, reduced farm incomes and thus
resulted in negligible levels of private investment. Cotton, rice and certain
other agricultural products are subject to compulsory requisition in accordance
with area and delivery quotas, and must be sold to government agencies at
prices fixed at low levels, while other crops, such as sugar, are mostly sold
to the monopsonistic public sector at low prices. Although agricultural inputs
are supplied at subsidized prices, the overall result has been a substantial
net taxation of agriculture, leaving little surplus in the sector, and provid-
ing little incentive to increase production of the crops most important for
Egypt's economy. The Government's policies have also contributed to adverse
income distribution patterns. Generally the small holder is tied closest to
cotton growing, contributes relatively more to cotton tax, and receives less
subsidy from use of inputs. In the present situation of the agricultural
sector, investments not accompanied by policy reform and institution building
are likely to increase economic distortions.
40.       The Bank is engaged in discussions with the Government on agricul-
tural policy, and there are encouraging signs of progress towards meaningful
reforms, of both policies and institutions. Agricultural pricing policy is
recognized as the major obstacle to increased agricultural production but it
is not yet clear how this can be changed without major repercussions through-
out the rest of the economy. The violence which resulted from changes in con-
sumer food prices in January 1977 demonstrates the risk of too hasty moves.
We are therefore working with the Government to try to clarify what changes
are feasible. As one of a number of case studies contributing to a general
research study on the role of incentives to farmers in agricultural produc-
tion, we have carried out a study on prices and subsidies in Egyptian agricul-
ture. The report of the study will soon be issued as a Bank Staff Working Paper.
I/   Calculated at the parallel market exchange rate.



- 11 -
We are now discussing with the Government carrying out a major joint study of
the practical implications of changing agricultural prices, with a view to
establishing how the system might most effectively be reformed.
41.       Farm Size.  Land reform since 1952 has diminished the power of large
landlords, and improved conditions for small farmers and tenants, by limiting
holdings and rent, redistributing land, and providing for security of tenure.
However, with the increase in farm population, land distribution is still
skewed. The average cultivated farm unit is around 3.5 feddans. There is a
pattern by which owners of very small plots lease them to other farmers, who
can thus obtain farms large enough to cultivate, and there is a reasonably
successful policy of block cropping. However, most of Egypt's two million
farmers work on units of less than three feddans.
42.       Such a farm size is too small to provide the average farm family
with full employment throughout the year despite evenly distributed crop
rotation patterns. At the same time, labor shortages do occur on most small
farms at two major peak periods each year. On the larger farms which use more
hired labor, labor use is more efficient; a recent study shows that farms of
more than 20 feddans accounted for 32 percent of the cultivated land but
employed only 7% of the agricultural work force. Therefore labor shortages
are related to peak periods and farm size distribution. The Government's
price control policies have had the effect of keeping agricultural wages at
relatively low levels, which may have been contributing to a shortage of agri-
cultural workers at peak periods. In the past few years, a construction boom,
urban development and emigration to oil rich neighboring countries have all
contributed to a tightening of labor supply in the economy and for agriculture.
The difficulties in obtaining labor faced by the highly labor-intensive drain-
age projects, to which the Bank is contributing heavily, confirm the existence
of such a shortage. Much agricultural work is undertaken by children, with
resultant harmful effects on education; the fact that children can thus earn
wages is an incentive to large families and so to population growth. All
indications are that labor shortages at peak periods are becoming worse, and
mechanization is needed to relieve them.
43.       Productivity.  Among basic physical factors underlying stagnating
productivity in agriculture are rising water tables and increased soil salinity
in many areas. The Bank-financed drainage projects were intended to address
these problems. Animal technology also contributes to low crop production
*        through inadequate seedbed preparation and untimely cultivation.  It also
leads to low production of milk and meat because of the animals' combined
functions of providing draft power and food, the low genetic potential of such
dual purpose animals, and a severe shortage of feed in summer.  Given Egypt's
relatively high levels of crop productivity, the opportunity cost of maintain-
ing such livestock is high, especially since over 25 percent of the cropped
area is devoted to fodder crops. The Government's policy as stated in the
current Five Year Plan is accordingly to secure gradual expansion of agricul-
tural mechanization so as to liberate animals from agricultural labor and
agricultural workers from "drudgery". The target is to achieve full mechani-
zation of primary tillage by 1988.



- 12 -
44.       Mechanization.  Mechanization is indeed accelerating fast in Egypt.
Tractor imports have increased rapidly since 1975, while tractors are also
assembled locally. The Government is negotiating with an international firm
for a project which could lead to full manufacture of tractors in the early
1980s. It will, however, be some years before local manufacture could supply
Egypt's needs.
45.       Mechanization has not, however, been conducted in the past in the
most efficient way. Facilities for maintenance have been lacking, there has
been inadequate training of operators, and many of the implements used with
the tractors have been of poor design. Institutional problems have contri-
buted to poor performance: the weakness of the cooperatives has meant that
mechanization has not benefitted the small farmer, and the inadequacy of the
agricultural credit and extension services has meant that machinery has not
been properly used or has not been directed to those who could use it best.
Agricultural Institutions
46.       Agricultural credit institutions, cooperatives, extension services
and research in Egypt are weak and in need of considerable reform. Agricul-
tural extension and research are highly centralized and inflexible. As in
many other government services, salaries are low and job motivation poor.
Linkages between extension and research are extremely limited. Research has
not provided adequate practical innovations for agriculture, while there does
not exist a dynamic extension service to convey such innovations to farmers
even if they were available. The extension service is, however, currently
being reorganized: it is expanding its field staff of village agents who are
the direct contact with farmers. Extension agents need practical training;
they have inadequate transport and housing in village areas, so that their
contact with farmers is insufficiently close.
47.       Agricultural cooperatives have been at the heart of agricultural
organization since the agrarian reform of 1952. Small farmers in particular
benefit from the regular supply of inputs, and credit at subsidized rates,
available to cooperative members from the agricultural credit system. Cooper-
atives broke the role of traditional money lenders, and permitted better farm-
ing practices. However, there developed a complex structure of cooperatives
at various levels and for different purposes, giving rise to over-lapping
functions and staff and conflicting lines of authority. Cooperatives have
served as government agencies rather than genuine participatory organizations:
they have been used to implement the Government's compulsory crop rotation,
procurement and input supply policies. Member interest has slackened, and the
cooperatives remain organizationally and managerially very weak. They have an
unsuccessful record of managing machinery services. The future of coopera-
tives is now under review. A new cooperative law is under consideration,
which intends to highlight the voluntary nature of the cooperative movement by
removing its effective monopoly in supply and procurement, and to make the
cooperatives serve their members.
48.       Agricultural Credit.  Legislation in 1976 separated the credit
system from the cooperatives through which it had previously operated. The



- 13 -
agricultural credit system comprises an extensive network from the national
level (the Principal Bank of Development and Agricultural Credit--PBDAC),
through the Governorate-level Banks for Development and Agricultural Credit
(BDAC) which are affiliated to PBDAC, to villages where there are 5,300 banks
and agencies. The Banks now deal directly with farmers for credit, input
supply and procurement, as well as with cooperatives. The credit system is
heavily involved in physical distribution of inputs and in crop marketing,
which overshadow its credit operations. These commercial activities are
undertaken on a commission agency basis for Government organizations. PBDAC
and its affiliates are wholly Government-owned and have in the past been
largely controlled by the Ministry of Agriculture. The Ministry establishes
cultivators' short term credit entitlements and gets the agricultural credit
system to implement lending programs at subsidized interest rates. Only a
very small portion of lending has been for medium or long term investments,
and there has been little project evaluation or supervision. PBDAC's financial
condition is precarious, with accumulated losses totalling LE 60 million as
of the end of 1976 against just over LE 2 million in capital and reserves
(although it made a profit in 1977). Among the factors responsible for the
large accumulated losses have been negative margins on short term credit
operations not fully compensated by the Government, inadequate commissions on
commercial operations and delays by Government agencies in settling outstanding
accounts, high loan default rates and periodic debt write off or rescheduling
under Government instructions. The credit system is highly centralized, but
its elaborate accounting system, while otherwise generally satisfactory, does
not produce basic management information on matters such as the state of the
loan portfolio, arrears, or costs of its different operations. The agricul-
tural banking law of 1976 was designed to enable PBDAC and its affiliates to
grow into agricultural development banks having financial viability and
increasing autonomy.
49.       The Government now recognizes these weaknesses and, in implementing
the 1976 legislation, has sought the assistance of the World Bank in rehabil-
itating the credit system. PBDAC management and the Ministries of Finance and
Agriculture are receptive to proposals for reform, and wish to place the banks
on a sound financial footing. An audit and financial review of the system has
recently been carried out by Egyptian independent accountants, on the basis of
terms of reference drawn up in consultatation with the World Bank. On the
basis of the consultants' recommendations and after discussion with the World
Bank, the Government has decided to implement the following changes (DCA,
Section 3.03):
(a) By December 31, 1978 the Government will assume PBDAC's debts
of about LE 14 million to commercial banks representing loans
written off by PBDAC on instructions from the Government.
(b) The Government loan of LE 17 million, made to PBDAC in 1975 to
compensate for losses incurred by PBDAC in lending on Government
instructions at rates below its own borrowing rate, will be con-
verted into equity by December 31, 1978.
(c) The Government will allow PBDAC to build up its reserves through
allocations out of surpluses.



- 14 -
(d) PBDAC will be enabled to charge and collect suitable fees for
its marketing and distribution operations; and
(e) Government agencies will pay promptly dues for services
rendered.
50.       PBDAC will undertake, financed from the project, studies on institu-
tional reform including financial rehabilitation and capital restructuring.
The suitability, extent and true costs of the commercial activities will be
examined. Concepts of an appropriate capital and resource structure for such
an institution are expected to emerge from the studies, which will be taken
into account by the Government in preparing, by December 31, 1980, a plan for
redefining the policies, strengthening the organization, and improving the
financial position of PBDAC (DCA, Section 3.04).
Previous World Bank Operations in Agriculture
51.       The World Bank is making extensive contributions to Egyptian agricul-
ture through support for the Government's major program for field drainage. As
described in Annex II, we have made loans and credits totalling $178 million
for four drainage projects, in FY70, 73, 76 and 77. After initial problems
due to shortages of local currency, engineering staff, of cement and other
materials, and to administrative problems, these projects are now proceeding
well, under implementation by an agency of the Ministry of Irrigation. They
make a direct and substantial contribution to production by all farmers in the
areas provided with drainage, and so will benefit over 750,000 farm families,
of which a substantial proportion is below the absolute poverty level. Studies
indicate that yield increases average 25 to 30 percent, three years after
drainage has been installed. These projects also finance the foreign exchange
costs of the Government's successful bilharzia (schistosomiasis) control
program, which now extends to the whole of Upper Egypt. Future projects will
continue our involvement in the drainage program, and will begin to extend
bilharzia control to the Nile Delta.
52.       With the support of the Bank (through the Talkha Fertilizer project
of 1974) and other donors, Egypt expects to become self-sufficient in ferti-
lizer production by about 1981 at current levels of fertilizer application.
A fertilizer sub-sector study, being carried out by the Government as provided
under the Talkha project, is expected by end-1978 to produce a better picture
of fertilizer requirements and potential supplies. The Bank has also contri-
buted to a Fruit and Vegetables Project (FY76), which provides finance for a
public-sector vegetable seed farm in newly reclaimed lands to the west of the
Delta, construction of a drainage outfall for these lands, and to Bank Misr to
relend for horticultural sub-projects. This project has moved very slowly.
53.       The Bank's other financial contributions to agriculture have been
(a) through the Agricultural and Industrial Imports Loan and Credit of 1974,
which financed imports of feedstuffs, pesticides, machinery spare parts and
some tractors, and (b) through the ongoing Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation
project of 1973.



- 15 -
54.       Water Master Plan.  The Master Plan for Development of Water
Resources and Uses, for which the Bank is executing agency, is intended to
provide a basis for the Government to choose between alternative development
policy options in the different sectors for which water use is important, and
within agriculture between different-uses of irrigation water. It should help
identify reclamation projects with the highest potential returns, and other
investment needs in the sector: for example, the basic irrigation network
will require substantial investment over the years to replace worn-out struc-
tures. A report is expected by mid-1980; the agency in Egypt conducting the
study will be developed into a permanent water planning authority.
55.       Policy Discussions.  In addition to our operational involvement, we
are now heavily engaged in a series of discussions with the Government on
agriculture sector issues, in the context of our basic economic report, of our
project work, and of our continuing dialogue with the Government on macro-
economic and sector policy matters. A sector paper on agriculture has been
prepared by the Bank for discussion at the June meeting of the Consultative
Group for Egypt.
56.       The present project is based on our and the Government's diagnosis
of the need to strengthen Egypt's agricultural institutions. It will be the
first project in which we have worked directly with the Ministry of Agricul-
ture, and will concentrate on improving production and farm incomes in the old
lands. We are also working with the Ministries of Agriculture, Irrigation and
Land Reclamation to develop a pipeline of projects for future lending. A
rural development project is also under preparation with an agency of the
Ministry of Local Government which will, we hope, provide rural infrastructure
and employment-creating productive activities in Egypt's poorest areas. The
recently appraised Second Population project will contribute to improved
health in rural areas.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
57.       During discussion of the draft agriculture sector report early in
1976, the Government asked the Bank for support for its programs of agricul-
tural institutional reform and of agricultural mechanization in the old lands.
This project was subsequently identified and prepared by the FAO-IBRD Cooper-
ative Program, the Government and the World Bank in 1976 and 1977. It was
appraised in October 1977. Negotiations were held in Washington in May 1978.
Egypt's delegation was headed by Mr. Abdel Moneim El Gammal of the Ministry
of Economy and International Cooperation, and included Mr. Fathallah Refaat,
Chairman of PBDAC, and representatives of the Ministries of Agriculture,
Irrigation and the Rural Electrification Authority. A staff appraisal report
entitled, "Agricultural Development Project" (No. 1971b-EGT) dated May 31,
1978 is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors. Maps of
the project area are attached.



- 16 -
Project Objectives
58.       The objectives of the proposed project are:
(a) to initiate a process of restructuring and strengthening of
agricultural extension, credit and cooperative institutions
to enable them to become genuine promoters of economic devel-
opment and of the interest of small farmers;
(b) in the two Governorates of Sohag and Menufiya, chosen respec-
tively as representative of Upper Egypt and the Delta, to
increase crop and livestock production, agricultural produc-
tivity and farm incomes through carefully designed farm
mechanization, for the benefit mostly of smallholder farmers,
relieving human drudgery, and releasing animals from work so
as to increase livestock production or to reduce the area
devoted to fodder crops, with a minimal adverse impact on
employment;
(c) to carry out machinery testing activities and pilot trials
in covered irrigation to study and demonstrate advanced farm
mechanization and irrigation systems for future use; and
(d) to initiate studies that will lead to the preparation of
projects for livestock and village milk production.
It is intended that several aspects of project activities in Sohag and Menufiya
will be replicable in other areas. The experience in term lending provided
for the credit banking system, the organization of the extension services and
the cooperatives, and the machinery selected and the arrangements for main-
tenance and training for the mechanization component are all intended to serve
as models for the rest of the country. The experimental mechanization farms
and pilot irrigation scheme will provide information for possible future
projects.
Project Description
59.       The project will (a) provide technical assistance to strengthen the
agricultural extension service, cooperatives and credit system, and start
financial rehabilitation and development of the agricultural credit system;
(b) finance investments in farm mechanization and water lifting for irriga-
tion during 1979-82 in the governorates of Menufiya and Sohag; (c) establish
experimental mechanized farms, an experimental gravity irrigation scheme, and
rural stores in these areas; and (d) finance preparation of future projects.
60.       Institutional reform nationally and in the project area will be
supported and supplemented by a variety of technical assistance financed by
the project as follows:



- 17 -
(a) a farm mechanization specialist and an irrigation engineer
for the experimental farms scheme (18 man months);
(b) consultants for the agricultural extension services, to
develop appropriate extension packages and initiate adap-
tive research, and to assist in monitoring, evaluation
and training (24 man months);
(c) a management specialist for the Ministry of Agriculture to
strengthen cooperative management and financial resources,
and two specialists in farm machinery management to advise
the central cooperatives in Sohag and Minufiya on technical
matters and training (48 man months);
(d)  assistance to the agricultural credit system in methods
of term-lending, monitoring and evaluation, and in studying
key problems relating to its organization, policy and oper-
ations (66 consultant man months); and
(e) assistance to the project monitoring and evalution unit
to be established in the Ministry of Agriculture (24 man
months).
61.        To support the institutions, the project will also include
construction of some 100 houses for the extension service, mainly in Sohag,
fellowships for staff training abroad for PBDAC and for trainers for the
tractor operator training program, and vehicles, research equipment and office
and other equipment for the extension service, the cooperatives and PBDAC.
62.        The farm mechanization component will finance:
(a) Approximately 1,000 tractors and accessory equipment. This
equipment represents the mechanization needs of the project
Governorates during the first four years of a ten-year
program of full mechanization of seedbed preparation of the
main crops.
(b) 580 threshing units and 300 pest control spraying units.
(c) Spare parts for the above equipment.
(d) Establishment of new repair and maintenance facilities
for agricultural equipment and upgrading of existing
facilities; and training for machinery operators.
63.        The project will also provide equipment for the modernization of
water lifting for irrigation consisting of 4,000 small electric and diesel
pumps to replace traditional animal powered water wheels; 300 larger electric
pumps to replace old stationary diesel pumps; and construction of 200 kms of
electrical lines of 11 kv with transformers for connections for electric
pumps.



- 18 -
64.        Pilot schemes under the project will be:
(a)   one experimental mechanization farm in each of the two
governorates equipped with a package of farm machinery
including small size tractors and accessories, to carry
out adaptive trials and demonstrations, train extension
and cooperative staff, and develop guidelines for future
mechanization; and
(b)   a pilot irrigation scheme covering 2,600 feddans in Menufiya
to study the use of large pumps at canal heads for gravity
distribution of irrigation water through buried pipelines.
The project will include construction, by PBDAC, of about 380 stores of simple
design for fertilizer and seeds, to reduce deterioration and storage losses
from an estimated 4% to 2%. The IDA credit would finance equipment for
these stores.
65.       Project preparation will be funded through:
(a) Technical assistance to the Animal Husbandry Department of
the Ministry of Agriculture to carry out studies on forage
crops and animal nutrition, and an analysis of the effects
of releasing animals from work through mechanization. These
studies could lead to the preparation of a livestock devel-
opment project suitable for Bank Group financing. Consul-
tants will be employed for 30 man months for this purpose.
(b) Preparation of a credit-type project by PBDAC together with
the consultants described in para 60(d).
66.       The farm equipment financed under the project is intended mostly to
benefit smaller farmers. To this end, at least 80 percent of the credit pro-
ceeds allocated for threshers, tractors and related equipment will be reserved
for the village cooperatives (DCA, Schedule 2, Execution of Part A2(c)(i)).
The proposed reform of the cooperatives, which the project is intended to
support, together with the increase in tractor availability and the elimina-
tion of subsidies on tractor hire charges, should ensure that cooperative-
owned equipment is not, as has sometimes happened in the past, monopolized
by larger farmers amongst the cooperative membership. Cooperatives will
be required to ensure that farmers with fewer than five feddans receive an
appropriate share of tractor services. The Government will monitor the
pattern of use through PBDAC (DCA, Section 3.07). Village councils and
organized groups of farmers will also be eligible for financing from the
remaining 20 percent of the allocation.
Implementation
67.       The project will be implemented over four years, 1979-82.  The
Ministry of Agriculture will be responsible for procurement for the farm
machinery component, as well as for the two experimental mechanized farms,
extension activities, reorganization of agricultural cooperatives and for
carrying out studies on livestock. The pilot irrigation scheme will be



- 19 -
the responsibility of the Ministry of Irrigation, and the Rural Electrifica-
tion Authority would install new electrical lines. PBDAC will be responsible
for sale of equipment to cooperatives and farmers, and for extending credits
to finance these sales.
68.       A central coordination committee with representatives from the above
agencies will be established to coordinate project actions and periodically
to review progress. An experienced senior officer from the Ministry of Agri-
culture has been appointed as Project Coordinator. Similar coordination
committees will be established at governorate level. These committees will
be established prior to effectiveness of the proposed credit (DCA, Section
6.01).
69.       The impact of the project on beneficiaries and institutions, and
results from the pilot schemes, will be monitored and evaluated by a spe-
cially established unit in the Ministry of Agriculture responsible to the
national project coordination committee, which will report annually to the
Association. This unit will obtain primary data from other monitoring units
located in the relevant implementing agencies, and will be advised by consul-
tants financed from the credit.
70.       The strengthening of extension, cooperative and credit institutions,
nationally and in the project areas, is a key to the success of the project.
It will be supported by project technical assistance, financing of equipment
and other related activities. The Bank is also supporting consultancy ser-
vices, with funds from the Agricultural and Industrial Imports Credit, to
assist the Government in reviewing cooperative legislation and development
and preparing implementation regulations.
71.       The agricultural credit system, with its problems described in
paragraph 48, would probably not have been an appropriate institution to
borrow directly from the Bank Group in its present condition. However, it
does have capable and enthusiastic management, and is the only institution in
Egypt which has the capacity to serve the large numbers of cultivators. The
Government has demonstrated its interest in strengthening the system into a
reasonably autonomous, financially viable development institution for agricul-
ture, most notably through the PBDAC Act of 1976. PBDAC and its affiliates
have the potential in the long run to meet these expectations. Studies will
be carried out under the project on the organization, management and finances
of PBDAC and its affiliates to lay the basis for such a long term development
of the system, including the preparation of a credit type project suitable for
Bank Group financing. Meanwhile, immediate measures are being taken. First,
the Government has initiated financial rehabilitation of PBDAC, as described
in para 49 above. Secondly the project appraisal and supervision capabilities
of PBDAC and the two governorate banks, which will be responsible for evaluat-
ing the financial, technical and economic merits of loan applications for farm
machinery and supervising subprojects, will be strengthened. To carry out
these functions, three suitably staffed project units will be established by



- 20 -
December 31, 1978, one each in PBDAC and the two BDACs, aided by project
consultants. We will review PBDAC's appraisal techniques before the first
sub-loan applications are submitted. (DCA, Schedule 2, Execution of
Part A,3.)
Cost Estimates and Financing
72.       The estimated total cost of the project, including contingencies,
is $45.7 million, of which $32.0 million or about 70 percent is foreign
exchange cost. The parallel market rate for foreign exchange of US$1 = LE
0.70 has been used to convert foreign cost into local currency and vice versa.
(This rate will be used for all purposes related to the project.) Project
costs are net of duties and taxes.  Detailed costs are shown below:
Foreign
Cost
US$ Million             as %
Local   Foreign    Total    of Total
Farm machinery                     2.7      17.2        19.9        86
Irrigation pumps and
electrical connections           3.0       6.8         9.8        69
Rural stores                        2.8      0.2         3.0         7
Technical assistance and
equipment for institutions       1.3       2.2         3.5        63
Contingencies                      3.8       5.6         9.4        60
Total                        13.7      32.0        45.7        70
The proposed IDA credit of $32.0 million would finance the full foreign
exchange cost of the project. The Government and PBDAC would provide about
$11.4 million and sub-borrowers about $2.3 million equivalent.
Relending Terms
73.       The Government will be the Borrower and bear the foreign exchange
risks on all on-lent IDA funds. It will on-lend to PBDAC, in accordance
with a subsidiary agreement satisfactory to the Association and entered prior
to effectiveness (DCA, Section 6.01(a)), an amount of about US$24.5 million,
representing the total amount of the IDA credit proceeds allocated to farm
machinery and pumps, including contingencies. The loan to PBDAC will bear
interest at 3 percent, and be for 15 years including five years' grace. The
Government will make a grant to PBDAC of $960,000, representing IDA credit
proceeds used for rural stores, technical assistance, equipment and vehicles
for PBDAC. Project funds for farm machinery and pumps will be on-lent by
PBDAC through the two BDACs to sub-borrowers. In onlending to cooperatives
for tractors, threshers and associated implements, the BDACs will require
compliance with agreed terms and conditions, including the levy by coopera-
tives of economic hire charges for the machinery, to cover capital and
operating costs, and availability of machinery services to members on an
equitable basis (DCA, Schedule 2, Execution of Part A).



- 21 -
74.       PBDAC will charge interest of at least 10 percent on all medium- and
long-term loans in the project area, except that cooperative sub-borrowers
will pay at least 9 percent (PBDAC currently charges 9 percent for medium- and
long-term loans). These interest rates are above the prevailing term-lending
interest rates of 8 percent to 9 percent charged by commercial institutions
and substantially above the approximately 3 percent charged by the BDACs on
short-term agricultural lending. Ten percent is also the rate for foreign
exchange loans charged under the World Bank financed DFC and Fruit and Vegeta-
bles projects. The spread of six to seven percent proposed for PBDAC is
intended to take account of the considerable project start-up costs it will
have. In particular, the introduction of new appraisal techniques will give
PBDAC low productivity at the start of the project.
Procurement
75.       Equipment and materials will be procured by the Ministry of Agri-
culture, except for the pilot irrigation schemes (Ministry of Irrigation)
and the electricity connections (Ministry of Electricity), using international
competitive bidding (estimated total of $30.4 million). In comparing bids
under ICB, domestic manufacturers will be allowed a margin of preference of
15 percent or the actual customs duty, whichever is lower. Exceptions to
1CB will be proprietary items costing less than $150,000, which can be bought
directly, and contracts for equipment or materials estimated to cost less
than $50,000 each, to a total of $1,000,000. For such contracts, bids will be
sought from at least three appropriate sources. Contracts for civil works for
the pilot irrigation scheme will be awarded after bidding in conformity with
local procurement procedures, which are acceptable to IDA. These simple works
are not suitable for international bidding.
Disbursement
76.       The proposed IDA credit will be disbursed against foreign exchange
expenditures on imported machinery and equipment, total expenditures on con-
sultants and fellowships abroad, the ex-factory cost of locally manufactured
equipment procured through international competitive bidding, and 80 percent
of local cost of imported equipment procured locally. For civil works, dis-
bursements from the IDA credit would cover the foreign exchange component of
expenditures, estimated at 20 percent.
77.       The estimated disbursement schedule is shown below:
Estimated Disbursements
---------------US$ million--------------
Bank FY
1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   Total
Annual                           3.0    9.0   11.4    7.1    1.5    32.0
Cumulative                       3.0   12.0   23.4   30.5   32.0    32.0



- 22 -
Project Benefits and Risks
78.       The central rationale of the project is two-fold.  On the one hand
is the need to stimulate and shape a long-term process of modernization of
crop production through adoption of improved cultivation techniques. On the
other hand, the project is intended to provide the basis for eventual produc-
tive exploitation of the 25 percent of Egypt's cropped area - its scarcest
resource - now most uneconomically devoted to fodder crops mainly for work
animals.  The controlled mechanization and major institution building which
the project will include can, by contributing to the attainment of these
objectives, help unlock the large remaining potential for increased produc-
tion.  The potential for use of the area devoted to fodder is very substan-
tial, either through release of land to other crops as mechanization becomes
widespread, or eventual replacement of draft animals by dairy or meat animals.
These benefits, however, are inherently impossible to quantify, and in any
case depend on many different actions. The economic analysis of project bene-
fits is based on the modest but significant increases in productivity and
production likely to be achieved in the project areas. In addition, the
unquantifiable benefits from institution building are expected to be consider-
able and widespread, given the problems and low efficiency which presently
characterize these systems.
79.       Quantifiable Benefits.  An economic rate of return of 32 percent is
estimated for the project, based on the quantifiable project benefits expected
from improvements in crop and livestock yields and labor productivity in the
project area, due to mechanization. This estimate is calculated from the
following elements:
(i)  Increases in milk and meat production:  Field observations
indicate that an 80 percent increase in milk yield can be
expected from existing animals if they are no longer used
for draft work for primary tillage, threshing, and water
lifting.  The present very low yield (about 300 liters
annually) makes this a reasonable assessment. Calving
intervals should also decrease, for the same reason, lead-
ing to an increase in calving of about 25 percent.
(ii)  Crop production:  In Egyptian conditions higher yields from
mechanization are likely to arise mainly from more timely
cultivation and, to a lesser extent, from better seedbed
preparation and more intensive cultivation due to the use
of better implements. The improvements to the extension
service, and proper training of tractor operators, pro-
vided under the project, will contribute to these benefits.
An increase in yields of 5 percent has been used in our
analysis, although such Egyptian experience as is available
indicates yield increases of up to 15 percent.
(iii)  Reduction in losses of grain, from the use of appropriately
designed threshing machines: A reduction in grain losses
during threshing from 10 percent to 5 percent of the crop
has been estimated, again conservatively.



- 23 -
(iv) Labor cost reduction: Mechanization will reduce the input
of family labor substantially, while having a neutral net
effect on paid employment (see paragraphs 84 and 85).
80.       The above factors are conservatively expected to result in a 10 per-
cent increase (about LE 7 million) in the value of agricultural production
in the project area. About half of this increase comes from milk and calf
production, and about half from crop production. There would be a net annual
saving in foreign exchange of LE 4 million, at full development. Farm incomes
for the average three-feddan holding assumed in the analysis are expected to
increase by 9 percent in Menufiya and 23 percent in Sohag. The increased
income will be accompanied by a reduction in the number of days spent by farm
families on some of the most arduous farm work.
81.       On the basis of farm model analysis, approximately 60,000 farmers
are expected to benefit directly from the project. Beneficiaries would be
mainly farmers cultivating three feddans or less; they now have an average
net annual income of US$75 per capita and constitute 85 percent of the farmer
population in the project area. Over 30,000 of these small farmers are below
the absolute poverty level, of whom many would continue to be poor even after
project implementation. Cooperatives have been chosen as the vehicle for
supply of farm machinery services to ensure that maximum project benefits
accrue to the small farmer group.
82.       The project's economic rate of return is sensitive to changes in
assumptions about increased production. However, the probability of achieving
the increases in livestock production and reducing threshing losses is high.
Although the assumptions about increased crop production are less certain,
even if crop production increased by only 1 percent the economic rate of
return would still be 10 percent. If the livestock and threshing benefits are
cut by 20 percent, an increase of only about 2.5 percent in crop production
would give the same 10 percent rate of return. Delay in institutional reform
(especially of the cooperatives) could delay benefits, but analysis shows the
project to be viable even with a two-year delay. Technical assistance will be
directed to minimizing this risk.
83.       Unquantifiable Benefits.  While quantifiable benefits from the proj-
ect produce a substantial rate of return, the most important benefits are in
the unquantifiable but crucial areas outlined in paragraph 78:
(i) Institution building. This is a crucial stage for agricultural
institutional development in Egypt, since the Government is in
the process of making major changes in the organization of the
cooperatives, the extension service and the credit system. Bank
involvement at this stage therefore enables us to be of maximum
assistance in shaping these institutions, for which the Govern-
ment has sought our advice. The project will provide very sub-
stantial institution building technical assistance to all three.
Project negotiations have already led the Government to take
steps to rehabilitate the financial base of PBDAC. The reform
of these institutions is likely to produce substantial long-
term benefits in improved agricultural production. It is



- 24 -
hoped that future projects can be developed with PBDAC, the
cooperatives and the extension service.
(ii) Modernization of Crop Production. Release of land now devoted
to fodder crops will at best occur slowly, since farmers will
not want to give up their work animals until experience shows
they are not needed. Gradually, however, mechanization will
start a chain of alterations in the farming cycle. Some farmers
will turn to crops other than fodder, allowing different crop
rotations. Factors such as the adoption of new varieties of
grain facilitated by use of modern threshing machines, and the
greater readiness of those farmers who have experienced the
benefits of mechanization to accept other changes, will play a
part in this gradual transformation of crop production. Changes
in agricultural pricing policy, on which we are working with the
Government, will be an important corollary of any such change.
(iii) Livestock production will also gradually be modernized, assisted
by the research financed through this project. It is hoped that
a livestock and dairy project will be prepared for future Bank
assistance through this process, but Egypt has the resources
already to start gradual adoption of specialized breeds, more
efficient in converting feed to milk or meat. The long-term
benefits of this process, for which mechanization is a precon-
dition, are very substantial.
84.       Employment and Income.  We estimate that about 60,000 farm families,
of which more than 30,000 are below the absolute poverty level, will benefit
from the project. It will have a neutral net effect on paid employment, which
is the combined result of an increase of 1.1 million man-days of employment
created for tractor operators and others associated with the mechanization
component (mostly in about 4,000 full-time jobs), and a loss of seasonal
employment of about 1.0 million man-days, mostly from mechanization of thresh-
ing, which will affect about 25,000 people. These people include landless
laborers, farmers with very small holdings, and a number of children. There
will also be a reduction in requirement for farm family labor of about 1.4
million man-days: since, however, farm family incomes are increased by the
project, this is clearly a project benefit.
85.        It is our assessment that the overall benefits from the project
would outweigh the disadvantages. Even with a zero opportunity cost of labor,
the economic rate of return is 23 percent. While crude comparisons of numbers
affected are unfortunate where human misery is involved, it must be noted that
at least 30,000 farm families below the absolute poverty level will benefit
directly, while the loss of opportunity for seasonal employment could adversely
affect up to 25,000 workers, of whom most would also be below that level. Al-
though more will benefit than will suffer, this reduction in demand for labor
will undoubtedly reduce incomes of some very poor people. For few of those
displaced, however, would this seasonal employment be their sole source of



- 25 -
income, and since there are labor shortages in the project area especially at
peak periods, some will find alternative employment. The Government and we
are trying by other means (such as proposed rural development project) to
provide employment for those disadvantaged. In addition, most of the 4,000
new full-time jobs created would be for people who would otherwise tend to
gravitate to the pool of the underemployed, or drift to the cities. Two
essential facts must also be borne in mind. First, the strong agricultural
base to which this project will contribute is essential for development,
and so to creation of future employment. Secondly, the project will only
accelerate by a few years a process which is bound to occur in any case, but
it can shape and channel that process so as to maximize the positive effects
and minimize the negative.
86.       Project Risks.  The main project risks are (a) that rural institu-
tional reforms would prove slow or unsatisfactory, (b) that yield increases
would be lower than estimated, or (c) that project financed equipment would be
purchased by farmers more slowly than expected. We believe these risks are
acceptable, for the following reasons: (a) The Government is heavily commit-
ted to institutional reform, and the rate of change forecast is considered to
be reasonably practicable in the project context. It would be buttressed by
project technical assistance. For credit institutions, the initial strategy
would be to concentrate on the mangement of project investments, involving a
very small part of the system. Cooperative development presents a more serious
risk in view of the uncertainty about the future role of cooperatives and their
poor management. Therefore, farm mechanization through cooperative tractor
ownership may be delayed or frustrated. The variety of technical assistance
to cooperatives from the project, as well as the complementary technical assis-
tance to cooperatives and in agricultural training which is also being provided
by other donors, notably the US, UK, Sweden and Germany, will reduce this risk.
(b) The conservative estimates of yield increases are mainly based on expe-
rience in other countries, since there are few studies on Egypt. Nonetheless,
such Egyptian estimates as are available confirm these estimates. The very
tight and complex cropping pattern of Egyptian agriculture makes the timeliness
of cultivation particularly relevant. (c) Recent missions to Egypt indicate
that the demand for farm machinery is very strong, and we no longer expect
this to be a problem: slow sales of machinery would delay the benefits, but
even a two year delay in obtaining benefits would still leave the economic
rate of return at 14 percent.
Health and Environmental Aspects
87.       There are no special environmental aspects to the project.  Some
improved nutrition can be expected from the increased milk production;
the mechanization of irrigation pumping will reduce exposure to bilharzia,
as would the pilot covered irrigation scheme, if widely adopted.
Effect on Women
88.       Agricultural mechanization is one aspect of the Government's popu-
lation policy, since the reduction in agricultural employment opportunities
for small children (such as minding an animal working a saqqia) reduces their
earning power and so the imagined economic benefits of a large family. The



- 26 -
project will make a small contribution to reducing child employment; it may
thus have a slight long-term effect on reducing family size, so improving the
health and status of rural women.
Conclusion
89.        This project is most important for modernization of agriculture in
the old lands of Egypt, despite its adverse effect on seasonal employment
opportunities for hired labor. Production in the old lands is now hampered
by four main factors: the need for drainage, pricing policy, the poor insti-
tutional framework, and the use of inefficient production techniques. The
Bank/IDA financed drainage projects are making a massive contribution to
the first of these problems; and we are working with the Government to reform
pricing policy. All components of the present project are designed to make
a start in tackling the other two areas. Above all, by strengthening PBDAC
it will have a major influence in helping the Government remove the block to
private investment in agriculture caused by the lack of an agency capable of
providing medium- and long-term credit. The mechanization component is a
first step towards greater agricultural specialization within the old lands,
which at present is hindered by the need to grow fodder for work animals. The
different components are likely to lead to future projects, as part of the
agricultural pipeline which we are developing with the Government, in agri-
cultural credit, extension, dairy and livestock production, and possibly
research. The substantial benefits, both in the short and long run, greatly
outweigh any adverse effects.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
90.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Arab Republic of
Egypt and the Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association,
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
91.       Proposed conditions of effectiveness are:
(i) Appointment of project coordination committees at national
and governorate levels, and a project coordinator (paragraph
68; DCA, Section 6.01);
(ii) Signature of a subsidiary loan agreement, satisfactory to IDA,
between the Government and PBDAC (paragraph 73; DCA, Section
6.01).
Features of the draft Development Credit Agreement of special interest are
listed in Section III of Annex III.
92.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 27 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
93.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
June 14, 1978
Washington, D.C.






ANNEX I
Page 1 of 4 pages
EGYPT               - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                 -------------------------------------------------
EGYPT                                REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL      1001.4                                       MOST RECENT
AGRIC.      29.9                        1960       197(,  ESTIMATE           PHILIPPINES   TURKEY          SPAIN *
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                    110.0*    170.0*    280.0*/a              230.0*      S00.0*    1580.0*
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
_______________________________
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLION)            25.8       33.3      38.1                36.9        35.6        33.6
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                        26.0      33.0       38.0/a             123.0        46.0        67.0
PER SO. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       982.0      1125.0   1273.0/a              375.0        65.0       105.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)          44.5      42.1       37.8                44.2        40.6        21.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU.AV)           20.7       17.0       14.0               13.2        14.4         8.B
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)       109.0      116.0    100-115                81.0       153.0/a      27.9
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)       44.9       49.9       52.4                55.6        54.4        70.5
GROSS REPkJDUCTION RATE                2. 8/a     3.0       3.0                 3.3         2.6 /b, C    1.4
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                  2.4        2.6       2.3                 3.0         2.5         1.1
URBAN                                  6.0        3.6        3.4                4.0         4.9/d       2.0
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)           38.0       42.1       44.6               27.6         38.7       59.1
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 'eARS                        43.0      42.1         ..                45.6        41.7        27.8
15 TO 64 YEARS                        '54.0     54.7         ..                51.6        54.0        62.5
65 YEARS kN3 'GTER                     3.0        3.2         ..                2.8         4.3         9.7
AGE DEPENDENCY RArIO                     0.9        0.8         ..                0.9          0.9         0.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY FIATJO               1.8        1.8/a      i' 1.S                          1.1 /e      1.1
FAMILI AL.INNING
ACCEPTORS (ClI.i,,LA'IIVE,  w-(Iu)              488.0    1239.0               320.0
USERS 1% LF MARRIEO 'WOMN1              ..         ..       21.1                2.0         8.2 2
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)          7800.0/b 8300.0/b 9600.0/a              12400.0    14500.0/f  11900.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)          57.07F    53.0o/     43.9Ta              S5.0/a      67.0        25.0
UNEMPLOYED (X OF LABOR FORCE)            5.0        3.0        1.47F               7.6         4.0/        1.1 /a
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
X OF PRIVATE INCOME REC'D BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS             19.2 /C.             21.0/c                 ,        32.8 /h
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             48.47        .       46. OT                 .        60.5 3
LOWEST  20% CF HOUSEHOLDS             4.67E        .        5.27-                           2. 97
LOWEST  40% 0'   HOUSr OLDS           14.17C               16 .0/c                          9.4/h
DISTRIBUTION Or LAND OWNERSHIP
% OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS                                                                 53.0
% OWNED BY F'IALLEST 10% OWNERS           ..         ..         ..                  ..         0.9
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN              2500.0/d  1910.0    1820.0/b d                       2250.0       740.0/b
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         2730.07We 1640.0/C  1520.0J,                 ..     1770.0/i
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED            500.07t  460.0       460.0               850.0       50.0 07,  220.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)          95.0     106.0      113.0                86.0       112.0       107.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)              66.0       66.0       70.7                45.0        78.0        81.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          17.0/f    16.0       16.0                22.0        22.0        40.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4             39.3                    ..                6.6         14.7/k       0.9
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                       66.0       69.0       72.0               113.0       109.0       123.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                      16.0      33.0       40.0                49.0        28.0        57.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)              12.0      12.0       12.0                10.0        11.0        11.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(X OF SECONDARY)                     22.0        19.0      19.0                 6.0/b      14.0        20.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                 20.0         ..       40.0                  *-       55.0/1      94.0
HOUSING
PIRSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                 1.6         ..         ..                  ..         1.9
OCCUPIED CWELLINGS WITHOUT              -o.o/j                                    76.0        64.0
PIPED WATER (X)
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                 38.0a         ..      40.0/a,f            23.0        41.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (X)                      ..         ..       20.0/af             7.0        18.0
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)          58.0      132.0     140.0                 72.0        99.0       214.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)            3.0        4.0        6.0                 8.0         4.0        71.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)           102.0      228.0     2800                 235.0       247.0      1634.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                1.3        1.0        fl                  2 0         0.7         5.8
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 4 pages
NOTES
Unleoa otheorise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year berween 1959 and 1961, for 1970 bet.een 1968 and 1970, end for Moot Recent Eatfiate between
1973 end 1975.
PNP per capitr dote are booed on the World Bank Atlas methodology (1974-76 basio).
Spain' soccesoful diversification of its econmoic strueture,, degree of industrialization and developent of toariom nckeo it on appropriate
"objective" country.
EGYPT           1960    /0  1950-55;    /b  Figures relate to peraona aim yeare and over, exciuding no=od popolstion;    /c  1964-65;    /d  1962;
/e  Incloding casiotent neroes and nidsiveo;    /f  1960-62;    gA  Urbea  only.
1970    /a  Ratio of population ceder 15 and 65 and over to total labor force age 12-64 y.ars                /b  Relates to 12-64 years of age, 1966;
/c Registered, not all practicing in the country.
MOST RECENT ESTIMATE:    /   .976;    /b  1972;    /c  Rural only, based on enpenditur- surecy uf houaeholds;    /d  Registered, not all
practicing in che country;    /e  1971;    /f  Percentage of population.
PdILIPPINES    1970    /a  Ac percantage of eaploynent;    /b  Not  including private voc. tionol echools.
TRKiEY          1970    Ia  1967,    /b  EIcludeo 17 eastern provincee;    /c  1965-67;    /d  1965-70;   /I  Ratio of population ucder 15 and 65 and
over to labor force 15 yeers and over;    /f  15 years and over .ecludes one=ployed;    /A  Registered only;    /h  Disposable
ircoe;    /i  Including .aaistant nurses and =idwives;            Z   1964-66;    ik  1967-68;    /I  Person. oix years sad over
wbh toll the census takera that they ceo read and erite.
SPAIN           1970    /c  E=ployzent office estihate;    /b  Registered, not all practicing in the country.
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Land Area (thou kh2)                                                                    Populetion per nursing peraon - Population divided by nueber of practicing
fotu1   Total -surfac  area conprising land area and inland waters.                       male and fenale graduate noroes, "trained" or "certified" oursee, end
Agric. - 05t recent eotisate of sgricultural area ased temporarily or                     a.ailiary peroonnel with training or emperience.
pe-sanently for crops, pastures, market & kitchen gardens or to lie                   Population per hosgitol bed - Population divided by .usber of hospital beds
fullo,                                                                                  available in public end private general and epecialised hoepital and
rehabilitation centers; ...cIudes oursing bones and estsblishoents for
GNP par capite (US$) - GiNP per capita estioutee at current narket prices,                 costodial and preventive care.
calculated by sace conversion -ethod a- World Bank Atls (1973-75 basis);             Per capita aupPly of calories (7. of reqsiremento) - Cunputed fron energy
1960, 1970 -nd 1975 data.                                                               equialet of net food supplite     availeble in country per capita per day;
available eupplleo cenprise d-oetic production , ioporta leso emporta,
Population and vital statistics                                                            and changes in stock; net supplies exclude aninal feed, aeeds, quantities
la(1 ldrmlo    - Au of July first:  if oot cvailable,                                     aced in food proce..ing and looses in diatribution; reqoire-ento wetr
averoge of two end-year estimates; 1960, 1970 and 1975 data.                            eatimated by FAO based on physiclogical needs for nornal activity and
he-lth considering eoviroutentcl terperature, body weights, age and ase
Population density - Ret sousre kl  - Hid-year population per oquare kilo-                diutributiono  of popul-tion, and olloying 10% for  -aote at hwoveehld level,
necor (100 h-ctaces) of total are.s
Population density - per sanare kr of egrie, land - Cenputed as above for               Per capita supply of Protein (frama per day) - Protein content of per
afiotrlland only.                                                                capita net supply of food per day; ne t auPply of food is defined us
above; requirenentt for ell c.outrieo cotablished by URSA Econmeic
vinal statintisc                                                                           Reestrch Seovicts provide fur a minimon allowance of 60 grams of
Crude birth rate per th-seand, average - Anneal live births per thousand                   total protein per day, and 20 grorz of animal and pulae  protein,of
of oid--osn population; tnn year aritbletie  averages ending in 1960 and                which 10 girns ubould be ani-al protein; theac standards are lover
1970,  nd fioe-ye-r average eding in 1975 for moat receot eatiate.                     then those of 75 granc of total protein and 23 grata of animal protein
Crudy death ntoe per thocoend aeverg.e  - Annual d.etho per thousand of mid-              as an uveragf  for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World F6od
year populutioc; ten-year erithsoetic averges ending in 196i  and 1970 and              Survey.
five-year average endiog in 1975 for nest recent estimate.                            Per capita protein supplv fro- animal and puble - Protein supply of food
Infant mortality rcte (/thou) - Anneal deatha of infants onder one year                   derived fron animals cod puises in grano per day.
of age per thousand live birrhb.                                                      Death rate f/thou) d9ee  1-4 - AnnuaI deatho per tho.and in age group
Life epectan.cv at birth (yra) - Average nu=ber of years of life ranain-                   1-4 years, to children in this age group; siggested as an indicator of
ing at birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and                       malnutrition.
1975 for deoeloping countris
Gros  repoducion  ate- Average onhe.r of live daughters     aesnwl                Eduection
bear in her no-mal reproductive period if she   periengers pres ent age-              Adia-ted enrollment ratio - primary school - Enrollnent of all ages as
specific fertility rates; usually five-yesr averages ending in 1960,                    percentage of primary  ehbool-age population; includee children aged
1970 and 1975 for developing countries.                                                 6-11 years bht adjusted for different lengths of primary education;
poPulation growth rune (%) - total - Conpound annual growth rates of mid-                  for countries with universal eduoation, enrollment may emceed 100%
yecr population for 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                       since  -ome pupils are below or above the official school age.
Population cr-tb rate (M1  - srbcn - Conputed like grmerh rate of total                 Adlsted enrollment ratio - secondary school - Cssputed as above;
population; different definitions of orban areas nay affect cqpars-                    aecondary education requires at least four years of approved primary
biliOr  of data epong countries.                                                        inttruction; provides general, vocational or teacher training
Urban population (7 of total) - Ratio of urban to total population;                        instruction   for pupilr of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence
diff-rect definitions of urban areas may affect co-parability of data                   couroes are generally excluded.
among co-ntries                                                                       Years of schooling provided (first and second levelsl - Total years of
Agc  structare (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age (15-64 years),               schooling; at secondary level, vocational instruction may be par-
and retired (65 ye-rs and over) as percentages of nid-year population.                  tially or conpletely secluded.
Ace de-end-ncy totic - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 cud over tn                  Vocational enrolment (% of secondary) - Vocational inatitatione
rhoue of sges 15 thro-gh 64.                                                            include technical, industrial or other programa which operate
E-_       d                 - Ratio of populction under 15 and 65 and over                 indepul dently or as depart Lits of e-condury inutitotions.
to  , c I bnr foro  is  gie group of 15-64 years.                                   Adult literary rate (01 - Literate udu1to  (able to read and write) aso
Loll   L 'r         - og b   ccptors (devulives    thou) - Cunnlative n.-ber of        percentage of total udult population aged 15 yearn and over,
-cp, r   f birth-control devices under auspicee of national family
plano-t   -ogran since inception.                                                     Housig
faiv ploo g - users (Y of married  monen) - Percentages of married                     Persons per rams (urban) - Average number of persons per coo  in
uonos of child-be-ring age (15-44 years) who ae birth-control devicee                   -ccupied conventional dwellings in urban areas; dwellings eeclude
to oil mrid   -on in sene age group.                                                    nn-perrnanent  structures and unoccupied parts.
Occuvied dwellings without piped water (7) - Occupied cooventional
i,nploonccs                                                                               dwelliogs in urban and rural areas without inside or outside piped
ozalc tii bo  ,orot fcooouond) - Econonicall, active persons, including                   water facilities as percentage of all occupid dwellings.
armed forces and unemployed but excluding howesives, studeots, etc.;                  Access to glectricity (7 of a11 dwellings) - Consentional dvellinga
definltfons in  -ours- countries are not conparable.                                    with electricity in living qartners as percent of tatl1 dwellings in
Lo  ortor-n in agriculture (E) - Agricultural labor force (in far-ieg,                    urban and natal  .reas.
toresr-;  '-uoisg o-d fishing) as percentage of total labor force.                    Rural dwellings connected to electricity (R) - Cmoputed us above for
Urenempincc  I' of labor fo-ce) - uneaployed are usually defined as                       rural dwellings only.
p-r-ons who arc ably a-d willing to take a job, out of a job on a
ni-en dayv  re-sind out of u Job, and seeking work for a specified                    Consumption
'isiono, period not e-ceeding one week; nay not be conparable between                Radio receivers  (Per thou Popl - All typos of receivers for radio broad-
cocyfon ctdoe to different definitions of unemployed and source of                      caste to general public per thous.nd of population; exclude-
dact   e g., employment office statistics  aample surveys, cenpulsary                   unlicensed ceceivers in countries and in yearo when registration of
Znemploynsecn insurance.                                                               radio sets won in effect; dast  for recent years nay not be comparable
since nest countries abolifhed licnsing.
rncome dlstribution- PercePnta-g  of private intone (both in cash and                   Passenger cars (per thou pop) - Pasoenger cots compri- inotor cars
kibdo  neoniod by richeot 57, richeat 20%, poorest 207, and poorest                     seating less than eight persons; cecludes amulances, hearsea and
4< of hourehold.                                                                       military vehicles
Electricity (kwh/yr per cat) - Annual cousumption of iodustrial, con-
D  ibot-   n of lund oanorshle - Percentagea of lard osned by wealthiest                  mercial, public and private electricity in kilowatt hoors per capita;
lG' aod poorest 107 of laed owner.                                                      generally based on production data, withost allowance for losses in
grids but allowing for imports cod exports of electricity.
health e-d nutrition                                                                    Ne_print (kg/yr per cap) - Per capita aonual cossaption in kilograun
Population Pe.  pholacion - Population divided by nmboer of practicing                    estimated frnm domestic produotion pls net imports of newsprint.
ph.sicisns qualified fr-r a =edical schotl at university leel.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4
EGYPT
ECONOMIC DWELOP!ENT DATA
(Amounts in millions of US dollars)
Actual                            Proieted         1973-  1975-
1973      1974      1975      1976           1980          1975   1980           1973  1975  1980
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS                                                (Constant 1975 Prices)                  Average Annual
Growth Rates      As Percent of GDY
Gross Domestic Product                      10,517    10,849   11,912  12,636                16,288      6.3      6.4            99   100    99
Gains from Terms of Ttade (+)                    57       365    ..           82                 113       *       ' -           +1    .,    +1
Gross Domestic Income                       10,574    11,214   11,912  12,718                16,401      6.1      6.6            100   100   100
Imports(incl. non-factor services)          -2,864    -4,052   -4,989  -3,904                -5,970    32.0       3.6            27    42    36
Exports (incl. non-factor services)          1.950      2.230    2.198   2.512                4.226      6.2    14.0              18    19    26
Resource Gap                                  -914    -1,822   -2,791  -1,392                -1,744    75.0    -9.0               9    23    10
Consumption Expenditures                    10,115    10,887   11,836  11,806                14,179      8.2      3.7            96    99    86
Investment Expenditures (incl. stocks)    1,373         2,149    2,867   2,304                3,966    44.0       6.7            13    24    24
Domestic Savings                               459        327        76      912              2,222   -60.0    95.0               4      1    14
MERCRANDISE TRADE                            Annual Data at Current Prices                                                  As Percent of Total
Imports
Capital Goods                                291        480       728      840                                                 17   16
Fuels and intermediate goods                 633      1,655    2.057   1,208                                                   38   46
Consm mtion Goods                            740      1,356    1,712   2,166                                                   45    38
Total Merchandise Imports (c.i.f.)         1,664      3,491    4,497   4,214                                                  1o0   100
Exports
Agricultural Products                        423        857       522      544                                                 42    33
Industrial Goods                             580        817    1.046   1,068                                                   58    67
Total Merchandise Exports (f.o.b.)         1,003      1,674    1,568   1,612                                                  100   100
Travel                                       156        266       332      465
Suez Canal                                    -          -         85      312
Merchandise Trade I.dices                            Average 1975 - 100
Export Price Index                            68        122       100      109
Import Price Index                            67         95       100      105
Terms of Trade Index                         101        128       100      103
Exports Volume Index                          94         88       100      114
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR                                As Percent of Total
Agriculture                                   33         34        33       31
Industry, Electricity & Construction          24         26        28       28
Services                                      43         40        39       41
Total                                       100        100       100      100
1977
PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                      Rev.
Current Prices              Budget                                 As Percent of CDP
Current Receipts                          3,180      3,658    4,549   5,914    7,641                                       34      38
Current Expenditures                      2,818      3,623    5,246   6.072    6.748                                        30     44
Budgetary Savings                           362         35     -697    -158        893                                      4      -6
Public Sector Investment                  1,155      1,469    2,209   2,509    3,471                                       12      19
UIS $ million
DETAIL ON                   At 1975 p and ER
PUBLIC SECTOR           Draft Plan
INVESTMENT PROGRAM       (1978-82)        % of Total
Agriculture               2,240            9
Industry and Mining       7,085           27
Services                  2,501           10
Transport and coo-
mussications (Inc. Suez)  7,111           27
--________________________________________________-- ______________________________   Other  7,111    27
Total Expenditures       26,048          100
SELECTED INDICATORS                                               1973-    1975-
1975     1980
Average ICOR                                                      2.08      3.661,
Import Elasticity                                                 3.81     0.75r
LABOR FORCE AND
OUTPUT PER WORKER                                                Total Labor Force                       Value Added Per Worker (Current Prices)
In Millions           7. of Total                      In US Dollars    % of Average
1973     1975        1973    1975                       1973    1975      1973    1975
Agriculture                                             4.2       4.2          47      44                       624      858        67      69
Industry                                                1.2       1.2          13      13                     1,557   2,087       167      167
Service 2/                                              3.6      4.1          40       43                       615   1.374        66      110
Total                                                   9.0       9.5         100    10                        932   1,247        100  loo
./ Import elasticity for 1975-80 low because of decrease in imports experienced in 1976.  For the period 1977-80,
import elasticity is estimated at 1.00.
i/ Includes distribution, electricity and construction sectors.



EGYPT                                         ANNEX I
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS. EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT                   Page 4 of 4
(amounts in millions of US dollars at current prices)
Actual
1973      1974       1975    1976
SUMMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Export of Goods, f.o.b.                                      1,003      1,674     1,568   1,612
Import of Goods, c.i.f.                                    -1,664    -3.491    -4.497  -4,214
Trade Balance                                              -661    -1,817    -2,929  -2,602
Service Receipts                                               421       726      1,250   1,980
Service Payments                                             -414       -541       -801    -896
Service Balance                                                7       185        449   1,084
A.   Deficit on Goods and Services                               -654    -1,632    -2,480  -1,518
B.   Amortization of LMT Debt                                    -407       -631      -476    -717
(of which suppliers' credits)                              (277)    (-285)    (-280)  (-414)
C.   Reductions of Balances on Bilateral Accounts                -113        -28       -241      --
D.   Foreign Exchange Requirements                             -1174    -2,291    -3,197  -2.,235
E.   Supply of Funds                                            1,290      2,119     3,217   2,208
Private unrequited transfers                                   6        42         91       87
Official grants                                             725      1,264        988      625
Gulf Organization for Development in Egypt                  --         --         --
Other MLT loans                                              170       199        583      760
Suppliers' credits                                          160        273        363      501
MLT deposits/loans CBE                                      --            5     1,580      550
Foreign investment                                          --            7        20       60
Net increase in short-term commercial bank credits          352        585       -264
Other monetary movements, net 1/                           -123       -256       -144    -370
F.  Changes in Reserves                                          116      -172          20     -27
GRANT AND LOAN COMMITMENTS
Official Grants and Grant-like                                 725     1,264        988      625
Public MLT Loans
IBRD                                                        --          85         77      157
IDA                                                         75          55         55       40
Other Multilateral                                          --            6       100       95
Governments                                                290         595      2,507      934
Suppliers/Commercial                                       160         273        363      501
Total Public MLT Loans                                     525       1,014      3,102   1,727
DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE, MLT
(Public Debt Outstanding & Disbursed)
Interest on Public Debt                                     79           95       111      180
Repayments on Public Debt                                  407         631        476      717
Total Public Debt Service                                  486         726        587      897
Burden on Exchange Earnings (7)
Public Debt Service                                        34.1        30.3       20.8    25.0
EXTERNAL DEBT                                 Actual Debt Outstanding on December 31, 1977
Disbursed Only           Percent
Loans                                                5,458.3                   67.9
(of which: IBRD)                                     ( 86.6)                  (1.1)
IDA)                                    (167.9)                  (2.1)
Deposits in CBE                                      1,938.3                   24.1
Suppliers Credits                                      640.7                    8.0
Total Public MIT Debt                                8-77                     100.0
Short-term Debt (disb. only)                           555
1/ Includes errors and omissions



ANNEX II
... 8 bL.,.K u-'..uCP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT                       Page 1 of 7
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of May 31, 1978)
Amount in million US dollars
Loan/Credit      Approved                                                                      less cancellations
Numbers           FY       Borrower          Purpose                              Bank       IDA    Undisbursed
Ln 243-UAR          60         SCA              Suez Canal Expansion                 56.5        --       --
Cr 181-UAR          70         UAR             Nile Delta Drainage                    --        26.0      5.0
Cr 284-UAR          72         ARE             Railways  I                            --        30.0      1.6
Cr S-13-UAR 1/      73         ARE             Cotton Ginning Engineering             --         0.2      --
Cr 393-UAR          73         ARE             Upper Egypt Drainage                   --       36.0      14.4
Cr 412-UAR          73         ARE             Development Industrial Bank 2/         --        15.0      1.5
Cr 423-UAR          74         ARE             Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation          --        18.5      4.7
Cr 437-UAR          74         ARE             Population                             --         5.0      1.6
Cr S-15-UAR 3/      74         ARE             Talkha Engineering                     --         0.4      --
Cr 484-UAR          74         ARE             Talkha Fertilizer                      --        20.0      4.3
Cr 524-EGT          75         ARE             Ag/Ind Imports                         --        35.0      1.1
Ln 1062-EGT         75         ARE             Ag/Ind Imports                        35.0        --       1.3
Ln 1064-EGT         75         SCA              Suez Canal Rehabilitation            50.0        --     41.5
Ln 1085-EGT         75         ARE              Tourah Cement                        40.0        --      10.1
Ln 1098-EGT         75         ER              Railways II                           37.0        --     19.1
Cr 548-EGT          75         ARE             Telecommunications                     --        30.0    17.0
Cr 576-EGT          76         ARE             DIB II 2/                              --        25.0     9.2
Ln 1239-EGT         76         APA             Alexandria Port                      45.0         --     44.8
Ln 1276-EGT 4/      76         ARE             Fruit and Vegetable Dev.              50.0        --     49.3
Cr 637-EGT          76         ARE             Upper Egypt Drainage II                --       40.0    36.4
Ln 1285-EGT         76         ARE             Upper Egypt Drainage II               10.0        --     10.0
Ln 1292-EGT         76         ARE             Textile Rehabilitation                52.0        __     51.6
Ln 1369-EGT         77         AWA             Alexandria Water Supply               56.0        --     55.7
Cr 681-EGT          77         ARE             Education                              --        25.0    24.1
Cr 719-EGT          77         ARE             Nile Delta Drainage II                 --       27.0    27.0
Lt  1439-EGT        77         ARE             Nile Delta Drainage II               27.0        --      27.0
Ln 1440-EGT 4/      77         ARE             Nile Delta Drainage II               12.0        --      12.0
Ln 1453-EGT         77         EEA             Regional Electrification             48.0         --     47.7
Ln 1456-EGT         77         ARE             Industrial Imports                    70.0        --     69.9
Ln S-005-EGT        77         ARE              Iron Ore Beneficiation and            2.5        --      2.1
Engineering
Ln 1482-EGT         78         SCA             Suez Canal Expansion                100.0        --      97.0
Cr S-20-EGT         78         ARE             Water Supply Engineering              --         2.0      2.0
Cr 774-EGT          78         ARE             Telecommunications II                           53.0    53.0
LN 1533-EGT         78         DIB             Development Industrial Bank III   40.0                   40.0
Totals                                                                         731.0      388.1
of which has been repaid                                                        56.5        0.6
Total now outstanding                                                          674.5      387.5
Amount sold                                                7.5
of which has been repaid                                   6.5                   1.0
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                                 673.5      387.5   782.0
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(Amount in US$ million)
Year         Obligor                  Type of Business                       Loan      Equity       Total
1976        Arab Ceramic Company   Ceramic Industry                          4.25         .75        5.0
(plus .635
contingency        (5.635)
commitment)
1977        Nile Clothing Company  Ready Made Garment Industry               0.4C        0.20        0.60
1978        Delta Sugar Company    Agricultural Production, mainly
sugar                                 20.00        2.00       22.00
(plus 1.0 standby
commitment)      (23.00)
1/ Refinanced under Credit 423-UAR
2/ Formerly Bank of Alexandria
3/ Refinanced under Credit 484-lIAR
4/ Third Window Loan



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 7
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Cr. No. 181-UAR - Nile Delta Drainage I Project; US$26 million Credit
of April 17, 1970; Effective Date: December 22, 1970; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
Full completion of the project is expected by mid-1980, nearly 3
years behind schedule. However, procurement is proceeding satisfactorily.
It is expected that the whole of the credit will be committed in the near
future, and that disbursement will be completed during 1978. Progress in
project implementation during 1976 was satisfactory. However, during 1977
there were management changes in the Drainage Authority, and the project
again fell behind schedule, although achievements in the fourth quarter of
1977 were substantial. Local funds required for 1978 are included in the
approved budget, and a special fund has now been established for local cur-
rency expenditures for all four drainage projects. With the recent appoint-
ment of a new chairman for the Authority, we expect improved performance in
the future.
Cr. No. 284-UAR - Egyptian Railway Project; US$30 million Credit of February
9, 1972; Effective Date: July 17, 1972; Closing Date: March 31, 1979.
The project generally is being implemented satisfactorily. All
procurement contracts have been awarded, and the credit has been fully com-
mitted. To allow the remaining balance to be utilized, the closing date
for the parts of the credit allocated to signalling and telecommunications
items, originally September 30, 1976, has been postponed twice to March 31,
1979; the credit account for the parts allocated to other items was closed on
December 31, 1977.
Cr. No. S-13-UAR - Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation Engineering Project;
US$175,000 Credit of November 17, 1972; Effective Date: June 15, 1973;
Closing Date: November 30, 1973.
This credit was fully disbursed and subsequently refinanced under
Cr. 423 below.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 7
Cr. No. 393-UAR - Upper Egypt Drainage I Project; US$36 million Credit of June
8, 1973; Effective Date: November 28, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Over 30 percent of the project is complete; construction of open
drains should be finished by the end of 1978, and full completion is expected
by end-1980, i.e., 6 months behind schedule. The bilharzia control program is
progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 412-UAR - Development Industrial Bank (formerly Bank of Alexandria)
Project; US$15 million Credit of June 29, 1973; Effective Date: November 29,
1973; Closing Date: March 31, 1979.
The entire amount of the credit has been committed to subprojects.
As of April 30, 1978, $13.4 million had been disbursed. The transfer of
responsibility for this project to the newly established Development Indus-
trial Bank became effective on March 28, 1977.
Cr. No. 423-UAR - Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation Project; US$18.5 million
Credit of July 30, 1973; Effective Date: February 15, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
The scaled-down project financed by IDA is estimated to be completed
in end-1980 and the remainder of the full project, financed by a loan from the
Saudi Fund for Development, which became effective in July 1976, is expected
to be completed in 1981-2. The foreign cost of the project ($34.3 million) is
now firm as all procurement has been completed, but the local component con-
tinues to escalate mainly due to steady increase in the cost of civil works.
Cr. No. 437-UAR - Population Project; US$5.0 million Credit of November 6,
1973; Effective Date: March 25, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The project had been greatly delayed by a shortage of local funds
and by administrative problems. It is now being carried out with a reduced
scope, and is again falling behind the revised schedule due to construction
delays. About half of the project facilities are now operating satisfactorily
and the remainder should be completed by the end of 1978.
Cr. No. S-15-UAR - Talkha Urea Fertilizer Engineering Project; US$400,000
Credit of November 20, 1973; Effective Date: April 24, 1974; Closing Date:
March 31, 1975.
The credit was refinanced under Cr. 484 below.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 7
Cr. No. 484-UAR - Talkha II Fertilizer Project; US$20 million Credit of June
24, 1974; Effective Date: January 22, 1975; Closing Date: April 1, 1979.
Procurement has been completed except for some small items. Accord-
ing to the latest indication the project is likely to be mechanically com-
pleted by March 1979 or 18 months later than estimated during appraisal.
Delays have been due to shortage of skilled labor and delays in the completion
of civil works drawings.
Cr. No. 524-EGT and Ln. No. 1062-EGT - Agricultural and Industrial Imports
Project; US$35 million Credit and US$35 million Loan of December 20, 1974;
Effective Date: March 19, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
The bulk of the procurement actions has been completed and disburse-
ments are well advanced. Nearly all six surveys of industrial subsectors
financed under the project have been completed. To allow utilization of the
undisbursed funds, the closing date, originally, December 31, was postponed to
June 30, 1978.
Ln. No. 1064-EGT - Suez Canal Rehabilitation Project; US$50 million Loan of
December 20, 1974; Effective Date: April 21, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1980.
Progress to date has been good, although the implementation of the
reconstruction project proved to be much more complex than originally esti-
mated by the appraisal team.  The financial situation of the Borrower is
sound; canal traffic and revenues are both considerably higher than expected
at appraisal. Procurement is proceeding well.
Ln. No. 1085-EGT - Tourah Cement Expansion Project; US$40 million Loan of
February 10, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing Date: June 30,
1979.
Contracts have been awarded for all equipment packages, and dis-
bursements are proceeding almost on schedule. More than 90 percent of
equipment have been delivered on site. Slow progress in civil works causes
significant delays which will result in a delay in the start-up of commercial
operations by about two years. Consultants which assisted in bid evaluation
are now assisting in supervision of project execution and improvement of the
existing plant.
Ln. No. 1098-EGT - Railways II Project; US$37 million Loan of April 2, 1975;
Effective Date: August 20, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Progress on physical investment items under the project is generally
satisfactory. However, the Egyptian Railways (ER) experienced operational
difficulties with a large number of locomotives out of service because of



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 7
inadequate maintenance largely due to lack of spare parts. Spare parts are
now being delivered and new locomotives have been obtained from bilateral
sources. Therefore, a gradual improvement of the traction and traffic situa-
tion is expected. Also, declining traffic and rising costs resulted in a
worsening of ER's financial position. Government is considering increases in
rail tariffs proposed by ER.
Cr. No. 548-EGT - Telecommunications Project; US$30 million Credit of May 16,
1975; Effective Date: August 14, 1975; Closing Date: September 30, 1978.
Project works are about two years behind schedule, primarily because
of initial delays in building construction. However, construction has recently
accelerated and is expected to proceed satisfactorily. Contract awards for
cables have been largely completed: Telex equipment has been obtained with
financing from other sources and installation of the Cairo telex exchange was
deferred to the second project. The part of the credit originally allocated
for the telex exchange is being used for the purchase of additional cables.
Cr. No. 576-EGT - Second Development Industrial Bank (formerly Bank of
Alexandria) Project; US$25 million Credit of July 30, 1975; Effective Date:
February 19, 1976; Closing Date: October 31, 1979.
The credit is now nearly fully committed. The transfer of respon-
sibility for this project to the newly established Development Industrial Bank
became effective on March 28, 1977.
Ln. No. 1239-EGT - Alexandria Port Project; US$45 million Loan of April 19,
1976; Effective Date: August 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Project implementation was initially slower than expected and is now
entering an active phase. Civil engineering consultants have completed the
tender documents for dredging and berth construction, and these are to be
issued to prequalified contractors shortly. Procurement action on Bank-
financed equipment has commenced. Management consultants are in the field.
Ln. No. 1276-EGT - Fruit and Vegetable Development Project; US$50 million
Third Window Loan of June 11, 1976; Effective Date: December 20, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Project start-up has been slower than expected. Civil engineering
consultants are at work on the drainage and irrigation components of the proj-
ect although the necessary counterpart staff have not always been present.
The Agricultural Development Lending Unit in Bank Misr is attempting, with the
help of a consultant and assistance from the World Bank, to ensure that the
various sub-borrowers proceed with their respective investments, and to
identify additional sub-borrowers. The project is about one year behind
schedule.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 7
Ln. No. 1285-EGT and Cr. 637-EGT - Upper Egypt Drainage II Project; US$10
million Loan and US$40 million Credit, both of June 11, 1976. Effective
Date: January 31, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Project implementation has been slower than expected, but now
appears to be making satisfactory progress. Construction of open drains is
on schedule. Field drainage was delayed by slow procurement of equipment for
making pvc drains (financed by USAID).
Ln. No. 1292-EGT - Textile Project; US$52 million Loan of September 20, 1976.
Effective Date: February 20, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The project is proceeding with a seven-month delay caused by a later
and slower than anticipated start of the civil works. The project is now
estimated to cost about US$17 million equivalent (all in local currency) more
than appraised, due mostly to increased scope of civil works. In part this is
due to the increased price of building materials recently approved by the Gov-
ernment; no difficulties are foreseen in financing this. Early management
problems have now been overcome and both companies have developed effective
Project Implementation Units. Disbursements are slower than anticipated
reflecting delays in procurement.
Ln. No. 1369-EGT - Alexandria Water Supply Project; US$56 million Loan of
March 7, 1977; Effective Date: July 6, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The tariff increase required under the project is in effect and
has been reflected in water bills beginning August 1, 1977. Consultants
for the final design of the project and the procurement of goods and ser-
vices have started work. In designing the project the consultants will
review and take into account the results of a USAID-financed interim Water
Supply Plan presented in September 1977.
Cr. No. 681-EGT - Education Project; US$25 million Credit of March 7, 1977;
Effective Date: August 19, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily. Project
units have been set up in all Ministries concerned. Procurement of equip-
ment and furniture under the project is well advanced. Technical problems
have been encountered with the construction of the two Technical institutes
which needed to be redesigned, resulting in a two year delay. All technical
assistance contracts have been awarded.
Cr. No. 719-EGT, Ln. No. 1439-EGT and Ln. No. 1440T-EGT - Nile Delta Drainage
II Project; $27 Million Credit, $27 Million Loan and $12 Million Third Window
Loan of July 15, 1977; Effective Date: April 17, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
The loans and credit were declared effective on April 17, 1978 after
three postponements. Implementation is behind schedule although design work
is well advanced.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 7
Ln. No. 1453-EGT - Regional Electrification Project; US$48 Million Loan of
July 15, 1977; Effective Date: February 6, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1981.
Engineering consultants started work in June 1977. The first
tenders for electrification equipment and materials were issued in March 1978
and construction is scheduled to start in September 1978. Consultants for the
extension of the UNDP Power Sector Survey and for the Tariff Study are in the
field.  Proposals are being evaluated for the review of safety and inspection
procedures and for the training services.
Ln. No. 1456-EGT - Industrial Imports Project; US$70.0 Million Loan of July 15,
1977; Effective Date: November 7, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Allocation of loan funds is almost completed. Procurement action has
commenced.
Ln No. 5-5 EGT - Iron Ore Engineering and Beneficiation Project; US$2.5 Million
Loan of July 15, 1977. Effective Date: February 2, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
Consultants to prepare both iron ore beneficiation and diagnostic
studies have been appointed and are working.
Ln. No. 1482-EGT - Suez Canal Expansion Project; US$100 Million Loan of
September 28, 1977; Effective Date: February 8, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Project execution is satisfactory, although dredging is slower than
planned. One dredging contract to be financed by the Bank has been awarded
and the other is expected to be awarded soon; tender documents for equipment
are being drawn up. Project planning and supervision arrangements are
progressing well.
Cr. No. S-20-EGT - Water Supply Engineering Project; US$2.0 Million Engineering
Credit of December 29, 1977; Effective Date: April 28, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
Consultants submissions are in the final stages of evaluation.
Cr. No. 774-EGT - Second Telecommunications Project; US$53.0 Million Credit
of March 21, 1978; Effectiveness Date: July 19, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Action on effectiveness is underway.
Ln No. 1533-EGT - Development Industrial Bank III; US$40.0 Million Loan of
April 12, 1978; Effectiveness Date: August 10, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
Action on effectiveness is underway.



ANNEX III
Page 1
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by country to prepare project:    Eighteen months
(February 1976-
August 1977)
(b)  Project prepared by:                            Government, IBRD/FAO
Cooperative Program
and Bank
(c)  Project first presented to Bank:                February 1976
(d)  First Bank mission to review project:           May 1977
(e)  Departure of appraisal mission:                 September 1977
(f)  Negotiations completed on:                      May 12, 1978
(g)  Effectiveness planned for:                      October 1978
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
The Bank is financing under the Agricultural and Industrial Imports
Project (Credit 524-ECT) the services of a consultant to assist Government in
reviewing agricultural cooperatives legislation and development.
Section III - Special Conditions
1.   Conditions of Effectiveness:
(a) Government to appoint project coordination committees
at national and governorate levels, and a Project
Coordinator (paragraph 68);
(b) Government and PBDAC to enter into a satisfactory
subsidiary agreement relating to proceeds of IDA
credit to be on-lent to PBDAC (paragraph 73).
2.   Other conditions:
(a) Government to implement measures for financial rehab-
ilitation of PBDAC (paragraph 49).



ANNEX III
Page 2
(b)  PBDAC to make subloans on agreed terms and conditions,
including allocation of at least 80 percent of project
funds for tractors to cooperatives; the latter to levy
economic machinery hire charges and make services
available on an equitable basis (paragraph 66);
(c)  Cooperatives would ensure that small farmers receive
a fair share of the services of machinery financed
under the project (paragraph 66); and
(d) Project units in PBDAC and two BDACs to be established
by December 31, 1978 (paragraph 71).






ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Menufiyo Governorate
7'  ~ ~ ~ ~     ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     Pil~~~~~~Jot irrigationzone,
-Main, canals
C                                    YuY~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A o-d-                           Main drains
I,~~~~~~~~~~s ~~~~~Railwcys
I                                                                                     _______ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Highwacys
Ci~~ Major to,ns
District boundaries
101a                           :I                          I1 T.,,                     Governorate boundary
A  Beriket elSaboo
El Shohoada
Kom~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
\        6 TURKEY                                                                                                                              KIOETR
MILES
cyp5S-A      SYRIA
An,
AAO     SAUDI
LIBYA      RPBIC~ 
~p,5o~d ar0o A'dfioo  oil  'on coo  'o~o~s,oDelta barrage
500      sySi                oy.OOOOiOl'o0 olhOooodTo Co-00






_ ______________              IBRD 13324
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT                                                                                           i
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                            -t ?@<2 IE/ U$
Sohog Governorote 
PAR,,0y _                                                                                                               k1FBiAr O\  L hPA  .     ...
El  3  MooIow
- - D sIrlct bound:rJen                +                                                    _~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ng 000
I ____________                                                                      _________________________________________________________________________________    _______________________________________________________________________________________________  _____________________________________1_0_M___I r R 



