CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 830 EGT
Development Credit Agreement
(Agricultural Development Project)
between
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 24, 1978


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 830 EGT
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 24, 1978, between ARAB REPUBLIC OF
EGYPT (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOP-
MENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "PBDAC" means the Principal Bank for Development and
Agricultural Credit, a banking institution of the Borrower estab-
lished and operating under the Borrower's Law No. 117 of 1976;
(b) "BDAC's" means the Banks for Development and Agricul-
tural Credit operating in the Project area, affiliates of PBDAC,
established in accordance with PBDAC's Law;
(c) "Project area" means the two Governorates of Menufiya
and Sohag of the Borrower;
(d) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and PBDAC pursuant to the
provisions of Part A of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement;
(e) "Central Coordination Committee" means the committee to
be established pursuant to Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement;
(f) "Project Coordinator" means the Project coordinator to
be appointed pursuant to Section 3.02 (b) of this Agreement;


﻿-2-
(g) "Local Coordination Committees" means each and both of
the two committees to be established under Section 3.02 (c) of
this Agreement;
(h) "MOA" means the Ministry of Agriculture of the Borrower;
(i) "MOI" means the Ministry of Irrigation of the Borrower;
(j) "REA" means the Rural Electrification Authority of the
Borrower;
(k) "Egyptian Pounds" means the currency of the Borrower;
and
(1) "Basic Cooperatives" means the basic agricultural
cooperatives established under the Borrower's Agricultural Cooper-
ative Law to operate at the village levels.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to thirty-two million dollars ($32,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1983
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.


﻿-3-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each
February 15 and August 15 commencing August 15, 1988, and ending
February 15, 2028, each installment to and including the install-
ment payable on February 15, 1998, to be one-half of one per cent
(1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment there-
after to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
General Provisions
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through MOA, MOI, REA, PBDAC, the Central Coordination Committee
and the Local Coordination Committees in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, with due diligence and
efficiency, substantially in accordance with an implementation
schedule satisfactory to the Association, and in conformity with
appropriate agricultural, engineering, administrative and finan-
cial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to facilitate the implementation of
the Project and to ensure coordination of the activities of the
various central and local governmental entities involved in
Project execution, the Borrower shall:
(a) cause MOA to establish the Central Coordination Commit-
tee to be chaired by a senior official from MOA and composed of
representatives from the concerned departments of MOA, including
the Project Coordinator referred to in paragraph (b) of this


﻿-4-
Section, MOI, PBDAC, REA, and the Governorates of Menufiya and
Sohag. Such committee shall: (i) approve the annual work plans
under the Project; (ii) supervise the execution of the Project
through the issuance of directives to the Project Coordinator and
to the Local Coordination Committees; and (iii) take such action
and introduce such operational procedures as shall assist in
achieving the purposes of the Project;
(b) cause MOA to assign one of its senior officers to work,
on a full-time basis, and with the assistance of adequate and
qualified staff, as the Project Coordinator; such officer shall:
(i) arrange for the meetings of the Central Coordination Commit-
tee; (ii) maintain regular contacts with the concerned governmen-
tal departments in order to coordinate all activities under the
Project; (iii) liaise between said Coordination Committee and the
two Local Coordination Committees; and (iv) prepare quarterly
reports on the execution of the Project; and
(c) ensure that a Local Coordination Committee in each of
the two Governorates of Menufiya and Sohag shall be established
under the chairmanship of the respective Governor or his appointee
and composed of representatives from the local departments of MOA,
MOI, PBDAC, REA and such other representatives as such Governor
shall decide; such Committee shall, within its jurisdiction: (i)
undertake the day-to-day management of the Project; (ii) report
monthly on the progress of the Project to the Committee referred
to under paragraph (a) of this Section; (iii) select, on an
equitable geographical basis, local personnel for training under
Part E.4 of the Project; and (iv) take such action and introduce
such procedures as shall ensure that machinery and equipment
purchased under the Project shall be used exclusively in the
Project area.
Section 3.03. In order to strengthen the financial position
of PBDAC, the Borrower shall:
(a) take, not later than December 31, 1978, all action
required to put into full force and effect the Borrower's decision
(i) to relieve PBDAC of its debt to commercial banks in an amount
corresponding to the amount of loans owed to PBDAC which were
written off upon Governmental instruction, currently estimated at
14,000,000 Egyptian pounds, and (ii) to convert into a capital
contribution the loan provided by the Borrower to PBDAC in the
amount of 17,100,000 Egyptian Pounds;


﻿-5-
(b) enable PBDAC to build its reserves through allocations
out of its surpluses;
(c) enable PBDAC to charge and collect suitable fees for
its marketing and distribution operations; and
(d) cause its Ministries, Departments and Agencies to pay
promptly their dues for services rendered by PBDAC.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall: (a) prepare and submit
to the Association, in light of the findings of the study referred
to under Part D.2 of the Project and not later than December 31,
1980, or such other date as may be agreed with the Association,
a plan for redefining the policies, strengthening the organization
and improving the financial position of PBDAC, including steps to
be taken in order to enable it to obtain long-term finance under
suitable terms; and (b) take all necessary action for the imple-
mentation of such parts of said plan as shall be agreed with
the Association.
Section 3.05. The Borrower undertakes to apply the parallel
market rates of exchange established by Decree No. 64 of 1974 of
the Borrower's Minister of Finance and if such rates cease to be
applicable, such rates of exchange as shall be agreed between the
Borrower and the Association, for the purposes of: (a) converting
into Egyptian Pounds such amount of the proceeds of the Credit as
shall be allocated to finance local expenditures; and (b) setting
the prices in Egyptian Pounds of the agricultural machinery and
equipment to be purchased for foreign currencies under Part A.1, 2
and 3 of the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall enable and cause PBDAC to
apply to its lending in the Project area for terms longer than two
years to all agricultural cooperatives and farmers the rates of
interest specified under paragraph 2 of Part A (execution of Part
A) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall cause the Central Coordi-
nation Committee to issue and enforce, with the cooperation of the
Borrower's central and local authorities, regulations whereby: (a)
the Basic Cooperatives will be required to charge and collect for
the hire of tractors and farm machinery to farmers, fees at such
levels as will be sufficient to meet the full capital and operat-
ing cost of such tractors and machinery; and (b) the Basic Cooper-
atives will be required to provide such tractors and machinery for


﻿-6-
hire to farmers on an equitable basis, taking into consideration
the actual need of such farmers and the size of each farmer's
cultivated land.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by
the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
contract documents and construction and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall cause the Central Coordination
Committee, MOA, MOI, PBDAC and the Local Coordination Committees
to maintain, in regard to their respective activities under the
Project, records and procedures adequate to record and monitor the
progress of the Project (including its cost and the benefits to be
derived from it), to identify the goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their use in the
Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited repre-
sentatives to visit the facilities and construction sites included
in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and
(iii) shall furnish to the Association at regular intervals all
such information as the Association shall reasonably request con-
cerning the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits
to be derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Credit and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall cause the Central Coordi-
nation Committee to prepare and furnish to the Association a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall


﻿-7-
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Association of their
respective obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause MOA, MOI, REA and
PBDAC to maintain separate Project accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices their respective operations, resources and expenditures
in respect of the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) cause PBDAC, MOI, REA and MOA to
have their respective Project accounts for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association and to furnish the reports of such audits to the
Central Coordination Committee; (ii) cause the Central Coordina-
tion Committee to furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after the end of each
such year, the reports of such audits by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) cause the Central Coordination Committee to
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said
accounts and the audits thereof as the Association shall from time
to time reasonably request.
(c) The Borrower shall cause PBDAC to: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year,
(A) certified copies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such
other information concerning the accounts and financial statements
of PBDAC and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time
to time reaconably request,


﻿-8-
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause MOA:
(a) to establish by March 31, 1979 and thereafter maintain,
a suitably staffed monitoring and evaluation unit to be subordi-
nated to the Central Coordination Committee. Such unit shall: (i)
conduct, in accordance with appropriate methods, sample surveys to
determine the impact of the Project on employment, production and
income; (ii) obtain such data required under such methods from the
relevant departments of MOA, MOI and PBDAC as shall be related to
the execution of the Project; and (iii) report periodically on the
analysis of such data to the Central Coordination Committee; and
(b) to employ experts with such qualifications and experi-
ence and under such terms and conditions as shall be satis-
factory to the Association, in order to assist in the establish-
ment and operation of said unit.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause PBDAC, MOA, MOI and
REA at all times to operate and maintain all machinery, equipment
and facilities provided under the Project and to make all neces-
sary repairs and renewals thereof, in accordance with appropriate
engineering and financial practices.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) PBDAC shall have failed to perform any covenant, agree-
ment or obligation of PBDAC under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
and
(b) Law No. 117 of 1976, shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as to materially and
adversely affect the ability of PBDAC to carry out its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60


﻿-9-
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association
to the Borrower; and
(b) the event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on behalf
of the Borrower and PBDAC, respectively, has been duly authorized
or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action;
and
(b) the Central Coordination Committee and the two Local
Coordination Committees have been established, and the Project
Coordinator has been appointed, all pursuant to the provisions of
Section 3.02 of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date November 21, 1978, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
3.06 and 4.01 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the
date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or
on a date fifteen years after the date of this Agreement, which-
ever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Economy and Economic Coopera-
tion and the Under-Secretary for International and Regional
Financial Organizations of the Borrower are designated as repre-
sentatives of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿- 10 -
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy
8 Adly Street
Cairo
Arab Republic of Egypt
Cable address:                     Telex:
Ministry of Economy                348 GAFEC UN
Cairo
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
By Is/ Ashraf Ghorbal
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is/ Munir P. Benjenk
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated        % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent) to be Financed
(1) Machinery, equip-           22,500,000       100% of foreign
ment, materials                             expenditures and
and goods                                   of local expen-
ditures ex-
factory and 80%
of local expen-
ditures of im-
ported items
procured locally
(2) Civil works                    120,000       20%
(3)  (a) Consultants' ser-         890,000       100%
vices and fellow-
ships for other
than Part D of
the Project
(b) Consultants' ser-         400,000       100%
vices and fellow-
ships for Part D
of the Project
(4) Electric lines               2,570,000       100% of foreign
and electric                                expenditures and
connections                                 of local expendi-
tures ex-factory
(5) Unallocated                  5,520,000
TOTAL       32,000,000


﻿- 12 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in tiie currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
I above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if
such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expen-
di tures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no


﻿- 13 -
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way re-
stricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associ-
ation's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿-14 -
SCHEDULE 2
The Project
The purposes of the Project are: (a) to strengthen the
agricultural extension, credit and cooperative institutions;
(b) to inrease agricultural productivity in the Project area
through a program of mechanization; (c) to study and demon-
strate advanced farm machinery and irrigation systems for future
use; and (d) to initiate studies that would lead to the prepara-
tion of livestock projects.
The Project consists of, and in addition to the provisions of
Article III of this Agreement, shall be executed in accordance
with, the following:
Part A:   Farm and Irrigation Machinery and Works
Description
1.   The provision of about 1,000 tractors and associated
implements, 580 threshing machines, 300 sprayers and 500
trailers.
2.   The provision of spare parts for the machinery speci-
fied under (1) above.
3.   The provision of about 4,000 small electrical or diesel
pump units and 300 larger electrical pump units.
4.   (a) The improvement of existing repair and maintenance
centers for farm machinery in the Project area;
and
(b) The establishment of new centers of the kind
described under (a) above.
5.   The establishment of an experimental mechanized farm
in the size of about 100 feddans in each of the two
Governorates of Menufiya and Sohag.
6.   Installation of transformers and ancillary equipment and
of about 200 km of 11 kV electrical lines and electrical
connections in connection with Part A.3 and 7 of the
Project.


﻿- 15 -
7.   The establishment of a pilot irrigation scheme in
Menufiya covering an area of about 2,500 feddans. About
eight electrical pumping stations will be installed
#;n secondary canals in such area in order to distribute
irrigation water through buried pipelines.
Execution of Part A
1.   The machinery and spare parts provided under Part A.1,
2, 3 and 4 shall be procured by MOA.
2.   Distribution of such machinery and spare parts shall
be undertaken by PBDAC which shall provide the Basic
Cooperatives, farmers and other borrowers in the Project
area with loans for the purpose of enabling them to
purchase such machinery and spare parts. For this
purpose and for the purpose of Part A.4 (a) of the
Project, the Borrower shall relend to PBDAC the equiva-
lent of $24,500,000 out of the proceeds of the Credit,
or such other amount as shall be allocated from time to
time to Part A.1, 2, 3 and 4 (a) of the Project, under a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement acceptable to the Association
pursuant to which PBDAC shall, inter alia:
(a) repay the equivalent in terms of Egyptian Pounds,
on the basis of the rates of exchange specified in
Section 3.05 of this Agreement, of the proceeds
of the Credit so relent (such equivalent to be
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal
of the proceeds from the Credit Account) in no more
than 10 equal or approximately equal annual
installments after a grace period of five years;
(b) pay interest at the rate of 3% per annum on the
principal amount of the subsidiary loan withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time;
(c) further relend, through its BDACs operating in
the Project area, the equivalent in terms of Egyp-
tian Pounds of the amount so relent to it:
(i) to the Basic Cooperatives in the Project
area, for the purchase of machinery and spare
parts under Part A.1 and 2 of the Project in
an amount representing not less than the


﻿- 16 -
equivalent of 80% of the amount relent to it
and allocated to Part A.1 and 2; and to such
Cooperatives for the purchase of machinery
under Part A.3 of the Project. Amounts so
relent shall be repaid within a period of not
more than ten years including a grace period
of not more than one year with interest at the
rate of not less than 9% per annum; and
(ii) to private farmers in the Project area for
the purchase of machinery and spare parts
under Part A.1, 2 and 3 of the Project and to
owners of existing repair and maintenance
centers for purposes of Part A.4 (a) of the
Project; amounts so relent shall be repaid
within a period of not more than ten years
including a grace period of not more than one
year with interest at the rate of not less
than 10% per annum. Loans provided to such
private farmers and owners shall represent not
more than 85% of the purchase price of such
machinery and spare parts.
3.   The Borrower shall: (a) cause PBDAC to establish, not
later than December 31, 1978 and under a qualified
manager, an adequately staffed Project unit at its
headquarters to be responsible for developing, before
the provision of loans under the preceding paragraph 2
(c), systems acceptable to the Association for the
evaluation of the financial, technical and economic
merits of applications for loans submitted under para-
graph 2 (c) above and for the supervision of activities
and purposes for which such loans are granted; (b)
cause PBDAC to establish, not later than December 31,
1978 and under a qualified manager, an adequately
staffed Project unit in each of the two Governorates of
Menufiya and Sohag to be responsible, within their
respective jurisdictions, for applying such evaluation
and supervision systems to such applications; (c) cause
PBDAC to provide the Association, from time to time, for
its comments, with sample evaluations made in respect to
such applications; and (d) ensure that the Local
Coordination Committees will provide the Project units,
referred to under (b) above, with all assistance
required for the proper performance of their duties.


﻿- 17 -
4.   For the implementation of Part A.4 (b) the Borrower
shall cause MOA: (t) to establish a repair and main-
tenance center in each of the capitals of the two
Governorates of Menufiya and Sohag; each of such centers
to comprise spare parts warehouses and repair facilities
adequate for the undertaking of major machinery over-
hauls and of complete rebuilding of machinery compo-
nents; and (ii) to establish three smaller repair units
in each of such Governorates capable of handling the
normal repairs and maintenance of farm machinery.
5.   For the implementation of Part A.5, the Borrower shall:
(a) cause MOA to employ, not later than June 30, 1979,
a farm machinery specialist, whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall
be satisfactory to the Association, in order to assist
MOA in the organization of and the preparation of work
plans for, the experimental mechanized farms provided
under said Part of the Project; and (b) cause MOA and
the Local Coordination Committees, each within its
respective jurisdiction, to provide such farms with: (i)
qualified staff in numbers adequate for the carrying out
of (A) adaptive trials in order to select the most
appropriate types of farm machinery and mechanization
systems, (B) demonstrations to farmers in the Project
area on the use of improved machinery, and (C) training
of extension workers in the Project area; and (ii)
equipment and facilities adequate for the carrying out
of the activities referred to under (i) above.
6.   The Borrower shall cause REA: (a) to increase the capa-
city of its electrical transformers in the Project area
so as to allow the proper operation of the electrical
pumps to be installed under Part A.3 and 7 of the
Project; (b) to construct in the Project area the
additional 11 kV distribution lines and install electri-
cal connections provided under Part A.6 of the Project;
and (c) to charge pump owners in the Project area
electricity tariffs at such levels as shall be adequate
to cover the cost of supply.
7.   For the establishment and operation of the pilot irriga-
tion scheme under Part A.7 of the Project, the Borrower


﻿- 18 -
shall: (a) cause MOI to employ, not later than March 31,
1979, an engineering consultant, with such quelifica-
tions and experience as shall be satisfactory to the
Association, in order to assist in the preparation of
the final design of such scheme and in formulating its
working plan; and (b) cause REA to construct the 11 kV
electrical lines and install electrical connections
required for the operation of pumping stations installed
in such scheme.
Part B:   Storage
Description
The construction in the Project area of about 380 stores for
farm inputs.
Execution
1.   This Part shall be executed by PBDAC.
2.   The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such
action as shall be necessary to enable PBDAC to acquire
not later than December 31, 1980, all such land and
rights in respect of land as shall be required for the
construction and operation of the farm input stores
provided under this Part.
Part C:   Agricultural Extension
Description
The improvement of extension services through the provision
to MOA's extension staff in the Project area of technical assis-
tance, training, transportation and demonstration equipment and
housing facilities.
Execution
For the implementation of Part C of the Project, the
Borrower shall cause MOA: (a) to assign to its departments in
the Project area specialists, training officers and extension
agents in numbers adequate to reorganize and improve the
procedures of the extension service in such area; (b) to
employ not later than March 31, 1979, two consultants whose


﻿- 19 -
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association, in order
to assist in such reorganization of the extension service,
in establishing monitoring, evaluation and training systems,
for such extension service, and in the initiation of adaptive
research; (c) to prepare, with the assistance of such consul-
tants and not later than June 30, 1979, a training program
for its extension staff operating in the Project area; and
(d) to carry out such adaptive research in its research
centers in the Project area, under the guidance of such
consultants.
Part D:   Agricultural Credit System
Description
1.   Strengthening of PBDAC, through provision of technical
assistance, in regard to: (i) evaluation of applications
for medium- and long-term loans; (ii) supervision of its
medium- and long-term lending operations; and (iii)
establishing a monitoring and evaluation system.
2.   The implementation, with the assistance of consultants,
of a study on PBDAC's policies, organization, operations
and finance.
3.   The provision of transportation and office equipment for
PBDAC and its branches in the Project area.
4.   Overseas training for PBDAC's staff.
Execution
1.   For the implementation of Part D.1 and Part D.2 of the
Project, the Borrower shall cause PBDAC* (a) to employ,
not later than December 31, 1978, and September 30,
1979, respectively, consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall
be satisfactory to the Association; and (b) to implement
the study referred to under Part D.2 by September 30,
1980 or by such later date as may be agreed with the
Association.
2.   The Borrower shall cause PBDAC to prepare and submit to
the Association for its comments, and not later than


﻿- 20 -
March 31, 1979, adequate terms of reference for the
study to be carried out under Part D.2 of the Project.
3.   For the implementation of Part D.4 of the Project,
the Borrower shall cause PBDAC: (i) to prepare and
submit to the Association for its comments, a program
for overseas training of its staff, including the
qualification standards of training candidates and the
proposed external banking institutions for training; and
(ii) to carry out such program, after having reviewed
the Association's comments thereon.
Part E:  Agricultural Cooperatives; Training
Description
1.   The provision of technical assistance on farm machinery
management to cooperatives at the governorate level in
the Project area.
2.   Preparation and implementation by MOA of a program for
strengthening cooperative management and financial
resources and establishing appropriate links between the
different levels of cooperative entities.
3.   The implementation of a training program for board
members, managers and staff of the Basic Cooperatives in
the Project area.
4.   The implementation of a training program for farm
machinery operators.
5.   The provision of transportation and office equipment for
the Basic Cooperatives in the Project area.
Execution
1.   The Borrower shall carry out this Part through the
concerned departments of MOA.
2.   For the implementation of Part E.1 and 2, the Borrower
shall cause MOA to employ by December 31, 1978, consul-
tants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association.


﻿- 21 -
3.   The training program under Part E.3 shall be implemented
at convenient locations within the two Governorates of
Menufiya and Sohag and shall deal with the management,
operation and accounting of the Basic Cooperatives.
4.   The training program under Part E.4 shall be prepared,
by October 31, 1978, and thereafter implemented through
a team of instructors and training supervisors provided
from the Farm Mechanization Department of MOA.
Part F:   Studies
Description
The implementation of studies on the effect of mechani-
zation on livestock production, and on forage crops, animal
nutrition and husbandry, with a view to preparation of
livestock development projects.
Execution
This part shall be implemented by MOA with the assis-
tance of consultants having such qualifications and experi-
ence and employed under such terms and conditions as shall be
satisfactory to the Association.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1982.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and containing such information as the Association shall
reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods
in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information
to update such notice annually so long as any goods remain to be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   Bids shall be evaluated on the basis of the parallel market
rates of exchange established by Decree No. 64 of 1974 of the
Borrower's Minister of Finance and if such rates cease to be
applicable, at such rates of exchange as shall be agreed between
the Borrower and the Association.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation cho11 be included,


﻿- 23 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Egypt may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Egypt if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Association
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Egypt equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Egypt.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evalu-
ated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such


﻿- 24 -
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works under Part A.4 and 7 of the Project may be
carried out under contracts awarded through local competitive
bidding pursuant to procedures acceptable to the Association.
2.   Equipment estimated to cost not more than the equivalent
of $50,000 per contract and $1,000,000 in the aggregate, may be
awarded under negotiated contracts or through local competitive
bidding, pursuant to procedures acceptable to the Association.
3.   Proprietary equipment estimated to cost not more than the
equivalent of $150,000 in the aggregate may be purchased directly
from reliable suppliers.
D.   Review of Invitations to Bid and of Proposed Awards and Final
Contracts
1.   With respect to all contracts except those to be concluded
under Part C.3 of this Schedule, estimated to cost the equivalent
of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in suffi-
cient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, and such other information as
the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall,


﻿- 25 -
if it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract concluded on the basis
of international competitive bidding, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 25% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.


