                                     Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                       Report No: ICR3030



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                        (TF-92979 TF-92980)



                                    ON A GRANT

                                     FROM THE

                 FOOD PRICE CRISIS RESPONSE TRUST FUND

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 5 MILLION

                                      TO THE

            GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU

                                      FOR AN

             EMERGENCY FOOD SECURITY RESPONSE PROJECT




                                    April 28, 2014




Agriculture and Rural Development
Country Department AFCF1
Africa Region
               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

         (Exchange Rate Effective July 31, 2008)

         Currency Unit    =      CFA franc (CFAF)
           US$ 1.00       =        CFAF 413.85

                         FISCAL YEAR
                     January 1 – December 31


          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CBMP     Coastal and Biodiversity Management Project
CBO      Community-based organization
CFA      Communauté Financière Africaine
CFAF     CFA franc
CSB      Corn-soya blend
EC       European Commission
EFSSP    Emergency Food Security Support Project (EU and WB funding)
EPP      Emergency Project Paper
ESMF     Environmental and Social Management Framework
EU       European Union
EUFRRF   European Union Food Crisis Rapid Response Facility
FCRP     Food Price Crisis Response Trust Fund
g        Grams
GDP      Gross domestic product
GEF      Global Environment Facility
GFRP     Global Food Crisis Response Program
ha       Hectare
INPA     Instituto Nacional da Pesquisa Agraria
         National Agricultural Research Institute
ISN      Interim Strategy Note
ISR      Implementation Status Report
kg       Kilogram
km       Kilometer
L        Liter
m        Meter
M        Million
MADR     Ministerio de Agricultura e Desenvolvimento Rural
         (Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development)
M&E      Monitoring and evaluation
NGO      Nongovernmental organization
NPK      Nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium
PDO      Program Development Objectives
PNIA     Programa Nacional de Investimento Agrícola
         National Agricultural Investment Program
PRRO     Protracted Relief and Recovery Operation
PRSP     Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
t        Metric ton
TCU   Technical Coordination Unit
TF    Trust Fund
TTL   Task Team Leader
UN    United Nations
WFP   World Food Programme

            Vice President:   Makhtar Diop
         Country Director:    Vera Songwe
           Sector Manager:    Martien van Nieuwkoop
      Project Team Leader:    Aniceto Timoteo Bila
        ICR Team Leader:      Jane C. Hopkins
                                      THE REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
                                  Emergency Food Security Support Project

                                                          CONTENTS


Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

1. Project Context, Development Objectives, and Design .................................................. 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .................................................. 6
3. Assessment of Outcomes .............................................................................................. 17
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ............................................................. 23
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ......................................................... 25
6. Lessons Learned............................................................................................................ 28
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners............... 29
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .............................................................................. 30
Annex 2. Outputs by Component...................................................................................... 31
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ..................................................................... 36
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes................. 40
Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ......................... 42
Annex 6. Supporting Documents ...................................................................................... 49
Map ................................................................................................................................... 51
A. Basic Information
                                                                            Guinea Bissau--Food
Country:                Guinea-Bissau              Project Name:            Price Crisis Response
                                                                            Program
Project ID:             P113468                    L/C/TF Number(s):        TF-92979,TF-92980
ICR Date:               04/28/2014                 ICR Type:                Core ICR
                                                                            GOVERMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     ERL                        Borrower:
                                                                            GUINEA BISSAU
Original Total
                        USD 5.00M                  Disbursed Amount:        USD 5.00M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 5.00M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 World Food Programme (WFP)
 PIU - MARD
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                  Revised / Actual
     Process             Date                Process              Original Date
                                                                                      Date(s)
Concept Review:                         Effectiveness:             10/13/2008       02/10/2009
Appraisal:            08/07/2008        Restructuring(s):
Approval:             09/22/2008        Mid-term Review:           03/31/2010
                                        Closing:                   09/30/2011       08/31/2013

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                          Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                       High
Bank Performance:                                  Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                              Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower           Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                             Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                             Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                             Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                               None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Crops                                                                 60                   60
Other social services                                                 20                   20
Public administration- Agriculture, fishing and forestry              20                   20


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Global food crisis response                                           100               100

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Makhtar Diop                         Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
Country Director:          Vera Songwe                          Antonella Bassani
Sector Manager:            Martien Van Nieuwkoop                Karen Mcconnell Brooks
Project Team Leader:       Aniceto Timoteo Bila                 Aniceto Timoteo Bila
ICR Team Leader:           Jane C. Hopkins
ICR Primary Author:        Rachel Wilder Bingham


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objective of this project is to improve food security for the most vulnerable
population, including children, and increase smallholder rice production in project areas.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target    Formally        Actual Value
                                              Values (from     Revised          Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                                approval        Target         Completion or
                                               documents)       Values         Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Number of students receiving one meals a day
Value
quantitative or 0                       14,000                               14,102
Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/23/2008                09/23/2008                           08/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %        101% achieved
achievement)
                Number of days of work-days (rations distributed to rural producers) in food-for-
Indicator 2 :
                work activities
Value
quantitative or 0                       160,000                              285,000
Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/23/2008                09/23/2008                           08/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %        130% achieved
achievement)
Indicator 3 : Quantity of rice produced in the new rehabilitated areas under the project (tons)
Value
quantitative or 0                       7,500                                9,378
Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/23/2008                09/23/2008                           08/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %        125% achieved
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target                   Actual Value
                                                               Formally
                                              Values (from                      Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                           Revised
                                                approval                       Completion or
                                                             Target Values
                                               documents)                      Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Hectares of mangrove rice rehabilitated
Value
(quantitative     0                         2,000                            2,741
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     09/23/2008                09/23/2008                       08/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %          137% achieved
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Hectares of lowland rice rehabilitated
Value             0                          3,000                           2,880
(quantitative
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     09/23/2008                  09/23/2008                       08/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %          96% achieved
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     Number of farmer groups with access to agricultural inputs
Value
(quantitative     0                           500                              534
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     09/23/2008                  09/23/2008                       08/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %          107% achieved
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     Number of sub-projects approved and under implementation
Value
(quantitative     0                           300                              267
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     09/23/2008                  09/23/2008                        08/31/2013
                  89% achieved. Note that this indicator captures only the post-harvest micro-
Comments
                  projects. The previous indicator (number of farmer groups with access to
(incl. %
                  agricultural inputs) captures the production micro-projects. The total number of
achievement)
                  micro-projects was 801.

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                    Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                               DO                         IP                Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                (USD millions)
  1     05/29/2009             Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory                0.86
  2     12/21/2009             Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory                2.58
  3     06/09/2010             Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory                2.90
  4     10/11/2011             Satisfactory             Satisfactory                       4.00
  5     10/20/2011             Satisfactory             Satisfactory                       4.43
  6     05/28/2012             Satisfactory             Satisfactory                       4.43
  7     01/02/2013             Satisfactory             Satisfactory                       4.43
  8     09/11/2013             Satisfactory             Satisfactory                       5.00


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable
I. Disbursement Profile
1. Project Context, Development Objectives, and Design

1.      The Emergency Food Security Response Project was financed by a US$ 5.0
million grant from the Global Food Crisis Response Program Trust Fund (FCRP-TF)
under the Global Food Crisis Response Program (GFRP), which was endorsed by the
Board on May 29, 2008. The operation supported the strategy of the Government of the
Republic of Guinea-Bissau to maintain and enhance food security by mitigating the short-
and medium-term impacts of the sharp rise in global food prices that began in 2008. The
project was fully consistent with the GFRP’s objectives, which were to: (i) reduce the
negative impact of high and volatile food prices on the lives of the poor in a timely way;
(ii) support governments in the design of sustainable policies that mitigate the adverse
impacts of high and more volatile food prices on poverty while minimizing the creation
of long-term market distortions; and (iii) support broad-based growth in productivity and
market participation in agriculture to ensure an adequate and sustainable food supply
response.

1.1 Context at Appraisal

2.      Country context. Over the past decade, Guinea-Bissau invariably has appeared
near the bottom of the annual Human Development Index issued by the United Nations
Development Programme; it ranked 176th of 186 countries in the 2012 index. Since the
civil war of 1998, which is estimated to have cut national income by 20 percent,
economic growth has barely exceeded population growth: Per capita gross domestic
product (GDP) in 2012 is estimated at about US$ 520. Chronic poverty is deep; even
more worrisome, it has only deepened in the last decade. The poverty rate climbed from
65 percent in 2002 to 69 percent in 2010, and preliminary estimates indicate that by 2013
it had reached 75 percent. Levels of extreme poverty followed the same pattern, rising
from 22 percent in 2002 to 33 percent by 2010 and to an estimated 45 percent at present.
The achievement of most Millennium Development Goals will remain out of reach well
beyond the 2015 horizon. 1

3.      Emerging food crisis. At appraisal, the country’s 12-month inflation rate was
rapidly increasing; it climbed from 3.2 percent at the end of 2006 to 9.3 percent by the
end of 2007, driven mainly by a 14 percent rise in food prices in 2007 and a 15.5 percent
increase in 2008. Consumer prices for rice, the most important and preferred staple food,
nearly doubled in international markets between 2007 and 2008. Similarly, in Guinea-
Bissau the price of rice reportedly rose from CFAF 250 per kilogram (US$ 0.61, at the
current exchange rate) to CFAF 430 per kilogram (US$ 1.05) during the summer of 2008.
The inflationary trend is likely to persist over the medium term. Most recent statistics
indicate that Bissau-Guineans spend roughly 65 percent of their income on food, leaving
them extremely vulnerable to increased food prices. 2 At the national level, the fiscal costs



1
    Interim Strategy Note (FY2014–2015) for the Republic of Guinea-Bissau, Draft, Dec. 16, 2013.
2
    Vulnerability Assessment Analysis and Mapping, 2005, World Food Programme.


                                                           1
of tariff reductions granted for imports of rice and fuel in March 2008 were estimated at
US$ 7.3 million.3

4.      Poverty and agriculture. At the time of appraisal, Guinea-Bissau ranked 175th of
177 countries on the Human Development Index. It was unlikely to reach any of the
Millennium Development Goals by 2015 without peace and significant donor support. An
estimated 60 percent of its population lived in poverty, 4 while 80 percent were
subsistence farmers. Despite a favorable environment for agriculture, the country’s
impoverished agricultural population was able to meet only 60 percent of the national
demand for rice in 2007/08. An important consideration is that most of the rural poor are
involved in producing cashews, the country’s primary export crop; in 2008, cashews
accounted for 98 percent of export revenues and 17 percent of government revenues.
Traditionally cashews are bartered at harvest for imported rice, but the cashew price has
not kept pace with rapidly rising price of rice.

5.      Institutional and capacity issues. Guinea-Bissau’s weak institutional capacity is a
product of its history. At independence in 1974, the literacy rate was 1 percent, and the
country had 60 kilometers of paved road. Almost none of its citizens were educated, and
they had been systematically excluded from participation in all aspects of colonial public
administration. The past four decades have been roiled by intense political instability,
often marked by the intrusion of the military on the political scene, which has
undermined law and order. These circumstances have prevented the formation of stable,
accountable institutions and frequently rendered successive governments incapable of
providing essential public services and infrastructure. The World Bank’s first and last
intervention in the agricultural sector prior to the Emergency Food Security Response
Project closed in 1995. Although the earlier project focused specifically on establishing
and building capacity within the Ministry of Rural Development and Agriculture
(MADR), 5 it operated in a vacuum of government policy and disjointed international
support for agriculture. Its achievements quickly dissipated. 6

6.      Alignment with strategies of Guinea-Bissau and the World Bank. The
Emergency Food Security Response Project’s strategy of responding to urgent shortages
of staple crops was aligned with both pillars of the Interim Strategy Note (ISN) FY2009–
2010: (i) strengthening economic management and laying the foundations for
improvements in the productive sectors and (ii) increasing access to basic services,
especially in rural areas. 7 The emergency project’s focus on the provision of seed,
production tools, fertilizer, and small equipment was also well aligned with the
Government of Guinea-Bissau’s Emergency Plan for the Agricultural Campaign of 2008–
2010. 8
3
  Rice imports pay only taxes related to the West African Economic and Monetary Union (at a rate of about 2.5
percent).
4
  World Bank (AFTP4), Integrated Poverty and Social Assessment (IPSA), Vol. II: Conflict, Livelihoods, and Poverty
in Guinea-Bissau (May 2006).
5
  Ministerio de Agricultura e Desenvolvimento Rural (MADR).
6
  Implementation Completion Report, Agriculture Services Project, June 1995 (approved 1987).
7
  World Bank, Interim Strategy Note for the Republic of Guinea-Bissau (FY09–FY10), Report No. 48466-GW (May
20, 2009).
8
  Guinea-Bissau’s Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper was drafted at the end of 2011.


                                                        2
1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDOs) and Key Indicators (as
approved)

7.      The Project Development Objective (PDO) was to improve food security for the
most vulnerable population, including children, and increase smallholder rice production
in project areas.

8.     Key Project Outcome Indicators selected for measuring and monitoring progress
toward achieving the PDO included:

       • Number of students in targeted schools receiving one meal daily.
       • Number of days of work-days in food-for-work activities (rations distributed to
         rural producers).
       • Quantity of rice produced in the new rehabilitated areas under the project
         (tons).

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

9.     Neither the PDO nor key indicators were formally revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

10.     The principal beneficiaries targeted by the Emergency Food Security Response
Project and the benefits they were meant to receive included:

       •   Component 1: Support for the Most Vulnerable Population (US$ 1.5
           million). Primary-school children (grades 1–6) were expected to benefit from
           meals provided at school, and girls in grades 4–6 with good attendance were
           also to benefit from take-home rations. Male and female agricultural
           producers, their families, and their organizations were expected to benefit
           from the provision of rations in exchange for work to rehabilitate land used to
           grow rice.
       •   Component 2: Support for Increasing Food Production (US$ 3.0 million).
           Male and female agricultural producers, their associations, and their families
           were expected to benefit from increased agricultural production made possible
           through the distribution of inputs and technical training. MADR was expected
           to benefit from technical and project management training.
       •   Component 3: Program Coordination, Monitoring, and Evaluation (US$ 0.5
           million). MADR, particularly its Department of Rural Engineering, was
           expected to benefit from project management training and basic
           improvements in working conditions through the distribution of computer
           equipment and software and the renovation of offices.

11.    Secondary beneficiaries included: (i) families of students receiving school meals
and take-home rations, and households participating in food-for-work activities, who


                                            3
experienced reduced pressure on household food and financial resources; (ii)
communities in proximity to newly rehabilitated land, which benefitted from increased
production of rice and vegetables; (iii) families of producers receiving inputs and
training; (iv) national nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) recruited and trained by
the World Food Programme (WFP) and MADR in project management and technical
topics; and (v) rural civil servants of MADR, who received technical training and on-the-
job managerial training provided by consultants, the project’s Technical Coordination
Unit (TCU), and national NGOs.

12.   Five of eight regions in Guinea-Bissau received support from the project—Bafata,
Biombo, Bissau, Cacheu, Gabu, and Oio—as well as the Autonomous Sector of Bissau.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

13.     Component 1: Support for the Most Vulnerable Population (US$ 1.5 million).
Component 1 was designed to support the most vulnerable population through: (i) a
school feeding program and (ii) a food-for-work program to rehabilitate land under rice.
WFP implemented this component through a specific Grant Agreement with the World
Bank. The school feeding program (Subcomponent 1.1) was expected to be implemented
over one year (October 20, 2008 to September 20, 2009), and the food-for work program
(Subcomponent 1.2) over two years (October 2008 to September 2010). The component
was expected to serve 14,000 students one hot meal per day and supply roughly 930
metric tons (t) of food for both programs (school feeding and food-for-work). In addition,
the school feeding program was expected to provide take-home rations for female
students who had an attendance rate of 80 percent. The food basket was to contain cereals,
corn-soya blend (CSB) food, pulses, vitamin A-enriched vegetable oil, sugar, and iodized
salt. The food-for-work activities were intended to rehabilitate rice land by building dikes
for mangrove rice on about 2,000 hectares and drainage channels and anti-erosion banks
for lowland rice (about 3,000 hectares). The 180,000 beneficiaries of this program were
expected to work on rehabilitation activities in exchange for food rations generating
roughly 160,000 workdays. The school feeding program targeted five regions (Bafata,
Biombo, Cacheu, Gabu, and Oio), while the food-for-work program targeted the same
five as well as the Autonomous Sector of Bissau.

14.     Component 2: Support for Increasing Rice Production (US$ 3.0 million).
Component 2 was designed to deliver immediate benefits to food-insecure rural
communities through the distribution of inputs, tools, other equipment, and training while
also creating a foundation for sustainable production increases. This component provided
matching grants to groups of smallholder farmers to pursue activities that would increase
food production and their access to markets (Subcomponent 2.1); at the same time, it
provided training to MADR to strengthen its technical capacity to assist smallholders and
their organizations (Subcomponent 2.2). While the project would support diversification
and production of all food crops, the main focus was to increase rice production.

15.    More specifically, roughly 500 smallholder farmer groups were expected to
increase food production and productivity through the use of improved seed and other



                                             4
agricultural inputs supplied under this component, which aimed to reduce the national
rice deficit by 10 percent through the production of an additional 10,000 tons of paddy
rice. Under a demand-driven matching grant approach, which had proven successful in
other projects in Guinea-Bissau, 9 farmer organizations in six regions (Bafata, Biombo,
Bissau, Cacheu, Gabu, and Oio) requested grants for particular micro-projects to enhance
productivity. MADR coordinated these activities with the help of a selected group of
national NGOs that had been trained to support communities’ requests for and
implementation of matching grants. 10

16.    Component 3: Project Management, Monitoring, and Evaluation (US$ 0.5
million). Component 3 was designed to ensure adequate administrative systems to
support implementation and facilitate achievement of the PDO. To that end, Component
3 supported (i) the coordination, management, and oversight functions of the TCU set up
within the Department of Rural Engineering in MADR and (ii) the Monitoring and
Evaluation (M&E) Section and information management system to be set up within the
TCU.

17.     A multifaceted approach to achieve the PDO. In summary, Component 1 was
designed to use WFP expertise to respond immediately to food insecurity in two
vulnerable populations. The first consisted of rural children participating in the school
feeding program and the female students who received take-home rations (without which
they may not otherwise have attended school). The second vulnerable population
consisted of unemployed and landless rural laborers, who received daily rations through
the food-for-work program. Aside from achieving near-term results, both components
laid the groundwork for medium-term impacts. Component 1 was designed to foster
improvements in the food supply in the medium term through the production and
productivity gains ensuing from land rehabilitated under the food-for-work program.
Similarly, Component 2 aimed not only to stimulate a rapid supply response but to build
the capacity of rural households and MADR to maintain production increases over the
medium term.

1.6 Revised Components

18.         The components were not revised during implementation.

1.7 Other significant changes

19.     The design, scope, scale, and implementation arrangements for the project did not
change during its implementation, although the project completed five Level Two
Restructurings, for a total extension of 23 months from the original closing date. Each
restructuring requested an extension of the closing date, and the first also requested a
reallocation of funds between components and subcomponents. The closing date
extensions were requested to: (i) mitigate delays in the procurement and distribution of
Component 2 goods; (ii) allow completion of activities after political instability caused a

9
     Specified in Section 2.1.
10
     Smallholder farmer groups were expected to contribute 10 percent of the total micro-project cost in-kind.


                                                             5
nine month suspension of funds from April to December 2012; and (iii) facilitate the
preparation of an Additional Financing, which had been envisioned but is only now being
prepared as a separate GFRP-financed project.

20.      As the project got underway in 2009, parallel funding from the EU Food Crisis
Rapid Response Facility (EUFRRF) became available to complement and scale up the
project’s activities. 11 The parallel funding made it possible to: (i) increase the school
feeding program from 14,000 to 28,000 beneficiaries; (ii) promote food production
through the distribution of improved seed and fertilizer; (iii) provide matching grants to
groups of smallholder farmers to finance micro-projects related to small-scale agricultural
infrastructure, production, processing, and marketing; (iv) strengthen MADR’s technical
capacity to assist smallholders and their organizations; and (v) rehabilitate 300 kilometers
of rural roads in the five regions covered by the project under a food-for-work program to
facilitate the flow of agricultural products to markets in residential and commercial
centers. Table 1 indicates the complementarity and value-added of the parallel financing.

Table 1: Activities Supported through Parallel Funding from the European Union Food Crisis Rapid
   Response Facility to Complement and Scale up Activities under the Emergency Food Security
                                        Response Project
                         Emergency Food Security Response Project           European Union Food Crisis Rapid
 Activity                 (Food Price Crisis Response Trust Fund)                       Response Facility
                                          P113468                                           P120214
 School feeding         Provide one meal daily to 14,000 students         Provide one meal daily to an additional
                                                                          14,000 students
 Food for work          Under a food-for-work program, rehabilitate       Under a food-for-work program,
                        5,000 ha of rice land to increase food            rehabilitate 300 km of rural roads to
                        production                                        facilitate flow of agricultural products
 Distribution of        Distribute seed, tools, equipment, and training   Provide seed and other inputs through 64
 technology packages    through 800 micro-projects to produce 7,500 t     micro-projects to produce 1,000 t of rice
                        of rice per year and improve post-harvest
                        processing
 Management and         Support WFP-managed school feeding and            Same, with additional emphasis on
 coordination           food-for-work interventions; support TCU at       visibility and communication
                        MADR to oversee input provision, micro-
                        projects, and coordination



2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design, and Quality at Entry

Soundness of background analysis

21.     The Emergency Project Paper (EPP) adequately described the country context and
the Government of Guinea-Bissau’s emergency sector strategy by emphasizing the
negative impact that rising food prices, particularly rice prices, could have on government
receipts and rural poverty. The EPP’s sound and compelling justification for an
emergency operation pointed to the steep price increases in imported foods, the
11
  Implementation Completion Report (No. ICR 00002317) for a grant in the amount of € 2.87 million under the
European Union Food Crisis Rapid Response Facility Trust Fund (TF096347, TF 096348), June 28, 2012, page 1.


                                                         6
decreasing competitiveness of the country’s largest export (cashews), and the capacity of
its land resources to support growth in agricultural production and productivity.

22.     In 2008, the World Bank was under great pressure to respond rapidly to
worsening conditions in Guinea-Bissau as the global food price crisis gathered
momentum and fuel prices continued to rise; for that reason, it elected to develop the
project under OP/BP 8.0. A Bank team composed of agricultural experts and economists
visited Guinea-Bissau to discuss the proposed project with the local stakeholders. 12 A
Concept Note was prepared expeditiously and submitted to a Regional Review
Committee; the final review was conducted via a virtual meeting. Background data used
in designing the project included WFP surveys and analyses of food insecurity and
malnutrition, documentation for the Coastal and Biodiversity Management Project
(CBMP), and the analysis that the government had undertaken for the Emergency Action
Plan for Agricultural Campaign 2008–2010. The project was prepared in less than two
months from the date of the initial Concept Note review on July 27, 2008 to the Board’s
approval on September 22, 2008.

Assessment of project design

23.     Although preparation and appraisal took place under challenging conditions, the
design was substantially sound. It was relevant to Guinea-Bissau’s priorities for the
agricultural sector and to its economic realities and aligned with the draft ISN. The
project also had clear components and appropriate implementation arrangements.

24.      Relevance to Guinea-Bissau’s agricultural sector priorities and economic
realities. The PDO responded adequately to national circumstances and development
priorities. Component 1 addressed an immediate financing need and allowed the critical
school feeding and food-for-work programs implemented by WFP to continue through
the worst of the food price increases. Components 1.2 and 2 attacked the main
agricultural supply constraints outlined in sector strategy documents by rehabilitating
essential rice production land, injecting urgently needed production inputs into
smallholders’ production systems, and effectively starting to fill the technology void that
severely inhibits food production in Guinea-Bissau.

25.     Alignment with the ISN. The activities to be supported under the project were
well aligned with the ISN for FY2009–FY2010. That document identified increased rice
production as a key outcome indicator under its first pillar: strengthening economic
management and laying the foundations for improvements in the productive sectors.

26.     Clear components. As discussed in Section 1.5, the project’s components were
focused clearly on a set of distinct, urgently needed activities that were in keeping with
the GFRP Trust Fund mandate to mitigate the short- and medium-term impacts of the
food crisis.



12
     Interview with Task Team Leader, Aniceto Bila, January 22, 2014.


                                                           7
27.      Appropriate implementation arrangements. The implementation arrangements
proposed were appropriate and relevant. In general, the outsourcing of Component 1
activities to WFP, while maintaining a coordination unit within MADR, acknowledged
the government’s implementation capacity constraints along with the need to foster
Guinea-Bissau’s ownership of its rural development investments. Direct contracting with
WFP for the school feeding and food-for-work programs was based on earlier
experiences in Liberia, where similar grants to WFP had been implemented successfully,
and it gave this experienced organization the autonomy to carry on its successful
Protracted Relief and Recovery Operation (PRRO) without unnecessary complications.

28.    As mentioned, the matching grant model used to implement Subcomponent 2.1
was adapted from successful community-based development projects. They included
completed projects in Angola and Nigeria and three on-going projects in Guinea-Bissau:
the CBMP, funded by the World Bank, Global Environment Facility (GEF), and the
European Commission (EC); the Projecto de Reabilitação Social do Sector Agrario, 13
funded by the African Development Bank; and the Community Support Program funded
by the EC. Experience at appraisal indicated that this model was appropriate and well
accepted by beneficiaries.

29.     Project management arrangements recognized the recipient’s commitment to the
project while addressing relevant capacity concerns through: (i) the establishment of a
TCU within the Department of Rural Engineering at MADR, as this department had
shown itself to be fully engaged in the project’s rapid preparation and design; (ii)
delegation of fiduciary management at start-up to the on-going satisfactory CBMP
project; and (iii) including a training program for fiduciary specialists within MADR.

30.    In sum, the project was highly relevant and its implementation arrangements were
appropriate for an emergency response project. Inevitably, the accelerated (60-day)
preparation timeline resulted in some moderate shortcomings in design:
     (i) Beneficiary targeting. The Regional Review Committee requested an indication
         of the criteria for selecting areas and beneficiaries for the school feeding and
         food-for-work programs. 14 The criteria, although probably appropriate in the
         context of an emergency operation, could have been defined more rigorously if
         more time had been available to do so. For example, beneficiaries of the food-for-
         work (land rehabilitation) activities were identified based on information
         available from Vulnerability Assessment Mapping and Food Security
         Assessments. These analyses, carried out at the regional level, did not permit the
         project to target specific plots, although project documents indicate that land
         rehabilitation was to target fields of producers who were unable to produce and
         therefore likely to be more vulnerable than others. Because no data were available
         to identify such producers objectively, targeting was based on MADR staff
         knowledge of the area which, while significant, risked being somewhat
         subjective.

13
  Agricultural and Rural Sector Rehabilitation Project.
14
  Minutes of Regional Review Committee (RRC) Meeting of July 27, 2008 and virtual RRC review of August 8-12,
2008.


                                                      8
      (ii) Implementation timeline. The proposed implementation timeline for Component
           2 proved optimistic, given the time that was ultimately required to recruit project
           staff, prepare an operations manual and Environmental and Social Management
           Framework (ESMF), assemble baseline data, and train and equip national NGOs
           to assist groups of smallholders in preparing and implementing micro-projects
           under the matching grant program. 15
      (iii) Coordination mechanisms. Implementation arrangements and communication
           would have benefited from a specific mechanism for coordinating activities across
           the TCU, WFP, and Project Steering Committee. 16

31.     For the most part, major risks were identified correctly during preparation. They
included country-level risks related to: (i) exogenous economic shocks, (ii) the political
fallout from delayed elections, (iii) weak local capacity for implementation, and (iv)
governance risks. Project-level risks identified at preparation included: (i)
technical/design risks resulting from inadequate oversight and limited availability of
inputs, (ii) limited implementation capacity, (iii) elite capture of matching grants, and (iv)
potentially inadequate fiduciary management available from the CBMP. The measures
proposed to mitigate those risks were generally appropriate and adequate.

32.      The Quality Assurance Group did not assess Quality at Entry.

2.2 Implementation

Component 1: Support for the Most Vulnerable Population (US$ 1.5 million)

33.     Component 1 was implemented according to schedule, despite some initial issues
(see the next paragraph). The Grant Agreement was signed three weeks after the expected
effectiveness date and became effective the same day. The component was fully
disbursed by July 2009 for the procurement and associated distribution costs of 1,585
tons 17 of food.

34.     As anticipated, 290.34 tons of food were distributed during one school year under
the school feeding program through once-daily meals for students from first through sixth
grade and take-home rations for girls from fourth through sixth grade who had an 80
percent attendance record. The school feeding program had anticipated starting in
January 2009, yet late signing of the Grant Agreement in mid-October 2008 delayed the
arrival of internationally procured rations. Thanks to WFP’s extensive experience, the
school feeding program still started four months after effectiveness, as planned; the first
tranche of the program was executed between March and July 2009, and the second from
October to December of the same year.




15
   See Annex 6 of the EPP (Report No. 44941-GW), September 9, 2008.
16
   Interviews with WFP, Bank, and TCU staff, December 2013.
17
   Including 509 tons for the school feeding program and 1,076 for the food-for-work program.


                                                         9
35.      An unforeseen positive consequence of that delay was that the project was able to
fill the gap between Bank financing and the parallel EU financing with the remaining
218.66 tons of rations between January and March 2010. Consequently, the original
14,000 students fed under the FCRP suffered no break in school meals, while the
additional 14,000 students targeted under EUFRRF began receiving meals as planned.

36.    Unfortunately, supply issues affected the rations supplied to a portion of students
during the 2009 school year (Table 2). For example, during the first tranche, the take-
home ration for girls experienced a decrease in quantity (as well as nutritional quality)
when rice was substituted for maize. During the second tranche, supply issues caused the
size of the school meal ration to decrease. 18 The project organized beneficiary
communities to contribute rice and sugar whenever possible to assure a nutritionally
balanced ration.

                    Table 2: Rations Supplied to Students during the 2009 School Year

                                                                                                Decline in
Program                                          Original Ration         Changed Ration         Quantity of
                                                                                                 Ration
Take-home ration for girls, grades 4–6, with     208 g maize meal           167 g rice            20%
80% attendance
School meal ration for students, grades 1–6         120 g CSB               100 g CSB               17%
                                                     20 g oil                 10 g oil              50%
                                                    15 g sugar               8 g sugar              47%


37.    Throughout implementation, WFP placed heavy emphasis on building local
ownership of the school feeding program. With the help of project funds, WFP teams
trained local staff of the Ministry of Education and members of Parent-Teacher
Associations to manage food stocks, coordinate and distribute meals, and monitor results.
Strong local ownership improved the quality of oversight on the ground and ensured
appropriate use of project resources. In communities where local management capacity
was weak or community engagement was modest, field partners (international and
national NGOs) were enlisted to support the school feeding activities, which noticeably
improved performance.

38.     Several factors limited the effectiveness of feeding programs in some schools. For
example, some teachers could not manage the program well, and some communities were
not strongly involved. Poor school infrastructure (unsuitable classrooms, inappropriate
kitchens, and the absence of a water supply system and latrines) and the lack of adequate
educational materials and desks could limit the program’s nutritional and educational
impacts. The Ministry of Education lacked the capacity to follow up regularly—including
difficulties with transport. Serious mismanagement of food commodities and
unacceptable reporting standards in 9 out of 116 schools caused them to be suspended
from the school feeding program until their headmasters were replaced by the Ministry of
Education.


18
  See WFP, Summary Report for Implementation of School Feeding and Land Rehabilitation Activities (WFP Final
Report), June 2011, page 5.


                                                      10
39.      Food-for-work activities were scheduled to take into account the agricultural
calendar. Dike construction and canal dredging/digging started in April, when rains were
minimal, and finished in time to establish nurseries in mid-June and transplant seedlings
in mid-July. Seven national NGOs were hired and trained to distribute food and monitor
activities. Each worker could expect to receive a 3-kilogram take-home ration of rice, oil
and salt, but to facilitate and lighten the work day, most communities chose to contribute
roughly one-third of that ration to a noontime meal eaten at the work site.

40.     WFP’s flexible food-for-work model can be adapted to the local context. The
quantity of food supplied is based on the number of days expected to complete the work,
not on the number of workers. The number of work-days and quantity of food distributed
are inversely related: If more workers arrive, the quantity of food increases and the
number of work-days decreases proportionally. Demand for work to rehabilitate water
management systems for rice fields was high (understandably, because families depend
on the produce of those fields to survive during the year), but no workers were turned
away, showing the relevance of this model for the local context.

41.     With their knowledge of local customs and efficient organizational methods, the
NGOs and their WFP support teams successfully rehabilitated nearly half (2,293 ha) of
the planned area of 5,000 hectares between April and July 2009; of this area, 1,802
hectares were cultivated (79 percent). The following year, the same NGOs and support
teams facilitated the rehabilitation of an additional 3,328 hectares (of which 2,757
hectares were cultivated). Food-for-work programs also resulted in the rehabilitation of
969,454 meters of dikes and 54,939 meters of canals. 19 The NGOs’ personal relationships
with many beneficiaries also provided quality control, because they were able to ensure
that no family took home more than one ration.

42.     Coordination between the TCU, MADR, and WFP played a key role in the
successful implementation of the food-for-work component. The TCU and MADR
provided the technical knowledge and criteria required to identify sites for work
programs; WFP provided its expertise in food distribution and labor organization. WFP
supplied 41.8 tons of lowland rice seed, and the TCU supplied 27 tons of mangrove rice
seed, for farmers to plant the newly rehabilitated land. Joint assessment missions by WFP,
the World Bank, and the TCU were well organized and thorough; the ensuing discussions
were constructive and effective, and the clear aide-mémoires served as good guides for
adjustments in project implementation. 20

Component 2: Support for Increasing Rice Production (US$ 3.00 million)

43.    Component 2 experienced delays early in implementation, primarily because of
inadequate national capacity to manage the logistical, technical, and administrative
challenges of the rapid start-up, not for lack of attention or commitment to the project.

19
   WFP, Summary Report for Implementation of School Feeding and Land Rehabilitation Activities (WFP Final
Report), June 2011, page 2.
20
   WFP, Summary Report for Implementation of School Feeding and Land Rehabilitation Activities (WFP Final
Report), June 2011, page 8.


                                                      11
For example, lack of knowledge of the Bank’s procurement rules for consulting services
led to confusion over whether government personnel could fill key management positions
in the TCU as consultants. Because qualified independent consultants were scarce, and
because the Bank’s procurement rules prevented government personnel from working as
project consultants owing to potential conflicts of interest, many positions remained open
for the first six months of implementation. Critical activities experienced delays,
including preparation of the operations manual and ESMF and the hiring and training of
national NGOs. 21 Fortunately these start-up delays did not affect the overall quality of
implementation. If anything, they provided time for the project coordinator and team to
learn the rules and establish the details of the implementation arrangements for this
component. Once activities began in earnest, they were implemented on schedule, and the
level of technical quality was high. For example:

     •   The TCU maintained a sharp focus on problem-solving and improving the
         quality of operations. When it was learned that 21 percent of the land
         rehabilitated under the food-for-work program in the first year (2009) could not
         be cultivated because the new dikes washed out in the first rainy season, the TCU
         identified the technical issue causing the problem. The narrow, hand-made
         drainage openings at the base of the dikes were at fault; these traditional openings
         could not resist the pressure of outflowing tidal waters, and the dikes collapsed
         around them, particularly in the mangrove areas. For the next planting season, all
         dike construction was completed using PVC pipe for drainage, and the proportion
         of rehabilitated land that could be cultivated increased by 4 percent. 22 Another
         example of problem-solving occurred when the WFP food-for-work teams
         pointed out the lack of small tools, fertilizers, pesticides, and protective gear to
         improve production performance on rehabilitated land. The TCU prioritized these
         items in micro-project support to farmers whose land had been rehabilitated.

     •   National NGOs were hired and trained to support implementation of production
         activities from conception to evaluation. While the hiring and training of local
         NGOs delayed disbursements in Component 2, the training ensured that the
         quality of implementation was high. The NGOs’ contracts included a number of
         specific responsibilities and tasks, such as identifying beneficiaries and
         participatory activities; rehabilitating land; distributing food; developing,
         implementing, and monitoring micro-projects; training smallholder beneficiaries;
         and monitoring and evaluating all relevant results indicators. The training that the
         TCU provided to these NGOs led to relevant, detailed, and results-focused micro-
         project proposals. For their part, the NGOs’ knowledge of the local context and
         commitment to beneficiary communities (which were in many cases their own
         communities) facilitated rapid implementation of micro-projects. The NGOs’
         knowledge also ensured that the most vulnerable individuals would participate
         and thus helped to guard against elite capture.

21
   The operations manual was completed in November 2009 and tested and finalized by February 2010 (EUFRRF
Emergency Project Paper, Report No. 51266-GW, February 22, 2010, page 17).
22
   WFP, Summary Report for Implementation of School Feeding and Land Rehabilitation Activities (WFP Final
Report), June 2011.


                                                     12
Component 3: Program Management, Monitoring, and Evaluation (US$ 0.5 million)

44.    Component 3 supported two main sets of activities: (i) the coordination,
management, and oversight functions of the TCU and (ii) the Monitoring and Evaluation
Section and information management system set up within the TCU.

45.     The government’s commitment to achieving the results of this project has been
evident since the preparation mission in 2008 and has been reflected in the continuity of
project leadership and the TCU’s consistent efforts to improve implementation. The rapid
preparation phase left the TCU at a disadvantage for rapid implementation. The project
coordinator worked alone for a significant portion of the first year of implementation to
navigate World Bank procurement rules, hire staff, and at the same time prepare an
operations manual and ESMF. The project coordinator’s dedication to quality
programming through detailed action plans and costing of activities, 23 ability to react
rapidly to incorporate the lessons emerging during implementation, and effective staff
management all contributed significantly to successful implementation. Quarterly reports
were informative and produced on time.

46.     Program management would have been better, however, if the TCU and WFP had
developed formal coordination mechanisms. Their respective roles and responsibilities
for overseeing, planning, and coordinating activities were not always clear, leading to
frustration and minor technical weaknesses.

Extensions

47.      As noted, the project requested five extensions of the closing date to complete
Component 2 activities and prepare an Additional Financing (which was envisioned, but
did not materialize). These extensions highlight an inherent weakness of emergency
operations: Rapid preparation does not always allow for proper sequencing of
interventions, so delays arise in implementation. For instance, the original closing date
fell in the middle of the agricultural season, preventing the project from fully supporting
farmers and capturing results during the 2011/12 season.

48.    The second, third, and fourth extensions resulted primarily from the Bank’s
suspension of activities in Guinea-Bissau following the April 2012 coup d’état. The
extensions enabled appropriate wrap-up activities and impact analysis to take place. The
end result of the restructuring was high achievement rates for all indicators.

Mid-term Review

49.     A mid-term review was originally scheduled for March 2010, but due to delays in
start-up of Component 2 activities it was rescheduled for the first half of 2011. At that
time, Component 1 had closed and Component 2 was off to a good start, and the team
judged that an MTR was not necessary. 24 It may have served to streamline and clarify

23
     As evidenced in TCU annual and quarterly reports.
24
     Implementation Status Report (ISR) #6, and interview with TTL Aniceto Bila, January 22, 2014.


                                                          13
indicators, however, and strengthen the capacity to manage M&E for Component 2, as
discussed in the next sections.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation, and Utilization

M&E system design

50.     In keeping with the project’s emergency nature, the Results Framework included
simple and straightforward performance indicators that were intended to be relevant,
quantifiable, and easily measurable. The speed of preparation meant that of necessity the
detailed design of an M&E system (referred to as the “Management Information System”
in the EPP) would be left for implementation.

51.     The links between interventions and the PDO were clear, and adequate indicators
were identified to monitor progress. The first part of the PDO—improve food security for
the most vulnerable population, including children—would be achieved under
Component 1 with the school feeding and food-for-work programs, which would provide
food directly to the beneficiaries. The number of children fed and number of work-days
completed were quantifiable, measurable indicators to show progress toward improved
food security for the vulnerable populations in those programs. The second part of the
PDO—increased smallholder rice production in project areas—would be achieved under
Component 2 through newly rehabilitated and cultivated land and input distribution.
Related indicators of hectares rehabilitated, number of farmer groups with access to
inputs, number of micro-projects, and the amount of rice produced permitted appropriate
monitoring of progress. While the need for both land rehabilitation and input distribution
(in other words, the need for multiple interventions from multiple components) to achieve
the PDO was not explicitly stated in the EPP, the implementation of micro-projects in
areas where land was rehabilitated assured strong links between activities and outcomes.

52.    The M&E design strove to mitigate known weaknesses in local capacity by
assigning responsibility for collecting data on Component 1 indicators to WFP and its
partner NGOs. The NGOs supporting implementation of Component 2 were also
responsible for collecting raw data. The functions of compilation, analysis, and
presentation of results remained with MADR.

53.     Minor weaknesses in the M&E system, as described in the EPP, did not critically
affect the monitoring of progress toward the PDO. For example, the food production
indicator was variously defined as an annual target and a cumulative target. A
performance indicator for Component 3 (“level of project implementation according to
annual plan”) was not included in the final version of the EPP, 25 although it would have
been an efficient, objective means of monitoring MADR capacity improvements and
clearly identifying implementation challenges. Quarterly reports from the TCU indicate
familiarity with annual plans as a management tool, however, and in practice Bank
supervision staff used these plans to monitor progress. The project would have benefited
from a better approach for calculating the total number of direct project beneficiaries, as
25
     Interview with TTL Aniceto Bila, January 22, 2014.


                                                          14
the same beneficiaries could have received support for land rehabilitation and also
received support through micro-projects to improve production on that land.

M&E implementation

54.     Data collection and reporting. NGOs participating in the implementation of
school feeding and food-for-work programs, as well as WFP staff, collected project data
regularly (monthly for school feeding and daily for food-for-work). As agreed in the
Grant Agreement, this information was presented on an annual basis in WFP’s Standard
Project Reports. Upon request, WFP also provided the Bank supervision teams with
intermediate updates for Implementation and Status Reports (ISRs). WFP also produced
two project completion reports summarizing the specific achievements under GFRP
financing. The data collection methodology was clear and sufficient to monitor
implementation.

55.     Information to measure progress against the performance indicators for
production, micro-projects, and training was collected during World Bank supervision
missions and for TCU quarterly and final reports. As is common in emergency projects,
especially when some components are managed by a capable implementing agency that
gets off to a strong start, the overall quality of project M&E varied. WFP’s monitoring of
Component 1 was moderately satisfactory, but M&E for Component 2 was challenging
because few M&E specialists were available in the government or private sector to work
for the project. Upon termination of the M&E specialist’s contract, the management of
the M&E system devolved to the project coordinator when a replacement could not be
found. Data collection, compilation, and analysis improved under his management. This
experience demonstrates the importance of ensuring that the government has the capacity
to capture project impacts through a relevant, efficient data collection system that is
managed effectively. The ICR mission confirmed that MADR is committed to
strengthening this aspect of project implementation in future interventions.

56.      Baseline studies. Due to the emergency nature of the project, no baseline field
studies were carried out; all indicators relied on secondary data. Data on poverty and food
insecurity for activities implemented through WFP were obtained from regular surveys,
such as WFP’s Vulnerability Assessment Mapping and the Food Security and
Vulnerability in Rural Households Survey, as well as the Ministry of Education’s
statistical department and previous PRRO reports. These sources could not provide
production or post-harvest data for evaluating the supply response, however, which
complicated the impact evaluation, as noted in the TCU’s final project report.

M&E utilization

57.     The project may have lacked an M&E system that could be used as a management
tool, but it succeeded in collecting a significant quantity of data to inform the project
indicators and design of follow-up activities. WFP has used the data from the school
feeding and food-for-work programs implemented under the project to demonstrate the
importance of school feeding for improving educational gains in Guinea-Bissau; in this



                                            15
way, WFP was able to encourage such programs to be funded. The M&E data from
activities implemented by MADR have already been used to design a follow-on project.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguards Compliance

58.    Subcomponent 1.1 triggered no safeguards policies; Subcomponent 1.2 and
Component 2 triggered three: OP 4.01 (Environmental Assessment), OP 4.04 (Natural
Habitats), and OP 4.09 (Pest Management). Since the project was prepared as an
emergency operation using the expedited procedures allowed under OP 8.00, the
preparation and public disclosure of safeguards instruments were not required until 120
days after effectiveness. An Environmental and Social Safeguards Framework (ESSF)
was prepared and disclosed after some delay. 26

59.    Safeguards compliance was Highly Satisfactory. Public disclosure events were
conducted via forums, radio programs, and brochures in the capital and in each region
where the project operated. The project established a complaint management system and
completed a Pest Management Plan prior to distributing pesticides, insecticides, and
fungicides under Component 2. NGOs supporting project beneficiaries in each region
were trained in safe pest management techniques, and an environmental safeguards
checklist accompanied each micro-project application.

Financial management

60.    The project’s financial management function is rated Moderately Satisfactory.
The three audits conducted over the life of the project were submitted to the Bank with
considerable delays, but all confirmed that the fiduciary management of the project was
adequate. One audit flagged a number of ineligible expenditures, which the government
reimbursed in full, albeit with some delay.

Procurement

61.    The project’s procurement function is rated Moderately Satisfactory. Ex ante and
ex post procurement reviews turned up no major shortcomings. Even so, ISRs and aide-
mémoires filed by the Bank’s supervision teams noted persistent weaknesses in file
management and archives.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

62.     A new GFRP-financed operation is being prepared to follow this project and will
reinforce its sustainability. The proposed design builds on the experience of this project
and includes the same components and implementing agencies.



26
     Publication was expected in May 2010 and completed in August 2010.


                                                         16
3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design, and Implementation

63.     The project’s objectives, design, and implementation of activities for mitigating
high food prices in Guinea-Bissau are as relevant today as they were in 2008. The market
price of rice continues to rise faster than the cashew price, exacerbating the already
unequal terms of trade. Fiscally unsustainable import taxes on rice have been reinstated.
On the whole, WFP estimates that rural food insecurity continues to rise. The share of
rural households with less than a month’s supply of food increased from 65 percent to 92
percent between June 2012 and June 2013. 27 Poverty levels have also continued to rise;
as discussed, they were 69.3 percent in 2010, compared to 64.7 percent in 2002. 28 In
parallel, the percentage of income spent on food increased from 65 percent in 2005 to 85
percent in 2013.

64.     Component 1’s objectives and design directly support the third and fourth core
areas of Guinea-Bissau’s second-generation Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP)
2011–2015 (“Promote inclusive, sustainable economic development” and “Raise the level
of human capital development”). 29 WFP’s objectives under Component 1 of increasing
school enrolment and attendance in the country’s most vulnerable areas, especially
among girls, exemplify this alignment with national priorities. Other examples are WFP’s
efforts to improve household food security through “the rehabilitation of lands and
creation of community assets” 30 and to increase the capacity of the government and local
NGOs to establish and manage food-assistance and hunger-reduction programs. In 2010,
the government showed its continued prioritization of school feeding by passing the
School Feeding Law. That law creates national, regional, and local structures to support
the implementation and management of school feeding programs. 31

65.     The rations provided for school children and workers under Subcomponents 1.1
and 1.2 created a safety net, both for landless and jobless rural inhabitants subsisting on
food purchased in the market and for households whose persistently low agricultural
production continues to restrict food intake to one meal per day. Note that school
canteens do not provide nutritional support during the period in which children are most
vulnerable to nutritional deficiencies—defined as the 1,000 days between a woman’s
pregnancy and her child’s second birthday. Had they done so, the project would have
been even more relevant to national health and food security priorities. The extent of
malnutrition among this 1,000-day cohort is not well documented in national statistics,
however, and the most recent Vulnerability Assessment Mapping done by WFP in 2011
did not look at this group.

66.     The objectives and design of activities under Subcomponents 1.2, 2.1, and 2.2 to
rehabilitate land and build capacity to increase production are aligned with the
27
   WFP Rapid Food Assessment, June 2012 and June 2013.
28
   Guinea-Bissau Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper, 2011–2015.
29
   Guinea-Bissau Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper 2011–2015.
30
   EPP excerpt regarding WFP’s PRRO objectives.
31
   As per interviews with WFP staff, December 2013.


                                                      17
government’s National Agricultural Investment Program (Programa Nacional de
Investimento Agrícola, PNIA) for the next 15 years and second pillar of the World
Bank’s ISN, “Launching economic recovery in productive sectors.” Increased production
of food, particularly rice, will reduce dependence on expensive rice imports and shift
bargaining power into the hands of smallholder producers during the annual rice-for-
cashews barter.

67.    Finally, the project’s design and objectives were entirely consistent with the
broader objectives of the Bank’s GFRP, which were to: (i) reduce the negative impact of
high and volatile food prices on the poor in a timely way; (ii) support governments in the
design of sustainable policies that mitigate the impact of high and volatile food prices on
poverty while minimizing the creation of long-term distortions in the market; and (iii)
support broad-based growth in productivity and market participation in agriculture to
ensure an adequate and sustainable food supply response.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

68.    Overall the project was quite successful in achieving its development objective, as
measured by the key performance indicators. Given the challenging transitional context
and limited capacity present in Guinea-Bissau, this achievement is considerable.

69.     The first part of the development objective (“improve food security for the most
vulnerable population, including children”) sought to respond as rapidly as possible to the
food crisis by establishing a school canteen program and providing food in exchange for
works to rehabilitate rice land. Two key outcome indicators—the number of primary
students in target areas receiving one meal daily and the number of work-days (rations)
for rural producers in food-for-work activities—measured achievement of this objective.

70.    At the time of closing, the number of primary students receiving one meal daily
was 14,102 against a target of 14,000 students (101 percent achieved). Of these students,
1,411 girls from fourth to sixth grade received take-home rations based on their high
attendance rates. The project distributed 291 tons of food in 116 schools.

71.     In all 116 participating schools, students received one hot meal per day 32 for 126
days during 2009. Initially 170 feeding days were planned for January–June and
October–December 2009; owing to the late signing of the Grant Agreement, however,
rations did not arrive in Bissau until April. Anticipating delays, WFP initiated the school
feeding program in March 2009 with rations provided on loan through other financing.
Due to the shortened time period (126 versus 170 days), only 291 tons of the 509 tons
procured were distributed in 2009; the balance (218 tons) was distributed under the
parallel EU financing in January-March 2010.

72.   It is likely that the guarantee of a daily meal, plus a take-home ration for a subset
of female students, contributed to the high pass rates in WFP schools and reduced

32
  Canteens actually served two meals per day, because students attended school in either the morning or afternoon shift.
Each set of students received the same ration once per day.


                                                          18
dropout rates—outcomes that will have long-lasting effects. Without the project,
financing shortfalls would have barred WFP from continuing the school feeding and
food-for-work programs. Students would not have had adequate food, girls may have
dropped out, and laborers would have had neither a daily ration for their work nor the
promise of producing their own food on newly rehabilitated land. In sum, without
Component 1, the effects of the food crisis would have been magnified, and without the
food-for-work program, Component 2 benefits would have been compromised, as the
land on which beneficiaries undertook micro-projects would not have been rehabilitated.

73.      The food-for-work program distributed 865.63 tons of food to approximately
29,598 beneficiaries for a total of 285,000 working days (130 percent of the target) over
two years (2009 and 2010). Women made up more than 50 percent of the workforce for
rehabilitating lowland fields, but only 10 percent of the workforce for rehabilitating
mangrove rice fields, owing to cultural preferences as well as the difficulty of working
with the very heavy clay soils common in mangrove rice areas. The ration recommended
by WFP for each day of work by each participating head of the household was 3
kilograms of rice, 0.250 kilograms of vegetable oil, and 0.035 kilograms of salt. Actual
amounts of oil and salt distributed in 2009 and 2010 were somewhat lower than the
recommended level (see Table 2 in section 2.1); in some cases, rice alone was distributed.
As with the school feeding program, after this component came to an end, the remaining
food stocks (210 t) were distributed in the first quarter of 2011 under food-for-work
activities in the feeder roads component of the EU parallel financing.

74.     The second part of the development objective sought to mitigate the effects of the
food crisis in the medium term through community-identified micro-projects and
technical assistance to MADR to “increase smallholder rice production.” The
achievement of this objective is evaluated in terms of one PDO indicator (tons of rice
produced in the newly rehabilitated areas under the project) and two intermediate results
indicators (hectares of lowland and mangrove rice fields rehabilitated). Tons of rice
produced were calculated based on data for average yields and cultivated area collected
by MADR’s Department of Agricultural Statistics.

75.     In total, 969,454 meters of dikes were built and 54,939 meters of canals were dug,
rehabilitating 2,880 hectares of lowland fields and 2,741 hectares of mangrove rice fields
(96 and 137 percent of the targets, respectively) for a total 5,621 hectares of newly
rehabilitated land. Yields of lowland rice doubled, rising from 1.1 tons per hectare
beforehand to 2.1 tons per hectare on average by 2012. Yields for mangrove rice
increased from 1.6 tons per hectare to 1.7 tons per hectare. Total production for 2009–11
on land rehabilitated by the project reached 9,378 tons by the end of the third season (125
percent of the target).

76.    The project was the first in Guinea-Bissau to use participatory diagnostic methods
to help producers identify their individual needs and formulate those needs into
production or post-harvest micro-projects under the matching grant scheme in
Subcomponent 2.1. In total, 788 micro-projects were approved and implemented (534




                                            19
micro-projects focused on improving production, and 267 on post-harvest handling and
processing) by the end of the third year of implementation.

77.     Production micro-projects benefitted 13,934 producers through the acquisition
and distribution of NPK fertilizer (115,002 kilograms), urea (70,089 kilograms), rope for
delimiting parcels (30,446 meters), lowland rice seed (62,355 kilograms), vegetable seed
(370 kilograms), and power tillers (13) with fuel (20,700 liters), among other items.

78.    Post-harvest micro-projects benefitted 7,072 producers through the acquisition
and distribution of rice hullers (52), materials (cement, nails, roofing supplies, and so on)
for building warehouses and shelters for post-harvest processing machinery, sacks
(8,400), and machines to puree tomatoes (5), among others.

79.     Constraints in the data consolidation function of the M&E system prevented some
results from being captured in project reports and aide-mémoires. The national NGOs
selected to support beneficiaries in developing and implementing micro-projects under
Subcomponent 2.1 not only trained communities in the participatory appraisal of
community needs but provided consistent on-the-job training for the duration of the
project and beyond. Although capacity building was not a specified activity in their
contracts, it was an integral part of their activities (see the list of training activities and
beneficiaries in Annex 2).

80.     At the start of the project, WFP and MADR anticipated the need to provide seed
to producers on newly rehabilitated land and procured 60 tons of lowland rice seed and
27 tons of mangrove seed. An added benefit was that the seed procured by WFP was
produced in Guinea-Bissau from two seed-producing associations supported by the Food
and Agriculture Organization. Mangrove rice seed was imported from Senegal. In the
following season, the parallel EU financing ensured continued results through the
distribution of 60 tons of seed to 200 farmers to cover an additional 1,000 hectares, as
well as 50 tons of fertilizer to farmers cultivating approximately 600 additional hectares
in lowland areas. Parallel financing also supported the construction of 170 kilometers of
feeder roads in the project area to facilitate the marketing of agricultural products. 33

81.     Training and capacity building for MADR surpassed targets thanks to cost-saving
decisions and innovations in training by the TCU. Over the life of the project, 131
producers and MADR staff received technical and project management training (202
percent of the target). Cost savings were gained by revising the training plan to bring
international experts to Guinea-Bissau for extended periods, allowing them to train many
more beneficiaries than could have been trained outside the country as originally planned.
Training planned for Europe was switched to regional locations, further stretching the
original budget.

82.   In sum, the project over-achieved its PDO targets (number of students receiving
one meal a day; number of work-days in food-for-work activities; and quantity of rcien

33
  Implementation Status Report (ISR) #6 for a grant in the amount of € 2.87 million under the European Union Food
Crisis Rapid Response Facility Trust Fund (TF096347, TF 096348).


                                                        20
produced in newly rehabilitated areas) by 101, 130, and 125 percent, respectively. All
intermediate results indicators were exceeded, except for the hectares of lowland rice
fields rehabilitated (96 percent of target) and the number of farmer groups with access to
agricultural inputs (93 percent of target). Annex 2 presents a detailed review of the
project’s outputs.

3.3 Efficiency

83.     Component 1 provided support to vulnerable populations. It had three types of
economic impacts—a food security impact, an employment impact, and a rice production
impact—and clearly demonstrates an efficient use of project funds. The benefit-cost
ratios for investment in rice production on the land rehabilitated under the food-for-work
program were very high: 3.5 and 3.9 under two price scenarios (see Annex 3). This
impact stands alongside the other two impacts of the food-for-work program (increased
food security for workers and their families, and employment for rural workers).

84.     Component 2 provided support for increasing food production and also had a
substantial impact on the rural population in the project areas. As detailed in Annex 3, the
four types of impacts achieved through this component—improved knowledge and
capacity, increased farm income, increased employment, and increased rice production—
also clearly demonstrate an efficient use of project funds. Estimated benefit/cost ratios as
well as returns to investment in improved rice seed, fertilizer, and farmer training in
agricultural practices are quite high. Benefit/cost ratios vary from 1.64 to 2.74 under
different scenarios (see Annex 3).

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory

85.     The overall outcome rating is Satisfactory, based on the substantial relevance of
the development objectives and design, the satisfactory achievement of the development
objectives, and the relatively high efficiency as evidenced by the analysis presented in
Annex 3. The project made a significant contribution to food security and smallholder
rice production in Guinea-Bissau. More importantly, it improved the lives of households
in the project areas by making agriculture (the main source of their livelihood) more
productive and sustainable over time.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes, and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

86.    Lower-than-average pupil dropout rates, as well as higher-than-average pass rates
in 2009 and 2010, reveal the impact of school meals for poor and vulnerable groups in
WFP-assisted schools. Annex 2 describes these impacts in detail.




                                            21
87.     As intended by the EPP, activities under both components specifically sought to
support women and girls. At schools supported by WFP, men and women were equally
represented in management committees and positions of leadership, and take-home
rations were provided to girls with superior attendance rates, thus reducing the burden of
their absence on their families. The rehabilitation of lowland fields through the food-for-
work program primarily targeted women farmers, thus valuing their critical role in food
production. The micro-projects implemented under Component 2 effectively targeted
women through support to market gardens and post-harvest processing; the majority of
the 267 post-harvest micro-projects supported women’s activities.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

88.    Increased country ownership of the school feeding program. Under this project,
WFP strengthened the capacity of local communities and government authorities to
administer and monitor school feeding programs. The School Feeding Law, passed in the
final year of the operation, formalized civil and government participation in (and
commitment to) school feeding programs.

89.    Increased capacity in MADR. Critical training in project management and
technical areas for MADR’s central and regional staff and producers increased the skills
required to manage projects and bring about sustained improvements in production and
productivity. Challenges in M&E implementation and utilization demonstrated the urgent
need for a relevant, efficient, and well-managed data collection system; MADR is
committed to strengthening this aspect of project implementation in future interventions.

90.    Increased capacity in national NGOs. WFP’s and MADR’s contracts with
national NGOs yielded a positive unintended impact as those organizations gained
stronger capacity in project management, implementation, and evaluation.

91.     Increased capacity in farmer organizations. Each of the 788 micro-projects
included not only equipment but significant capacity building to improve agricultural
techniques and organizational management. NGOs helped farmer groups establish
management committees and trained those committees in the participatory analysis of
community needs and effective group management. Group members also received
training in numerous technical areas, including pest management, equipment use and
maintenance, planting techniques, harvest methods, post-harvest preservation of
vegetables, proper storage, and seed selection.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

92.    None.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

93.     Data collection for the ICR started at the end of Component 1 in September 2010.
At that time, the Task Team Leader (TTL) produced a technical review of Component 1



                                            22
that was used in preparing this ICR. The ICR mission conducted interviews with the TTL,
team specialists, the client, WFP, and national NGOs. These interviews helped to
understand the context in which the project operated, clarify relationships among
stakeholders, and identify impacts that were not otherwise documented. Informal
interviews with direct beneficiaries occurred during missions to the project areas. A half-
day stakeholder workshop also took place during the ICR mission.

94.     Stakeholders and beneficiaries generally expressed satisfaction with the project.
The school feeding program increased enrolment and helped female students stay in
school. Beneficiaries especially appreciated the food-for-work program, because the
ration enabled them to eat one meal at the work site and take food home on a daily basis,
while their labor contributed to future food production and earnings. Given that most of
these producers eat only one meal per day, this activity had a significant impact. Despite
the challenging context, project impacts were substantial, bringing thousands of hectares
of rice fields back into production and increasing access to critical basic production
inputs (seed, tools, and training) that had been unavailable locally.

95.     Stakeholders expressed some frustration, however, with the intensity of World
Bank and EU supervision and requests for information. While supervision missions were
often helpful and needed in in view of weak institutional capacity and provided guidance
to the TCU, the TCU spent nearly 60 days per year accompanying missions.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: High

96.     The Risk to Development Outcomes is rated High. The key risks underlying this
rating are noted below. The high political risk and high institutional risk were important
determinants of the overall risk rating.

97.     Political risk to development outcome is High. In parallel with the challenging
macroeconomic environment in Guinea-Bissau, the last four decades have been a period
of intense political instability, often marked by the intrusion of the military on the
political scene, which has undermined law and order. This context prevents stable and
accountable institutions from developing and creates a hostile environment for private
investment, further hindering prospects for growth. Low growth has translated into a lack
of state revenues, severely limiting the capacity of successive governments to provide
essential public services and infrastructure. Their provision remains entirely dependent
on donors.

98.     Government ownership/commitment risk to development outcome is Moderate.
Prior to the April 2012 coup d’état, the government’s commitment to addressing food
security issues was high, thanks to support from the New Partnership for Africa’s
Development and associated donors. At the time of the coup, the government had been in
power for three years, longer than any government since 1997 and long enough to
establish some legitimacy and gain traction on political issues. The PNIA was developed



                                           23
and integrated into the second-generation PRSP completed in September 2011. With the
subsequent change in government, the political commitment to food security issues
appeared to wane as the government redirected its attention to the April 2014 presidential
elections. It must be emphasized, however, that the commitment of MADR’s technical
staff during the project stands in sharp contrast to the current political attitude. The TCU
staff (particularly the coordinator) worked tirelessly to achieve and disseminate results,
despite delays in paying government salaries, and even after the project closed.

99.     Institutional risk to development outcome is High. Training provided under
Component 2 directly increased the capacity of MADR’s technicians and other staff
members to carry out their extension, advisory, and project implementation roles. Given
the extremely tight national budget, however, MADR departments are unable to function
without donor support. Personnel are officially present in the field, but they lack
operational budgets, equipment, transportation, renewal training, and adequate support
personnel; donors finance nearly all operations. There is no expectation that school
feeding and food-for-work programs will be taken on by government institutions rather
than donors in the near future.

100. Technical risk to development outcome is Significant. The sustainability of
project-supported activities is likely to vary by component. For future school feeding
programs, management committees that received training under the project can be
expected to continue to bring their new knowledge to bear in a useful way. With respect
to Component 2, however, the lack of improved inputs (seed, tools, and small production
and post-harvest equipment) in Guinea-Bissau jeopardizes the improved production rates
and certainly threatens any future growth in production. These threats to sustainability
and development outcomes will likely differ in magnitude across intervention areas based
on the strength of community management and organizational capacity. In some areas,
small equipment provided to farmer associations in 2010 remains in good condition
owing to significant training and the commitment of users to manage their productive
resources cooperatively. In other areas, less training or a local culture that does not favor
cooperative management jeopardizes the development outcomes.

101. Financial risk to development outcome is Significant. As known from the outset,
WFP faces funding challenges each year as it advocates for its key programs. Financial
risks that the supply response will not be sustained are many, as inputs are either not
available or are extremely expensive, and dikes and canals take time and money to
maintain. These risks may be mitigated in the medium term by additional GFRP funding
for a new operation that builds on the project’s experiences and continues school feeding,
land rehabilitation, and micro-projects, albeit on a lesser scale. Another consideration is
that high rice prices, while hurting consumers, benefit producers. Continued training for
MADR staff will most certainly be circumscribed without donor support.

102. Social risk to development outcome is Moderate. Group cohesion in Guinea-
Bissau varies across the population, but on the whole Bissau-Guineans are comfortable in
situations that call for cooperative management, as shown by the continued functioning
of much of the small equipment distributed three years ago. In addition, the ownership



                                             24
developed over project goods in the process of implementing micro-projects is likely to
strengthen tendencies to cooperate.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

103. The project’s design was substantially sound. The main interventions addressed
urgent food security needs of vulnerable groups and struck an appropriate balance
between providing emergency relief in the short run and building the foundation for a
sustained agricultural supply response over the medium to long run. A key design feature,
the matching grant scheme, was adapted successfully from other projects to become the
backbone of support to farmers. The implementation arrangements deliberately sought to
compensate for known weaknesses in local capacity by delegating responsibility for
implementing aspects of the work to WFP, incorporating national NGOs with significant
operational experience into the implementation, and providing essential technical and
project management training for the TCU and key producers. Fiduciary management was
initially supported by the CBMP until TCU staff could take it on.

104. A few shortcomings detracted from quality at entry. Management’s emphasis on
exceptionally rapid preparation (a 60-day deadline) was understandable, given the scope
of the emergency, but at the same time compromised implementation readiness. Most of
the design weaknesses that emerged, especially during early implementation, stemmed
directly from the accelerated preparation timeline. An identification or preparation
mission met with stakeholders to formulate implementation arrangements, yet insufficient
time was available to develop critical implementation tools, such as those related to M&E,
recruitment, and procurement. Subsequently, Component 2, managed by MADR,
experienced a slow, laborious start.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

105. Field supervision missions were carried out regularly during the life of the project
and involved specialists in community development, fiduciary management, safeguards,
and economics, among other areas of expertise relevant to the project. Aide-mémoires
always thoroughly examined achievements and administrative and technical
implementation issues, and they were always reviewed with stakeholders at the end of
each mission. ISRs appropriately summarized progress, assigned ratings, and identified
issues requiring management’s attention. The project remained under the leadership of
the same TTL from preparation to closing, providing continuity, strengthening




                                           25
institutional memory, and providing strong assurances that the lessons from the project
would be identified and learned.

106. Minor shortcomings in supervision did not affect overall achievement of the PDO,
but they should be specified for the record. Early in the life of the project, delays in filing
ISRs prevented management’s timely follow-up of emerging concerns with
implementation. The lack of a mid-term review delayed identification of emerging M&E
challenges related to Component 2.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

107. The Bank’s overall performance is judged to be Satisfactory, given that minor
shortcomings in quality at entry due to the accelerated preparation timetable were
compensated by proactivity during supervision.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

108. The government’s performance rating is based on the performance of: (i) MADR
in its role as policy maker and facilitator of development programs; (ii) the Project
Steering Committee in its oversight role; and (iii) the TCU, which were the main
government agencies coordinating the project and implementing Components 2 and 3.

109. In response to the Bank’s request during preparation, the MADR chose the
Director of MADR’s Department of Rural Engineering to work with the Bank team in
designing the project. The timely and appropriate appointment of this individual
contributed significantly to the technical design of the project as well as the structure of
implementation arrangements. His extensive knowledge of rural development in Guinea-
Bissau and his enthusiasm, honesty, and passion for agricultural development were
evident from the start, significantly contributing to quality at entry. After effectiveness,
MADR did much to encourage qualified government staff to accept positions with the
project; it assured government salaries for staff working under the project and appointed
the Director of MADR’s Department of Rural Engineering as the Coordinator of the TCU.

110. The Project Steering Committee, which included representatives from five
ministries, was created in a timely fashion but met only once over the course of the
project. In practice, critical functions of the Project Steering Committee, such as technical
reviews and budget approvals, were performed by the TCU in collaboration with the
Minister of Agriculture.




                                              26
111. The Department of Rural Engineering was given responsibility for coordinating
all project activities and implementing Components 2 and 3, based on the operational
nature of its mandate and the skills and enthusiasm of its director.

112. Within the TCU, better knowledge of Bank procedures would have reduced
delays at start-up, and a stronger emphasis on M&E system design and utilization would
have more fully and rapidly captured and documented the project’s results. The TCU’s
strengths included its history of rural operations and deep knowledge of rural realities and
community needs, skills, and aptitudes. The staff’s rapid mastery and application of the
Bank’s fiduciary management mechanisms in project implementation was an asset, in
addition to the satisfactory implementation of routine management activities such as
processing procurement requests, narrative reporting, paying service providers on time,
filing financial reports, and organizing supervision missions.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

113. The Implementing Agencies performance rating is based on the performance of:
(i) WFP, the agency responsible for day-to-day management and implementation of
Component 1, and (ii) the national NGOs directly responsible for implementing activities
supported through Component 2.

114. Overall, WFP’s performance was satisfactory. WFP was thoroughly prepared for
implementation (Component 1 was 100 percent disbursed by July 2009); consulted amply
with beneficiaries and involved them through training; resolved implementation issues in
a timely way (supply issues and logistical delays, for example); and coordinated and
collaborated fully with other donors and stakeholders.

115. Minor shortcomings in fiduciary management (financial reporting delays) arose,
as WFP found it very difficult to align the Bank’s reporting requirements with WFP
corporate procedures and mandate. WFP’s project reporting system, as approved and
decided by its Executive Board, establishes the Standard Project Report as the reporting
tool for all donors to WFP, but this format was not agreed prior to signing the Grant
Agreement.

116. Under Component 1, national NGOs fulfilled a critical M&E function with
precision and diligence and mitigated the risks of corruption and double-dipping in ration
distribution. Under Component 2, national NGOs performed satisfactorily across the
board. Their commitment to achieving the development objective was clear throughout
the project design stage, negotiations, and implementation. The relevance, depth of detail,
and comprehensive nature of the micro-projects prepared under Component 2 attested to
the NGOs’ excellent facilitation of participatory preparation of proposals. Furthermore,
their continued presence on the ground and shepherding of beneficiary communities
significantly improved the sustainability of the results, even for an emergency project
such as this one. The ICR field mission saw plentiful evidence that equipment and tools



                                            27
distributed during the project had been well maintained and continued to provide results
for the targeted communities. Any delays occasioned by training farmer groups were
more than compensated by the rapid and high-quality implementation that ensued.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

117. Guinea-Bissau performed well in meeting its obligations to the project, especially
considering the domestic context of political unrest and the limited resources at the
government’s disposal. In areas where government performance was weak—such as
knowledge of Bank procurement rules—significant effort was made to learn and improve.
The satisfactory performance of WFP and national NGOs as the implementing entities
complemented the government’s efforts to meet the development objectives.

6. Lessons Learned

118. Country ownership ensures achievement of development objectives, particularly
in fragile countries where government leadership is lacking. Ownership was
demonstrated by the critical role played by the Director of the Department of Rural
Engineering (the project coordinator) in implementation. His dedication to excellence
ensured strong links between project activities and the PDO, ensured that results were
documented despite weaknesses in the M&E system, and structured implementation
support to ensure sustainability (through the presence of national NGOs, for example).

119. Community participation enhances the sustainability of impacts. One result of
strong community contributions to the design and implementation of micro-projects was
that equipment distributed by the project has been relatively well maintained. The
December 2013 ICR mission confirmed that threshers, milling machines, and power
tillers distributed in 2010 to many communities were still functioning and benefiting the
population. The involvement of national NGOs in providing technical assistance and on-
the-job training to producer groups increases the likelihood of continued capacity
building and guarantees that new development management skills stay in the
communities that need them most.

120. Capacity constraints in fragile countries are persistent; they often negatively
affect results and must be properly mitigated during design—not just implementation.
Even if a country has on-going projects yielding satisfactory results, Bank teams must not
simply assume that the recipient is familiar with Bank methods and procedures,
especially for accounting and procurement. A thorough analysis of local capacity for all
aspects of project management must be a priority during preparation—even during the
rapid preparation and formulation process for an emergency operation—and preparation
teams must plan for training to mitigate weaknesses at start-up, as needed. 34 The



34
     ICR, Agriculture Services Project (Credit 1799-GUB), June 1995.


                                                          28
persistent capacity weaknesses in Guinea-Bissau, particularly in M&E, were noted as
long ago as the first Agriculture Support Project in the 1990s. 35

121. The GFRP Trust Fund facilitated the Bank’s reengagement in agriculture in
Guinea-Bissau. The project has not only responded to an urgent need but has
reintroduced the Bank team to the reality of operations in Guinea-Bissau. It has served as
a stepping-stone on which to rebuild agricultural investment by the International
Development Association and provided valuable lessons for new operations. The new
GFRP project, currently being formulated, has taken under advisement the lessons related
to persistent weak capacity and will rely heavily on WFP for implementation, M&E, and
fiduciary management.

122. Clarify the roles of each actor. WFP regarded the role of the TCU as very unclear
throughout implementation, particularly with respect to managing school feeding
activities, which fell under the purview of the Ministry of Education (not MADR).

123. A minimum set of project “readiness conditions,” coupled with intense
implementation support, is necessary for emergency operations to succeed. The
flexibility allowed in preparing emergency operations facilitates rapid preparation,
effectiveness, and initial disbursement, but it may compromise the quality of
implementation and jeopardize the sustainability of impacts if minimal implementation
arrangements and conditions are not in place. These arrangements and conditions include:
(i) a clear, appropriate action plan for start-up; (ii) intense Bank supervision and “hand-
holding” following effectiveness, including on-the-ground procurement and M&E
support; and (iii) a rapid baseline survey or equivalent information gathering to ensure
appropriate targeting. It bears repeating that it is extremely difficult to ensure these
conditions when pressure to respond to a crisis limits preparation time to only a few
weeks.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

124.        Annex 5 summarizes Guinea-Bissau’s final evaluation report.

(b) Cofinanciers

125.        NA

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

126.        NA




35
     ICR, Agriculture Services Project (Credit 1799-GUB), June 1995.


                                                          29
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in US$ M equivalent)


                                          Appraisal       Actual/Latest
                                                                        Percentage of
                Component                 Estimate          Estimate
                                                                         Appraisal
                                          (US$ M)           (US$ M)
Component 1: Support for the Most
Vulnerable Population
  Subcomponent 2.1: School Feeding
                                              1.0              1.0             100%
  Program
  Subcomponent 2.2: Food-for-Work
                                              0.5              0.5             100%
  Program
Component 2: Support for Increasing
Food Production
  Subcomponent 2.1: Matching Grants for
                                              2.5              2.0             80%
  Food Production
  Subcomponent 2.2: Technical Support         0.5              0.3             60%
Component 3: Program Coordination,
                                              0.5              1.2             125%
Monitoring, and Evaluation
Total Project Costs                           5.0              5.0             100%



(b) Financing


                                  Appraisal         Actual/Latest
                                                                     Percentage of
       Source of Funds            Estimate            Estimate
                                                                      Appraisal
                                  (US$ M)             (US$ M)
Borrower                            0.00                0.00             .00
Special Financing (FCRP)            5.00                5.00            100%




                                           30
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1: Support for the Most Vulnerable Population

1.     Component 1 included two subcomponents—School Feeding Activities (US$ 0.5
million) and Food-for-Work to Increase Food Production (US$ 1.0 million), both
implemented by WFP. The component was effective on October 10, 2008 and closed on
December 31, 2010.

2.      Subcomponent 1.1: School Feeding. WFP’s school feeding program achieved
highly satisfactory results across the life of the project (Table A2.1). The lower
achievement value of 13,812 at the end of July 2009 resulted primarily from the high
number of dropouts during the intensive cashew harvest in May–June. Even with this
temporary loss of students, the project achieved 99 percent of the target during this period.
In early 2010, the original targeted beneficiaries, plus an additional 14,000 individuals,
received meals for 43 days that they would not otherwise have received during that initial
period due to a delay in the implementation of the EUFRRF.

              Table A2.1: Performance Indicators for Subcomponent 1.1 (School Feeding)
                                            2008/09                   2009/10             2009/10 School Year
                                          School Year               School Year           Support to EUFRRF
  PDO Indicator          Targets        (Mar.–July 2009)          (Oct.–Dec. 2009)         (Jan.–March 2010)
(Subcomponent 1.1)       in EPP
                                       Actual     Achieved       Actual     Achieved       Actual      Achieved
Number of students
receiving one meal a     14,000      13,812         99%         14,102        101%        28,000 a
day
Female beneficiaries
                            NA         47%                        NA                         NA
(%)
a/ Rations remaining under the WFP contract (218 tons) were used to provide one meal a day to 28,000 students for 43
days between January and March 2010, before the EUFRRF-procured food became available.

3.      WFP’s results analysis also shows that schools with WFP feeding programs
performed significantly better than those without in 2009. National statistics estimate an
average dropout rate of 14 percent and an exam pass-rate of 65 percent. In contrast, WFP
schools achieved pass-rates of 79 percent (boys) and 86 percent (girls) against drop-out
rates of 7 percent (boys) and 4 percent (girls)—significant achievements in the local fight
against poverty.

4.      Subcomponent 1.2: Food for Work. WFP’s food-for-work program achieved
highly satisfactory results by the time it closed at the end of 2010. By the end of the first
year, the program had achieved nearly 50 percent of the targeted number of work-days
and had rehabilitated nearly half of the planned area. Production figures grew by 42
percent from the first year to the second and were well on their way to achieving the
target of 7,500 tons annually by the third year of the project (2011). By closing, all
indicators had been satisfactorily achieved (Table A2.2).




                                                        31
   Table A2.2: Performance Indicators and Intermediate Output Indicators for Subcomponent 1.2
              (Food for Work) and Component 2 (Support for Increasing Production)

                                                              Target                                      Actual
PDO Indicators (Components 1.2 and 2)
                                                              in EPP
                                                                              2009          2010          2011      Total      Achieved
Number of work-days in food-for-work activities
                                                              160,000        77,000        208,000         –       285,000          130%
(rations distributed to rural producers)
Beneficiaries of food-for-work program (number)                  NA           9,633         19,965         –        29,598           NA
Quantity of rice produced in newly rehabilitated areas
                                                               7,500          3,876         5,502          –        9,378 a         125%
(t)

Intermediate Indicators (Components 1.2 and 2)

Subcomponent 1.2: Food for Work
Number of hectares of mangrove rice land
                                                            2,000      1,304     1,437      0      2,741       137%
rehabilitated
Number of hectares of lowland rice land rehabilitated       3,000       989      1,891      –      2,880        96%
Total number of hectares rehabilitated                      5,000      2,293     2,707      –      5,621       112%
Component 2: Support for Increasing Food Production
Number of farmer groups with access to agricultural
                                                              500        0        313      221       534       107%
inputs
Number of post-harvest subprojects (i.e., post-
harvest micro-projects) approved and under                    300        0        152      115       267        89%
implementation b
Number of subprojects (i.e., micro-projects)
                                                              800        0        465      336       801       100%
approved and under implementation
a/ The total production figure reported here and the data in in Table A2.3 come from the WFP final report.
b/ Given the one-to one correspondence between the number of farmer groups with access to inputs and the number of
production micro-projects, it was thought (and confirmed by the TTL) that this indicator (and target of 300) was meant
to capture the number of post-harvest micro-projects. Figures for both post-harvest micro-projects and total are
therefore reported

5.      Table A2.3 shows the area cultivated and rice production levels on the newly
rehabilitated land by region. Farmers who were unable to produce rice before the project
grew an additional 9,378 tons of rice on newly rehabilitated land (125 percent of the
original target of 7,500 tons).

     Table A2.3: Area Cultivated and Production Levels on Newly Rehabilitated Land by Region,
                                             2009–10

                              2009                                             2010
                                                                                                                           Total
Region          Lowland            Mangrove                 Lowland                       Mangrove
            Area Produc-         Area Produc-            Area   Produc-               Area    Produc-              Area       Produc-
            (ha)    tion (t)     (ha)  tion (t)          (ha)   tion (t)              (ha)    tion (t)             (ha)       tion (t)
 Bafata     250       638         30      39             593     1,265                  0        0                 873         1,941
Biombo       45         91           402    704           0              0            353            705           800         1,499
Cacheu      200        398           184    423          195            312           306            458           885         1,592
 Gabu       250        670            0      0           511           1,248           0              0            761         1,918
  Oio       141        343           150    311          343            677           330            545           964         1,876
 Bissau      30         55           120    205           41            81             86            210           277             551
 Total      916       2,194          886   1,681         1,683         3,583          1,075          1,919         4,560       9,378




                                                               32
Component 2: Support for Increasing Food Production

6.     Component 2 included two subcomponents: Matching Grants for Food Production
(US$ 2.5 million) and Technical Support (US$ 0.5 million). The results of Subcomponent
2.1 were linked to the completion of land rehabilitation activities in Subcomponent 1.2.

7.      Subcomponent 2.1: Matching Grants for Food Production. Access to agricultural
inputs for 534 farmer groups was facilitated through the implementation of 534 demand-
driven micro-projects, and 267 micro-projects provided support to post-harvest activities.

8.     Details on the kind of production and processing support provided are shown in
Table A2.4. The table does not present an exhaustive list of items distributed; rather, it
presents a sample of beneficiary preferences and types of support requested. Briefly:

            •    Beneficiaries preferred simple tools (machetes, hoes, rakes, spades).
            •    The importance of fertilizer, seed, and insecticide is clear. Those regions not
                 requesting lowland seed were mangrove areas, which received seed from the
                 project in 2009.
            •    Post-harvest needs were diverse and clearly tailored to the particular needs of
                 each community.
            •    Despite the project’s focus on rice cultivation, vegetable production was also
                 an eligible activity, and micro-projects for vegetable production were in high
                 demand among female beneficiaries.

9.      Under Subcomponent 2.1, yields were also expected to increase. After the WFP
project closed at the end of 2010, production was estimated by farmers themselves and
the Department of Agricultural Statistics in MADR in January 2012. They based their
calculations on actual hectares cultivated and a sample of 61 randomly selected yield
subplots (carrés de rendement). Surface area calculations are a common statistic gathered
annually by female farmers. At the beginning of the season, using long pieces of rope of a
specific length, they measure the length and width of their field(s) and estimate
production levels for the season. These calculations were verified by the Department of
Agricultural Statistics (using the same method) just prior to taking their yield samples.
(Hence the approximately 30,000 meters of rope requested under Subcomponent 2.1’s
matching grant program; see Table A2.4). Sample yield subplots were set up in 35 group
fields and 26 individual fields (samples from two group fields and two individual fields in
each county in each region where the project operated). 36

10.     Table A2.5 shows rice production levels over the life of the project. Farmers
benefitting from improved water management and technology packages from the
production micro-projects were able to produce a total of 19,487 tons of rice on the newly
rehabilitated land between 2009 and 2011. Annex 3 discusses the economic impacts of
this additional production.



36
     Final Report. Department of Statistics. Ministry of Agriculture.


                                                             33
Table A2.4: Examples of Support Provided for Production and Processing under Subcomponent 2.1:
                             Matching Grants for Food Production
        Production Micro-projects (534 total)                Processing Micro-projects (267 total)
Type of Equipment/input            Unit    Quantity    Type of Equipment/input        Unit     Quantity
Tools                                                  Machines
  Machete                           #         5,745      Rice huller                    #          52
  Hoe                               #         8,329      Maize mill                     #          35
  Iron plow                         #         1,999      Electric mill                  #          1
  Rake                              #         1,401      Tomato puree machine           #          5
  Spade                             #         4,725      Diesel generator (5 KVA)       #          4
  Pick                              #          972       Freezer                        #          1
  Pitchfork                        #         958       Processing equipment
  Scythe                           #         270         Scale (50 kg)                  #         7
Seed                                                     Bags (empty)                   #       8,400
  Lowland rice seed                kg      62,355        Plastic sealing machine        #         3
  Vegetable seed                   kg        370       Tools
Fertilizer/insecticide/herbicide                         Hoe                            #        410
  NPK                              kg      115,002       Spade                          #        50
  Urea                             kg      70,089        Machete                        #        25
  Herbicides                       L         219         Watering can                   #        410
  Fungicide                        kg         8        Inputs
  Insecticide                      L         561         Vegetable seed                kg        77
Equipment                                                NPK                           kg       1,800
  Sprayer                          #         176         Urea                          kg       1,800
  Watering can                     #        1,650        Furadan                       kg        18
  Buckets (10-liter)               #        1,309      Transport equipment
  Plastic bucket (20–30 liter)     #         236         Push cart                      #        37
  Big buckets (bayons)             #         124         Donkey cart                    #        72
  Carinhas de mão                  #        1,120      Construction equipment
  PVC pipe                         m        538          Tin roofing panels             #       5,708
  Rope                             m       30,446        Cement (50-kg bags)            #       1,534
  Rolls of wire mesh for fencing   #        610          Tubing                         #        70
  Power tillers                    #         13          Stoves                         #        95
  Planter                          #         5           Roofing joists                 #       1,340
Operational inputs                                       Iron doors                     #         6
 Gasoline                          L       20,070        Iron grills                    #         6
 Oil                               L        100          Iron grills for doors          #        36
Transport implements                                       Iron grills for windows      #        48
  Donkey carts                     #         9             Rakes                        #        20
  Carts                            #         34            Harvester                    #        3
                                                           Sieves (aluminum)            #        98




                                                      34
                      Table A2.5: Rice Production Levels under the Project, 2009–11

 Year              Mangrove rice                      Lowland rice                Total      Average          Total
           Area      Yield    Production      Area     Yield      Production      area        yield         production
            (ha)    (t/ha)a       (t)          (ha)    (t/ha)         (t)         (ha)b       (t/ha)            (t)
  2009      886      1.83       1,618          916      2.25        2,063         1,802        2.04            3,674
  2010     1,075     1.90       2,044         1,683     2.02        3,406         2,758        1.96            5,414
  2011     1,960     1.70       3,332         3,661     2.00        7,322         5,621        1.85            10,399
 Total additional tons of rice produced                                                                      19,487
a/ Data from WFP's final report; yields for 2011 calculated by Department of Agricultural Statistics in January 2012.
b/ The WFP contract ended in December 2010. For 2011, the total area under cultivation on rehabilitated land was
assumed to equal the total number of hectares rehabilitated.

12.     Subcomponent 2.2: Technical Support. More beneficiaries and MADR staff
benefitted from training than the TCU originally targeted, thanks to cost efficiencies
resulting from a revision of the training model. International consultants were brought to
Guinea-Bissau to train beneficiaries over a longer period instead of sending a few
beneficiaries abroad for the same training. For example, 115 project staff, government
personnel, farmers, and NGO staff were trained to produce rice and seed of good quality
over a two-month period rather than sending 40 persons to Europe for a week, as
originally budgeted. Table A2.6 summarizes those training efforts.

                                Table A2.6: Training Supported by the Project
                                Planned
                                               Actual Number
   Type of Training            Number of                           Country       Length                Notes
                                               of Beneficiaries
                              Beneficiaries
   Production of rice and           40               115            Guinea-     2 months     Demonstration fields
   good-quality seed             (MADR           (25 MADR           Bissau       (2011)      installed in 6 regions to
                               staff, NGO        staff, INPA                                 feature improved rice
                                staff, and      staff, NGOs,                                 production techniques
                                  farmer       and 90 farmers)                               and used of improved
                                 groups)                                                     seed. Trainer brought
                                                                                             from Senegal to
                                                                                             accompany producers
                                                                                             and staff instead of
                                                                                             sending beneficiaries
                                                                                             abroad.
   Training for project              1                 1            Senegal     1 month      Completed
   Procurement Assistant                                                         (2010)      successfully
   Study tour for MADR               5                 0                         7 days      Not completed
   staff
   Farmer study tour                15                11            Senegal      7 days      Completed
                                                                                 (2010)      successfully
   Training in project               1                 1            Senegal     1 month      Completed
   management and                                                                (2011)      successfully
   monitoring
   Training in                       2                 2            Senegal      7 days      Completed
   environmental and                                                             (2011)      successfully
   social issues
   Training in financial             1                 1             Kenya       10 days     Completed
   management and                                                                (2013)      successfully
   disbursement
        Total trained               65                131




                                                            35
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

1.      This project was small in terms of cost but very large in terms of coverage, both
in its geographical coverage and scope of activities. Agriculture is the most important
sector of the economy. Almost 80 percent of the population depends on agriculture
(directly and indirectly) for their livelihoods. About 70 percent of the population is below
the poverty line. On an average, about 65 percent of the household income is spent on
food, and food insecurity is a major national problem. Given those harsh realities, the
objective of this project was to improve food security for the most vulnerable population,
including children, and increase smallholder rice production in the project areas.

2.       This project—one of very few donor-funded projects that dealt with improving
food security Guinea-Bissau—had an enormous economic impact on the lives of rural
people in the areas where it operated. However, it is very difficult to carry out a standard
economic and financial analysis for this emergency food security project, given that it
had three components and six subcomponents, and each subcomponent involved different
activities. In any case, this annex attempts to estimate the project’s likely impacts and,
where possible, to provide estimated benefit-cost ratios.

Component 1: Support for the Most Vulnerable Population

3.     This component dealt with two programs: the school feeding program (US$ 0.5
million) and the food-for-work program (US$ 1.0 million). This component had three
types of major economic impacts and clearly demonstrates a very efficient use of project
funds.

4.     Food security impact. Under the school feeding program, food was provided to
14,102 students, against a target of 14,000. Students received daily meals for the duration
of one school year. In addition, girls received take-home rations. Given Guinea-Bissau’s
low education rate, particularly of girls, this subcomponent had a major impact on
education among beneficiaries, male and female. Based on a large sample of students
covered by the school feeding program, the program caused the dropout rate to decline
from 19 percent to 5 percent and the pass-rate to rise from 65 percent to 82 percent.
Under the food-for-work program, 29,958 beneficiaries received food for a total of
285,000 days.

5.      Employment impact. The food-for-work program created employment for
285,000 person working days for 19,965 rural unemployed, including women. In return
for food, these workers rehabilitated 5,621 hectares (against a target of 5,000 hectares) of
lowland and mangrove rice fields (specifically, 2,741 hectares of mangrove rice fields
and 2,880 hectares of lowland fields). Rehabilitation included the construction of dikes
on mangrove rice land to protect it from salt water and the construction of drainage
channels and anti-erosion banks for lowland rice fields. The rehabilitated land is ready for
rice cultivation during every year in the future, as long as the dikes and drainage channels
are maintained. In addition to making it possible to produce more rice, this food-for-work




                                            36
program created additional employment opportunities for farmers who were given parcels
of rehabilitated land for rice cultivation.

6.     Rice production impact. In addition to the food security impact and the
employment impact, the food-for-work program resulted in a large rice production impact
because it rehabilitated 5,621 hectares for rice cultivation. This achievement is critical in
a country that is a net importer of rice. Table A3.1 summarizes information on the
additional rice produced on land rehabilitated under the food-for-work program.

                   Table A3.1: Total Rice Production on Rehabilitated Land, 2009–11

              Rehabilitated Land      Average Paddy Yield                               Clean Rice Production
 Year                                                         Paddy Production (t)
              Planted to Rice (ha)           (t/ha)                                              (t)
 2009               1,802                     2.04                      3,674                  2,462
 2010                2,755                    1.96                      5,414                   3,627
 2011                5,621                    1.85                     10,399                   6,967
 Total                                                                 19,487                  13,056


7.     Since rice is grown on this newly rehabilitated land under low levels of inputs
(mainly labor and land, allocated free of cost), the cost of production is estimated to be 40
percent of the value of rice production. Based on this estimation, benefit-cost ratios for
rice production under the food-for-work program (total cost US$1 million) are
determined under two rice price scenarios (Table A3.2).

         Table A3.2: Benefit/Cost Ratios for Rice Production under the Food-for-Work Program

                    Rice         Gross Value of         Estimated          Net Value of Rice
Rice Price                                                                                      Benefit-cost
                 Production      Rice Production     Production Cost          Production
 (US$/t)                                                                                           ratio
                     (t)            (US$ M)              (US$ M)               (US$ M)
   450             13,056             5.875                2.350                 3.525              3.5
   500             13,056             6.528               2.611                 3.917               3.9

8.      Clearly, the benefit-cost ratios for investment in rice production on the land
rehabilitated under the food-for-work program were very high (3.5 and 3.9 under the two
price scenarios). This impact stands alongside the two other impacts of the food-for-work
program (namely, improved food security for the workers and their families and
additional employment for rural workers).

9.      The Guinea-Bissau Rural Community Driven Development Project was approved
by the World Bank in August 2009 and is under implementation. That project also
involves micro-projects. Among its various types of micro-projects, two deal with
activities similar to those implemented under this emergency food security project: the
rehabilitation of dikes for lowland rice production and the rehabilitation of dikes for
mangrove rice production. The projected internal rate of return to investment for these
two types of micro-projects is very high (Table A3.3) and provides additional evidence
that returns to investment in rehabilitating land for rice cultivation are high.




                                                     37
   Table A3.3: Internal Rate of Return (IRR) for Investment in Rehabilitating Land to Grow Rice


Micro-project type                                      Investment (CFAF)            IRR

Rehabilitation of dikes for lowland rice fields             1,970,000               21.17
Rehabilitation of dikes for mangrove rice fields            5,200,000               28.87
Note: US$ 1 = CFAF 475.

Support for Increasing Food Production

10.     This project component supports increased food production by providing US$ 2.0
million in matching grants for food production and US$ 0.3 million for technical support
to the staff of MADR. Through four major impacts that demonstrated an efficient use of
project funds, this component substantially benefited the rural population in project areas,
as described next.

11.      Improved knowledge and capacity. Technical support and training were provided
to MADR staff who, in turn, provided training and information about good agricultural
practices to farmers and farmer associations. In addition, NGOs were hired to work
directly with farmers and farmer associations to provide support related to the micro-
projects. The main impacts of those interventions were: (i) increased capacity in MADR;
(ii) increased capacity in local NGOs; (iii) increased capacity in farmer associations; and
(iv) increased capacity and knowledge related to good agricultural practices among
farmers. While they are extremely important, the impacts of such improvements in
capacity and knowledge are also notoriously challenging to quantify.

12.     Increased farm income. This project gave 534 farmer groups access to inputs and
supported the implementation of 788 micro-projects. Of those 788 micro-projects, 534
dealt with improving production; they increased the adoption of new agricultural
technology as well as the production of food crops, particularly rice. The remaining 267
micro-projects dealt with post-harvest agriculture, food processing, and improved access
to agricultural markets. The production micro-projects included 13,934 farmers, and the
post-harvest micro-projects included 7,072 farmers. The end result was increased food
production, reduced food losses, improved shelf life of food, and increased farm income.
In other words, this small project changed the lives of over 21,000 farm households.

13.     Increased employment. The implementation of this component increased farmers’
direct employment in various project activities and also increased the sustainability of
those activities over time. In addition, this component created direct and indirect
employment opportunities inside and outside agriculture. For example, experts from the
MADR and NGOs were involved in the implementation of various project activities. In
addition, indirect employment included input distribution; servicing of rice mills, farm
equipment, and tools; and food processing, transportation, and storage. In a country
where rural unemployment is very high, this project significantly increased employment
opportunities.



                                                   38
14.     Rice production. For the micro-projects, the project procured and distributed rice
seed, NPK fertilizer, and urea to farmers. Only part of the NPK and urea was used for
growing rice, however. About 62.1 tons of rice seed was sufficient to plant 1,035 hectares
of lowland rice; 51.75 tons each of NPK and urea were required to apply the
recommended levels of fertilizer (50 kilograms per hectare each for NPK and urea) on
that area. The total value of these three modern inputs was US$ 113,850 (US$ 62,100 for
lowland rice seed, US$ 28,875 for NPK fertilizer, and US$ 28,875 for urea). Table A3.4
presents the benefit-cost ratios estimated under four rice price/yield scenarios.

          Table A3.4: Benefit/Cost Ratio for Investment in Modern Inputs for Rice Production

                                                                    Rice Yield Increase
              Rice Price
                                                  75% over Base Yield                 50% over Base Yield
              US$ 500/t                                  2.74                                1.83
             US$ 450/t                                     2.47                              1.64
Note: For lowland rice, base yield is 1.2 t/ha of paddy.

15.     Clearly, as indicated by the estimated benefit/cost ratios, returns to investment in
improved rice seed, fertilizer, and farmer training in good agricultural practices are very
high. The benefit/cost ratios vary from 1.64 to 2.74 under different scenarios. Since base
yields are so low, the actual paddy rice yield and hence the benefit/cost ratios could be
even higher.

16.     Overall, this project contributed significantly to food security and smallholder rice
production in Guinea-Bissau. More importantly, it has improved the lives of households
in the project areas by making agriculture (their main livelihood) more productive and
sustainable over time. In other words, the returns to investment are very likely to be even
higher than indicated by the benefit/cost ratios.




                                                           39
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

                                                                               Responsibility/
            Name                             Title                   Unit
                                                                                 Specialty
Lending
Aniceto Timoteo Bila        Senior Rural Development Specialist    AFTAR    TTL, preparation
Barbara Weber               Senior Operations Officer              AFCSN
Bourama Diaite              Senior Procurement Specialist          AFTPW    Procurement
Carmen Pereira              Liaison Officer                        AFCF1
Hoon Sahib Soh              Senior Economist                       AFTP4
Kristine Schwebach          Operations Analyst                     AFTCS
Luz Meza-Bartrina           Senior Counsel                         LEGAF
Martin Serrano              Counsel                                LEGAF
Mohinder Mudahar            Consultant
Osval R. A. Romao           Financial Management Specialist        AFTFM    Financial
                                                                            Management
Patrice Sade                Team Assistant                         AFTAR
Renato Nardello             Senior Operations Officer              AFTAR
Sossena Tassew              Office Manager                         AFTAR
Soulemane Fofana            Operations Officer                     AFTAR
Tanya Yudelman              Consultant
Tijan Sallah                Lead Operations Officer                AFTAR
Victoria Gyllerup           Operations Officer                     AFTRL
Yves Prévost                Environmental Specialist               AFTEN
Supervision/ICR
Aniceto Timoteo Bila        Senior Rural Development Specialist    AFTA2    TTL, supervision
Bourama Diaite              Senior Procurement Specialist          AFTPW
Mohinder S. Mudahar         Consultant                                   Economist
Osval Rocha Andrade Romao   Financial Management Specialist        AFTMW
Patrice Sade                Program Assistant                      AFTA2
Cheikh A. T. Sagna          Senior Social Development Specialist   AFTCS Social Safeguards
Cheick Traore               Senior Procurement Specialist          AFTPW
Sidy Diop                   Senior Procurement Specialist          AFTPW
                                                                         Community-driven
Raimundo Caminha            Consultant                                   Development
                                                                         specialist
                                                                         Environmental
Bienvenu Rajaonson          Senior Environmental Specialist
                                                                         safeguards
Taleb Ould Sid’ahmed        Communications Associate
Jane C. Hopkins             Senior Agricultural Economist          AFTA1    TTL, ICR
Racey Bingham               Consultant                                      Author ICR
Mohamed Khatouri            Lead M&E Specialist




                                             40
(b) Staff Time and Cost

                                    Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
       Stage of Project Cycle                             USD Thousands (including
                                No. of staff weeks
                                                          travel and consultant costs)
Lending
        FY09                          22.95                          82.74
Total:                                22.95                          82.74
Supervision/ICR
        FY09                          10.04                          94.42
        FY10                          22.87                          78.80
        FY11                          15.75                          89.89
        FY12                          12.18                          87.69
        FY13                           8.14                          56.97
        FY14                           3.53                          32.86
Total:                                72.51                          440.64




                                    41
Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Introduction

1.     The Government of Guinea-Bissau requested and obtained, on September 9,
2008, a World Bank Credit (International Development Association and International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development) and a subsequent Additional Financing from
the European Commission for a total amount of US$ 9 million to finance a Food Security
Program through the Emergency Food Security Support Project (EFSSP), to be
implemented by the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (MADR), hereafter
designated as the Ministry of Agriculture.

2.      The project initiated activities in October 11, 2008, with the implementation of
the procurement plan as well as other activities. Physical execution of activities started in
February 10, 2009, with funding from the World Bank and subsequently the EU, on the
basis of a clearly defined action plan, as reflected in this final project report for the
International Development Association grant only, during the period from October 11,
2008 through August 30, 2013.

Descriptive summary

3.      The main objective of the project is to improve the food security of the most
vulnerable population, including children, and strengthen smallholders’ ability to produce
rice. This objective would be attained through three project components, whose
implementation was entrusted to the World Food Programme in Guinea-Bissau (WFP)
and the Ministry of Agriculture through a Technical Coordination Unit (TCU) of the
project, for a period of three years, in selected areas of the country: the regions of Bafatá,
Gabu, Oio, Cacheu, and the Autonomous Sector of Bissau.

4.      This final project technical report briefly describes the activities carried out within
the framework of the EFSSP implementation, during the period from February 2009 to
August 30, 2013. During this period, the TCU's performance featured very important
achievements in financial management; procurement of goods, services and works; and in
the technical coordination of activities in all project components, to reach the project’s
strategic development objectives.

5.      Therefore, despite some shortcomings, overall project performance is satisfactory
if it is considered that these results were achieved in the context of Guinea-Bissau,
reflecting broad national strategies as well as government policies related to the Food
Security Support Program. Furthermore, this satisfactory performance reveals the
following strengths: (i) operational capability of the project team, backstopped by
periodic supervision missions of the World Bank, augmented by a good rural
coordination network involving all stakeholders, traditional and local government
authorities, regional directorates of the Ministry of Agriculture, and NGOs; (ii) timely
achievement of most of the project activities; and (iii) ownership of the project by the
community-based organizations (CBOs) and other beneficiaries.



                                              42
6.       In view of the above, the project played a pioneering role in the area of food
security, combating hunger and reducing poverty in rural populations. At the same time,
it demonstrated good institutional and organizational practices in executing a national
project of this size. The success of the project was due to a number of advantages,
namely: (i) CBOs’ participation in the choice of project activities, with the materials and
equipment of their choosing; (ii) involvement of partner NGOs, Agricultural Regional
Directorates, and the regional project coordination units in the selection of beneficiaries;
(iii) participation of CBOs, NGOs, and local authorities in the choice of the activities to
be held in their respective zones; and (iv) ownership of the project by the beneficiaries.

Subcomponent 2.1: Matching Grants

7.      Within Subcomponent 2.1, of 800 micro-projects planned, all 800 were
implemented, of which 534 micro-projects were for production support (mainly rice and
horticulture) and 266 were for post-harvest activities (mainly milling equipment for rice
and millet), benefiting 800 producer groups of about 20 producers each, or 16,000 direct
beneficiaries. The indirect beneficiaries are estimated at 112,000 people. The total area is
about 5,436.7 hectares of lowlands used for rice cultivation. Thus, total production before
the project interventions (mangrove and lowland rice), based upon an average reference
yield of 1.35 tons per hectare estimated by the Department of Agricultural Statistics, was
about 7,339 tons of paddy or 4,770 tons of milled rice. With the assistance of the project,
the average yield is about 1.85 tons per hectare, for an estimated production of about
10,058 tons of paddy or 6,538 tons of milled rice.

8.      Consequently, the additional gains resulting from project interventions providing
agricultural inputs, material, and various types of equipment to improve the productivity
of 5,436.7 hectares of lowlands is 1,768 tons of milled rice, directly benefiting 9,300
beneficiaries in the regions where the project operated. (See Tables 6 and 7 from the
original report.)

9.       This positive contribution has increased the consumption of locally produced rice
and reduced dependency on the consumption of imported rice in rural communities.
Generally, in farmers’ management strategies, local production is divided as follows: One
portion is consumed by family members; another is reserved for seed; and the surplus is
sold and the revenue combined with revenues from cashew and other rural business
activities to meet family needs (medicine and medical care, ceremonies such as weddings,
tuition, school supplies, and so on).

10.     Moreover, the processing of paddy and other cereals in rural areas made it
possible to increase revenues by marketing products of good quality, reducing labor-
intensive work by women, and providing them with greater opportunities to diversify
their rural activities, production, and agribusinesses.

11.    Materials and equipment acquired by CBOs are estimated to be insufficient in
quantity but much appreciated for their quality. The distribution criteria established



                                            43
beforehand for the materials, equipment, and other agricultural inputs provided by the
project were fully respected. It is important to state that there was some delay in the final
distribution process (year 2012), owing to the “coup d’état” of April 12, which led to
suspension of project operations; despite that delay, overall project efficiency was
satisfactory.

12.      Another important activity under this subcomponent is horticulture (market
gardening). The total number of direct beneficiaries involved in horticulture under the
project is estimated to be 36,661 women, producing different horticultural crops on
124.06 hectares of land in six regions, for total production estimated at 1,611,250
kilograms (equivalent to CFAF 1,767,637; see Table 8 of the main report). Horticultural
activities are highly appreciated and successful in the communities, especially among
women. The following impacts should be highlighted:

   Technical impacts
   • All of the women producers have mastered agricultural techniques very well.
   • They know the full cropping calendars and agricultural cycles of each crop and
      classify the crops by growing season (rainy season crops such as okra, cucumbers,
      djacatu, beans, and badjiqui; dry-season crops such as tomatoes, onions, carrots,
      cabbages, peppers, lettuces, radishes, garlic, and so on).
   Socioeconomic impacts
    • Horticultural management committees promote a weekly levy system ranging
       from CFAF 100 to CFAF 1,000 among the association member groups. This levy
       ensures the continuity of production, especially during the rainy season, for
       undertaking enterprises such as groundnut cropping, palm oil production, and the
       acquisition of small ruminants to increase family incomes.
    • Similarly, women reserve a portion of their earnings for medical care in case of
       illness, for supporting children in school, and for improving family diets. Finally,
       women horticulturists manage everything related to family food security,
       especially in the East and Autonomous Sector of Bissau.
    • The associations that are part of Federation of NGO/APALCOF of Contuboel
       had their own initiatives to sell seed financed within the framework of the project
       (at a nominal price to Federation members). Revenues are deposited in the bank
       account of the organization with a view to be used in the next agricultural season
       to buy seed of horticultural crops in Senegal, in an attempt to create the
       conditions for sustainability.

Subcomponent 2.2: Technical Support to the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural
Development

13.    Out of 7 training sessions planned, 6 were executed, benefiting 131 participants
from different areas of expertise in the agricultural sector, including:

   •   25 technicians from the project and INPA and 90 farmers and members of NGOs
       were involved in training in rice production systems as well as producing good-
       quality rice seed.


                                             44
   •   1 procurement specialist and 11 peasants benefited from sub-regional exchange
       visits.
   •   1 in the area of technical formulation of projects.
   •   2 in socio-environmental matters.
   •   1 in disbursement and financial management.

14.   A study visit for MADR staff was not performed due to the complexity of the
communication process. Nevertheless, progress toward the PDO within the framework of
Subcomponent 2.2 was 86 percent. (See Table 11 from the main report.)

15.     It is important to state that 100 percent of the technicians who benefited from this
training program have been inserted in different services of the Ministry of Agriculture,
thereby upgrading the technical capabilities of the ministry to perform its mandate for the
development of agriculture, a vital sector of the national economy. Specifically, some of
the activities carried out by the project supported the agricultural statistics service to
collect agricultural data for 2011/12.

Main constraints during project implementation

16.     The main constraints during the implementation of project activities are summed
up as follows. First, the failure to hire personnel (Administrative Assistant, Secretary,
Procurement Assistant, and Logistics Assistant) to complete the project staff caused
pressures at work and the consequent accumulation of services, occasioning some delays
in implementation and the updating of technical and financial data for the project.
Second, training in the use of equipment provided by the project was delayed by the
temporary suspension of the project. Third, problems arose in assembling equipment.
Fourth, partner NGOs did not follow up on activities of micro-projects. Fifth, disruption
of the project was linked to cyclical instability in the country. Sixth, inflexible rules and
procedures of the World Bank in the process of hiring competent technical personnel in
specific areas (to prevent conflicts of interest) are the main factor behind the late start-up
of the project. The second and third constraints are directly linked to the events of April
12, 2012. The fourth is directly linked to a lack of funds on the part of the partner NGOs.

Visibility

17.     Visibility is an important aspect of the success of any project. Project strategies in
public awareness were based on the dissemination of messages through partner NGOs
and national and community radio and television. These messages were enhanced by the
project’s technical team members in their areas of intervention, who disseminated
information on the project’s mission and other information in conjunction with traditional
chiefs, notables, religious leaders, and local authorities. Effective project awareness and
dissemination in all intervention areas has made the project’s activities well known in
rural areas and generated many requests for participation.




                                             45
Sustainability

18.     A project’s sustainability depends on the overall results achieved throughout its
implementation. In this context, five results appear to guarantee the project’s
sustainability. First, the process for acquiring and distributing material, equipment, and
other agricultural inputs to CBOs was transparent and credible. Second, training
administered to members of CBOs improved their capacity to manage interventions.
Third, another factor likely to promote sustainability is the establishment of management
and follow-up committees to maintain the rehabilitated land and horticulture perimeters.
Fourth, the management of post-harvest support equipment is ensured by the
management committees, particularly through internal financial resources obtained by
CBOs for operation and maintenance, and through the promotion of local capabilities for
managing communally held goods in support of shared interests. A final factor likely to
promote sustainability is the involvement of MADR and local authorities in following up
on project activities to ensure that the project’s achievements endure.

Lessons learned

19.    A number of lessons learned from implementing EFSSP may serve to inform
other phases of the project or similar projects:

      •   Innovative approaches served the project well. They include CBOs’ freedom to
          determine what they wanted for their communities, as well as the creation of
          technical evaluation committees to select sites, conduct socioeconomic and
          environmental feasibility assessments, and validate which micro-projects were
          eligible for funding. Those committees, chaired by the Regional Delegate for
          Agriculture, encompassed regional project coordinators, CBOs, notables,
          religious leaders, partner NGOs, and local authorities.

      •   All materials and equipment purchased under the project were properly
          channeled and distributed in a transparent manner according to pre-established
          criteria. Transport costs were assumed by the respective communities,
          contributing to beneficiaries’ accountability.

      •   Ownership of the project by the beneficiaries is real, despite anomalies
          observed in some localities (especially in Cacheu and Biombo), as noted in the
          consultant's report on the impact of micro-projects.

      •   Participatory project coordination involved all actors in the decision-making
          process for the project, and project staff regularly followed up on CBOs’
          activities.

      •   Collective performance is maximized by strong involvement of the
          Coordination Unit and World Bank supervision missions in monitoring,
          evaluating, and issuing related recommendations.



                                           46
      •   NGOs had some difficulty with efficient follow-up, because the financial
          resources made available to them through contracts signed with the EFSSP to
          identify, conceive, and follow up on micro-projects were considered to be
          insufficient.

      •   Dissemination of messages through partner NGOs on good agricultural
          practices and actions of the EFSSP is effective and efficient.

      •   The agricultural statistics service must be involved from the beginning in
          collecting production data, with and without the participation of the project,
          facilitating monitoring and impact.

      •   Inflexible rules and procedures of the World Bank in the hiring of competent
          technical personnel in specific areas (to prevent conflicts of interest) is the
          main factor behind the project’s late start.

      •   It is essential to produce a baseline description of each site, with socio-
          environmental reference data to facilitate socio-environmental monitoring and
          impact evaluation for the project.

Recommendations

Recommendations to increase effectiveness and efficiency:

      •   Recruit and train a full technical coordination team for better project
          implementation.
      •   Recruit a monitoring and evaluation specialist to improve data collection
          efficiency.
      •   Reinforce institutional collaboration between partner agencies (NGOs, regional
          structures of the Ministry Agriculture, and local authorities).
      •   Support partner NGOs with adequate funding for micro-projects to allow them
          to provide technical support and follow-up and evaluate the activities of the
          beneficiaries.
      •   Keep promoting lowland and feeder roads to increase rice production and at
          the same time facilitate marketing.
      •   Reinforce the training for beneficiaries (CBOs) in organization, management,
          and women’s literacy.

Recommendations to increase the impact of the project:

      •   Take gender into account when selecting candidates for training in rice
          production practices, especially in Bafata and Gabu, where women are the
          main rice producers.
      •   Increase the ceiling of the micro-projects.
      •   Reduce the number of micro-projects.



                                           47
•   Reinforce support to CBOs by providing material, equipment, and spare parts
    to consolidate the results achieved in the first phase of the project.
•   Reinforce the water supply for horticulture in proportion to the size of the field
    to ensure permanent water availability throughout the production cycle.
•   Supply mechanized pumps and related implements to supply irrigation water to
    promote year-round production of lowland rice in Bafata and Gabu,
    specifically the perimeters of Bafata-Campossa, Contuboel, and Sonaco-
    APALCOF-TESITO.
•   Supply more power tillers to increase cultivated area and reduce the labor
    requirement (especially for women, who constitute most of the agricultural
    labor force for lowland rice production).
•   Reinforce the supply of herbicides, fertilizers, and good quality seed of rice
    and horticultural crops.
•   Promote horticultural crops by supporting producers, including women and
    youths, in processing and marketing their products.




                                      48
Annex 6. Supporting Documents

1. WB Docs Project File
2. Implementation Status Reports 1-8
3. Aide-mémoires and BTORs (all available, 2008–12)
4. Emergency Food Security Support Project, Food Price Crisis Trust Fund, Emergency Project
   Paper, Report No. 44941-GW, September 9, 2008
5. European Union Food Crisis Rapid Response Facility Trust Fund, Emergency Project Paper,
   Report No. 51266-GW, February 22, 2010
6. Interim Strategy Note (FY2014–2015) for the Republic of Guinea-Bissau, Draft, December,
   16, 2013
7. Implementation Completion and Results Report (TF096347, TF096348) for the Emergency
   Food Security Support Project under the European Union Food Crisis Rapid Response
   Facility, Report No. ICR2317, June 28, 2012
8. NGOs Terms of Reference
9. TCU Quarterly Narrative and Financial Reports (all, 2008–12)
10. Standard Project Reports, WFP (all, 2008–10)
11. Summary Report, Implementation of School Feeding and Land Rehabilitation Activities,
    WFP, June 2011
12. Technical Review of Component 1 (main activities, achievements, and issues), World Bank,
    August 2010
13. Technical Final Report of the Emergency Food Security Support Project, Main Summary,
    November 2013
14. AFTOS Assessment of the Likelihood of Projects Closing in FY12 Achieving Stated
    Objectives (December 2011)
15. Implementation Completion and Results Report Guidelines, OCPS, August 2006 (last
    updated 10/05/2011)
16. ICR and IEG Evaluations: Lessons and Guidance for AFR
17. Project Extension Packages (5)
18. Stakeholder Interviews, focus groups, workshop, and field visits (NGOs, TCU, TTL,
    beneficiaries), December 2013
19. Grant Reporting and Monitoring Reports and GFRP Project Status Reports
20. Standard Project Report, WFP, 2009, 2010
21. Implementation Completion Report, Agriculture Services Project, June 1995 (approved 1987)
22. Galloway, R., E. Kristjansson, A. Gelli, U. Meir, F. Espejo, and D. Bundy (2009), “School
    Feeding: Outcomes and Costs.” Food and Nutrition Bulletin 30(2): 171–82.
23. Résultats de l’Enquête Approfondie sur la Sécurité Alimentaire et la Vulnérabilité des
    Ménages Ruraux, Mars 2011, Rapport final, Programme Alimentaire Mondiale




                                               49
24. Présentation des Résultats Préliminaires de l’Evaluation Approfondie de la Sécurité
    Alimentaire en Situation d’Urgence Guinée Bissau, Programme Alimentaire Mondiale,
    October 2013
25. Apresentaçao dos Resultatdos Finais, Projecto de Emergencia Apoio a Segurança Alimentar,
    December 2013
26. Vulnerability Assessment Analysis and Mapping, 2005, World Food Programme
27. Rapid Food Security Assessment, Guinea-Bissau, Biombo, Oio and Quinara Regions, June
    2012
28. Minutes of the Rapid Review Committee Meeting, July 27 and August 19, 2008
29. World Bank (AFTP4): Integrated Poverty and Social Assessment (IPSA), Vol. II: Conflict,
    Livelihoods, and Poverty in Guinea-Bissau, May 2006
30. Guinea-Bissau Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper 2011–15
31. Implementation Status Report #6. Grant (P120214) for the Emergency Food Security Support
    Project in the amount of euros 2.87 million from the European Union Food Crisis Rapid
    Response Facility Trust Fund (TF096347, TF 096348)
32. Rural Community-Driven Development Project (RCDD), Project Appraisal Document,
    Report No. 49557-GW, August 28, 2009




                                             50
                                                                                        16°W                                                                                                        15°W                                                                                                 14°W



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         To
                                                                                            SENEGAL                                                                                       To
                                                                                                                                                                                        Sédhiou
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Kounkané
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Kolda
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Kolda
                                                                                                                                                          To
                                                                                                                                                        Sédhiou                             Cuntima                 Cambaju                                 B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Sare Bá
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ácar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Bácar                     Pirada                              (300 m)

                                                                                                                                                                         Dungal                                                                                                                    Bajocunda
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Canhâmina
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Canhâ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Canhâmina
                                                                                                                                                                                                Jumbembem
                                                                     To                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Canquelifá
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Canquelifá
                                                                 Ziguinchor                                         To
                                                                                                              Diiattakounda                                              Farim                                                                                                                                                 Buruntuma
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Cambaju                    ri
                                      To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     m   ba
                           To       Oussouye                                                        Ignoré
                                                                                                    Ignoré                                                                                                       nja
                        Kabrousse                                                                                                                                                                              Ca                         Contuboel                                                               Camajá
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Camaj ábá
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Camajábá
                                                                                                                                                 u                                                                                                                                                                                              To
                                                                       São
                                                                       São Domingos                                     Barro                 che
                                                                                                                                            Ca                                                                     Mansaina                                                                             Pitchie
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Youkounkoun
                                                                                                                                                         Olossato                                                                                               Mansabá
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Mansabá
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 a




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             b
                                          Susana                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Gabu




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Gê
                           Varela                                          Cacheu                                             Olossato                                                 Mansabá
                                                                                                                                                                                       Mansabá
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Gamamudo
                                                                  eu                         Jolmete                                Bissorã
                                                                                                                                    Bissorã                                                                                                                                                                                      To
                                                                ch
                                                              Ca                                                                                                OIO                                                G êba
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Gêba                                               Uacaba
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Youkounkoun

                                                                               CACHEU                                                                                                                                                         Bafatá
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Bafatá                            GABÚ
                                                                                                               Bula
                                                    Calequisse
                                                                        Canchungo
                                                                                                                                   Binar                Encheia           Mansôa
                                                                                                                                                                          Mans
                                                                                                                                                                          Mansôôa                                                  B A FAT Á                                                   Cabuca
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Bambadinca
                12°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              12°N
                                                                                                                                                Nhacra




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  al
                                                                                                                    Safim                                                                                                                            Galomaro




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ub
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Xime                                                                              r
                                                                Caió                                                                                                      Porto
                                                                                                                                                                          Porto Gole                                                                                                            Co
                                                                                         Quinhámel
                                                                                         Quinh
                                                                                         Quinháámel                                                                        G êb a                  Ganquecuta                                                                              Ch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Ché  Ché
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              é Ch  é
                                                                                                                                   BISSAU                                                                                 Garfanhapa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Garfanhapa                                                                              B éli
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Béli
                                                                                               a



                                                                                                   BIOMBO                                                                Jabedá
                                                                                                                                                                         Jabedá                     Co
                                                                                            nsô




                                                                                                                                                                                                      rub                                                        Dulombi
                       ATLANTIC                                                                                             BISSAU Enxudé
                                                                                          Ma




                                                                                                          Prábis
                                                                                                          Prá
                                                                                                          Prábis                   Enxudé                                                                al                                                                                                                   Vendu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Vendu
                                                                              Iljante                                                                                                  Fulacunda                                                                                                                                Leidi
                                                                                                                                                                  Tite
                                                                                                                                                                  Tite                                                                                                                     Boé
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Boé
                                                                                                                                           ba                                                                                  Xitole
                        OCEAN                                                              Ondame
                                                                                                                              o
                                                                                                                                   G
                                                                                                                                       ê
                                                                                                                                                                            QUINARA                                                                                         Guilege
                                                                                                                            ld                                                                                                                                                                                                            To
                                                                                                                          na                                                                                                                                                                                                            Koumbia
                                                                                                                        Ca                                                                               Buba                                                                                                        To
                                                    Ilha de                                                                                              São
                                                                                                                                                         São João
                                                                                                                                                             Joã
                                                                                                                                                             João                                                                                                                                                   Féfiné
                                                   Caravela             lha de                                         Ilha de         Bolama                                                                             Quebo
                                                                                                                                                             a
                                                                       Carache            Ilha de
                                                                                                                      Bolama                            e Bub Empada                                                                                   Saafa
                                                   Caravela                              Formosa                                                       d                                                                                                            To
                                                                                                                                                    de                                                                                                           Bénnsané
                                                                                                    Abu      I. das                               an
                                                                                                          Galhinas                            o Gr
                                                                                                                                            Ri
                                               Arquipélago                                          I. de Soga
                                                                                                                 I. de
                                                                                                                                       Madina de
                                                                                                                                           Baixo                                            Bedanda
                                                                                                                                                                                                              Gandembel                                                        GUINEA
                                               dos Bijagós                 BOLAMA
                                                                                                                                                            li
                                                                                                                                                            ba


                                                                                                                 Rubane
                                                                                                                                                         Tom




                                                                                             Bubaque
                                                                                                        Ilha de                                       Tombali
                                                                                                                                                      Tombali        Catió
                                                                                                                                                                     Catió             TOMBALI                                      To
                                                      Ilha de                            I. de                                                                                                                                     Boké                                                                  14°W
                                                        Uno               Uno                          Bubaque                                                                         Cachamba
                                                                                        Canogo                          Ilha de                                                          Balanta        Songonha
                                                                                                                        Roxa
                                                                               Eticoga
                                                                          Ilha de
                                                                          Orango
                                                                                                     Ilha de
                                                                                                     Orangozinho                                                                               Cacine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Boké
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GUINEA-BISSAU
                                                                                                                                                                                         e


                                                                                    I. de                                              IIlha
                                                                                                                                                                                        ci n
                                                                                                                                                                                       Ca




                                                                                  Meneque                                              Joao Vieira                                             Campeane                                                             11°N
                                                                                                                          Ilhéu                                                                                                                                                                         SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                                                                                         do Meio
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        REGION CAPITALS

                       GUINEA-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          NATIONAL CAPITAL
                       BISSAU                                                                             0        10         20                30       40 Kilometers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        RIVERS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        MAIN ROADS
                                                                                                          0              10                      20             30               40 Miles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        RAILROADS
DECEMBER 2004




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          IBRD 33415
                                                                                                          This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                          The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                                                                                                               REGION BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                          shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                          Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any                                                                                                                              INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                          endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                        16°W                                                                                                        15°W
