26208
Project Information Document          June 18, 2003
Project Name:             TIMOR-LESTE Second Petroleum Technical Assistance
Region:                   East Asia and Pacific
Sector:                   Oil and Gas
Theme:                    Other Economic Management
Project ID:               P082942
Implementing Agency:      Timor Sea Office
Government Building 3
Dili, Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste
Contact: Alisa Newman, Director
Phone: 670 723 4152 (x 6637)
Email: alisamnewman@yahoo.com
Environmental Category:   C (Not Required)
Date PID Prepared:        June 18, 2003
Auth Apr/Negs Date:       June 10, 2003
Projected Board Date:     June 26, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
Over the next several years Timor-Leste's petroleum sector is expected to provide revenues
accounting for up to 50 percent of GDP and 85 to 90 percent of government revenues and foreign
exchange. These figures will drive future poverty reduction programs, facilitate economic recovery,
and allow for donor exit.
Against this background, technical assistance to Timor-Leste in the petroleum sector to date has been
significantly under-funded, amounting to a mere 0.2 percent of the budget and less than three percent
of donor flows. In the near-term, a considerable shortfall relative to needs exists. Although issues
related to the entry into force of the Timor Sea Treaty and signing of the Greater Sunrise Unitisation
Agreement have been resolved, challenges facing Timor-Leste's petroleum sector are daunting; they
include: complex ongoing and new negotiations with companies and governments (on the
development of the Greater Sunrise field and Jahal and Kudatasi fields, among others); agreement of
a new petroleum mining code and model production sharing contract for the Timor Sea Treaty area;
oversight of the development of Bayu-Undan, a major liquids and liquefied natural gas project;
maritime boundary negotiations; increasingly significant tax compliance issues; the development of
minimum technical capacity; the design and implementation of a sustainable administrative
framework for the sector; a growing need for domestic and international public information outreach
programs; and transparent and efficient management of petroleum revenues to ensure that they
contribute to the development of the people of Timor-Leste.
2.     Objectives
In line with the vital needs described above, the proposed project will provide support to two key
government divisions involved in overseeing petroleum sector development: (1) the Timor Sea
Office (TSO) in the Office of the Prime Minister; and (2) the Ministry of Planning and Finance
(MOPF), specifically, the Timor Sea Tax Division (TSTD) and, separately, a petroleum revenue
management function. The TSO has been the lead agency on all sector policy and strategic topics and



has conducted all international negotiations; the TSTD is now facing rapidly escalating oversight
demands; and there currently exists no office in the Govemment charged specifically with the critical
task of implementing a petroleum revenue management strategy. Funding for these areas will focus
on maintaining and increasing capacity in core functions, including the retention and/or recruitment
of essential international advisers, the provision of programmed and just-in-time technical assistance,
critical operating costs (e.g., travel for essential negotiations and tax audits), and the provision of
selected infrastructure for basic office functions (TSTD).
3.     Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The World Bank Group's Oil and Gas Policy Unit, which will task manage this project, has extensive
world-wide experience in designing and implementing petroleum sector technical assistance, not
only in the activities to be financed under the proposed project, but in related planned/future
activities, e.g. legal and fiscal frameworks, institutional capacity development, and petroleum
revenue management. Participation in the proposed project will provide a platform for assistance in
other areas and in the design of a broader, longer-term technical assistance program.
4.     Description
The proposed project will provide a basis for the development of a revised legal, contractual, and
fiscal framework for petroleum operations. The proposed project will also develop the capacity of
core Timorese staff in dealing with the range issues involved in preparing a framework for, and
overseeing, petroleum investment and petroleum operations, including the efficient administration of
taxes and management of revenues
Expatriate consultant services will account for the largest share of project costs. For the TSO these
include, on a residential basis, a coordinator, general legal adviser, petroleum negotiations adviser,
media director, and external consultant support in the areas of fiscal and financial advice, commercial
oil and gas law, and international strategy. Consultant services going to the MOPF include a resident
tax/legal adviser, an outside tax audit adviser and a resident expert in petroleum revenue
management.
Goods to be provided will go to the TSTD to cover essential office upgrading, including such items
as photocopiers, printers, fax, telephone and internet connections in Dili, and a branch office to be
opened in Perth (the location of the majority of taxpayers).
Training support has been allocated to the TSO for English language and petroleum
economics/commercial practices, and to the TSTD for tax accounting and auditing.
Finally, funds have been set aside for support of incremental operating costs, including staff travel
and per diem associated with negotiations (TSO) and tax audits (TSTD).
5.    Financing
The project will be financed by a USD 1,700,000 Grant from the multi-donor Trust Fund for East
Timor (TFET), for which the World Bank acts as Trustee and administers projects.



6.    Implementation
Project Management. The project is expected to be implemented over 24 months and is expected to
close at the end of 2005.  The TSO, coordinating with the TSTD, will be responsible for
implementing the proposed project. World Bank technical staff will supervise the proposed project.
Financial Management. Overall financial management of funds under the proposed project will be
the responsibility of the TSO, which has employed a financial manager acceptable to IDA. This
responsibility will include certain key functions: operation of the Special Account; submission of
withdrawal applications (either for direct payments to consultants or replenishment of the Special
Account); maintenance of adequate records and supporting documentation for expenditures; and
preparation of periodic summaries of expenditures as may be required by IDA.
Audit. The TSO will be responsible for preparation of annual financial statements of all project
expenditures, and Treasury will make the necessary arrangements to have these audited by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA. The audit report will be submitted not later than six months
after the end of each fiscal year. For cost effectiveness and expediency, the Treasury envisages this
audit will be included as one of the tasks when the auditors conduct the audit of the Government
accounts and/or the other IDA-administered, TFET-funded projects.
Procurement. The World Bank's procurement accredited staff, the head of the Government's
Procurement Division, the Government's procurement adviser, and the TSO Coordinator have agreed
that the Government's procurement adviser will be assigned as the project procurement specialist to
assist the TSO in employing the project consultants. The procurement adviser is a retired World
Bank procurement staff with over 29 years of diverse procurement experience; he will assist the TSO
in carrying out project-related procurement.
Reporting. Reporting and periodic monitoring will be established for the proposed project.
7.     Sustainability
While promoting the conditions for sustainability, the proposed project, in and of itself, will not
ensure it. Institutional capacity in the sector over the project period will continue to depend largely
on short-term expatriate support and short-term funding. Longer-term sustainability will depend
critically on available long-term funding and on the development of local capacity. The World Bank
will continue to work with the Government and with other donors over the project implementation
period to put in place long-term capacity to manage Timor-Leste's petroleum sector.
8.     Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Experience in other World Bank projects underscores the importance of the following as keys to
success in this type of technical assistance: (a) counterpart commitment; (b) effective capacity in core
policy, oversight, and coordinating functions; and (c) access to high-quality international consultant
expertise. Regarding the first area, the proposed project has the commitment of the Government of
Timor-Leste at the highest levels; the project itself is designed to provide assistance in the latter two
areas.



9.    Environment Aspects (including any public consultations)
The technical assistance provided under the proposed project is designed with the development of the
country's oil and gas reserves in mind. This development, in turn, will have significant
environmental implications. Such implications will be taken into account as part of the ongoing
negotiations on petroleum sector development.
Strict environmental regimes/regulations are in place to guide the development of the Bayu-Undan
field. This will occur under the Timor Sea Treaty between Timor-Leste and Australia, which entered
into force in April 2003. The Treaty establishes a Designated Authority with regulatory authority
over environmental matters. The Designated Authority recently took over from the Joint Authority
(established by the United Nations, on behalf of Timor-Leste, and Australia in 2000), which had
adopted environmental standards of the highest level (essentially an Australian environmental
regime) and includes a full-time expert Australian environmental regulator. These standards and
access to this expertise are continuing under the Designated Authority.
In addition, a Petroleum Mining Code included in the Timor Sea Treaty permits the Designated
Authority to issue environmental regulations. The Code, and associated regulations to be issued
under the Treaty, prevent the Designated Authority from issuing contracts unless companies can
show their ability to meet the environmental standards established; oblige companies to protect the
environment in and around the contract area; and empower the Designated Authority to make a
company pay for the remedy of any environmental damage. Furthermore, the Production Sharing
Contract concluded with the Bayu-Undan operator ConocoPhillips and its joint venture partners
requires the joint venture to: develop an Environmental Management Plan to be approved by the
Designated Authority; prevent pollution of the marine environment; and pay for the costs associated
with clean-up of any pollution from petroleum operations within the contract area. The Production
Sharing Contract also requires the contractor to submit to the Designated Authority a plan for
decommissioning the project. This plan must include: steps reasonably required to prevent hazard to
the environment, and environmental, engineering, and feasibility studies reasonably necessary to
support the plan.
As a Category C project, an Environmental Assessment will not be undertaken. It is considered that
the existing environmental regime and successor regime, as described above, will provide adequate
safeguards with respect to the environment. During project implementation, World Bank experts will
review these regimes and provide feedback to the Government as necessary. Since successful
development of Timor-Leste's petroleum resources, which the proposed project would support, will
have environmental implications, the possibility of preparing a strategic Environmental Impact
Assessment will be explored with the Government during project implementation.
10.   List of factual technical documents:
None.



11.   Contact Point:
Charles McPherson
The World Bank Group
2121 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-2854
Fax: (202) 522-0395
12.   For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be necessarily
included in the final project.



